So we've come to part 11. So uh we've got today and two more. Uh so we'll be finished at the end of May with our study of Genesis. And so some of you have been with me all the way through three quarters. We started in Genesis 1-1 and we're going to get, Lord willing, through Genesis 50 by the end of uh the Sunday two weeks from now, the last Sunday of May. So today we're gonna talk about some things Mostly in the life of Joseph, but we're the Bible takes a little detour and outlines some events from the life of Judah. And we'll we're gonna took take a look at those. Genesis chapter uh thirty-eight is all about Judah, not Joseph, uh but he it's important and so we're gonna we're gonna take a look at it. And then we're gonna Pick back up with the story of Joseph and uh the interaction between Joseph and Potiphar's wife, which ends up landing Joseph in prison. Um, and then we'll look at an event in prison well, Joseph's in prison, where he interprets some dreams. So those are the things we're going to talk about today. First we'll take a little review of what we looked at last week. And so this the life of Joseph is in what's called the Toledot of Jacob And so Tolodot is a Hebrew word that means what came forth from. And so what came forth from Jacob is Jacob's sons. And so it's all really about J Jacob's sons. This is told about the Toledo of Jacob's Genesis 37 to 50. But the primary focus of all those chapters is one son, Joseph. Not exclusively, but primarily Joseph. As we'll see today, there's a whole chapter that's about Judah. And so this is kind of an outline of that Toledot of Jacob. We looked at the youth of Joseph last time, his the time of his youth up to the age of seventeen. Today we're going to look at this incident between Judah and Tamar, and then we're going to look then at some of the incidents in Joseph's life as he matures into a young man. as a slave in Egypt. And then next time we'll look at Joseph becoming the ruler of Egypt, and then his brothers coming down, uh, and eventually the whole family going to live in Egypt. uh at the end of the book of Genesis. Setting up, of course, the book of Exodus. So we we looked at the timeline of his life, and so he was actually born in Pad Naram, which is today Syria, so up uh in Haran where his uncle Laban, uh his mother's family's from, or his grandmother's family is from um and his mother's family. He was a young boy when they family moved down to back to the land of Canaan And last time we saw at the age of seventeen he was sold into slavery. And then we're going to see there are subsequent events in his life. He's about forty when the family comes down there to live in Egypt. So last time we looked at uh an event um that was important to Joseph and Jacob in particular, and that was the birth of Rachel's second son Benjamin and her death in childbirth. So she died in childbirth. Um In uh in Canaan, in childbirth, when uh Benjamin, the lot the twelfth and last of Jacob's sons, was born. And so we looked last time at the the the journeys of Jacob and the whole family. They came down from uh what is today, Syria, into the hill country of Gilead on the east side of the Jordan River. and met with um um Jacob's brother Esau coming north from Edom and then he crossed the Jordan River over to Shechem and then he started south from there in the land of Canaan and Rachel dies or somewhere around Bethlehem, between Bethel and Hebron, and is buried there. We also saw that there was conflict in the family, that because of favoritism and other things, there um there was just a real uh it wasn't a good family life. It wasn't a harmonious family life. There was uh this favoritism that uh Jacob had for Rachel, one of his four wives in particular, and that kind of spilled over into the lives of their children as well. um especially between um Joseph, one of the sons of the son of Rachel, and the sons of the two maids, Gad, Asher, Dan, and Naphtali. So when he's seventeen he gives this bad report we we learned last time he he's kind of told on his brothers that they were doing something wrong and uh then we saw the this um One particular example of Jacob's favoritism for Joseph is he gives him a special coat. And so they all all the brothers hate him even more because of this coat. And then he has two dreams. And the two dreams have the brothers bowing down to uh Joseph, and so they hate him even more. And so we see in this whole section kind of its build-up to the fact that there's uh animosity within the family, between the brothers. um and it's growing. Um that they're they already despise him because his father f has a fa has him um has him gives him special things and is a favorite they don't like him And then the dreams come along and they hate them even more. Um so we see favoritism, we see hatred and animosity. And the attitude of the brothers towards Joseph gets worse and worse and worse as the chapter goes along. Uh the dreams make it even worse. Um he he makes it a point to tell these dreams to the brothers. He seems to be uh he seems to take great satisfaction in relaying these dreams when the brothers are bowing down to him. And they really, really, really despise him once he tells the dreams. Uh there's no interpretation needed because they're very uh the the meaning is very plain uh requiring no interpretation. Um The second dream involves his father bowing down to him as well, and Jacob's not so happy about that, although at the very end of the section of Scripture we see this little phrase, his father kept the saying in mind, that he kind of was pondering the fact of these dreams at the end of that section of scripture And then we have this incident where Jacob sends uh sends the older brothers north to find better pasture for the flocks, all the way up to Shechem. From Hebron. And then he sends Joseph after them to check on them. Perhaps to spy on them, but to check on the brothers, and he goes up to Shechem, doesn't find them, then he goes to Dothan. So um he's from Hebron, Jacob sends the brother sends uh Joseph up to check on his brothers and send word back. Uh he doesn't find him there, but he does find him in d in Dothan. The brothers kind of plot to kill him. Uh instead they throw him in a pit. Uh Ruben convinces him not to kill him. Ruben is the oldest. one of the sons of the first son of Leah, the first son of Jacob, the oldest. And he has a kind of a his own plan to rescue Joseph. Uh the first thing of course they do is take that coat off. Uh that special coat that's sh the that's the physical reminder of their father's favoritism for Joseph, they strip that off right away and throw him in the pit Uh while Reuben's gone, they uh Judah, the fourth son, another son of Leah, Judah, suggests that they make some coin out of this. If they just kill him, they're not going to get any money Uh if they sell them into slavery, they can get some coin. And so Judah recommends they sell them to the Israelites that are coming. The brothers agree and they sell them for twenty pieces of silver. And he goes down to Egypt. Reuben comes back and he's and uh and Joseph is gone and he's grieving 'cause he can't he he was planning to rescue him. And then of course they slaughter a goat, put it on the sleeves of the coat, the special coat that he had, and they take it back to their father to say, hey, look, a wild animal killed Joseph. And meanwhile the Ishmaelites then continue on to Egypt, which is their original plan, and they sell Joseph there. And so You can see the travels that the brothers came from Hebron up north to Dothan. The Ishmaelites were coming from Gilead, crossing on the road through Dothan on the way to Egypt. And so the details here, the revealed by the Holy Spirit in Scripture through Moses, show how Joseph gets to Egypt and it's totally unpleasant for Joseph, but it's it's necessary for God's plans and so that's what happens. Um so these remarkable series of what seems to be coincidences, well the Ishmaelites just happen to be coming along just at the right time, is really God's providence. And um Causing these events to work together such that Joseph gets down to Egypt. And so these events in the family that seem to be They are bad. Um God is using them for his purposes. And that's really what we see, uh what we saw last time. Um The brothers have nothing but uh evil intent for Joseph. And we'll see at the very end of the story in Genesis 50 that Joseph realizes that. In Genesis 50, the brothers are quivering in fear and bowing down to Joseph as the Prime Minister of Egypt. And Joseph tells the brothers, you meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. Joseph sees the big picture. He sees God's the hand of God's providence on all these events. But at the time Joseph doesn't see it, the brothers don't see it, they're just acting out in sinful ways, but in such a way that God's purposes come about. So everything, like Reuben intervening so he's not killed, Judah recommending the selling into slavery, all of those things are working together for God's plan to come about. Um and so he ends up in the empty cistern, the uh Ishmaelites come along, uh they're on their way from Gilead to Egypt to trade goods, and Judah sees an opportunity and Sit they they pull 'em up out of the cistern and sell 'em for twenty shekels of silver. And so that's where the that's where we s we stopped last time. Let me Okay, so uh that's where we stopped last time. And so we're going to continue on today, uh but we're gonna shift to Judah here for just a minute. And so um the the Holy Spirit has things arranged here in in the in the book of Genesis such that we hear about Joseph, we hear about Joseph, we hear about Joseph, and then it s switches to Judah for a whole chapter. And I think there's a purpose for that and we'll talk about that. But First, let's uh let's read the story. So uh if you could open in your Bible to Genesis chapter 38. I wasn't um I wasn't going to read the whole thing, but maybe I maybe we should. Yeah, turn in in your Bible to Genesis chapter 38. And uh So let me just read let me let's read the whole story. It's a it's a ridiculous story. So um yeah It's just uh it's crazy that this is uh part of the story uh of God's plan of redemption. This is a crazy part of God's plan of redemption. But it's there. So let's read it. Genesis chapter 38. This is the story of Judah and Tamar. And notice how how awful Judah is. He he's awful. Everything about this story is awful. Uh so Judah uh and Tamar. So Starting in verse 1, and it came about at that time that Judah departed from his brothers and visited a certain Adolemite whose name was Hira. So Adullum is in Canaan. So he left his family and moved in with the Canaanites, is what he did. Judah saw there a daughter of a certain Canaanite whose name was Shua, and he went in and he took her and went into her. So he married a Canaanite woman. So she conceived and Borsan and he named him Ur. Then she conceived again a Borsan and named him Onan. She bore still another son and named him Sheila, and it was at Chezib that she bore him. So he moved to Canaan, married a Canaanite woman, and started having kids in Canaan. Jezeb is in Canaan. Now Judah took a wife for Ur as firstborn. So how much time has gone by? So he's moved to Canaan. for essentially for good. I mean he moved to Canaan, had kids, the kids grew up to the point where the kids are getting married. This is a whole huge t amount of time in scripture. So one of the things that we don't always get, unless you think hard about it, is what how the time is flowing. And so this is not just he didn't go for five minutes to Canaan He moved there and had a family and the family grew up to the point where the f the kids were getting married. That's how long he moved to Canaan. So As you're reading this story, this is actually the following Judah for all the time that Joseph's in Egypt. All of it. So Joseph's 17, when uh he's sold into slavery, the Bible tells us. We can read from biblical clues that he's about 40, Joseph's about 40 when the brothers come down to Egypt. So that's a span of 23 years that Joseph's in Egypt. Well, it takes 23 years for all this stuff to happen. So that what we're doing here in 38 is following Judah's entire life. While Joseph's in Egypt. So while the rest of the story is talking about Joseph's in Egypt, this is what Judah is doing. And so we'll talk in a minute about why. Why is it the Bible Takes time out to follow Judah's life for a whole huge span of Judah's life. We'll talk about that. So but this really is a whole huge span of Judah's life Okay, so uh now Judah took a w verse six. Now Judah took a wife for Ur is firstborn, and her name was Tamar. So He's living in Canaan, this is another Canaanite woman. So he he gets a Canaanite wife for his son his first son. But Ur, Judah's firstborn, was evil in the sight of the Lord, so the Lord took his life So the Lord just flat out killed this guy because he was so evil. This is the son of Judah. Um killed him. The Lord killed him. Then Judah said to Onan, Go into your brother's wife and perform your duty as a brother-in-law to her and raise up offspring for your brother Onan knew that the offspring would not be his, so when he went into his brother's wife, he wasted his seed on the ground in order not to give offspring to his brother. But what he did was displeasing in the sight of the Lord, so he took his life also. So the Lord killed, flat out killed, the second son of Judah. Then Judah said to his daughter-in-law Tamar, Remain a widow in your father's house until my son Sheila grows up, the third boy For he thought, I'm afraid that he too may die like his brothers, like this is some black widow cursed lady. But if the third son goes, he'll he'll die too. Of course it's not Tamar's fault. These boys were evil and God was killing them for their own evil. Um so Tamar went and lived with her f in her father's house. Verse 12. Now after considerable time Shua's daughter time Shua's daughter, the wife of Judah, died. So Judah's wife dies. the mother of these boys. And when the time of mourning was ended, Juno went up to his sheep shearers in Timnah, another city in Canaan, to shear his sheep So she removed her widow's garments, as Tamar, and covered herself with a veil, and wrapped herself, and sat in the gateway of Enaim, which is on the road to Timnah, for she saw that Sheila had grown up, and she had not been given to him as a wife. And so T Tamar dresses up as a prostitute beside the road. That's what's happening here. Um When Judah saw her, he thought that she was a harlot, for she had covered her face, so he turned aside to her by the road and said, Here now, let me come into you. So He he's he's looking for a prostitute. This is Judah, the wonderful son of Jacob. Um he's looking for a prostitute. That's what he's he he's he's hoping for her. He sees her, he thinks he's a prostitute, and he enters into negotiations. Um and she said, What will you give me that you may come into me? He said, Therefore I will send you a young goat from the flock. She said, Moreover, will you give a pledge until you send it? He said, What pledge shall I give you? And she said, Your seal and your cord and your staff that is in your hand So he gave them to her and went into her and she conceived by him. Then she arose and departed, and removed her veil, and put on her widow's garments. So she had been dressed like a prostitute. Uh he hires her as a prostitute. She gets pregnant. She takes off the prostitute stuff, puts her morning ba stuff on, and moves goes back to her father's house When Judah sent the young goat by his friend the Adolamite to receive the pledge from the woman's hand, he did not find her. So he sends the payment. for their little transaction and they can't find her. He asked them out of her place, saying, Where is the temple prostitute who was by the road at Enayam? But they said, There has been no temple prostitute here. So he returned to Judah and said, I did not find her. And furthermore, the men of the place said, There has been no temple prostitute here. Then Judah said, Let her keep them, otherwise we will become a laughingstock. After all, I sent this young goat, but you did not find her Now it was about three months later that Judah was informed, Your daughter-in-law Tamar has played the harlot, and behold, she is also with child by harlotry. Then Judah said, Bring her out and let her be burned. It was while she was being brought out that she sent to her father-in-law, saying, I am with child by the man to whom these things belong. And she said, Please examine and see whose signet ring and cords and staff these are. Judah recognized them and said, She is more righteous than I, inasmuch as I did not give her to my son Sheila, and he did not have relations with her again. It came about at the time she was giving birth that behold there were twins in her womb. Moreover, it took place while she was giving birth, one put out a hand, and the midwife took and tied a scarlet thread on his hand. saying, This one came out first. But it came about as he drew back his hand, and that behold his brother came out. Then she said, What a breach you have made for yourself. So he was named Perez, which means breach. Afterward, his brother came out, who had the scarlet thread in his hand, and he was named Zerah. So that is the story of Judah. the really for about twenty-two or twenty-three years, the whole time when Joseph is down there in Egypt be f right before the brothers, right after this would have had to be when the brothers went down um to Egypt So, uh what do we see here? First, um the geography. So Hebron is where the family is, Jacob and the rest of the family is. Now they've they've gone all around, all the way up to Shechem and all the way up to Dothan for uh for finding pasture for the flock. But Judah flat out moves here into the the kind of the coastal plain of Canaan. He he moves to Chezeb and then he goes to Enaam. That's where he he meets with his daughter in law in Timnah. That's where he goes for the sheep shearing. So uh this is where the events of Genesis 38 take place, kind of in the coastal plain of the land of Canaan. Um and it's a considerable amount of time, twenty-something years He goes and lives among the Canaanites, takes a wife, has a family, all that sort of thing. So his firstborn marries this woman, Tamar. Um and the but he doesn't just die, the Lord kills him because he's evil. And so the the sons of this Canaanite woman that that Judah marries They're um we don't know exactly what kind of evil they do, but they've been raised in Canaan by a Canaanite mother. and they turn out evil. Evil enough that God just straight out uh comes down and wipes them out. Um and then there's this Lever 8 law. We won't get too much into it, but there there's a law called the Lever Eight Law that says that If a woman is married and her husband dies and her husband has brothers, that the brothers have to uh and their unmarried brothers have to marry the woman so that she can have children Uh it's a law that existed back as far as we know. Um it's it becomes part of God's law for Israel. It's incorporated into the law of of Israel. Uh but at this time in the book of Genesis, we don't have the law of Israel yet. But this liberate law already exists And God obviously approves of it. Uh he approves of it enough that when uh the second son Onan um does something to avoid fulfilling the Leverate law, God kills him for it. That's how much God approves of this leverate law. Uman doesn't just die. So he he dies, yes he does die, but the Bible says it's because God killed him And then she's promised the third son. Tamar has promised the third son, but Judah, we see has no intention of of fulfilling that promise, of fulfilling the Leverate Law. And so she takes thing matters into his own hands and kind of fools him, although uh he's susceptible to being fooled. He's out looking for a prostitute Uh he thinks she sees a prostitute, that's why he sleeps with her. Um and of course, like every other story in the Bible, uh famous painters have painted it, and so the famous uh French painter Vernet uh painted a a scene of Judah and Tamar. So he he and he they they negotiate, come to a price, it's gonna be a young goat. And she keeps some things of it, some personal things of it, his signet ring with his family uh signet on there and uh and his staff and his his uh his cord and his staff and his seal. Things that are definitely his that anybody could recognize are his. She keeps them to make sure she gets the payment. That's the ostensibly why she does it. Um and then she becomes pregnant and and Judah is ready to have her burned. Uh I mean to have her killed for um for something that he did. Right? He's he's w he's willing to kill her for something that he did. Um I it's just he's awful. Judah's awful in this story. Um there there's nothing good about Judah i in this story until the very end, until he realizes how awful he is And that's part of the point of this story, is that at the very end, Judah sees that he's awful. And that's really important for all of us to see that our sin is awful. It's not just Judah that's awful. It's all of us that are awful. Sin is awful. And Judah starts to realize it at the end. And this that'll be important because Judah More and more, um, we'll see as we get into the time when the brothers come down to Egypt, Judah takes leadership and he acts in godly ways. Later in the story, after this. This is a turning point in Judah's life. He's a horrific human being in this story all the way up to the end. And you can see him starting, God's starting to work on him. Start God's starting to work on his character. Okay. So uh Tamar gives birth to twins. Um and one of them is P Res and one of Zero and there's this crazy story about one sticking a handout and having a cord and then the other one comes out first and it's P Res. So The Holy Spirit inspired interrupts the story of Joseph, because we're talking about Joseph in the chapter before, we're talking about Joseph in the chapter after, but this chapter pivots to Judah, and the Holy Spirit did that for a purpose. Uh he leaves the family, lives with Canaanites, marries a pagan woman, and then he's just all wound up in this story of deceit and sexual immorality. And it's a and it's a contrast. It's a stark contrast when we'll see the next chapter when Joseph is tempted. it with sexual immorality, he resists. Uh he does not fall for it. Uh it's uh and it also as I said uh d and demonstrates development in a character of Judah. He's horrifically evil, and by the end he's starting to see that he's horrifically evil. And it ends with the birth of Judah's son Perez by his daughter-in-law Tam. And Perez, of course, is the ancestor of both King David and the Messiah. So this story is an important link in God's plan for the redemption of mankind. And that's really the main purpose that's in there. Judah acts sinfully all through this. He marries a Canaanite woman, he refuses to fulfill his obligations under the Leverate law. But the mind of man plans his way, but Yahweh directs his steps. And so out of the wicked plans and acts of men, God brings about his good and just purposes. Um so this child, this illicit relationship between a daughter in law and her her uh father in law Judah Brings about it is in the line that brings about King David and also King Jesus. And so despite man's wickedness and God's promise of a seed will come to pass. And so if we look at the family tree of Jacob, it's through Leah, his wife, that he has Judah, and these are the ancestors of Jesus. And so if you turn to Matthew chapter one, so turn real quick with your in your Bible to Matthew chapter one. To the very first verse of the New Testament, Matthew chapter 1, verse 1. It's a genealogy of Jesus. And It's uh recorded this way. Uh the record of the genealogy of Jesus the Messiah, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Abraham was the father of Isaac. Isaac was the father of Jacob, and Jacob the father of Judah and his brothers. Judah was the father of Perez and Zerah by Tamar. The story that we just read. Perez was the father of Hezron, and Hezron the father of Ram, and Ram the father of Aminadab, and Aminadab the father of Nashan, and Nashan the father of Sal Salmon, Salman was the father of Bohaz Boaz by Rahab. Boaz was the father of Obed by Ruth. And Obed the father of Jesse. Jesse was the father of David, the king. And then genealogy continues all the way to Jesus from there. But I want you to note from this little passage in the New Testament that there are three women listed in the genealogy. Only three But look at who they are. Not one of these three women is a descendant of Abraham, for example. None of them. They're from totally outside the the this family of promise. Tamar is a Canaanite who slept with her, who pretended to be a prostitute and slept with her father-in-law. Rahab is a Canaanite prostitute. Ruth is a Moabite, one of the descendants of Lot, from the incestuous relationship with his daughters. Uh Ben Ami and Moab were the two sons that were born, the Ammonites and the Moabites, are the descendants of Lot, not Abraham. Descendants of that horrific, incestuous relationship. Those are the three women that the scripture uh particularly points out as in the family tree, the ancestry of Jesus. Tamar, the story we just read, Rahab the Canaanite prostitute, and Ruth the Moabite woman. So uh what this shows is no matter what our flaws are, uh no matter what actions we um we we go about, God's plans and purposes will be fulfilled And God will use even horrible circumstances to bring His plans and purposes to fulfillment. And we see that in spades in the genealogy of Jesus. And this is just one example of it here in Genesis chapter 38 with the whole story of Tamar, which is awful. Everybody's bad in that story. But God brings the Messiah about through that those circumstances. They're in, that's the family tree of the Messiah, Tamar and Judah having P. Okay, so um let's continue on with the story. So that's all of Judah's life. That's like twenty-two years or twenty-three years of Judah's life. And now go back, backwards in time, back to when Joseph is 17 again. So turn back to Genesis chapter 39. And uh starting in verse one, uh we pick up back up with the story of Joseph. Now Joseph had been taken down to Egypt, and Potiphar, an Egyptian officer of Pharaoh, the captain of the bodyguard bought him from the Ishmaelites who had taken him down there. The Lord was with Joseph, so he became a successful man. So a successful slave. The Lord was with him, Joseph, so he became a successful man, and he was in the house of his master, the Egyptian. Now his master saw that the Lord was with him, and how the Lord caused all that he did to prosper in his hand. So Joseph found favor in his sight and became his personal servant, and he made him overseer over his house, and all that he owned he put in his charge. It came about that from the time he made him overseer at his house and over all he owned, the Lord blessed the Egyptians' house on account of Joseph. And thus the Lord's blessing was upon all that he owned in the house and in the field. And then verse six Now the trouble starts. Now Joseph was handsome in form and appearance. It came about after these events that his master's wife looked with desire at Joseph. And she said, Lie with me. But he refused and said to his master's wife, Behold, with me here my master does not concern himself with anything in the house. And he has put all that he owns in my charge. There is no one greater in this house than I, and he has withheld nothing from me except you, because you are his wife. How then could I do this great evil and sin against God? As she spoke to Joseph day after day. He did not listen to her to lie beside her or be with her Now it happened one day that he went into the house to do his work, and none of the men of the household were there inside. She caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me. And he left his garment in her hand and fled and went outside When she saw that he had left his garment in her hand and had fled outside, she called to the men of her household and said to them, See He has brought in a Hebrew to us to make sport of us. He came in to me to lie with me, and I screamed. When he heard that I raised my voice and screamed, he left his garment beside me and fled and went outside So she left his garment beside her until his master came home. Then she spoke to him with these words The Hebrew slave whom you brought to us came into me to make sport of me And as I raised my voice and screamed, he left his garment beside me and fled outside. So, uh Joseph is tempted uh with sexual misconduct. He's sold to Potiphar, he places him in charge of everything. Uh the Bible says he's handsome and Potiphar's wife notices him and she wants to sleep with him. But Joseph turns her down. Uh he turns her down over and over again. One day she grabs his garment, tries to force him into bed with her, but he flees He flees from temptation and leaves his garment behind. And of course there's a painting of that. There's a painting from the Middle Ages of Potiphar's wife grabbing onto Joseph's garment. She looks very European and not Middle Eastern in this picture. But uh whatever. There's a there's a famous Middle Eastern painting of everything in the Old Testament, trust me. So the biblical author returns to the story of Joseph, and we see that he is subjected to sexual temptation. And it's a contrast with what we just read about Judah and Genesis 38. Judah succumbs to the allurements of the Canaanites. And he's an active participant. He's out there looking for a prostitute. Joseph refuses to give in, even when nobody's there and nobody's watching. The phrase in chapter 39, the phrase the Lord was with Joseph is used four times in the chapter, verse 2, verse 3, verse 21, verse 23. The Lord, that's a theme of this chapter. The Lord is with Joseph. The Bible wants us to be clear about that. By repetition, shows the emphasis that this is a key concept in the story of Joseph, that Yahweh is with him. With all the tragedy in Joseph's life, abuse at the hand of his brothers, sale into slavery, and now false accusations that land him in prison, God is still in control and God is with him. And Joseph sees that. Everything is unfolding according to God's good purposes, his plan and his purposes, in spite of the horrible circumstances for Joseph So uh in spite of these circumstances, God continues to cause Joseph to succeed, and in such a way that his master saw that the Lord was with him. So that's how the Bible describes the relationship between Joseph and Potiphar. Everything that Joseph does turns out well. and Potiphar recognizes it. And he somehow recognizes that it's because God is with him. So Joseph is promoted, and so we don't know how much time has gone by, but it it must have taken some time for Potiphar to notice that Joseph was a good slave and to promote him gradually up to the place where he was head of the whole household. So definitely some time passed. So he goes down there at the age of seventeen. At least some years have passed. He's maybe late teens, early twenties, something like that. Um but some time passes in this household and everything that Joseph does Works out well. He's he's progressively promoted until he's the head servant in the house. He's promoted to overseer of Potiphar's household, where he can be a powerful witness to God's omnipotence. Unfortunately, being the household steward brought Joseph into frequent contact with Potiphar's wife. And so he's not just a slave out in the fields, he's the head of the household. And since he's the head of the household, he's in the house, and Potiphar's wife is there too. So in verse 6, we read that Joseph was handsome in form and appearance. Interestingly enough, that's the exact Hebrew phrase that's used to describe his mother Rachel. So the description of Rachel as beautiful in form and figure That Hebrew phrase is exactly the same Hebrew phrase used to describe her son Joseph here in Genesis 39. So, just like Rachel was a beautiful woman, her son Joseph is a handsome man, using the exact same Hebrew phrase. Then in verse 7, the temptation comes. The Bible says his master's wife looked with desire at Joseph. So she's lusting after this young man, who's a handsome young man. And she is bold and brazen. She comes right out and says, lie with me. Sleep with me. She comes right out. Uh she doesn't she's not now we don't know how over how much time this is, but uh by by verse set by the events in verse seven She is brazingly, openly trying to get this uh young man to sleep with her. Uh Joseph flatly refuses, which is dangerous because he's a slave. So he's a slave in the household, she gives him an order, and he flat out refuses that order. And he takes time to explain to her why he will not comply. Uh there's two main reasons given. One is uh uh uh Potiphar trusts him, you know, that he goes through this litany that the fact that your husband has put me over in charge of the whole household, everything here is I'm the the top uh his top servant, everything is put into my trust And then the second one is at the very end uh such an adulterous activity is a sin against God, he points out to her. Um The name Yahweh, the covenant name of God, is not used here. So it just says God in our English version. Um and for uh the trans for most of the translations in English when you see Lord translated as Lord that's usually Yahweh. When you see just God, it's usually Elohim, which is a more uh generic name for God. that those outside the covenant, those um those who were not descendants of Abraham would have understood Elohim as a more generic word for God. And that's what he uses here when he's talking to Potiphar's wife, who's an Egyptian. Doesn't use Yahweh, he uses Elohim. But he says it's a sin against God to do this thing that she wants to do. Um and so Joseph through this whole thing he shows himself to be an upright, moral, and godly young man. Um he understands that adultery is contrary to God's plans and purposes that are it's contrary to God's character, God's design for marriage. He he knows it. And so to do the thing that she wants him to do, she's ordered him to do She's given it as a command when she said, lie with me there. He's refusing her command and he's telling her why, because it's a sin against God. Unfortunately, the temptation is not an isolated incident. Verse 10 tells her that she keeps coming and keeps coming and keeps coming and keeps coming. The partisan for his wife is relentless constantly trying to coax and lure Joseph into an adulterous affair. So this is a steady drumbeat of temptation. Uh and not just a one-time incident. And Joseph continues to resist the temptation, but eventually she finds a time when there's nobody else around Um and she corners him and uh she grabs him by the garment and he runs. He literally flees from temptation, uh leaving her holding his garment, his outer garment Um and now she's gotta arrange a cover up because um There's been kind of a a commotion around this whole thing and so she comes up with a cover story And first she calls the other servants. And when she when she's interacting with the other servants, she's very uh sly about it. Uh she blames her husband for bringing in this foreigner. And and you can see how this plays on the other servants. The other servants most likely don't like the fact that there's this foreign Hebrew guy that's over them And so that's the way that she frames it, that this this foreigner has brought in. He's over you too, you you other servants. uh how do you like being you know underneath this uh this foreign Hebrew guy? And it's my husband's fault for doing that. Um and that's how she starts out her story with the other servants Um and then she makes up a story about Joseph attacking her rather than the other way around. Um and then so she's already told that that story to the servants and the servants are all whispering to each other this is what's happened and her husband comes home and all the servants are whispering about what's happened. And she's got the evidence, right? She's got the the the garment there right beside her. She's got the evidence of Joseph's crime And so she presents the evidence of Joseph's crime of attacking her. There's this garment right there in her bed. Um and she tells her husband the story that the Hebrew that you brought Uh, Potiphar. He's attacked me and all the servants are saying, Yeah, we heard that she he attacked her. And so Potiphar is convinced by all that. And so what happens? This woman is a sinful woman and she didn't get her way. She wanted something and she didn't get it. And so now she seeks to destroy Joseph, uh, because he wouldn't do what she wanted him to do And uh when we have a sinful desire and it's denied, sometimes we we uh act out, we rage because we didn't get what we wanted, even though it would have been bad for us. And that's what she does here, Potiphar's wife. Potiphar's wife is never never named. She doesn't get a name here. Um, but that's uh that's what she does. She doesn't get what she wants, so she seeks to destroy Joseph by lying about him And the result. Then we see the result of what happens to Joseph next. So Potiphar, so continuing the story in verse 19. Back to Genesis 39, verse 19. Now, when his master heard the words of his wife, which he spoke to him, saying, This is what your slave did to me, his anger burned. So he's angry with Joseph, because his wife has told him this whole made-up story. So Joseph's master took him and put him into the jail. The place where the king's prisoners were confined. And he was there in the jail. But the Lord was with Joseph. and extended kindness to him and gave him favor in the sight of the chief jailer. The chief jailer committed to Joseph's charge all the prisoners who were in the jail so that whatever was done there, he was responsible for it. The chief jailer did not supervise anything under Joseph's charge because the Lord was with him, and whatever he did, the Lord made to prosper. Now does that sound familiar? So this is exactly what happened in Potiphar's household. It happens again in the jail, and the reason is given, it's because the Lord is with Joseph, just like he was when he was a slave in Potiphar's house, the Lord is still with him when he's now a prisoner in prison. So Potiphar's wife tells Potiphar Joseph tried to sleep with her, and when she cried out he ran away, leaving his garment behind. Potiphar throws Joseph in prison. But the Lord is with Joseph in prison, and the chief jailer puts all the prisoners into Joseph's care. So, uh Joseph's life moves from one tragedy to the next. Uh, you know, his brothers hate him, throw him into a pit, sell him as a slave. And but it then at least uh conditions are looking up for him. You know, he's he's made a uh a head slave. I mean he's still a slave, but he's a head slave with everybody under him and conditions are good under Potiphar, but now and and now this happens. Now in spite of doing what's right, so he's doing what's right, uh Joseph's life hits rock bottom as he's thrown into prison So um this is what he this is what he gets for for doing the right thing. He goes from being a slave to being in in prison. Um but once again regardless of the circumstances The Lord was with Joseph. That's the theme here throughout this whole story of Joseph is that God is always with him, no matter what the circumstances And the chief jailer sees the same thing in Joseph as Potiphar did. That everything Joseph does turns out well. So he puts Joseph in charge of all the other prisoners. As God caused Joseph to rise and standing in Potiphar's house, now he causes him to attain status even in prison. So it just doesn't matter. Whatever happens to Joseph, whatever the outside circumstances and this is what God is teaching Joseph. Whatever the outside circumstances is, I'm with you. Whatever the outside circumstances, and this is the lesson For us too is whatever the outside circumstance is, God is with us. And so, um, now This is not what's always taught at all churches here in the United States of America. Um Unfortunately, there are those. Typically something like uh terms something like the prosperity gospel Uh if you have faith everything you'll g you'll be a millionaire and everything will be great. Um if someone has enough faith or is godly enough that person will not suffer or be subject to persecution. In fact that God will shower blessings on them and they'll be rich and and comfortable Um but that's not what the Bible shows us. Um that that's not what happened to Joseph, um, at least not right away. Um and so that's a false teaching. Uh for somebody in the church, for a pastor or someone to stand up and say that as long as you have faith, everything will be um comfortable, that's not right So uh there's a subtle difference between um what the Bible promises, that all things will work to good uh together for good to those who are who love the Lord and are called according to his purposes All things will work together for good, what does that mean? That means for the good of ourselves spiritually And for God's purposes. And so, in order for us to attain spiritual maturity, oftentimes that means physical suffering. Um and that too is for our good, for our spiritual good. Uh but when um when someone takes the scriptural promises for spiritual good and for God's purposes to be uh to to come about uh by his providence and twist that into and you'll be physically comfortable That's not what the Bible promises. That's a false teaching. In fact, in John chapter 15, Jesus promises his disciples that a slave is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. Jesus said. He also said in another place that in this world you will have trouble. So the promise is that you'll be persecuted. That's a promise from Jesus. But it will work out for your spiritual good. That's another promise. But that doesn't mean you're going to be physically comfortable all the time in this life. Joseph was not. He was a slave who was thrown into prison. It worked out according to God's purposes for good, but it would not have been pleasant for Joseph to be a prisoner in that prison. He was either a slave or a prisoner from the age of seventeen to the age of thirty. So for thirteen years he was a slave or he was in prison. That's a long time for a young person, especially for a young somebody that young, seventeen years old. If if you have kids that are teenagers, think about that that i your i would would your child be ready to be spiritually mature enough at the age of seventeen to be sold into slavery, mistreated, abused, thrown into prison from the age of seventeen to thirty. Maybe they would. Maybe um but this is a this is a rare spiritual maturity that Joseph has at the age of seventeen. And the Lord works on that Well he works on it and and he he develops um Joseph's spiritual maturity through all these events uh that happened to him. So The final thing we're going to look at today. So we're going to look at one more thing. We have about 15 minutes. So next, while he's in prison, Joseph interprets a couple of dreams of other prisoners. And so remember he's in charge of all the prisoners, so they're all coming to him. So turn over to Genesis chapter 40. We're going to start into this chapter. We'll see how far we get. Genesis chapter 40, verse 1. Then it came about after these things, so after Joseph was thrown into prison, the cup-bearer and the baker for the king of Egypt offended their lord the king of Egypt. Pharaoh was furious with his two officials, the chief cup-bearer and the chief baker. So he put them in confinement in the house of the captain of the bodyguard in the jail. The same place where Joseph was imprisoned. So two more people were put in jail after Joseph. The captain of the bodyguard put Joseph in charge of them because Joseph in charge of all the prisoners. And he took care of them. So Joseph took care of them, and they were in confinement for some time. Then the cupbearer and the baker for the king of Egypt, who were confined in jail, both had a dream the same night, each man with his own dream. And each dream with its own interpretation. When Joseph came to them in the morning and observed them, behold, they were rejected. So Jacob is concerned about the people who are in his charge. He he w he actually cares about them. So think about this. You're in prison, you're a prisoner, but He cares about his fellow prisoners. He's been charge of them, and so he he keeps a careful watch over them, and he sees that there's two of them that look like they're dejected. Then they said to him, We have had a dream, and there is no one to interpret it. Then Joseph said to them, Do not interpretations belong to God? Tell it to me, please. So the chief cup-bearer told his dream to Joseph and said to him, In my dream, behold, there was a vine in front of me, and on the vine were three branches. And as it was budding, its blossoms came out, and its clusters produced ripe grapes. Now Pharaoh's cup was in my hand, so I took the grapes and squeezed them into Pharaoh's cup, and I put the cup into Pharaoh's hand Then Joseph said to him, This is the interpretation of it. The three branches are three days. Within three more days, Pharaoh will lift up your head and restore you to your office. And you will put Pharaoh's cup into his hand according to your former custom when you were his cupbearer. And then Picking up in verse sixteen, the chief baker uh when the chief baker saw that he had interpreted favorably, he said to Joseph, I I also saw in my dream, and behold, there were three baskets of white bread on my head And in the top basket there were some of all sorts of bait food for Pharaoh, and the birds were eating them out of the basket on my head. Then Joseph answered and said, This is its interpretation. The three baskets are three days. Within three more days, Pharaoh will lift up your head from you and will hang you on a tree, and the birds will eat your flesh off you. That's a pretty harsh interpretation, but that's what the dream meant. Thus it came about on the third day, which was Pharaoh's birthday, that he made a feast. for all his servants, and he lifted up the head of the chief cupbearer and the head of the chief baker among his servants. He restored the chief cup bearer to his office, and he put the cup into Pharaoh's hand, but he hanged the chief baker. just as Joseph had interpreted to them. So Jose Joseph uh when he's taking care of the prisoners, he notices that some that are uh two that are uh seem to be dejected or uh not happy. Finds out that they dreamed. Um tells them that God is the one who interprets dreams. and ask that they tell him the dream. Um they're in prison with Joseph and they have these dreams and Jeff Joseph actually does interpret the dreams. Uh the cupbearer's dream is about a vine with grapes and he squeezes them into Pharaoh's cup and um Joseph tells him that that means in three days he's going to be restored to his position Um and of course he he does in the story, he asks the cupbearer to remember him. You're gonna be so Joseph is confident in God's um interpretation. He's confident enough that he says that I know that God's interpretation will come true and you're going to be restored, and then when you're restored, please remember me down here in the dungeon The baker's dream is food in a basket and the birds are eating the food from the basket. And he tells the baker that in three days Pharaoh's going to hang him and the birds are going to eat his flesh. Very harsh. Uh but true. And after three days, um it takes place exactly as God had told Joseph the interpretation of these dreams. Three days, uh cup bearer restored, baker is hang. And we'll we'll get into next week the fact that the cupbearer he he's he's free by this miraculous interpretation of a dream. And so there's no way that he actually forgot that this happened. But He he doesn't want to rock the boat. He's got his position back, and so he doesn't mention anything about Joseph rotting in the dungeon. And of course, like everything, there's a famous painting of the baker being punished, being taken to be hanged from the 1500s. So what do what do we what do we make of this whole incident here? So it's uh it can sometimes be a little bit troubling. Um that uh God worked in all these weird ways through dreams and visions and all these kind of things and and so e even today we sometimes get people saying hey I saw a dream or a vision or whatever. And so so what do we make of all that? That God did some uh revealed things to people in um in what we consider to be strange ways in those days. And does he still do that? Does he still reveal, does he still have dreams and visions, all these things So the answer really is in the book of Hebrews, and so uh just turn for a second to Hebrews chapter one. So if we look at what God's word says about how God has revealed himself in the book of Hebrews, Hebrews chapter 1. Verse 1. So this book is a fascinating book, and if you haven't studied in detail, I recommend that you do that. I think we're going to have a course on Hebrews coming up in the not too distant future. But uh Hebrews starts out like this. God after he spoke long ago to the fathers and the prophets in many portions and in many ways So in many portions in many ways. So God revealed himself in all these strange ways in the Old Testament, dreams and visions and all this kind of stuff. In these last days has spoken to us in his Son, whom he appointed heir of all things, through whom he made also the world. Um and so what the book of Hebrews is telling us is, okay, this is how God revealed himself to the fathers, to the those in the Old Testament. through all these many different ways and different portions, all these dreams and visions and uh theophanies and all this kind of thing all these kind of things But in these last days, it's through his son. And the revelation is complete, is what he's saying here. The fullness of revelation is now complete in the final coming of Jesus Christ. The story of divine revelation is a story of progression up to Christ, but there is no progression beyond Christ. It is finished with Christ. And so God is not adding to his revelation after Christ. That's what the book of Hebrews, that's the point of this introduction to the book of Hebrews. The fullness of God's revelation is done in Christ Jesus. And so that was the former way, all these dreams and visions and things like that. And now the the uh revelation is complete in Christ. And so and that's actually um when we get to the book of Revelation, that's made even more clear in the book of Revelation. The revelation of Jesus Christ. Anybody that adds to this book will get the plagues of this book. Um and so that's the end of it. Um So uh that all that to say that we should not expect to be having dreams and visions of extra revelations because the revelation is complete. Okay. So it's difficult to imagine. So just imagine yourself in Joseph's shoes. Uh i it's um it's almost impossible to imagine what it would be like to be a slave for us uh born here in America. uh or to be thrown into prison for no reason whatsoever, for having done absolutely nothing wrong. So not only to be a slave, but also to be thrown into prison For doing what's right. And absolutely nothing wrong. But nowhere in the text does it say that Joseph ever became discouraged. Uh so and and the Bible's usually pretty clear about that. When people are becoming discouraged, it tells us that they're becoming discouraged when it's when it has a lot of details about a story like this. But nowhere does it say that Joseph ever became discouraged, being thrown into a pit, sold into slavery, thrown into prison. He he he doesn't get discouraged Um he's left to serve in a dungeon uh and for s a couple for two more years. We'll see next time we pick up the story that after these events, after the cup bearer is restored It's two more years that Joseph rots in the dungeon, uh, before Pharaoh has a dream, and and Pharaoh and that That causes the cupbearer, because he thinks he can get advantage by it, to mention to Pharaoh that there's this guy that can interpret dreams in his dungeon Uh we'll see that next time. But at no point does the Bible ever say or does Joseph ever show that he is in despair or discouragement in spite of his circumstances And the Bible tells us that God is with him, and evidently Joseph knows this that God is with him. And so it's a great taste. Joseph is a great example of faith. in awful circumstances. As we watch the the designs of God, the plans of God, the providence of God work through this whole set of circumstances Remember that Joseph is in those circumstances. And try as best you can to put yourself in Joseph's shoes. And would you have gotten discouraged if you were sold into slavery? Would you have gotten discouraged if you were thrown into prison in spite of doing nothing wrong? And and think about think about that. But since we have this example, we actually do have modern examples. of saints who were thrown into prisons. In Eastern Europe, for example, during the time of communism, we have examples of pastors who were thrown into prison. And those pastors meditated on the story of Joseph in order to not become discouraged by the fact that they were thrown into prison. Um and we have some of their surviving writings that say that they were meditating on this story of Joseph as they were there being abused in prison. And so it's one of the uses of the stories of Scripture is that we can see God's faithfulness in past circumstances. And when our life uh ends up in a some sort of a similar circumstance, we can use that for spiritual strength. Yes. Um at least in like Abraham's case God made a promise and so I guess as a human time oh there is a promise and and an expectation is set. Right. Did I miss the detail in that there was no sort of expectation Remember the dreams when he was seventeen, uh that his brothers were gonna bow down to him, and it sure doesn't look like that's happening He's a slave in Egypt and he's in prison in Egypt. Uh but the Lord has given him a dream saying his brothers are going to bow down to him and his father's going to bow down to him So there's a huge expectation there in in Jacob Joseph's dream and it sure doesn't look for these thirteen years like that's about to come true. Uh yeah. But he's seeing evidence, even though he's in the midst of all of that, he's seeing evidence all the time of God's favor on him. Encouraging and um help to see in him and help them to be more steadfast. Yeah, I think that's right. That that that uh that God does provide encouragement in the in ph physical encouragement in the midst of his dark circumstances in that he he raises the he rises to the top of Pharaoh's household, he rises to the top of the chief jailer's uh um little organization in in prison. So he does get that sort of encouragement. That's that's physical encouragement. Yeah, good point. All right. And so that's the end of our lesson for today. We have two minutes left for additional questions. Anybody have any uh yes, questions or comments? And that uh Yahweh is a covenant name, but Elohim was used in describing God to Son of her twice, I think. Yep. Um Do you know if Elohim is God little G in general or if God Big G is God of the Bible, God of Abraham, God of So uh Elohim was kind of a generic word for God that other cultures would have used for their gods as well. Um it's actually plural. Elohim is a plural word. Uh but The uh the covenant people, Abraham and his descendants, use Elohim, and in our Bible, for example, it's always got a capital G because they're always talking about Yahweh when they use the word Elohim to describe him. So that's the way the Bible puts it. He is that they they're using Elohim as a and a different description description of the God of the Bible, of Yahweh. but not in that particular circumstance using his covenant name, but still describing him. So it's not a little ge God, not any God. He when Joseph tells uh Potiphar's wife that it's a sin against God, he's talking about the God of the Bible, a sin against the God of the Bible, even though he uses the generic name for God, Elohim. So he's still talking about Yahweh, but the person he's talking to doesn't know this name Yahweh. Um so he uses this other word Elohim, but still talking about the same person. Yeah. Still definitely talking about the God of the Bible there. Yes. Actually in the past when I read the uh uh the old testimony, probably know, even the time of uh because my understanding was that the covenant name Yahweh was revealed was not revealed until promotes, right? That at least that's how divide the script that was my understanding, but when I saw the capital L you know Lord, capital uh L O R E pre Moses time. So I was wondering well how that's possible. So it was because as just you just explained, they didn't have they might have not known that names for Yahweh named specific specifically but they knew that there was the only God of the covenant, okay. Yep. Yeah, and so it gone so of course it's it's interesting that there are some uh time anomalies because remember the book of Genesis is not written down until Moses. Um and so Moses is writing all the way back to Genesis one one. It's him that's writing it down. But it's stories that have taken place years in in the past. And so For example, at the time Moses' writing, there is no city of Sodom and Gomorrah. They've been just long ago destroyed in the time of Abraham. But there are places where he writes about if you go this way down through where Sodom and Gomorrah are. But to the people he's writing, there is no Sodom and Gomorrah there. Um and there are some l there's some little things that are that are tricky to to think through when you think about the fact that Moses is writing this all down years and years and centuries and sometimes millennia after they actually happened. So there are some uh little time anomalies like that. Uh okay. Let me uh close with prayer