Today we're in part five and we've uh we finished up the life of Abraham and God's dealings with Abraham last week. Uh we're going to be moving on to Isaac this week. But we're coming up on uh our kind of remembrance of events. So uh this coming Friday is Good Friday and Um and then next Sunday will be uh Easter Sunday and um those events are the the fulcrum, the focal point of history. All history before that is leading up to the cross and all of our um All of our evangelism and our proclamation of the gospel is pointing back to those events. So In 1 Corinthians chapter 15, Paul tells us that the gospel is that Christ died on the cross for our sins. That's what he says the gospel is. Christ died for our sins in accordance with the scriptures and God raised him from the dead in accordance with the scriptures. And so those are two events that happened in space time history two thousand years ago. And so that's the gospel and that's what we point back to. All history up to that point was pointing forward to it. And everything that we do in terms of proclaiming the gospel, the good news, is about these events that we're about to commemorate on Good Friday and Easter. And so I put up this quote from John MacArthur, no sin goes unpunished. It can't. God's law demands a penalty. Without that penalty, his perfect law ceases to be perfect. Christ didn't erase or ameliorate the penalties of our sin. He paid them in full. So that's the idea of the substitutionary atonement. on the cross. And then another one from uh Spurgeon, uh Charles Spurgeon, no more the bloody spear, the cross and nails no more, for hell itself shakes at his name and all the heavens a door because he didn't stay on the cross and he didn't stay dead. Uh and so Easter follows Good Friday. Okay, so uh that's what we're about to embark on this uh this coming week, and uh of course the church has a celebration on Friday evening, a uh a memorial service, a service. uh of remembrance of the cross, uh Good Friday service on Friday evening. So today though Uh we're going to look at the life of Isaac. So we're going to look at a little overview, a brief overview of Isaac's life, and then we're going to go to a couple of incidents in his life where uh God um powerfully revealed himself in the life of Isaac. First, God chooses a wife for Isaac. We'll look at that event, in which of course Isaac was not there A wife was chosen for him and God was the one who did the choosing. Uh and then Isaac and Rebecca have twins, and we'll talk about that. And God's promises, God makes a series of promises to Isaac that are exactly the same as the promises he made to Abraham. And we'll look at the fact that Isaac has doubt and fear, just like Abraham had doubt and fear. even after being given God's promises. And so uh we have a basic timeline of his life. But uh first we're going to review, we'll review the very end of Abraham's life, which actually flows into Isaac's life, because the first event, the first really big event in Isaac's life, of course, is what we talked about last week, where Abraham took him to be sacrificed. on Mount Moriah. So last week, uh first we talked about uh the incident in um Genesis chapter 18 where um the Lord appears to Abraham uh three three people three three beings that look like men or described as looking like men appear to Abraham, visit Abraham, and one of them is the Lord, one of them is identified as Yahweh in the text And the other two are angels that that leave Abraham and immediately go to destroy Sodom and Gomorrah. So Abraham greets these and he and he prepares a meal for them. And He they tell him that he's that he and Sarah are gonna have a child. Uh and of course Sarah is listening at the door of the tent and she laughs. Uh the Lord confronts her and she uh denies laughing, but of course it's the Lord and so he can read her mind and thoughts. In Genesis chapter 18, Abraham is dwelling in this area of Hebron, near Hebron and the oaks of Mamre. That's also where the cave of Macpelah is that we'll talk about today. Uh so that's where these events were taking place. And later on we'll see that um uh for a time Isaac lives in this area. He also lives down in Beersheba in the south, and then he also spends some time living in the area of Gerar as well, which is in the coastal plain, uh, which is in the land of the Philistines. Okay. And so the Lord appeared to Abraham, and we talked about the fact that the uh the Bible clearly identifies one of these three as Yahweh. So it's the Lord. And the Lord a eventually takes over speaking um and reveals something to Abraham. Um Um and so the Abraham evidently recognizes that one of these is the Lord. He runs out there and bows down uh to these uh w th these beings that look like men, but one of them is the Lord and Abraham knows it, and so he runs out there and bows down. Abraham has had encounters many times with the Lord Uh when he was first called in Genesis twelve, when he parted ways after he parted ways with Lot in Genesis thirteen, God made a covenant with him in Genesis fifteen, God restated the covenant in Genesis seventeen. So Uh Abraham had encounters with the Lord on several occasions already, and he knows that this is the Lord, runs out and bows down to worship. Eventually after they eat, they have this meal and they have this conversation, uh the Lord reveals to Abraham that it will be one more year. So he's been waiting and waiting and waiting and waiting and he reveals, one more year, next year at this time I come back, Sarah's gonna have a child. Uh and as he confronts Sarah about her kind of laughing to herself, uh he he He launches an interesting rhetorical question. So this is the Lord saying this. Is anything too difficult for the Lord? Uh Genesis eighteen fourteen. And it's a r obviously a rhetorical question. He's not expecting an answer. Uh the answer it's a kind of self um uh actualizing question that he he's he's pointing out to her that nothing's too difficult for So that's in Genesis chapter 18. Then we went forward into Genesis chapter 21, which is the actual birth of Isaac. So one year later, Isaac is born. And so this is kind of the climax of all these promises. So um the promises were first given twenty-five years before, when Abraham seventy-five and Sarah sixty-five, and now finally Isaac is born, Abraham's a hundred. and Sarah is 90. Uh so 25 years they waited and waited and waited. They went through periods of doubt Um they came up with their own schemes to try to help the Lord along, but here finally has come the promised son. So Abraham names his son Isaac because the Lord told him to name him Isaac. So actually the Lord gave him this name. And so Isaac's name has never changed because he's already got his name from the Lord. The other patriarchs had a name and the Lord changed it, Abram to Abraham, Jacob to Israel. But Isaac got his name from the Lord before he was born, and so it's never changed. So we thought and we also went through this side this kind of mental exercise. So a lot of times when we have a situation in Scripture um I think it's useful to try to put ourselves into the shoes of the people that are um that we're hearing about in the scripture. And so if you put your yourself in the shoes of Sarah, for example, uh how she must have felt when she's gotten to the age of sixty-five and she still has no children, and sh then the Lord promises that she will have children Um and then after that promise 25 years go by and she doesn't have children. So she's got this promise and it's not being fulfilled and it's not being fulfilled and it's not being fulfilled. Uh and now at the other end of the spectrum uh you have Mary, and Mary is told by an angel that she's gonna have a child, but she's a virgin. And so both of these things of course are uh impossible naturally. And so the the whole point of the circumstances of the births is to show that they're miracles to the Lord. And then after Isaac is born, some time goes by. He's the Hebrew word that's translated lad in Genesis 22, it's a couple of times in there. Uh Hebrew scholars say that that means that he's older than the bar mitzvah age of thirteen. So he's he's at least he's past thirteen. And it usually is for people that are younger than twenty-one. So he's probably a teenager. So a bunch of time has gone by between the end of Genesis twenty-one and the beginning of twenty-two And suddenly God pops up to uh to command Abraham to sacrifice Isaac So Abraham obeys a three-day journey. Uh they go with set with servants to the bottom of the mountain and then up on their own. Um and Abraham lays the wood on Isaac, carries the fire and the knife. Isaac notices that, hey, we've got fire and a knife and wood, but there's no lamb. And Abraham tells Isaac that God will provide. And when they reach their destination, Abraham builds the altar, lays the wood on it, binds Isaac, lays them on top of the wood. An angel of the Lord stops him. And there's this declaration by the angel of the Lord that God knows that he fears God and he wouldn't withhold his son. And then there's a ram cut in the thicket as an offering provided by the Lord, and Abraham calls the place Jehovah Jirah, God. the Lord will provide. So uh imagine how shocked Abraham had to be where he's spent twenty five years with these promises, gone through All these ups and downs, these doubts, and and finally the promised child has arrived, and then one day, when he's a teenager, God tells him you've got to sacrifice it. And so must have been very, very shocking and distressing for Abraham. And the scripture makes clear, though, that this was a test of Abraham's faith And so there's also parallels uh and foreshadowings throughout this account. Um So there's obvious parallels to uh the Lord and his sacrifice of his son in here Um and but A Abraham notice Abraham has had some doubts. We've we've watched him through his his life, but he has no no more doubts. So Uh Abraham has come to the point where his faith is strong enough that God tells him to get up, go sacrifice his son, and his immediate response is he rises early in the morning and he goes. He doesn't argue, he doesn't delay, he just obeys. And he obeys immediately. Um and so God tells him to travel to a dis distant place that takes three days and This is uh obviously symbolic of the three days between uh the cross and the and the and the empty tomb. And the place where he goes is Mount Mariah's in Jerusalem. It's exactly where the temple will one day be built. And so God has arranged that this whole set of incidents so that um it's recorded in the scripture and people can look back and see after the in the events of the cross that this is God showing what it's gonna be like. Um and so This whole thing is is set up to be a foreshadowing of Christ. And so um as I said, the whole scriptures from Genesis uh all the way up to the gospels is pointing forward to the events of the cross, the crucifixion, Jesus death, burial, and resurrection. And so this is definitely one that's a very clear foreshadowing of that. And so as Abraham gets to the bottom of the mountain to go up there, he tells his servants, Stay here, we will worship and return to you. So he tells his servants, we, Isaac and I, are coming back. And so he believes that. Uh he has faith and confidence that God's going to fulfill his promise, that he's going to make a great nation out of Isaac, and it's going to be Isaac. Yet he was also prepared to go up there and put his son to death. And so we get a little glimpse of uh Abraham's thinking in the New Testament in Hebrews chapter 11. By faith, Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac And he who had received the promises was offering up his only begotten son. It was he to whom it was said, In Isaac your descendants shall be called. So the Lord had clearly said that it was going to be through Isaac that all these promised descendants were going to be Um and Abraham believed that. He believed that to the point where, according to Hebrews 11, 19, he considered that God is able to raise people even from the dead, from which he also received him back as a type. So Abraham had such f faith, such strong faith that in God's promise that he would that he would have this that Isaac would have descendants, that this teenage boy who obviously didn't have any kids yet um that he would be coming back down that mountain. Even if Abraham went up and killed him, he would still be coming back down that mountain alive. Abraham believed that Okay. So Isaac, of course, he uh he notices that uh there's no lamb for the sacrifice. Um and he asks a question and and uh uh Um he gets an answer and then he doesn't question anymore. Um and so and so Abraham must have gone through all these emotions as he carried the weapon up there to slay his son and it's a picture to help us understand a portion. of what it costs God, Father and Son, to pay for our sins. Um and so we um we hit we have in Abraham's response to Isaac's question, God will provide for himself the Lamb Um this is Abraham's faith that yes, something's gonna happen and Isaac's gonna come back down that mountain. He doesn't know what it's gonna be, but he really has faith in God's promise by this point Um so f his faith and obedience is remarkable. Um it's taken many, many, many years of the Lord molding him. And so there's a real example for us here in our journey of faith, our process of sanctification, becoming conformed to the likeness of Christ, that it will not all be mountaintop days or wonderful days, there's going to be some ups and downs. But if we have if we trust the Lord that He's the test that He brings into our lives, the trials that He brings into our lives are to mold us into uh useful servants, uh obedient servants like Abraham, we can see from the life of Abraham how that works. Um and so it's ultimately the ultimate truth that God is demonstrating is that no man can offer a sacrifice to atone for his sins. So y you know, Abraham takes Isaac up there, but even if he was to slay Isaac, w would that have done away with anybody's sins? No, of course not. Uh it wasn't a um appropriate sacrifice. And so it's pointing forward to the time when God will provide the appropriate sacrifice, the the real sacrifice that can atone for sins in Christ Jesus. Um and so and there's a principle that we can learn from all this uh from observing Abraham's life, uh, that faith-filled obedience is more valuable than anything this world has to offer. And so uh we talked about uh Second Corinthians chapter four is the Apostle Paul, and he's talking about he he's gone through all the afflictions that he has in his lifetime. And then he says this for momentary light affliction is producing for us an eternal weight of glory far beyond all comparison Um and so that was the end of the study of Abraham's life and how God worked in Abraham's life. And that leads us to the life of Isaac. And so we're going to try to get through the entire life of Isaac here. Uh yes, go ahead. But the the the big picture is that we s you it's pointing forward to when there will be the real sacrifice. Um and so the and later on we have the whole sacrificial system uh in Leviticus that lays out many, many different kinds of sacrifices and offerings. Uh we have the scapegoat that goes off into the wilderness and the one that gets killed and that's a goat. Uh and so there's m there's different kinds of animals that that show up in in sacrifices in the Old Testament And there's bulls, there's bulls, there's goats, there's lambs, uh there's many different kinds of animals, but the New Testament tells us that the sacrifice of of bulls and goats can never take away sins Um and so it takes what yeah, yeah, go ahead. I always picture this particular uh then at a mountain that that Abraham and Isaac were on one side of the mountain. The sacrifice was coming up the other side Mm-hmm. And we never know, and they didn't know, what was happening at that time, but they trusted God to provide it. That's right. And so my picture Right. So uh God is sovereign over all these events and so God made it so that there was a RAM there uh at the right time in the right place Um when Abraham and Isaac arrived, just when they got up there, there's a ram caught in the thicket. So yes, so yes, God's arranging all of these events. It shows God's sovereignty over all things. Okay, so uh moving on to Isaac, so that's a harrowing beginning to his life there. Uh so he's seen some things by the time he's a teenager uh here. And he's learned from Abraham, his father. His father's been teaching him. He's learning about the Lord and about the faithfulness of the Lord. So he's um this descendant from this line of no of Noah and Shem down through Abraham, and now we have Isaac. I just want to point out, to put this into perspective, who was alive when Isaac was alive. For example, Shem and Eber, Shem who was born before the flood, and Eber, both outlived Abraham. They outlived him. They lived longer. They died after Abraham died. Um So if you look at uh the the timeline of Shem and Eber, um there is where Abraham dies. Abraham dies right there, and Eber and Shem are still alive. They're still alive well into the life of Jacob. And so Jacob could have heard what it was like. So certainly Isaac and most probably Jacob could have heard about what it was like before the flood from great-great-great grandpappy Shem. who had lived before the flood, what it was like to be on the Ark for a year, what it was like to come off the Ark into the pre flood world uh post flood world And what it was like at the Tower of Babel. Shem and Eber were both there for the Tower of Babel. It happened during the time of Pelag, Eber's son. And so They there was this uh kind of institutional memory in the family that was still around, all the way out through uh a substantial part of Jacob's life. And certainly through Isaac's life. So Isaac could also could of course learn about the Lord from his father Abraham, but he could also learn about the Lord and his faithfulness and also about the Lord's uh wrath from Shem and Eber, um his his f uh forefathers. And so um I just want to make sure that everybody's got that in in their minds, that this is this is the reality of how things were in the family. That uh that Tirah had died. We learned that Tira died in in the passages immediately before uh all this this the events of Abraham's life, but his great great great grandfather and his great great great great great grandfather are still around. We went through the ancestry the family tree before, but we'll take another look at it here. So This is Tirah, Abraham's father, and his descendants, and everybody in red is an ancestor of Jesus. And so all the kids of Tirah that we hear about in the Bible are ancestors of Jesus. Abraham, obviously, Sarah. But also Abraham's brothers Nahor and Haran are also ancestors of Jesus because Haran's daughter Milka marries her uncle Nahor And their child is Bethuel, who we'll meet in today's lesson, because Bethuel is the father of Rebekah and Laban. And Rebekah marries her cousin Isaac. And one of the li two of Laban's daughters are Leah and Rachel, and they both marry their cousin Jacob. And so everybody in red there is an ancestor of Jesus. So and there's Isaac. Uh and here's another way of looking at it. Uh all all these uh marriages and descendants that worked down from Tirah to um uh Isaac here and then his son Jacob marries reb uh his son Um he marries Rebecca and his son Jacob marries their cousins because Laban is the father of Leah and Rachel. Laban is Jacob's uncle, and so Leah and Rachel are his first cousins. So that's what the family tree looks like. This is what the timeline looks like. And we're going to talk about a little bit of the chronology. So when um When Abraham is a hundred, Isaac is born. When Isaac is sixty, Jacob is born. Um when Isaac is forty, so when Abraham is a hundred and forty, Isaac marries. And so uh that's kind of the timeline and that this puts it on a timeline from the flood going forward to where Isaac marries and then Isaac dies when he's 180 Abraham dies when he's 175. Isaac dies when he's one hundred and eighty. So the basic timeline of his life is we don't know exactly how old he was when the uh sacrifice was attempted, uh but he was probably a teenager. Uh the Bible tells us that that he was forty years old when he married Sir Rebecca. The Bible tells us that he was sixty years old when Isaac and uh when Esau and Jacob were born Um and then he dies when he's 180. Sometime later, we don't know exactly how old he was, uh God appears to him and re reiterates the promises that he had made to Abraham. And we'll there's an event today that we'll talk about where where he goes into Gerar and he commits the same kind of sinful fallacy that his father Abraham did. Uh we'll talk about that too. So uh Isaac, the Hebrew chak uh means laughter. Um So in the scriptures we have these kind of incidents with Isaac, these first he's promised, of course Um and then he's born and um Abraham separates Ishmael off to make sure that uh uh it's just through Isaac that uh his descendants are going to be numbered. There's the offering in Gen Genesis chapter twenty-two of Isaac that's stayed by the hand of the Lord. Uh there's the incident we'll talk about today from Genesis chapter 24 of a wife being chosen for Isaac. In Genesis 25, Isaac takes Rebecca and Abraham dies. Genesis chapter 6, Isaac dwells in Gerar. In 27 and 28, Isaac will bless Jacob and Esau. We'll talk about that next week. And then he dies in Genesis chapter 35 at the age of 180. So uh there's also uh descriptions of where he is during various times in his life. He's born in and around Gerar. He moves with Abraham, of course, when he's younger, to Beersheba. He travels to Mount Moriah with his father. He returns to Beersheba. Abraham moves with the family to Hebron, and that's where Sarah dies and is buried in the cave of Machpilah. Isaac later on is dwelling in a place called Birlahiroi, which is in the south That's when Rebekah arrives and he first sees her coming with the Abraham's servant. Abraham dies in Hebron, where Isaac and Ishmael bury him in the cave of Magpilah. Then Isaac in Genesis chapter 6 moves to Gerar because of a famine. He prospers greatly and then he moves to Beersheba. And finally he moves to Hebron where he dies and is buried in the cave of Makkila. And so all those places are on this map. So to put put those into perspective on a map, Beersheba. Garar, uh Bir Lahiroi, Hebron and Mamre. Hebron is also called Kirjath Arba. And that's where the cave of Machpel is, where Abraham eventually Abraham is buried there, Sarah's buried there, Isaac is buried there, Rebecca's buried there, Jacob is buried there And then Mount Moriah is up in the north, uh farther north uh in what is uh what becomes Jerusalem. It's called Salem at the time, it becomes Jerusalem. Okay, so that's an overview. And actually there's a structure. Herod the Great in the time of Jesus built a structure over what is the location of the cave of MacPhila. Big giant structure that's of course still there Uh it looks like that in Hebron. And you can actually buy a do-it-yourself Cave of MacPeelan model kit. And it looks kind of like The actual structure that's there. You can buy that. Um there's a little barcode there. Yeah. You 176 pieces, you can put together your own cave of Machpilah. Uh but the cave of Machpilah was the only land that Abraham ever owned. So God had promised all this land, and Abraham, of course, he waited twenty-five years to have the son that was going to make all these descendants But the promise of the land he never got that. Um so he he bought this field in the cave of Macpila where he He buried Sarah and then he was buried and Isaac was buried and all the all they were all buried there, but that was the only place they owned until when? Till the book of Joshua, after the Exodus, when they come back and that finally take the land. They never owned anything uh until many centuries later. Um, but the promise was still there and the Lord was faithful to his promise. Uh just like he was faithful to the promise of bringing this son to Abraham, it took twenty five years. Well it took more like four hundred years for the promise of land to be fulfilled. built. Okay, so let's turn our Bibles to Genesis chapter 24. So uh Genesis chapter 24 tells the story of the Lord selecting a wife for Isaac. And it's a long chapter, 67 verses in this chapter. And so we're not going to read the whole thing. We read the whole thing in church not too many weeks ago I think. I think we read the whole thing. Um so uh but what I'm gonna do, what I'd like to do now is just read um the servant's overview. So uh first Abraham tells his servant to go and find a wife. And then he goes, and then he meets Sarah, uh he meets Rebecca, and then he goes to the household of Rebecca, and then he recaps the whole story to Rebecca's family. And so what we're going to read now is the servant's recap of the whole story to the household of Rebecca after he's met Rebecca. And so starting in verse 34, the servant says this, so he said, I am Abraham's servant. The Lord has greatly blessed my master, so that he has become rich. And he has given him flocks and herds and silver and gold, and servants, and maids, and camels and donkeys. Now Sarah, my master's wife, bore a son to my master in her old age, and he has given him all that he has. My master made me swear, saying, You shall not take a wife from my son from the daughters of the Canaanites in whose land I live. But you shall go to my father's house and to my relatives and take a wife for my son. I said to my master, Suppose the woman does not follow me He said to me, The Lord, before whom I have walked, will send his angel with you to make your journey successful, and you will take a wife from my son, from my relatives, and from my father's house. Then you will be free from my oath, and when you come to my relatives, and if they do not give her to you, you will be free from my oath. So I came today to the spring and said, O Lord, the God of my master Abraham, if now you will make my journey on which I go successful. Behold, I am standing by the spring, and may it be that the maiden who comes out to draw, and to whom I say, Please let me drink a little water from your jar, and she will say to me, You drink, and I will draw for your camels also. Let her be the woman whom the Lord has appointed for my master's son. Before I had finished speaking in my heart, behold, Rebecca came out with her jar on her shoulder, and went down to the spring and drew And I said to her, Please let me drink. She quickly lowered her jar from her shoulder and said, Drink, and I will water your camels also. So I drank, and she watered the camels also. Then I asked her and said, Whose daughter are you? And she said, the daughter of Bethuel, Nahor's son, who milk a bore to him. And I put the ring on her nose and the bracelets on her wrists, and I bowed low and worshiped the Lord and blessed the Lord, the God of my master Abraham. who had guided me in the right way to take the daughter of my master's kinsman for his son. So now, if you are going to deal kindly and truly with my master, tell me And if not, let me know, that I may turn to the right hand or the left. Then Laban and Bethuel replied, The matter comes from the Lord. So we cannot speak to you bad or good. Here is Rebekah before you. Take her and go, and let her be the wife of your master's son, as the Lord has spoken. So, uh a remarkable story. Obvious as the Lord's hand, very obvious to everybody involved. Uh he ta Abraham tasked his servant to go find a wife for Isaac among his kinsmen. The servant brings ten camels loaded with gifts and departs for the city of Nahor. Nahor is Abraham's brother, and that city is Haran. uh to find a wife for Isaac. And so you can see on the map that they're coming from this area down here around Beersheba, which is all the way in the south of what is now Israel And he's got to travel all the way up here to Haran, which uh with a modern map overlay is in the very northern part of Syria, right on the border between Syria and Turkey. And uh that city Quran is still there to this day, right on the border of Syria and Turkey. But that's where they were living, that's where Abraham's brother's family uh was living And so he reaches Haran, uh the servant prays. That's the first thing he does. He prays that the wife for Isaac would be the one who does a certain thing, a very specific thing, he he lays out Uh and as he finishes praying, immediately this prayer is answered. Not a twenty-five year wait, but immediately this prayer is answered. Um he gives her gifts and requests to go to her father's house and she tells who she is that she's got uh Abraham's kin. And then Rebecca is very excited. She runs to the household, and her brother Laban is there. Father Bethuel, her brother Laban invites the servant in. He explains the scripture we just read. He explains why he's come and what's happened. Uh, and the shows the fact that Rebecca is an answer to the prayer. And the father of Rebekah is Bethuel. And Bethuel is Isaac's first cousin. So Abraham and Nahor are brothers. And Isaac is Abraham's son, and Bethuel is Nahor's son. So Isaac and Bethuel are first cousins. And so Isaac and Rebekah are second cousins. And so they say it they recognize that this is from the Lord. And so let's just take a little a little bit closer look at these scriptures and see what it uh is saying. So first of all, Abraham's old. And evidently he's too old to make this journey himself, and so he sends a servant So the servant, um, securing a wife involves the payment of a bridal price in the ancient Near East, and so he sends them with a gigantic caravan of camels with all kinds of uh gifts to give. But it's no problem because the Lord has blessed Abraham in every way. Genesis 24, one. And he doesn't send just any servant. He sends, the scripture tells us, the oldest of his household who had charge of all that he owned That's how the Bible describes the man that Abraham sent, the oldest of his household, who had charge of all that he owned. So this was his most trusted servant, the chief of his servants. may have been Eliezer of Damascus that we meet in Genesis 15, 2, who Abraham wanted to designate as his heir if he didn't have any kids. Although that's not certain. The Bible doesn't say that it was Eliezer, but it kind of fits with the description of the the fact that Abraham w this is the guy that Abraham would have designated as his heir if he hadn't had any kids. That was Eliezer of Damascus. So it it very well could have been Eliezer that he sent, although that's not certain. It is clear that Abraham had great confidence in that man, who and the man had served him for many years. Now, when the servant appears to have doubts, Abraham tells the servant, the Lord, the God of heaven, he will send an angel before you. So Abraham has rock solid faith by this point that God will take care of this, that God has got this. And so he he reassures his servant. That, yeah, this sounds like a b a stretch. I'm going to go up there and I'm going to ask for a wife and they're going to just let her go. And Abraham says, y the God will take care of this. And so the servant takes ten camels loaded with gifts, and then he follows Abraham's instructions to the letter. When a servant arrives in the city of Nahor-Kharan, the first place he goes is to the communal well Since the well of the city was a place of great activity, it was a common practice for strangers to visit the well first We see that in other places in the scripture as well, Genesis 29, when Jacob goes up to the same location, he goes to the well first In Exodus Exodus chapter two and first Samuel chapter chapter nine, we see people that go to a new city going to the well first. At the well, the first thing the servant does is pray. The first thing. Gets to the well, and he launches a prayer. And that prayer is recorded. And it's recorded when he first does it, first gives the prayer, and then also he gives the recap to the household. But he prays, O Lord, the God of my Master Abraham, please grant me success today and show loving kindness to my Master Abraham. Behold, I am standing by the spring, and the daughters of the men of the city are coming out to draw water. Now may it be that the girl to whom I say, please let down your jar, so that I may drink, and whoever answers Drink and I will water your camel. So he lays out the specific thing for God to do. Now, it it's not always um Well, it's not always a good thing to to try to force God's hand to make him do something that you want him to do. Uh but but This was God's plan all along, and Abraham knew that this was God's plan. And Gab Abraham had explained to the servant that this was God's plan. And so I think the servant could be confident in launching a prayer like this to God. And God, of course, heard it and immediately answered it. And so this was just the servant and he he mentions in the prayer, by this I will know. I need some help, Lord, to know who you have chosen. That's what he prays, and the Lord answers. The Lord answered the prayer very promptly. He says, before I had finished speaking in my heart, in other words, he's praying silently And before he just as he's finishing this prayer, before he's even really finished it, behold, there's Rebecca coming. Such timing indicates Rebecca's arrival is no accident or result of chance, and everybody recognizes that. Rebecca's family recognizes that. The detailed answer to his prayer in what Rebecca does gives the servant confidence that the Lord has led him to the right girl. Uh the servant asks who she is, finds out that she's the daughter of Bethuel, who's um who who is Abraham's um uh nephew, so yeah, Abraham's brother's kid, uh the grandchild of Abraham's brother Nahor. Uh he then begins to lavish gifts on the woman. Genesis 24, 12 to 14. The servant gives both praise and credit to the Lord. Notice his follow-up prayer when he prays after this has happened. In Genesis 24, 27, he immediately gives the Lord all the praise and all the credit, as he should Uh blessed be the Lord, the God of my master Abraham, who has not forsaken his loving kindness and his truth toward my master. As for me, the Lord has guided me in the way to the house of my master's brothers. All credit, all praise to the Lord. So his heart was right. The servant's heart was right. He had been with Abraham for a lot of years. He had seen a lot with his master Abraham and Abraham's God and um and his heart was right. Okay. So uh we we didn't read the scripture, we're not we don't have time to go through it, but um After this, uh Rebecca goes with the servant all the way down to uh Beersheba, and uh they see Isaac in the distance. Rebecca covers herself with a veil Uh they get married. The Bible tells us that Isaac is forty. It doesn't tell us how old Rebecca is. Um and Isaac's marriage to Rebecca comforts him after his mother's death. And so Right before this we we learn of Sarah's death. She she died when she was um 127, and so that means that Isaac was thirty-seven. So um she was ninety when he was born and so when she died at hundred twenty seven he was he was thirty-seven and he marries um He's forty when he marries Rebecca, but evidently he had gone through a a time of uh real terrible grief over the loss of his mother. And the Bible tells us that this marriage to Rebecca was a great comfort to him. after the loss of his mother. Um I just think it's interesting that you get little asides like that, that these are these are real people and real people that have that experience loss and and and react in a normal human way to experience loss. So uh three years after he's lost his mother he's still he's still grieving And when the Lord provides him w with a wife, that really comforts him three years after the death of his mother Okay, uh so let's move forward into Genesis chapter 25. And um so some time has passed, and so the Bible tells us that that Isaac was forty when he married Rebekah. And then we'll see that when he is 60, that Jacob and Esau are born. So 20 years go by, Genesis 24 to Genesis 25. And so this is another case of uh a couple waiting a long time to have kids. They're not as old as uh Abraham and Sarah. But Abraham and Sarah waited twenty-five years from the time of promise of the child to the time of the birth And Isaac and Rebekah wait twenty years from their marriage to when Jacob and Esau are born. So uh Genesis chapter twenty-five, starting in verse 19. Now these are the records of the generations of Isaac, the Toledon of Isaac. what came forth from Isaac. Uh Abraham's son, Abraham became the father of Isaac, and Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah, the daughter of Bethuel, the Aramean of Padnarum, the sister of Laban the Aramean, to be his wife Isaac prayed to the Lord on behalf of his wife, because she was barren. And the Lord answered him, and Rebekah his wife conceived. But the children struggled together within her, and she said, If it is so, why then am I this way? So she went to inquire of the Lord. And the Lord said to her, Two nations are in your womb, and two peoples will be separated from your body, and one people shall be stronger than the other, and the older shall serve the younger When her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, there were twins in her womb. Now the first came forth red all over like a hairy garment, and they named him Esau. Afterward, his brother came forth with his hand holding on to Esau's heel, so his name was called Jacob. And Isaac was sixty years old when she gave birth to them. So this is the account of the birth of Jacob. So Isaac's wife Rebecca can't have children. She hasn't had children 20 years into their marriage. So um the Bible kind of i it's once again one of these incidents where we read and and it's so easy for us to read through this in a few minutes, but there are there's twenty years of um w wondering and hoping and not having it not happen, uh wanting to have kids and not having kids. It's twenty years and um and so this has come to a point where it is distressing to Isaac and Jacob. Uh so Isaac prays. And once Isaac prays, she gets pregnant. She has a difficult pregnancy. She prays for relief and God tells her, gives a prophecy. That she's gonna have two children and and what's su a little bit, a little bit of the outlines of what's gonna happen to these two kids. And w it's identified that Isaac is 60. He gives she gives birth to these twins. The oldest is Esau or Edom. The youngest is Jacob. which means heel, comes from grasping Esau's heel. Esau grows up and is a hunter. Isaac loves him because he likes wild animal meat. And Rebecca loves Jacob, who grows up to be a quiet man living in the tents. So, uh, but all along Rebecca knows this prophecy that she's gotten directly from the Lord about the the future of these two boys. And and I mean the scripture doesn't explicitly say it, but it seems to me that that's probably a reason why she prefers Jacob. She's gotten this prophecy from the Lord. So anyway, uh the death of Abraham is recorded immediately prior to these verses and Now the history of God's chosen seed is carried on through Isaac. So it shifts from Jacob, uh Abraham to Isaac. We have a familiar beginning here. Rebecca's barren, just like Sarah was and the continuation of this promised seed is in jeopardy. It's not really in jeopardy, but from a human perspective, it seems like nothing's happening here. We're we we've been promised these huge multitude of descendants like the stars in the sky and here we have one But this one child through whom it's supposed to happen, Isaac, and he doesn't have any kids. And he's getting older. The length of Baroness for Isaac and Rebecca is twenty years, a long time Uh not quite as long as uh Isaac and uh uh Abraham and Sarah, but a long time, twenty years from their marriage, uh no kids Isaac and Rebecca do not resort to fancy schemes like a concubine, like Abraham did. Perhaps Abraham warned him. And he listens. Uh whether they seem to trust in the word and providence of God. Uh Isaac does the right thing. By taking the situation to the Lord. He prays uh he he prayed to the Lord on behalf of his wife because she was barren, and the Lord answered him. Uh the Hebrew there for uh praying uh where it says he prayed for Rebecca, um that um That Hebrew phrase has the connotation that he prayed directly over her. But she was right there and he was praying over her That's the sense of the Hebrew here. And God answers Isaac's prayer. Rebecca has a difficult pregnancy. She gets pregnant right away, but it's a difficult pregnancy And she's concerned. And she does the right thing. She goes to the Lord in prayer. So Isaac, he has a difficulty, goes to the Lord in prayer. Rebecca, difficulty, goes to the Lord in prayer. They both get answers to their prayers. The answer is in Hebrew poetry form. Um the answer that God gives to her, Two nations are in your womb and two peoples will be separated from your body, and one people shall be stronger than the other, and the older shall serve the younger Uh very strange. Uh it's the first indication that there's going to be conflict between these brothers. Uh also the Lord overturns the common practice in the ancient Near East, so this culture and society they grew up in uh primogeniture was the rule that the oldest son would get the greater share of inheritance and be the leader of the family. That was the norm, the cultural norm, and the Lord overturns that The Lord has a different plan. He's not going to go with the cultural norm. So in the case of Jacob and Esau, it is God who predetermines that the situation will be different for the children of Rebekah than it is for the norm in that culture. God has chosen differently and he reveals that choice to Rebekah So the people of the promise and ultimately the Messiah will come through Jacob. That's the choice that the Lord is making here Um and so and we get some some more insight and we get um uh lessons taught in the New Testament based on this incident. So Romans chapter 9, for example, Paul says, and not only this, but there was Rebecca also when she had conceived twins by one man, our father Isaac. For though the twins were not yet born, and had not done anything, good or bad, so that God's purpose, according to his choice, would stand Not because of works, but because of him who calls, it was said to her, the older will serve the younger. Just as it is written, Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated. And so Paul is saying, hey, this is an an example of the fact that God is sovereign and God chooses as he will, and it has nothing to do with Um w anything that the one person or another person has done right or wrong. And so Paul points out, hey, th these these kids hadn't even been born yet. Jacob and Esau hadn't even been born yet and God chose which one were going to be the heirs of the promise, were going to be his uh th was going to be the ancestor of his chosen people, and which was going to bring the line of the Messiah. And it wasn't because Jacob was a great guy Because Jacob wasn't even born yet, hadn't done anything, and oh by the way, he turns out to be this ridiculous schemer, uh as we'll see in the next couple of weeks So the the fact that God uses somebody for his purposes and in powerful ways has nothing to do with us. Nothing to do with us. And so um there there's um there's great news in there and there's humbling news in there. So n no matter what you think of your own abilities and skills and talents and and so forth, God can use you very powerfully because It's not your own power, it's not your own skills, it's not your own ability, it's the Lord who will use you powerfully. That's the good news. The bad news is um if If if the Lord is using you in some way, what will Satan want to do? Satan will want to frustrate um your usefulness or he he'll want you to step in a ditch. And the way he will do that is he will raise up your pride. He will appeal to your pride. Look at the wonderful things that I'm doing for the Lord. And that's what Satan uses to uh to derail somebody who is becoming useful to the Lord. So just remember, any usefulness that I have is because of the Lord, not because of me. And then I won't fall to the temptation of pride. Okay. So Isaac and Rebecca have twins. Paul by the Holy Spirit uses the events in Genesis 25 as an example that demonstrates God's work of election. Before the boys were born, God made a distinction. He chose Jacob and his descendants to be the ones through whom the Messiah would come and to be his covenant people. Esau and his lineage would receive none of it And it wasn't because Jacob was good and Esau was bad. The distinction was not made because of human merit or in a human goodness. Rather the distinction was made by the mercy of God and in accordance with the counsel of his own will. And the same holds true for our salvation. It's by the grace of God. Romans chapter 8, verses 29 and 30, for those whom he foreknew, he also predestined, to become conformed to the image of his Son, so that he would be the firstborn among many brethren. And these whom he predestined, he also called And these whom he called, he also justified, and these whom he justified, he also glorified. So it all starts with the foreknowledge, predestination, and election of the Lord for our salvation. The same thing, same thing we see here the foreknowledge, predestination, and calling of the Lord in for Jacob, as opposed to Esau. Um it's by the counsel of his own will. By his grace. So um one last scripture we're gonna take a look at, Genesis chapter twenty-six. So Genesis chapter 26, we're going to see the Lord very explicitly reiterating the promises from Abraham. He gives them to Isaac. Here in Genesis chapter twenty-six. And then we immediately see uh Isaac fall into doubt and fear, just like Abraham did. So uh and now there was a famine in the land, besides the previous famine that had occurred in the days of Abraham. So uh this passage in Genesis 26 refers back to the passage in Genesis chapter twelve where there was a famine that tested Abraham. It specifically says it test it was a test of Abraham's faith that this famine came and Abraham goes down to Egypt and he spectacled fails the test of faith. He he he lies, he says Sarah's his sister, and it puts uh Sarah in jeopardy and the Lord has to rescue her. Uh now so the same exact thing is going to happen here to Isaac So there's a famine in the land that drives him to the city of Gerar. So Isaac went to Gerar to Abimelech, king of the Philistines. The Lord appeared to him and said, Do not go down to Egypt. So don't do like Abraham did. Abraham went down to Egypt and he lied and said, Sarah was all this stuff. Don't do that, God says Don't go down to Egypt. Stay in the land of which I shall tell you. Sojourn in this land and I will be with you and bless you For to you and to your descendants I will give all these lands, and I will establish the oath which I swore to your father Abraham. I will multiply your descendants as the stars of heaven, and I will give your descendants all these lands. And by your descendants all the nations of the earth shall be blessed, because Abraham obeyed me and kept my charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws. So he's repeating all the promises to Abraham, he's repeating them to Isaac. So Isaac lived in Gerar. So he didn't go down to Egypt. He goes to Gerar. When the men of the place asked about his wife, he said She is my sister. For he was afraid. So he had just gotten the promises, just been told. His descendants are gonna be like the stars of the sky and And he's he's afraid. He's fallen to doubt and fear. Immediately. Just like Abraham. Um for he was afraid to say, my wife, thinking the men of the place might kill me on account of Rebecca, for she is beautiful It came about when he had been there a long time that Abimelech, king of the Philistines, looked out through a window and saw, and behold, Isaac was caressing his wife Rebekah. Then Abimelech called Isaac and said, Behold, certainly she is your wife. How then did you say she is my sister? And Isaac said to him, Because I said I might because I said I might die on account of her Abimelech said, What is this you have done to us? One of the people might easily have lain with your wife, and you would have brought guilt upon us. So Abimelech charged all the people, saying, He who touches this man or his wife shall surely be put to death. So, uh a famine in the land to provide a test for Isaac's faith, the exact same test that Abraham had for his faith. Only the Lord says, don't go down to Egypt, stay right here. So he goes from Beersheba to Gerar. Beersheba is in the hill country in the center. Gerar is in the coastal plain. So there's a famine, he settles in Gerar, Isaac tells the men that his wife is his sister, just like his dad did, just like his mother and father did in Egypt, because he's afraid for the same reason, he's afraid that they would kill him Because he he's got doubts. He's not believing in the promises of God. He believes but he doesn't believe. He believes but he has doubts. Same as Abraham early in his life King Abimelech of the Philistines, he sees Isaac caressing his wife. As I mentioned before, just as an aside, all the famous paintings, the great paintings in history They used as their subjects historical events from the Bible. That was the common uh that that was a common thing that the great painters did. So there's a great painter named Raphael, one of the greatest painters in history. And he painted Isaac and Rebecca being spied on by Abimelech. That's one of the things he decided he was going to paint, Raphael, in 1518 and 1519. So there's a famous painting of Isaac caressing Rebecca and Abimelech peeking in through the window. Okay, so uh Isaac has these doubts and fears, just like Abraham did, just like we do These are real people and they are heroes of the faith, but they they suffer through times of doubt and fear. So a famine in the land, Isaac's forced to migrate to Groar in the coastal plain, very similar to the test that God had for Abraham and Egypt in Genesis twelve. Both Abraham and Isaac fear for their lives and then attempt to pass off their wives as their sisters. So the promise of the covenant is given to Abraham and it's repeated here to Isaac, and immediately, as soon as it's repeated to him, he has doubts. Um he's watched the Lord be faithful, he's prayed to the Lord and had a son, and but still he he he goes through these times of doubts. We do, they did, the Bible's clear about that And so the promises he had just been given at the beginning of chapter twenty-six before he goes and lies about his wife. The promises are, I will be with you and bless you So that's how the Lord starts out the promise. I will be with you and bless you. So he's just promised, the Lord has just promised that I will be with you And he's afraid he's going to be killed in Gerar. Even though God had just said, I will be with you. I will multiply your descendants as the stars of heaven. Genesis 26, 4. And will give your descendants all these lands. Also Genesis 26. 4. And by your descendants all the nations of the earth will be blessed, Genesis 26. 4. And so this is putting forward the Messiah. Abraham and Isaac don't really understand all that this means, of course, but that's what it is. This is by your descendants, all the nations of the earth will be blessed. This is pointing forward to the Messiah and the cross of Christ But the promises are all given right here to Isaac in Genesis chapter 26, right before he goes and has his moment of fear and doubt. So, uh oh, we have five minutes, six minutes left for questions. So uh yes, go ahead. So good question. So Uh we didn't really talk about the second incident from Abraham. So Abraham had the incident in Genesis chapter twelve. He goes to Egypt and he lies about Sereven his sister. He does the exact same thing in Genesis chapter twenty. He goes to Gerar And he lies about Sarah being his sister. Um and the king at the time when Abraham goes is named Abimelech. Now, uh in the Masoretic text in Genesis chapter 20, Genesis chapter 26, it's actually different. Uh it's different. The the name is different. Uh in English we look at Abimelech, Abimelech, uh, but uh there is a Dagesh In the second one. Dagesh is a vowel point, a different vowel point in the second incident. So it's not the same name in the Masoretic text. It's actually kind of it uh implies a doubling of the M. Abimelech and Abimelech. Something like that. So uh so it's not the same king. Uh but you can imagine that You know, even if it was the same name, uh dynastic lines often have the same name for father-son and or father and grandson and What whatever. So uh it's actually a different name in the Masoretic text, but even if it was, it could still be a different person with the same name The commander of the army also has the same name, and it's not clear whether the Fikol is the commander of the armies in both cases, Abraham and Isaac going to Gerar. It's possible that's the same man or it's possible that that's what they always called the the commander of the army. Uh either way. Good question. There there are some little subtleties there in the in the account. Genesis chapter 20 is when Abraham goes to Gerar, 26 is when Isaac goes to Gerar. Any other questions? Yes. So uh doubt and fear, what really hap what the like the consequence of that for Abraham and for eight I think uh was that they were selfish because they thought about themselves. I'm gonna get killed. They didn't So maybe better if she gets killed I I get or I can save her and Yeah, so that's a good point. And so uh and f and fear and doubt often drive us to be selfish Uh and that's what happens here. They both cases they put their wives in real danger. Uh they're supposed to be protecting their wives and And they use their wives as like a human shield. Um it's you know, it's not it's not good at all. In either case, it's not good at all. And Abimelech rebukes him You know, th th this pagan king re rebukes him and said, Hey, somebody could have lain with your wife and uh and of course the Lord was not gonna let that happen In either case, it specifically says in Genesis chapter twelve that the Lord protected Abraham. Um and the same thing here, the Lord protects Rebecca. But yes, so the doubt and fear leads to selfishness in in both cases, and I think that's can be seen as a pattern Anyway, I won't speak for you, but yes, when we we sink into sin because of doubt and fear, we we start to think about ourselves instead of others, and that definitely is the case here. Very good point. Uh okay, any other questions? Yes, there is when the serpent brought Rebecca to I see Um, it says that Isaac brought her into the tent of Sarah, his mother, and took Rebecca and she became his wife, and he loved her so often. Isaac was comforted after his mother said. Uh Captain Question First of all is is this a custom? Uh What do you think, Paul Murphy? Yeah, so uh I don't know if it's a custom, but uh what's clear from the text is that that uh Isaac was still mourning his mother. So um she and so and the Bible lays out the timeline. So she was 127 when she died, she was ninety when he was born, so he was thirty-seven, and when Rebecca comes, he's forty. So it's been three years. But he's still got a tent set up that's Sarah's tent, his mother's tent. So as he's going around he sets up a tent for his dead mother. Um And he's obviously still mourning her uh three years later. Uh but th there seems to be a closure when he's when Rebecca comes and he's married. So yes, we we don't we don't get any details, but somehow, yes, bringing her into the tent that was you know part of the marriage ceremony. Um Yeah. We don't we don't get a whole lot in when we when Jacob marries uh Rachel and Leah, we don't get a whole lot about what the ceremony was like or anything like that. But Yeah, so evidently there was some sort of that was part of the ceremony to bring her into the tent. myself to his K Two wedding. I I think simple is better. Yeah there you go. Just set up a tent. Hey there you go. Set up a tent in the backyard. Yeah. Very good observation that yeah, he's i i it does describe him as having a tent that he's was his mother's tent. And it's three years after she's gone. Yeah, it it's included to show that he was still he was suffering about the loss of his mother. Yes. No, no about So so we don't know except that when he hears this description, uh both Bethuel and Laban say it's from the Lord and we there's nothing we can do. Uh they they s they see the Uh the the hand of the Lord here and they see it as uh as as final and authoritative, such that they don't have any They can't say anything about it. Now, there's also this added thing about ten camels full of gold. This guy has brought ten camels full of gold for for the and and so Uh w we find out later some more of the character of this Lavin character. Um and he's gold gold will definitely influence this Lavin character. And so um so you you can you can And it doesn't it's not clear in the text, but you can imagine they'll say all the right things for those ten camels worth of gold. Um so it's it's not it's not perfectly clear whether Laban was a believer, for example. Um yeah. He says the right things. Um but but he recognizes um he he he recognizes this story as something that show demonstrates that there's there's something Supernatural then. At least he says that anyway. Yes. Um I think he said uh Isaac is the translation of the Judah. Itzak. Yeah. It's uh means to laugh. Okay, I was gonna say uh do you have any comments or thoughts on that? Etymology of jocular or jocularity? Could be. That that comes down from uh from Hebrew. Uh it's possible. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Uh we've come to the end of our time. Thank you very much for the great questions. Uh let me close us with prayer.