We're going to talk about Noah's moral failure, the one that's recorded in the Bible, uh the one and only one that's actually recorded in the Bible, Noah's moral failure. And so I'm going to sh point out as we go along here the clues here in the scripture that tells us that time has passed. Shem and Japheth act honorably and cover Noah. And Ham was the father of Canaan. And he said now he had time to father four sons after the flood. When Noah woke from his wine, so he was drunk, he finally wakes up, he knew, the Bible says he knew what his youngest son had done to him And the Canaanites didn't have dark skin. Well going all the way back to Adam. And he writes in the book, his conclusion after he's studied this whole thing is it comes as no surprise to learn that growing insistence on the chimerical curse coincides with the increasing numbers of black Africans taken as slaves. Well, I'll get to it in a minute. But he says the God of Shem. And so what came forth from Noah, the story of Noah, ends here. And that's how no one knew when he woke up. They come off the ark, Noah builds an altar, sacrifices to the Lord. No, and it was so. and covered the nakedness of their father, and their faces were turned away, so that they did not see their father's nakedness. So it's Japheth Shem Ham. uh Ham's disgraceful behavior, Shem and Japheth's righteousness, in contrast, then Noah cursing Canaan, very uh peculiar uh commanded Noah to leave the ark. And so and it affects the entire world. And then at the end of that little set passage, Genesis 1 29 and 30, the Bible tells us, and it was so. So we're going to talk about the sons of Noah. here in verse 18 for the first time since they boarded the Ark. uh since they got on the ark. Shem Ham and Japheth that the whole earth was populated. So if you look around the room today, every single person sitting here is descended from Shem, Ham, and Japheth. And therefore everyone alive today is descended from Shem, Ham, and Japheth. Of course in the New Testament as well. eyes were open, the tr uh uh eating the fruit of the knowledge of the tree of good and evil, they knew they were naked and they covered themselves up. And then runs to tell his brothers to try to increase his father's shame. and says, guess what I just saw our father doing? And then trying to increase the designer by running and telling with delight his brothers. uh or slight variations of this phrase using that same verb in different forms. Uh the f the phrase had done assa uh has dire connotations in cases like this. God had blessed him, couldn't counterman, had no authority to counterman and curse someone that God had blessed. And the Canaanites are pictured there by name with the word Canaanites there, and they're not depicted with dark skin. There was a book written called The Curse of Ham by a man named David Goldberg, not a believer In other words, the rise of the African slave trade came first, and then this notion of a curse of ham Caused me to sin. And one of the ways they look around to justify it is they they try to twist scripture to do it. So the blessing starts with the line that will lead to the Messiah. Why is the older son his blessing in relation to being in the tents of Shem? And that Messiah is coming from Shem. I think if you if you drill down on it and you look at the especially what the Hebrew says, I think it starts to make sense and it fits into the the biblical narrative. that's going to strike the head of the serpent. Uh it comes out with the emphasis on Shem and you know Noah i he he whether he knows it or not, he's ha something's being revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that it's Shem Enoch's special case, he was kind of raptured up. uh the Messiah. In case there was any doubt, the flood wiped out all but this family of eight, but the curse is still there. uh not just Ham. Uh it's the Toledot of Shem Ham and Japheth. Uh because we see in Genesis chapter 11 that up until the Tower of Babel they all come together, and then an event happened in chapter 11. and what the Bible, what what what it means to apply a biblical worldview in today's world and this idea of race. where all they did was look into the uh the Ark of the Covenant and God killed seventy people for doing that. And told his uh brothers, we can probably uh assume or summate that well if he was telling his brothers he was probably a big blather brown Um Shem. We'll see. But Eber lived for a long time, uh, was around for a long time, uh well into the time of Isaac and Jacob, for example Trying to picture in my mind what all this stuff looked like and uh there isn't anything in there that says what Mrs. in order to be able to follow the story of Jesus from Genesis to Revelation and to understand that the fall applies to everyone um you have judges like Deborah for example uh later on. Uh then we're going to talk a little bit about attempts to use the Bible to justify slavery. to slaughter all those animals. Um so um God then blesses the son uh Noah and his sons. Uh he blessed them just like he blesses Noah here. So and and of course people after the fall people could have sinfully disobeyed this command just like they sinfully disobeyed other commands. why there's such a severe penalty for that particular transgression. flagrantly disregard this command. It's permanence, it says, for all successive generations, and it says it's everlasting. Two, God can and will judge sin. on God's timetable. Uh from verse 18 through 29. and their faces were turned away, so that they did not see their father's nakedness. And let Canaan be his servant. So Canaan is Ham's fourth son. for Canaan to have had four sons by the time this narrative takes place here. This one thing happened just a little you know a few days or whatever right after this other thing. And then we see that Noah dies at the age of 950, having lived about 300 years after the flood. of Ham. Um these three were the son of Noah and then we get this explicit uh indication that it's the from these three all uh the whole earth was populated. Take people, take people, take people, take people, they come off the ark to eight people. What's really going on? And so that's the wine. But the Bible is somewhat unique in this way. Uh I've been around for a while. In this case means that he looked at, that's how it's translated, but the sense of the looking is violating a boundary. That's the same word, viar. uh violated a boundary by looking into the tent and then told with delight about his father's uh dishonor in order to increase it really. So so the connotation of that Hebrew is that it it didn't he wasn't just happening to walk by and glanced and saw. uh taking every possible precaution not to uh look on their father's disgrace and to cover him up so nobody else can. announces dire consequences in the Bible, uh on many occasions, and this is no no ex no different. So the curse was that Canaan, so instead he curses Canaan, one of his so instead of cursing his own youngest son, Ham, he curses Ham's youngest son, Canaan. Uh meaning he's the supreme king and the supreme lord. They they they had these drawings, paintings, anatomically correct paintings, notably in the tomb of Seti I. And so we've seen that. And it was very well thoroughly documented and researched by this man, David Goldberg, once again not a believer, but he just looked at the historical record and he found that the slave trade came first Uh obviously twisting scripture. to justify sinful behavior. uh death penalty. uh the governor of California putting up billboards saying, hey, come to California to have an abortion with a Bible verse at the bottom. Wicked, wicked people. uh these descendants of Canaan. Uh and then he says, Let Canaan be his servant. and the Lord God. At the time of Solomon, the ones that are left are forced into slave labor under Solomon. Uh so we go back to the narrative in the Bible. Right? Because the Bible is a book about Jesus. The line from which the Messiah will come, let him dwell in the tents of Shem. The way that this blessing is structured, I think, has another spiritual meaning. He's the government. And that's why he put on the ark. Lord communicated to Noah that the Messiah would come through him but possibly or the Lord tells them to favor Shem or This is the only quotes of Noah saying anything uh in the Bible. uh God's plan of redemption in Jesus Christ and what we see in the Old Testament uh is always part of that story. And he died, and he died, and he died, and he died. And then the first nine verses of chapter eleven are the story of the Tower of Babel. uh these descendants, but we don't find out until Gen Genesis chapter eleven, well, how was it that they started spreading out? uh got forced them to spread out. Out of that little passage of scripture twisted, we had people that were trying to justify slavery does these uh like uh four or five generations from each of Shem Ham and Japheth and actually starts to give some indications about where they lived in some cases. uh Ham's disgraceful behavior, Shem and Japheth their righteous response. Um and then Noah of course blesses Shem and Japheth and there's some uh spiritual depth to that blessing. doing that. in a way that violated known boundaries. uh of this. He knew which one was which. And so I I think that's why the story is in here that um Noah's this righteous character and he is always obedient to God and um and so if this story was not in there you might think You might get the wrong impression. But it's not complete. Well you're he tried to blame him, he tried to blame God. Alright, here we are on part 20 of our series. For this particular class, it's really starting today, and I'll try to point that out as we get there. Uh so the previous the week before last we had uh talked about the fact that the flood lasted a year and God had finally To the Bible and race very extensively in the last four classes that we do in this study. And then he gives a command, uh the same command that he had given to Adam and Eve in Genesis one twenty-eight. Now, so Noah and his sons get this same command, but the world is different because between Genesis 1 and Genesis 9, we have this massive uh event in Genesis chapter 3, the fall. Um it's the first explicit covenant uh in the Bible and it's remarkable for a few things, for its breadth. He is grace, merciful, and gracious. And Ham was the father of Canaan. Then Noah began farming and planted a vineyard. Um and the flood itself, this whole story of the flood, the reason why the Bible emphasizes it so much, spends four whole chapters talking about it So he said, Cursed be Canaan, a servant of servants he shall be to his brothers. Noah lived 350 years after the flood. But Shem and Japheth took a garment and laid it upon both their shoulders and walked backward and covered the nakedness of their father. So, we can deduce from this that years have passed, and years enough for him to have four sons after the flood. In uh this passage it talks about him planting a vineyard. Yeah, unlikely. Uh Noah became drunk, which was sinful. Uh this may have been an involuntary act of letting his robe slip as he lay down to sleep off his wand. Ham's youngest son. But the text suggests much more than accidental seeing. When God killed seventy people, because they looked into the Ark of the Lord. Told with delight. to really see it. So Ham's older brothers, Shem and Japheth, were having none of that nonsense that Ham is bringing to them. Uh so something like this. Um they uh they do what they can to restore their father's honor. Noah knew what his youngest son had done. That means Noah was 502 when Shem was born. So that all the from all those scriptures we can deduce for certain that Japheth was the oldest, born when Noah's 500, Shaman was the second, born when Noah's 502, and the Bible tells us that Ham was the youngest. What have you done? Genesis 9 1. In contrast, the Nubians, likely descendants of Ham's son Cush, were depicted with dark skin. And then the justification uh came next, this idea, which is not in the Bible, of a curse of ham, and the idea that it had something to do with skin color, which it it obviously does not ridiculous twisting of the scriptures to try to justify uh that sinful behavior. Anyone engaged in man stealing or kidnapping, the punishment that God prescribed was death. Death penalty. the context here is saying that the the person is stolen. uh about loving your neighbor or something and therefore you want to have go have an abortion. very thoroughly in this course the last four weeks. It's of notice, of course, that um how this blessing goes and how it fits with the rest of the narrative of Scripture. Whose line produces the Messiah? Kill these Canaanites. Uh yes it is. So that's that's what the Bible tells us is the the ultimate fate of the Canaanites. Because Shem is the line that goes to the Messiah. then I think that's porting to the the spiritual reality that the Messiah is coming from Shem and and we're just tracing the thread all the way through from Genesis chapter three where we we get the promise of the seed of the woman And so therefore this whole blessing event is focused on Shem and uh that prophecy comes from the Holy Spirit. That's where the the Messiah's gonna come. looked what these descendants were, what it looked like. as people descended from these three sons of uh of Noah and what that means for uh this the modern idea of race It seems both from the biblical record and from historical records that all of the earth and most of Asia are descendants of Jacob And so that's a a really substantial proportion of the population of the world are descendants of Japheth. and from uh pretty good historical record that Japheth was enlarged. Um he was uh like the great great grandfather of of uh or great great great grandfather of Abraham, but he lived a huge amount of time Um and so they were the ones to curse. And so um great-great granddaddy Eber would have been a famous guy for being around for a long time. It it's it's the way of some many of the biblical stories. um when he did millions of things in his life um of almost a thousand years. We don't know what Mrs. You know, it's um there's all there's all sorts of um we don't know completely. an answer for Yeah, there there is I mean the Bible's clear about who's responsible for example for original sin. section of the Bible and we're going to talk about what uh w what why is it that he cursed Canaan um and not Ham and uh what it means. He introduces a new freedom. what we studied last time. It treats the flood as a worldwide event. This narrative, we pick it up here in verse 18, is years after they have come off the ark. Uh so what does that tell you? Uh h he and his descendants will actually be important for quite a s quite a swath of the Bible. a large chunk of the Old Testament. saw the nakedness of his father and told his two brothers outside. Is it possible that he made great juice and let it sit around for too long? Ancient books and modern books too. where he he has a moral lapse. And there's dire consequences to it. And and then I looked at the Hebrew. look and delight in his father's nakedness. Uh we also know from other places in the Bible that uh Shem was 100 two years after the flood. And so this phrase, servant of servants, is what's known grammatically as a superlative genitive. Uh there is only a curse of Canaan. uh that as a result of Noah's curse, black Africans who were descendants of Ham were enslaved by the descendants of Noah's two other sons in South and North America. kidnapped in order to sell into slavery. Their conscience, God gave everybody a conscience, at some level they know that they're doing something evil and they look around for a way to justify it. The God of Shem. 1 Kings 9, verse 20-21, the Jewish Semite King Solomon levied forced laborers from all the remaining Canaanites. And they're being rewarded for doing a righteous thing. With without the the knowledge that Shem's going to be the one that leads to Messiah, that might be curious. It's it's not really coming from the prophet's the the the spiritual meanings are not coming from the uh the prophet himself. uh this plan, how this plan is progressing. And he died. It just is no other three sons and one grandson involved. that one particular lady. heroes of the faith, uh, you know, the Hebrews chapter 11 people like Noah, uh, that they must be perfect. um the wise words to give it to their husbands. Um yes, but we do have in other places of the Bible um stories about women. is uh often translated pleasing and as the uh idea of pleasing. is uh it it demonstrates some spiritual truths that are important for us to understand. Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father, and told his two brothers outside. The narrative moves on to the time by which Noah's youngest son Ham had fathered his own fourth and youngest son Canaan. The use of the article here, the word for Hebrew word for wine is yaying, and it's you the article is here, Hayayin. That's the sense of that word, Bayar. has the connotation and told with delight. Committed the deed. Now, so what's the problem with this particular notion? And, furthermore, there's not the slightest evidence that the curse that is in the Bible had anything to do with skin color. And there's no curse anywhere in the Bible on Cush or his descendants. about the slave trade. The death penalty. So it can't possibly have been okay because of some fanciful curse of the hand to do that. Um the onion on on biblical prophecies. Yeah, so or the Holy Spirit acted and said, Right, so yeah, so where does prophecy come from? We see that here at the end of chapter nine. questions here at the end. Yeah, so what he had done was he had violated a boundary by looking. And um he's absolutely sovereign over not only is he sovereign over his creation, but he knows he's omniscient. Why wasn't Mrs. that God wanted man to be in in charge and that women were to be submissive to their husbands. So that's what we learned last time. We also see a new name for the first time here, Canaan, who is the first named grandson of Noah, although not the first one born. Um his um after God's own heart, he commits adultery and murder. They were clearly distressed by what they heard from Ham and immediately took steps to cover their father's nakedness and restore his honor. And so then the two righteous brothers took the robe, they put it on their shoulders, they walked backwards. So kind of a one-piece, a long one-piece uh uh thing. And what that means is it's an emphasis that shows that it's an extreme case. Notice that the verse assumes or implies that the purpose of man stealing was to sell the victim as a slave. And this one, the fact that the blessing starts with Shem and starts actually with, Blessed be the Lord God of Shem. I would speculate, and not going to read too much in the text, but saying noah new, well, now that we understand the the usage of the word uh Saul and Uh I I don't know. And Noah's last year is in the end of the Toledot of Noah. There's many scriptures about the flood in the book of Job, the book of Psalms, Isaiah, Matthew, Luke, Hebrew, 1 Peter, 2 Peter. So let's take a look at this passage. We see the lapse by the righteous Noah, the only lapse that's mentioned in the Bible by this man. Um a couple things to point out. Very curious. So Noah did not have the authority to countermand God's blessing with a curse. There was a f a popular false notion, many times referred to as the curse of Ham. And how do we know this? So they're they're within the borders of his kingdom. Well. And um and so he and he's prophesying, he's prophesying it um under the um uh the direction of the Holy Spirit. So uh the tolerat structure looks like this, and so that the tolerat of Noah was most of chapter 6, all of chapter 7, 8, and 9. And then beginning next time, we're going to talk about the Toledo of Shem Ham and Japheth, what came forth from Shem Ham and Japheth, and that's chapter 10 is the Table of Nations. All right, so we have huge amounts of time for questions. But then we're told that Ham looked upon the father, but then when Noah talked he he knew what he had done, what Ham had done. Yeah. Then we have the explicit the explicit institution of the Noah Covenant, the fact that God is not going to destroy the world again with a flood. Servant of servants. Okay, yes. So who knows what Noah really understood about what the Holy Spirit was revealing through him. We do see from subsequent history that these descendants of Canaan are particularly wicked. Because I've taught through these books of Genesis many times and and this is this one's a little bit different. Now we see why the narrative has repeatedly referred to Ham as the father of Canaan. This was not people weren't volunteering to get on those ships, right? We see later on the Bible that this immorality begun by Ham extended in Canaan and developed to a revolting degree in the Canaanites. It's a lifespan of 950 years, the third longest recorded in the vibrant. But not next time, the time starting the time after that. And so yes, there is certainly this the nat the the the nature of how God has structured the family And then of course we get the revelation that men are still sinful, the very explicit stating that men are still sinful, that uh wiping out every all but eight people did not wipe out sinfulness in mankind. And then there are many other verses in the Bible that talk about God's justification in the way he judged the world. Noah begins to till the ground and one of the things he plants is a vineyard. Only Christ was sinless. So he said, Cursed be Canaan, a servant of servants, he shall be to his brother. And so there's been some confusion over the year about what uh the order of these uh brothers were, but we know for sure Ham was the youngest. Okay, good. Uh Ever was um a great grandson of great great grandson of Noah. Yeah, so why can't that one of his other sons? And so then we did a little summary at the very end of last week saying that the Bible treats the flood. And then we see uh Noah, what he what he does. It happened in that fifteen hundred years before the flood. God rebuked Job and Job repented. So Gemin, it says uh Shemon Jefa took a garment, uh or that word can also be translated robe, hasimla, uh garment or robe He curses not Ham, but Ham's youngest son. Very interesting. So the curse was, and this was the curse, Canaan and his descendants would be a servant of servants to Shem and Japheth and their descendants. So what's going on here? So the Bible closes that loop. So it seems very odd here without any explanation why do we get the fourth son of uh Ham called out here. And you can compare other this grammatical structure is used, for example, in the titles of Jesus, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. So it's not Adam's fault, it's somebody else's fault. And Josh in the book of Joshua, the children of Israel go in and they and they slaughter Canaanites. These are actually the only recorded words of Noah in the Bible. And so here's Noah, he falls naked, although it's inside his tent. Told with delight. And for somehow Noah knew uh what he had what had been done. Usually when I get to this part of scripture of the scripture in this lesson, I talk a lot more about what the Bible has to say about race. Everybody thoroughly confused? So remember from Genesis chapter 1, he had got it given plants to eat for people explicitly. involved only Noah, his three sons, and one grandson. So yeah, that's a good point. And then he repeats the command to populate the earth abundantly, fill up the earth with people, and uh we'll see in Genesis 11, of course, that they Then the narrative moves to Ham, Noah's youngest son, and again he's identified with his youngest So there were attempts to justify slavery in early modern times based on this passage, a twisting of this passage of scripture. So man stealing, very clear, got unambiguous death penalty for that. So he begins planting crops. The Bible, one of the lessons we get here, the Bible, unlike most ancient books, does not hide the faults of even its greatest heroes. But the Bible tells so that makes Noah how old? So what did Adam do when he sinned? Nothing in the Hebrew that would indicate that. Hamm was up to. But then we see, verse 22, but Shem and Japheth took a garment, laid it upon both their shoulders, walked backwards. Why is this? So uh Japheth's blessing is given in relation to Shem. So uh then we close out the Tola. Ham taking Ham by the ear and making sure he behaved? Uh whether the final transaction has been concluded or not. So Noah then he blesses. Um and so this is forced labor of people that are um subject to this king. Did Isaiah understand what he was saying? And and equal and the point of the whole story that uh that Peter makes is an equally universal and final judgment will be carried out in the world. So the first two verses tell us that Noah and his sons have come out of the ark. So uh Noah was right there and he heard God bless him and his three sons. Well maybe no, it was sinless. And that's the second coming of Christ and the great white throne judgment. So uh what do we know from that? So the government is ordering people to do certain things. That's correct. So yeah, that's a good point. It's not complete knowledge. Um and so there was no meat eating. Okay, let's read through. We get this curious thing. Uh they're named particularly. God to Cain after he murdered Abel in 410. So we know from these Egyptian paintings that the Canaanites did not have dark skin. That was really clear. Good point. They're allowed to eat meat. The first thing he does is build this altar and he does a massive sacrifice, one of every clean animal and bird. We you see that over and over again. So there's a couple things. Okay. So he saw the nak the nakedness of his father and told his two brothers outside, well it doesn't seem that bad. This is clear, unambiguous. Uh he becomes drunk and one of the results was that he uncovered himself. Um in ha in response to Ham's evil deed, Noah curses Canaan. And so what does that mean about Shem? Uh any other questions? That that's just a speculation. Very odd until we read on further in the passage and see why. You know, this is some artist's depiction of it, you know, this big long one piece robe, they put it on their shoulder, they walk backwards, they lay it backwards So uh commentators have struggled over this over the years, and uh most commentators seem to agree that since God had already blessed all three sons of Noah, including Ham, in We know this because the Egyptians painted frescoes, paintings on the wall, of different people groups, all sorts of different people groups that they encountered. And so we get this same little phrase that we got in Genesis chapter 5 about all the patriarchs from Adam up to Noah. And that suggests that Nova was familiar with wine making from before the flood. Um and especially because they had fifteen hundred years to figure that out before the flood. Should know better. Let's take a look. And Ham had not just Canaan but other kids. And it seems, if I remember right, the Japan, uh like the northern part and that have implications They don't spread out and fill the earth like God commanded them. So, first named son of Noah in the Bible, this man Canaan. Um yeah. Now they don't finish the job. Uh you have the story of Ruth that's really focused on uh Naomi and Ruth So there's also this new law that the death penalty for murder. First, an overview. We're all close relatives. If you look at what the scripture actually says, it doesn't say what they're trying to make it say, uh, to justify sinful behavior. Because he's ma he's man stealing, yes. We see that in Genesis chapter 15, Genesis chapter 18, Genesis chapter 19, Leviticus chapter 18, Deuteronomy chapter 12 We'll see how all that happened um starting next time. Okay. So at the same time, he's righteous and just and merciful and gracious. Um Taylor's oldest time, definitely um an application with African slavery, it's still today an application with the He's already said that before, that's kind of repeating that. He's delighted to reveal this moral failure of his father. We can deduce from all the scripture information that's given to us. Shem's line. Um he believed God and it was credited to him as righteousness with Abraham. The the word Semite means descendant of Shem. Could be, could be. There is no curse of Ham. Right. Uh the Bible is full of admonitions about uh drinking in the book of Proverbs, for example. If we're talking about a hero usually, the book's not gonna point out his faults And so here we get, we have this long narrative about Noah, and before we leave Noah's story, we get this incident. One, Ham was not a youngster at this point. And so uh so w so what are these people that are engaged in this slave trade, you know, at some level Yes. And uh I didn't realize or think about this until just now when you were teaching this I I hadn't really thought about that. But the Bible for the whole rest of the Bible makes really clear it's Adam's sin that was he was held responsible. The world is broken because of the fall. So verse twenty-six he he also said, Blessed be the Lord, the God of Shem, and let Canaan be a servant. And so it's it's an interesting thought experiment to think about, you know, how much did the prophets know? So if you'll get out your Bible over a device with the Bible on there and open up to Genesis chapter 9 One particular grandson is is singled out here. They're named in ver in chapter seven when they're getting on the Ark. And so this is their um progenitor Canaan. Okay. Good qu that's a good question. Um were any of the other uh wives. He's perfectly holy, righteous, and just. And so today we're going to go back to the post-flood world and see what it was like immediately after the flood. And when you look at the Hebrew, it's really bad what he did. Yeah. Yes. They had previously only allowed to be able to eat vegetables. Uh the Bible doesn't try to hide that. So hungry was lack of respect for his father. And where does Jesus come from? We don't get to know everything. Noah's still around too. So Shem gets blessed first, not Japheth, even though Japheth is the oldest, but then Japheth gets blessed. What he did was to look in violation of boundaries. So this is the tale as old as time. Um and so uh so we'll we'll see that later on. What do we see from that? This account of the early post-flood world, some number of years. He tells them to be fruitful and multiplied and uh fill the earth and have dominion over the animals. The conditions in Noah's day as described in Genesis chapter 6 are very extreme wickedness. One of his crops is grapes. It doesn't so n those two things don't really come out in the English, do they? And and God's word is really clear. We're tracing that where's that seed going to come from? The Toledot, what came forth from Shem Ham and Japheth, their descendants in other words, and what happened to their descendants. And so that's all. Uh God reacts to the offering, the word translated soothing here, uh Nicolak May God enlarge Japheth, and let him dwell in the tents of Shem, and let Canaan be his servant. And so and all of them were born after the flood. So this word has a a really strong negative connotation. They're subject to the king, and the king can essentially Um and then after that, as I said, I'm gonna drill down and talk about all the implications, what the Bible says about who we are Um any other questions or or comments uh about any of this? They're being blessed because they were righteous. So Noah lived three hundred and fifty years after the flood. So yeah, we'll talk about that. Um so God can see past, present, and future like we can't. Uh okay. Um and notice we get here very specific. Uh it's a superlative genitive. Notice how the blessing starts. I was just wondering um the where it says enlarge JFIT. There's been speculation like since Ham was the youngest, he decided to curse Ham's youngest. So after God made his covenant with Noah and his three sons, they all seem to have lived fairly close to each other for the next few decades. So what it what happens next? There's always a rationalization, a deflection. There are some left. Now, the government can do wicked things as well, but this is actually a fulfillment of biblical prophecy. Or he could have known that the robe had slipped off and now the rope was on, so something happened in the night and yeah. So and then also Canaan would be Shem's servant. So to me it kind of points to that authority. Somebody let it went, hey, look what happens when you let it lie around. He points to God, he answers God and said, the woman you gave me Different when you talk about that slavery is that's different than the man sealing you were talking about Uh then we see in verse nineteen that it is definitely from these three sons Okay. I don't think so. And finally here in eighteen we get their names again, who they are, for the first time But this is just one particular example of people trying to Shem is a true believer. Uh we see that Noah lived a long time after the flood. Yeah, so um yeah, so we we find we get this one incident. No. Noah curses Canaan, Ham's youngest son, not Am, notice. So what's going on here? And Job is according a hero of the faith, and so is Moses. The last four weeks we're really going to focus on what the Bible has to say about race. He dies. So Noah was what was God really pleased with? For example, not just Noah, but Moses, for example. The same Hebrew word, Bayar, is used in 1 Samuel 6, 19. Okay, so so yeah, that's the connotation of the Hebrew. Exodus 21, 16 says, He who kidnaps a man, whether he sells him or is or he is found in his possession, shall surely be put to death. Almost every biblical prophecy in some way has a relation to the coming Messiah. I meant to I meant to talk about that and I forgot. Um or the Lord and the Holy Spirit were able to look down through history and see those Canaanites are going to be really, really, really, really wicked So it's going to be Shem's line that produces the Messiah. So the Bible does not mention Noah having any other sons or daughters, and this passage makes it explicit that everyone who has lived since the flood So instead of honoring his father, who had led him to safety on the ark, Ham deliberately takes action to dishonor his father No, this is a prophecy. Um from the text maybe we can't draw all that solution And so um the the the Tower of so the chapter ten Yeah, yeah, yeah. These three were the sons of Noah, and from these the whole earth was populated. There's no such thing as this notion of a curse of ham. He comes from Shem. He harvests the grapes. So let me just take a little detour here and talk about a curious thing that happened in more modern times. Any other questions about any of that? And that brings an end to the Toledot of Noah. That Noah Noah knew these boys for a hundred years and so he he knew We we get uh we get this little glimpse of different uh of these Um it was not permitted anyway. Every one of us is close relatives from the same family. So he's not it's not like him is a teenager or something. So on the surface is Shem and Japheth have done a righteous thing. W we know we have just a glimpse of a person's life. Okay. God speaks to Noah and the three sons and commands them to multiply and fill the earth, just like he had commanded Adam and Eve at the very beginning We're going to talk about him as well. He's 600 when the flood ends, 602. But the Bible tells us that he started having his kids when he was 500. Anyone who engaged in man-stealing, the literal Hebrew there, uh translated kidnap, is man stealing. If you're stealing that if you're man stealing or kidnapping somebody in order to sell them Um so it's not the prophet's own um So all the days of Noah were 950 years, and he died. But no, years have passed here between last lesson and this lesson. Told with delight. There's there's no volunteering here at all. Uh we see this today with uh the issue of abortion. They clump together. He drank of the wine and became drunk and uncovered himself inside his tent Um he drank of the wines and became drunk, and uncovered himself inside his tent, Ham, the father of Canaan, once again And those some that are left are a thorn in Israel's side for years and generations and generations. Questions, comments? So Ham manages to spot his father's nakedness. Uh in and in olden times a robe would be worn both as a garment by day and a blanket by night So this phrase had done. They're they're either slaughtered or they're forced into slave labor in the end, and slave labor to the descendants of Shem. So in the years after the flood, Noah becomes a farmer. They walked backwards towards Noah and put the robe on him without looking, the Bible tells us. Uh twisting scripture to attend uh to uh um And the blessing includes, very particularly, starts with the Lord. And it's a unified story, Genesis to Revelation about So time has passed. Um we have indication in the New Testament that the prophets longed to understand and see this this whole story about Messiah, but they didn't. James did have more descendants than the other two. Alright, let me close this with a word of prayer. We've got uh a few more parts left, and I'm gonna talk about uh towards the end of this class I'm gonna talk about what I'm gonna do in the last four classes. This is an odd, another odd section of the Bible The Bible doesn't hide any of those things. So once again, the Hebrew word translated and told, Bayagid. So uh why would Noah curse Canaan instead of Ham, who actually But everybody other than Enoch died. Okay, so uh what we what we learned, uh we talked about Noor Noah's three sons, we talked about this one recorded moral failure of n of Noah. There have there are notions out there that he did something sexual. So the Hebrew, Bayar What's the punishment? Everything in relation to Shem here. So he starts farming. They looked into the Ark of the of the Covenant. It doesn't start actually with Shem. And so notice Shem's blessing is given first, not Japheth, Japheth is the oldest, but Shem's is given first. Um and so there's mysteries. So yes, it's different from man stealing uh and forcing people into slavery. That's why really today the flood is so important. Um unlikely from the way this Hebrew is structured. This is Noah acting as a prophet, and he's talking about his descendants and what's going to happen. Um and So if you look at uh Genesis 6 through 9, we hear a lot about Noah He makes wine and he allows it to ferment. Well th in this case it's a superlative negative. Um that he that that there are more descendants of Japheth alive today than any other uh than Ham or So that's today. Um and now instead of harmony, uh, among all of God's creation, there's fear and terror, uh the Bible tells us in Genesis chapter nine. Can you clarify the semantic range of the word And so in the next verse, we're going to pick up a new Toledah. Uh anybody have any questions? He's he's no his youngest son, but he was about a hundred, it was almost a hundred when he got on the ark. What is this that you have done, God to Eve, when she had eaten the forbidden fruit in Genesis 3 He couldn't curse Ham We'll see his where he stands in the descendants of Shem. So the Bible um it's not that the Bible ignores women, but in many of the stories like this one One, God retains ultimate control of world events. Why is Canaan in this thing at all? Why is it that the second son and not the oldest is the one you start with? This little cursings and blessings here of his sons. So here is the word of God. I saw him naked and drunk. And so we'll see that Shem is kind of given a priority spot in a lot of these narratives. So uh six hundred years before the flood, uh three hundred and fifty years after the flood, uh all the days of Noah were nine hundred and fifty years That's all that it means. And so there's been at least enough years So he runs to his brothers I've been calling Ham the youngest son all along, but that's because the Bible tells us for certain here in this verse that Ham was the youngest. People sin, and then they look around for a way to rationalize and justify their sin, right? But we will see in chapter 10 that there were other people around, that Japheth and Shem had kids too. Yep. So today we're in the latter part of chapter 9. And a new mandate, the death penalty for murders. Um I don't know. So in Genesis one twenty-eight, he told Adam and Eve And God takes action to force them to spread out. How does the rest of the Bible treat the flood? This is, again, very curious. Number three, God can and does exercise grace, even in judgment. Death. Just like Noah was blessed by God because he was righteous. I think the spiritual lesson there is it's pointing to the Messiah. Okay. And it's because murder destroys an image bearer of God. So they're either killed or they're forced into slave labor in the end. Not just a few days, not a few months, but years. There's nobody else. Um yeah, it's very shameful behavior. But here it tells us for certain Ham was the youngest. Whether the actual transaction is taking place, the the the the kidnaps of man, whether he has already sold them or not, or he still has them. Uh kind of a a a s a very strange event in the Bible, but So our scripture passage is going to be these last verses of chapter 9. And then after that, all we get is the fact that it's no and his wife and his three sons and their wives, so that we know that it's eight people So it was a really very serious crime to look Just like in First Samuel chapter six, they looked into the ark in violation of boundaries. He was pleased with Noah's attitude in sacrificing to him And its generosity was unconditional and undeserved. Uh we we get the Canaanites as a uh a primary enemy of the nation of Israel for This is not new. First, there is no such thing in the Bible as a curse of hand. So as we're reading through the Bible, sometimes you go verse to verse to verse and you th and you might slip into the thought pattern that He's come off the ark and he starts planting various things and one of the things he plants is a vineyard to grow grapes. And so with the rise of this uh the the African slave trade arose this When Noah awoke from his wine, he knew what his youngest son had done to him Though at least it was inside his tent. Uh okay, so ever since Adam and Eve fell, nakedness in public was regarded as shameful. So people with dark skin were depicted with dark skin in these frescoes of the Egyptians. Um and so we have this historical record Where's that seed going to come from? But this particular story at the end of the Toledo of Noah Noah then responds by cursing Canaan. Thanks for doing that. So um yeah, so was Mrs. Um and we're going to do it's just going to be uh just a little bit about that because I'm going to come back And it's and it's the fourth son. So the African slave trade clearly falls into this category, man stealing. He's kidnapped or stolen, man stealing. And we see later on, we'll see. Noah was doing during the time Um so nakedness was um associated with being ashamed ever since the fall. So the phrase here uncovered himself. Uh compared to a couple of other places in scripture where this phrase is used. And the curse was only on Canaan and his descendants. So Noah dies just like everyone before the flood, except Enoch. That's all that it means. And the word Hebrew means descendant of Eber. Um so if if it if it was done by accident That's this is really bad. Um and then we see there's another curious, uh there's many curious things in this uh little passage In order to try to justify sinful behavior. Um and so they've done a righteous thing uh and there's a blessing. Um we're gonna g have lots of extra time for uh Toledot uh is the Hebrew word that means what came forth from Yeah, he gets drunk, yeah. So um and and w we eventually No, they're not. Noah became drunk with wine from wine and fell naked in his tent. He's singled out here in the narrative. Why is uh Ham continually identified with his fourth son? He he had to have gone in there in violation of a boundary in order to Right. They're coming from the Holy Spirit. Right. First, let's review what we did last time. We learned that last time. However, once again it was at least inside his tent. Not omniscient just about the present, but omniscient about past, present and future. Um so there there's a lot you don't know. We find out later, next chapter, chapter 10, verse 6, that Canaan is the youngest of Ham's four sons. It it brings them right out. So somehow, the Bible doesn't say how. And he and he gives a curse. So uh I think we can uh deduce from the biblical record So that's kind of a little bit of an overview of what we're going to study here, and let's take a look at the details. There's no other ancestors for any of us. Shem and Japheth were then by their deeds shown to be righteous men who honored their father. Death And the word Hebrew means descendants of Eber So we know truly, so everything in the Bible is true So Noah's 602 when Shem is 100. So once he knows what he had done, mm um Noah pronounces a curse. The New Testament tells us The curse from Genesis chapter 3 that men would die is still in effect. Uh what was Mrs. Um So there's no confusion about whether God said it and everybody just ignored it or whatever. He also said, Blessed be the Lord, the God of Shem. So Noah's sons are named Um So some number of years have gone by. It starts with blessed be the Lord, the God of Shem. And so we'll do a a description of what that You know, so the Uh deliberately Right. But nonetheless, the Holy Spirit is revealing in God's written word And so we see that the curse from Adam's fall is still in effect. I don't know if your question was deriving at this but We'll see that. And explicitly in the passage is the reason I mean we we don't They're not perfect. Um He's never he never lays either one of those aside Uh very odd. Uh yeah. Well here we go. It would have been very messy Um and so he wouldn't have known its intoxicating nature and that wouldn't so he wasn't caught by surprise here, yes. Um I don't have a site bottle here, but I have a site bottle that has kind of a location And so it's the exact same Hebrew word in 1 Samuel chapter 6, remember Yeah. It it embraces every living creature. This is not a few minutes after they came off the ark. Abortion is um obviously evil and and now we have May God enlarge Japheth, and let him dwell in the tents of Shem, and let Canaan be a servant. And once again, Canaan would be Japheth's servant as Yes. Husbands were to love their wives, of course, we know that. And so I can remember being confused by this passage. In other words, they went out of their way to respect the boundary and not look There was also, uh a number of years ago, a detailed secular study of this issue The Bible traces it and traces it and traces it. No absolutely no doubt about it. And so maybe that's why it was Canaan and his descendants that were that were So Noah lives nine hundred and fifty years and we know like a a dozen things about him. I mean that's why we're getting told about the men. I've made things a little bit different He disobeyed God and was denied entry into the promised land. Um he's a grown man. They knew they weren't supposed to. How much did Isaiah understand of what he was saying? We'll do that next time. He had also given only plants to eat for animals explicitly Now the sons of Noah who came out of the ark were Shem and Ham and Jabeth. Good point though. Noah blesses Shem and Japheth Cain is similar out because he is important to the subsequent narrative. The Bible says it was inside his tent, not lying out there in public Lack of respect for his his father. And God tells them, God orders them in some cases to kill them all. Um and then we see Noah's last years and the end of his life and the end of his Toledok. He's sovereign over his cre creation. Ham does something bad, and so his kid gets punished Uh I mean you have uh the book of Esther, for example, that's really focused on And notice even here that the blessing is given in relation to Shem. Noah doing? So it has the sense of looking in violation of a boundary, of a known boundary. The Hebrew word toleda is there to mark off a new section of the narrative. Well one the the the word I don't know Then we're going to talk about how Noah blesses Shem and Japheth. He he's deliberately dishonoring his father in a in a terrible way And so I think that's why it comes out this way It's somebody looking at something they know they're not supposed to look at. Ha ha ha It's uh a supreme uh or a s uh uh or an extreme negative. Not Japheth and not Ham So unlikely from this structure that he was he was caught by surprise here Here we go. So back to the narrative. We'll find out in in chapter ten that this is the fourth son And so Tower of Babel, God confused their tongue, their languages, and they spread out We talked about that That's the connotation of Vayaged. So last time And he and their names, Shem Ham and Japheth. It's a single word in Hebrew. Um the phrase had done here. So what does the Bible teach We're going to do the table of nations next time. So it means something like the most abject servitude. Of course, there's lots of interactions with Israel and Canaan, Canaanites. But the point is the command was not changed until Genesis chapter nine. Years have passed Yeah, so yeah, so this is obviously And so if we look at the the African slave trade, it was man stealing. Noah in the 10 also? They violated a boundary by looking into the Ark of the Covenant and God wiped out seventy people Hmm David, the one who's No, there's nothing in the Hebrew that would indicate that. But how he knew it was ham somehow he knew it was ham. He starts farming, he plants things, he plants That uh Shem's God is the Lord. Um even though at first blossom it might be a a little bit confusing And it's a good point about Mrs. We're going to talk about Noah's three sons We know what the Holy Spirit wants us to know I mean it's doesn't seem that bad as in the English. And the fact that the father was inside the tent and he had to go in there Okay. So two years after the flood, at the age of 100, he starts having kids. Um That's what he's doing, run into his brothers. Now And so that's that that's all we're going to get today The men are the ones that are gonna stand before God and Noah's gonna curse Canaan Ham looked upon his father's shame and rejoiced in it He's not lying out there in the street, it's inside his tent. Um It's an action of the government. Always part of that story. And then Well, it's going to be Shem We're going to spend several classes talking about that. Extremely wicked people. And why is that? We don't know. Ba yiggal. It just didn't seem that bad. But finally This is years. That was a little detour, and so um So look then. But I'm going to do that. The Canaanites were All those prophecies in Isaiah about the Noah and also Mrs. So what did Adam and Eve do as soon as their Bam, God killed seventy of them. And Uh there's so much fascinating Hebrew here. Yeah And it's And so um That's how the blessing starts. And they covered a So The Lord, the God of Shem. Noah dies. Um Ham And so Yeah, somehow. Shem.