Good morning everybody. I want to get started because as you know our time is uh somewhat limited. We want to finish on time at ten thirty so that we have Uh the opportunity to fellowship and uh I know last week Pastor Rob was uh trying to hurry up to to finish. So I wanna, if I can, I wanna work through the slides as as hopefully appropriately speeded as as I can. And then uh based on whatever time we have left, uh either of the classroom class time itself or of the fellowship time afterward, Um we can work through any questions. And we're I'll be teaching uh n next week as well and kind of overlapping um these two weeks. So uh there will be opportunity, Lord willing, to uh walk through some of this again next week. But I'm going to do my best to do a Pastor Rob impression. Just I don't normally teach uh with slides this way, but um using m uh his material as you know we've condensed this down. Uh but uh I'm so grateful for all the work he's done in the past to to put this together. And this is just, as you know, that there's so much we could talk about, so much content, so much um information that we could delve into in greater depth And so it's almost uh um a pain how quickly we're going uh in this class. But uh hopefully it's helpful and There's always opportunity in the future to do a deeper dive. So let me pray and we'll get going. Father, we thank you for this morning. Thank you for the life that you give and the opportunity to know you and study your word and to do that together. And so I pray that as we uh walk through uh the end of chapter one and beginning of chapter two That you would encourage our hearts with what you have revealed of what you had done in the past and how it sets the foundation for so many aspects of life. Now, Lord, give us understanding. Help us to think critically and think well so that we would love you with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength. In Christ's name I pray. Amen. Alright, so um last week Pastor Rob walked through the six days of creation. But He let me know that he uh neglected to talk about the creation mandate. So we're actually going to start there. So just if you're tracking with uh the 13 weeks of this quarter and where we're at, uh we're on week three And today and next week we'll spend most of our time uh talking about Adam and Eve uh in the garden. So today we're going to work through a whopping What is that? Eight uh main uh ideas? Uh the creation mandate, the significance of the seventh day. Uh the seventh day uh was twenty-four hours, not a continuing uh forever We'll talk about how Genesis chapter 2 is not another creation story, as some say, but rather it is a more detailed uh explanation of what took place on day six. We'll walk through how God creates Adam, the Garden of Eden, and how he puts him to work. And then we'll pick up from there next week. So that's what we'll cover today. So the creation mandate. If you uh have your Bible uh or you can see the verse here After God made Adam and Eve when he made man, male and female, God said to them in chapter 1, verse 28, God blessed them and said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it, and rule over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the sky, and over every living thing that moves on the earth So this is what's known as the creation mandate. This is what is given not just to Adam and not just to Eve, but to all of mankind. That our responsibility as human beings are fourfold, to be fruitful to multiply, to fill the earth, and to rule over it. The term creation mandate refers to that idea that God's original intent for creation infused mankind with supreme earthly authority along with specific responsibilities. Among those privileges are the rights to freely use all earth's animals and plants and resources for the benefit of mankind. And of course that's not benefit in the sense of a selfish Disregard for other kind of benefit, but for the purpose of the flourishing of humankind The Hebrew word for rule over Raddah in Genesis 128 implies absolute sovereignty of man over the rest of the earth. Yes, that's uh really what it says here uh for in this next point that it implies that we're not just a consumer, but we're a steward responsible for stewarding the resources that God may is that what what you're asking? Yeah, that th uh creation as as a a kingdom, if you will, as a realm over which we have authority is for us to exercise God's authority as His representatives, as His ambassadors, as His delegates over creation. And in the same way that God is a God who cares, who seeks the benefit of his creation, who is concerned for the flourishing of not only his people, but all of creation, we are to reflect that same kind of love and care, compassion, grace. uh provision, um, you know, magnanimous uh kindness and blessing uh in in the world around us. So we are stewards, not merely consumers. Likewise, God's command includes an expectation that we will multiply, obligating man to adhere to God's intended plan for human sexuality. namely heterosexual monogamy. So the purpose of God in creation is that we will multiply and fill the earth And uh I think by and large humanity has done a pretty good job in doing that. But it's amazing, you've probably heard that all humanity alive today could fit within the state of Texas. So even though we have multiplied around the earth, we're still not filling the earth, which of course, you ultimately if you fill it completely, then hit there's no room for fields and productivity and everything else But uh m m multiplying, filling the earth is part of God's mandate And part of stewarding is how can we use the resources to care for the people who are on the earth? In short, the creation mandate says that man is sovereign over the rest of the earth, man is obligated to responsibly use what God has placed under his control. And man is expected to reproduce according to God's intended design. So that that's the the basic creation mandate that continues on till today. That doesn't um that that didn't leave Uh or that that didn't stop being the case at the fall. Uh in fact, as we'll see in a moment, that will continue that is reiterated really uh after the fall. Part of What's built into the statement that includes the creation mandate is how God provided for people to live in terms of uh to be sustained physically. Verses twenty-nine and thirty, God says, Behold, I have given you every plant yielding seed that is on the surface of all the earth, and every tree which has fruit yielding seed, it shall be food for you And to every beast of the earth, and to every bird of the sky, to every living thing that moves on the earth which has life, I have given every green plant for food. And it was so. So the original diet for mankind and every creature on the earth was the various forms of fruits and vegetables, seed bearing plants and seed bearing uh tre trees, uh for the sustaining of God's creation. And it was that way all the way through until the end of the flood. But then, by God's mercy and grace, after the flood We have both the the repetition of the creation mandate and the uh expansion of what food is available. So This is Genesis chapter 9 verses 1 to 3. God bless Noah and His sons and said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth The fear of you and the terror of you will be on every beast of the earth and on every bird of the sky, and everything that creeps on the ground, and all the fish of the sea. Into your hands they are given. uh it it's interesting that uh when man doesn't follow God's plan as far as uh whether it's a heterosexual uh uh the what we eat and what not is self destructive. Yep. No, that's absolutely true. Yeah, whenever we don't follow God's design we always move to destruction. Um Now, just to highlight this last verse, verse 3, every moving thing that is alive shall be food for you. I give you all, I give all to you as I gave the green plant. So that includes things like worms and spiders and every moving thing, right? No, maybe not. Maybe not. Yeah, Lucas and Viola. No, but after the flood, so obviously the curse of sin has, you know, impacted humanity in uh unspeakable ways, uh but for Um the the purposes that are only known in the mind of God, he expanded. He didn't he didn't uh maintain what he had commanded at the beginning, he expanded what mankind could eat. Uh to include Well that w that's not so much a command given to mankind, so that's not explicitly stated, but it would seem to be that that was the natural Uh that was the natural outcome as well. Yeah, that w animals that were herbivores became uh carnivores, many of them. Yeah. the ice age on the orchid town on the drive parking ice age uh definitely happened and it probably happened after we had a few hundred percent of uh moisture That's an interesting thought. Uh that w that would be an interesting thing to pose to Pastor Rob to see what he thinks of it. I'd I had not heard that before, but But that would actually make sense. That would make m very good sense. So th this is a I think a helpful passage for us because obviously we know that in the law of Moses there's uh much restricted diet for uh the God's people, the Israelites. Uh but those restrictions are not universal. They're not for all of mankind. This instruction here is for all of mankind. And so the fact that the Jews, let's say, didn't eat pork does not mean that eating pork is inherently sinful or against God's design. It's just the fact that God chose for uh reasons uh of his own to limit what his own people could eat Uh not because it's inherently wrong or sinful to do otherwise, but because he wanted to make them distinct from every other people in the world. And so, of course, the New Testament kind of goes back to uh this more universal principle that uh all foods are clean uh and we are able to eat uh animals uh of all kinds. So, just with this uh r reflection of the creation mandate, you know, that we're to be fruitful, multiply, fill the earth, be good stewards of it, rule over it. Uh we're to eat of all the plants and then after the flood eat uh including animals. We're reminded of some of the fundamental questions that oop what did I do here Went back. One more. There it goes. Um that that Genesis gives us. You know, who am I? We are made in the image of God. Where do I come from? Obviously we come from God. We come from the dust of the earth materially. We'll get that into that in a second. Who's in charge? Well God's in charge of all things, but He has put us in charge of the earth. How should I live my life? Well, at the very beginning we have this the sense of um our life should be lived as stewards of God's authority over the earth as well as you know how we should eat and and what our diet should be and so forth. Now we haven't yet come across the the question what happens when I die. I'm not sure that that's covered in the early chapters of Genesis But some of these fundamental questions are already being answered just within the first chapter of Genesis. Alright. With that, let's move on to chapter two. Chapter 2 opens with day seven. It says, thus says the heavens Let me re start over. Thus the heavens and the earth were completed, and all their hosts. By the seventh day God completed his work which he had done. And he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had done. Then God blessed the seventh day and sanctified it, because in it he rested from all his work which God had created and made. So you have really the same thing being said repeatedly in different ways just to emphasize that the seventh day was unique. It was unique because God stopped creating and he started resting as it says. His his work is done. He has set apart the seventh day as a special day. That's what sanctified means. Set apart. It's a day of rest. And we know that that this was a literal day, that this was a a reality because in Exodus chapter 20, when God is giving the Ten Commandments, I know many of you are familiar with this Uh one of those commandments is to remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy, meaning to keep it separate, to keep it sanctified. Six days you shall labor and do all your work, but the seventh day is a Sabbath day of the Lord your God. In it you shall not do any work, you or your sons or your daughter, your male or female servants, or your cattle, or your sojourner who stays with you. For in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth, the sea and all that is in them, and rested on the seventh day. Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day. and made it holy. So we have this clear uh explanation that the pattern that God has established for all of mankind is that we should work on six days and rest on the seventh day. And even though we can rightly say that Exodus twenty, the Ten Commandments were given to his people Israel, uh it was patterned after creation. So creation is the the standard. Creation is what i applies to all people even though the particular command of uh of the Sabbath day uh is l is given specifically to his people. Now, this is interesting because all of our usual time markers, days, months, years, have an astronomical basis that we observe in our universe For instance, a day is defined by the time it takes the Earth to rotate on its axis. A month is the approximate time the new moon cycles. A year is the time it takes the Earth to complete one orbit around the Sun. And the sea seasons are determined by the equinoxes and solstices due to the Earth's tilt toward the sun. However, a week of seven days has no such basis. So where did it come from? They came from creation. God decided, uh in his own infinite wisdom, he decided, he just made the determination to create in six days and rest on the seventh day. God was not obligated to do that, he could have done it any other way. But he decided this is how it's going to happen. And he did that as a pattern for us to follow And so there's a real sense in which we are pre-wired, as it were, predisposed to a seven-day week. This isn't one of those dynamics, and we know this, of course. around the world and in history. This isn't something that just each culture has to decide what their weeks are and how many days they want their weeks to be. No, this is a universal reality throughout all of human history A good example to show this predisposition toward the seven-day week is when the French in 19 or rather 1793 tried changing their week to ten days long, part of their French revolutionary calendar. And uh though this was you know, all these notes were pre-made by Pastor Rob. I I was not familiar with that, so I just did some research on that uh last night Uh and it's actually quite interesting the thing that they tried. It's of crazy, right? Because their whole purpose was to uh uh move away from any sense of religiosity or anything that they perceive to be, you know, uh uh uh alongside um the the traditional uh Roman uh calendar. So they changed not only the seven day week But they also changed the time of the day. They had 10 hour days. Uh 100 uh 100 second uh hours Uh no, one hundred and second minutes. Um they just changed everything and uh it didn't last very long. Uh seven uh how long did it last Well, uh I believe it was technically eighteen years. Uh the dates not given here. I believe it was eighteen years, but technically so that's like officially by law it ended after eighteen years But based on what I read it actually stopped being utilized at least three years prior to that, uh because everybody realized it's just isn't working. Well yeah. Yeah, well a even as Richard said earlier, that whenever you go against God's design, it's always gonna lead to destruction. And and so one of the things that they did was that they um they had because they had a ten day week, you would work for nine days and have one day off. Now interestingly, and I don't remember all the nuances of this and I don't even if I did we don't have the time to go into it, but They actually worked it out where in the course of the year you actually had a couple more days off in at the end of the year than or by the end of the year than you would if you know in the traditional way. But still, you know, you're working generally nine days and with the tenth day off they had haul you know holidays and and other kinds of things. But um all that to say, you know, people didn't exactly appreciate having to work nine days, only getting one day off And so that led to not only being overworked but depressed. And so um past there's uh Gregorian calendar and uh uh Hebrew calendar is not that much different between the holidays one. Well the the one of the the the gr the Hebrew calendar is m much more strictly tied to the lunar calendar The Gregorian calendar is very loosely connected to that. And so the start and the end of the months are different. uh because of the connection to the to the uh moon. But um but there are twelve months in the uh Hebrew calendar. Uh so it's just a matter of when did they start? And and the start of their calendar was based on when they came uh out of Egypt, I believe it was. So talking about times, where did they come from? Uh the twelve months isn't that sort of tied to like the tribes because that's when they rotate the guard duty. I'm actually not sure about that. I'm not familiar with that. Yeah. Twelve months before it starts to fight. Hm. Yeah. And that's interesting given that there is no sun in heaven to mark a year. But Indeed. Alright, well, so uh by starting from God's word we clearly see that the seven day week was created for our physical, spiritual well being. Uh and having a dedicated day of rest and worship uh is important. Of course, for us as believers, we worship every day of the week, but there is a obviously a unique sense in which we do things like this on uh one day a week. Um and gather for corporate worship and and fellowship in a unique way uh compared to the rest of the week. Uh but more importantly, as the writer of Hebrews puts it, the ultimate rest for God's people is provided only through Jesus Christ, who is our eternal Sabbath rest. You know, we rest physically, obviously, um each weekend. Uh some more than others. Um you know some have you know full two days off, others you know are working uh six days and there's all kinds of work dynamics uh in people's lives today But generally speaking there's that pattern of six and one, six and one. But spiritually speaking, the the work that uh is more exhausting than anything is trying to make yourself right with God, trying to find peace. in your life, trying to live with hope and comfort, and that can only come through Jesus Christ. The one who offered for all time a single sacrifice for sin and sat down at the right hand of God Waiting for his enemies to be made a footstool for his feet, uh he sat down, that is, because his work of redemption was finished. Now there are those who say that God's seventh day continued, that it just it started, but it never stopped. But the text is very clear that God is not still creating on the seventh day and that he had finished the work the prior day. He had finished all his work, referring to everything in heaven and earth being completed. And so the seventh day was not a day of creation, but a day of rest, as he transitioned to reigning over creation. Yeah. And if you look at it, it it means that God has satisfaction with what he had done. that he was satisfied with that. Okay. And then and then us being in Christ, we'd have our satisfaction in him. Yeah. Well yeah, for sure God was not exhausted, right? Uh his work in creation for six days. wasn't exhausting work for him to say, let there be light. Not like that. God did not need a nap. It's it's simply that he ceased, it's really the the idea that he ceased creation and you could say he transitioned and and he was now working in a different way. He was not ruling over his creation. Uh in fact, um uh we definitely don't have time to get into this, but there are those who have looked at the the work of creation and I think made some helpful insights to see to to say that God was in effect creating his universal, uh and by that I mean universe, uh temple Where he would sit on his throne in a temple, as it were, for the sake of being worshipped and served, but also reigning from that place. Um and so creation is is uh is an environment in which all things point to the Creator for the sake of worship and service. And so uh he ceased his work of creation It was all done, but now it's time for him to rule and reign. And so in that sense he he wasn't resting, you know, in the sense of not doing anything. Uh in the same way that uh both the Sabbath day for Israel and a day of rest for us is not a day where we just stay in bed all day. It's a day where we do other things. We we stopped our normal work so that we could do other kinds of work like worship and service and and caring for one another and and worshiping the Lord. So um So there's that. So finished the word the verbs finished, rested, and blessed indicate the uniqueness of that day, right? Those words aren't used with really any of the other days of creation. And the fact that day seven, like the other days, is numbered is further evidence that a day uh that it's a day of twenty-four hours. So some would say, well, because the seventh day doesn't seem to have an end in the text. It doesn't tell us that that day came to an end. That again that day is continuing on forever. And that then means that we can't look at the Seven days of creation as seven normal days. It must mean that these are long periods of time and you know it they just find in that uh evidence for um uh a non-literal interpretation of the days. But there's a couple things to keep in mind. The interpretation of the day seven is that it's not a twenty-four hour day, again because evening and morning uh isn't referenced, but that misunderstands the phrase. Throughout the creation week. Each of the first days, the day ends, and then the next day begins with that phrase. God said, that's the beginning of the day of what God does, let there be, there was, God saw that it was good, there was evening, and there was morning. But because of day seven is not a day of creation, and it's the final day, he doesn't need to end the day and then start the next day. Instead, um He's just saying that God rested that day and he doesn't need to find uh or doesn't need to conclude that day and open up the following day. So no terminator phrase is needed for the seventh day like the other, since there is a toledote, uh, a record, uh, the generations of, uh, to mark the beginning of the next section of the narrative. If the seventh day goes on forever, that would render Exodus twenty, that's the Ten Commandments, uh nonsense. You shall labor and do all your work, but the seventh day, as we read Is the Sabbath to the Lord your God? The six days of creation and day of rest are exactly the same as those of the command to work six ordinary days and rest on the seventh. Alright. Any before I move on from there, any particular comments? The divisions of our Bible into chapters and verses were not were getting I they maybe right. They they did not um inspired like uh like the rest of it. And I found a number, I think, of errors in that. And the the first one glaringly is at chapter one we should probably go through the first three verses of Genesis. Just because it makes sense and then verse four starts now we're gonna do something else. But in addition to that, if we look carefully In chapter one and the first three verses of chapter two, every time God is referenced, it just says God Starting with verse four, and for the rest of chapter two and three, it says Lord God. It always says Lord God. totally different. So I just think I have a big line in my compared to ch chapter two, verse three, because that goes with Chapter one. And not the rest of it. Yeah. That's a good observation. And then it's a good reminder, as we often um Need to rem remember that the chapters are not inspired. I don't know why uh that was cut off at the end of verse twenty-eight or w uh whatever the verse number was. But yeah, uh it would have been I think more helpful if s day seven was included in chapter one. Alright, so just a reminder, we have these tolodotes. That's the Hebrew word that is often translated the generation or the records of, and that's how the book of Genesis is structured. So chapter 1 could be uh called, if you will, the preface, chapter 1, verse 1 through chapter 2, verse 3. That's the beginning. Um and then Uh the first time we see this uh word tolerat is in chapter 2 verse 4. This is the record of the heavens and the earth, or this is the the generations of the heaven and earth, depending on what your translation is And so this really begins the the uh uh sequence of ttolodotes in uh the book of Genesis. So that's where we are here. Now let's begin with the setting. Uh verse five, so jumping in, so verse four says this is the generations of the heavens and the earth. Verse five begins with the setting of what's about to happen. It says, When no bush of the field was yet in the land, and no small plant of the field had yet sprung up, for the Lord God had not caused it to rain on the land. There was no ma and there was no man to work the ground, and a mist was going up from the land, and was watering the whole face of the ground. So you see that it ends with there with uh um An M-dash. So it's kind of a uh uh in uh leaving an open breath for what's about to happen. But what this does is this gives us context. Now if you think about it Genesis 1 reads like a recorder, or a reporter rather, recording God's actions as they happen. It's like somebody's there with God Just watching him, listening to what he's saying, writing down everything in its sequence uh as it's happening. However, Genesis 2, 4, and following reads more like a historian looking back in the past, describing something. that it happened. So two different orientations. One, if you will, starts at moment zero of time and just moves forward. And then starting Genesis 2. 4, it's as if Moses is writing but as a historian looking back. And so what he's doing here is he's describing the circumstances or or the the the condition of the earth. when God does what he does there in the rest of chapter two. In saying there, no bush of the field was yet in the land, Moses is not denying the creation of vegetation from verse 3 or rather from day three. Uh instead the bush of the field and the small plant of the field refer to the agricultural vegetation uh that hadn't yet been produced because there was no man to work the ground. So again, Moses is just setting the context uh for what's about to happen. Uh the mist going up from the land was God's way of caring for trees and plants before the rain cycle began. So it's as if Moses is saying to the reader, something like, before the world became what we experience now, this is what God did. And so this would also be a contradiction to any kind of evolutionary or older theory, as it places the creation of humanity prior to the full development of Earth's vegetation and the rain cycle. There's nothing that we can uh coordinate in the record of Genesis to what the uh naturalistic uh theory of evolution uh would um would say of how things happened. There are there are those who would look at Genesis chapter 2 as another creation story. that oh Genesis one tells us that it was a six-day creation, but Genesis two tells us of a totally different record. And that is not Genesis 1 provides us with a current chronological account of what God did on each of the days during Creation Week, whereas Genesis 2 zooms in on sixth day and shows some of the events of the week. And a simple look of what happened on day six according to Genesis 2 shows there's no discrepancy. As we'll walk through over the next uh today next week, Adam is created, the Garden of Eden is created. It describes the river system in Edom. Adam is put in the garden and given instructions. He names the animals. God creates Eve. And there's a description of Adam and Eve and marriage. That all is, of course, totally different than what happened in chapter one. This is not an alternative creation story. Uh this is a more specific explanation of day six. Now part of the reason that some say this is an alternative story is because In chapter 2, it seems to reverse the order of creation from chapter 1. In Genesis 2, the order of creation, it seems is man, animals, and then trees. Where of course in Genesis 1 it's what? Trees, animals, and man. Genesis 2. 7 describes the creation of man, then the Lord God formed man from the dust of the ground. Following that, Genesis 2. 9 mentions that God created trees, including the tree of life and the tree of knowledge of good and evil. And then following that in Genesis 2. 19, it mentions the creation of certain land animals. So again, that's what some people look at to say, hey, this is an entirely new or different creation account. It's contradicting what was said In Genesis chapter 1. And I would just uh plead with you, whenever you hear people say that, just read the text. Read the text. Look at the details. Uh both of those issues, the contradiction of um the trees and animals being created at a different time than Genesis 1 can be resolved by an understanding of the context and the original language. In fact, if you I don't think I have this written out here. In Genesis chapter 2, verse 9 Which talks about the creation of the trees. It's in the context of verses 8 and 10, which say, and the Lord God planted a garden in Eden. in the east, and there he put the man whom he had formed. Out of the ground the Lord God had made to spring up, or he uh made to spring up every tree that is pleasant to the sight and good for food. The tree of life was in the midst of the garden, and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Verse ten A river flowed out of Eden to water the garden, and there it divided and became four rivers. In other words What is God talking about there? What what trees is he talking about? Specifically tree and knowledge could be equal to the yeah. Yeah, those two specifically, but even broader than that? Is he talking about trees of all over the world? No, he's talking about the Garden of Eden. He's very specifically and narrowly talking about the Garden of Eden. So Again, chapter one puts the the uh pr production of plants and and trees on day three. That has happened. That's happened all of you know four three days ago. And now God has identified a particular place where he is going to put the first two people, Adam and Eve, and he creates a special home for them. And he says, you know, I yeah, I've made all of the the trees all over the world, but I'm gonna create a special home for these two people. And I'm gonna create You know, a a cluster of trees, if you will, we don't know how big it was. But w I'm gonna create this place for these people to be um to live, to work, and uh to be in relationship with me. So all that to say, Genesis 2. 9 is not saying all trees were created on the earth at that time, but rather just the trees of the garden And then regarding the creation of animals, we have to remember that Hebrew does not uh indicate time. The verbs of Hebrew don't give us the time like past tense, present tense, future tense. It w works more on the level of aspect of a completed action, incomplete action, ongoing action, that kind of thing And so and yet in English the way we have to uh uh translate verbs is is using uh words that convey time So uh an action uh might be uh uh like a like a present progressive, like God did this and then he formed, or past, God did this, but he had formed something else. So Uh when you look at verse 19 where he talks about the creation of animals, again this is after the creation of Adam, it says, Now out of the ground the Lord God, the ESV says the Lord God had formed every beast of the field and every bird of the heavens and brought them to the man. So that's one way of resolving that potential contradiction or that seeming contradiction. And that is to say that what the text is saying is that God had already done this, but now he's bringing them to the man. An alternative way to resolve the apparent contradiction is to say that here, similar to the trees of the garden, God is forming specific animals in a specific area in order to bring them to the man. That he's already created animals around the world throughout uh earlier that day, but that here at this time after the creation of man, he creates very specific animals. So those are two potential and equally legitimate ways of resolving that potential contradiction. There's no reason to think that chapter two is contradicting chapter one The Holy Spirit gives us broad overview of the entire creation and proclaims it very good. The Bible is not a book about the cosmos. or the earth, as wonderful as they are. The Bible is a book about God and man and man's relationship to God, his creator. And so the primary purpose of Genesis 2 and 3 is to lay out the foundation for the gospel to explain how it is that in the Lord's world, the world the world of the good and loving God, evil exists and man endures pain and troubles and calamities. The author, of course, assumes that we have read the prologue and then uses chapter 2, verse 4 and 6, 4 to 6 to transition to the heart of the story on day 6. Alright, so all of that to say, Genesis chapter 2 is not a different creation story. It is just a more detailed explanation of day six. Now let's walk through some of the verses here in chapter 2. The scripture says, this is the account of the heavens and the earth when they were created in the day that the Lord God made the earth and heaven. Now, no shrub of the field was yet in the earth, and no plant of the field had yet sprouted, for the Lord God had not sent rain upon the earth, and there was no man to cultivate the ground. But a mist was used to uh was uh to rise from the earth uh and water the whole surface of the ground. Then the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life and man became a living being. Out of the ground the Lord God caused, or had caused, to grow every uh tree that is pleasing to thee sight and good for food. The tree of life also was in the midst of the garden. And the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. N now a river flowed out of Eden to water the garden, and from there it divided Eden and became four rivers. The name of the first is Pesharam. It flows around the whole land of Havilah where there is gold. The gold of that land is good. The Bedellum and the onyx stone are there. The name of the second river is Gihon, it flows around the whole land of Cush. The name of the third river is Tigris, it flows out uh east of Assyria, and the fourth river is the Euphrates. Then the Lord God took the man and put him into the Garden of Eden to cultivate it and keep it. The Lord God commanded the man, saying, From any tree of the garden you may freely eat But from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it, you will surely die Out of the ground the Lord God had formed every beast of the field and every bird of the sky, and brought them to the man to see what he would call them. And whatever the man called a living creature, That was its name. The man gave names to all the cattle and to the birds of the sky and to every beast of the field. Alright, so that's the primary passage we're going to work through today. So the scripture clearly has Adam as the first man, created from the dust of the ground, and not coming at from a pre-Adamic ape. but rather from inanimate dust. Chapter 2, verses 8 and 9, again speaking of the creation of trees, is not a repeat of chapter 1, verse 12, but a description of God planting specific trees on day six. to make a dwelling for Adam. He immediately put Adam to work to cultivate, uh, to tend, and to keep or care for the garden. And he said that Adam may eat of any tree in the garden except the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. If he eats that one, uh of that one, he will die. God had previously created the animals and now God brings them to Adam here on day six for Adam to name them. Note that Adam does not have to track them down. God brings them. So that that's a Just a brief summary of all that we just read there from Genesis chapter 2. So let's now dive in in a little bit more detail into all of that. Verse 7. Then the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living being We saw in chapter one that God said, Let us make man in our image according to our likeness. And the word make assa has more of the idea of forming and shaping. But then it says, God created which has the idea of creation out of nothing. He created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him. Male and female, he created them. So creation is what God did. Make is how God did it. In Genesis 2, we see much more of the special care God took with these two unique creatures, with Adam first and then Eve. It says that he was made of the dust of the ground. The the word dust is afar, and it comes from Uh uh the ground uh which the Hebrew is Adama. So Adam comes from Adama. It sounds like Adam or Adam made from this ground. This is one of the many uh word plays in the Hebrew text. And it tells us that God breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. This uh distinguishes him from the rest of creation. There's no other animal that we're told that God breathed into them or that he He specifically shaped them out of the dust of the ground. It just says that he made them out of the dust of the ground, but but not in in the special particular way uh that he created man. In fact there's this sense in the Hebrew that God was You know, like a kid in a s on a s on a beach forming and shaping man as he desired with intentionality and purpose, and then breathed into his nostrils the breath of life It was not the forming and the shaping of the dust that gave man life. It was specifically that God breathed life into him. that caused him to become a living being. And the and the words living being is nephesh, which is soul in Hebrew. He became a living soul. Well I I don't know that it has a particular meaning other than uh w you know the the obvious meaning, uh other than God who is the giver of life. uh specifically gave life to man. So I I I don't know that there's um more behind that than that. I was just thinking maybe have something to do with uh Oh. Well, because of how it says that he became a living soul, there there's that real sense that God imparted you know, his image, uh which w um I think last time you guys talked about image, right? Uh Pastor Rob went through that, what it means to be made in the image of God. But it that that's that's what imparted to mankind, the the kind of being that he is, the kind of life that he has. Uh when we get to Genesis chapter six and it talks about you know all that's destroyed in the flood It says, everything that has the breath of life was destroyed, and that would include animals as well. But there's something that's unique in the way that this is speaking about God's creation of man, that he is imparting a soul to man. uh that is what uh distinguishes him from the rest of the animals is being made in the image of God. So yeah. But Dave, don't you think there's some miss something significance here in that. And it talks about everything else that God smoke related. But in this one in particular, it says that God took us to the dust of the earth and pulled anybody into the Yeah, that's right. Yeah, and the significance is the personal care that God took uh to do that. Uh he could have spoken Adam into existence, right? He and that that would not have been any problem for him at all. Uh and he could have just said, have life. Um but for I I think for God the reason God did it that way is if you know we can do some sanctified imagining is because he wants to show us his particular care for his creation. Um that he uh has uh that there's just that intentionality. Right. Right. Mm-hmm. That's right. That's right. So this is yet another problem for those who attempt to reconcile molecules to man evolution with scripture Evolution teaches that man evolved from living creatures, but Scripture teaches that man was made from non-living matter. And this is why Scripture says multiple times that we are dust, and to dust we shall return. Uh and again thinking about those fundamental questions, who are we, where did we come from, uh that that concept of we c we were made by God forming Adam into a a a physical being of the dust of the ground and then of course giving him the the breath of life. That is why we know we are dust, and that is why we return to dust. And I suppose somebody could say, well, animals return to dust, don't they? And there's a sense in which that's true. But it's because of what God explains here that that's uh ultimately the case, that we are actually made from dust. Alright, moving on then, God creates the Garden of Eden. Genesis 2 further expands on 126-28 by elaborating on the personal care God took for his creatures made in his image. He now plants a garden in Eden in the Septuagint, which is the Greek translation of the Old Testament, and renders uh the word uh into paradesos. uh from which we get the word paradise. So in and you know you can imagine if if God were your gardener, you'd have a pretty decent garden. Uh it was a paradise. It was a place with extravagant, beautiful uh delightful uh the word Eden means delightful uh trees, plants, uh fruit, uh all of that. And verse 8 expands on verse 9, just how he caused to grow out of the ground the trees. He made trees with delicious fruits, with much variety. And um and then it says, and specifically there are two kinds of trees, the tree of life and the tree of knowledge of good and evil. Hey Pastor, is Eden also described as well watered? In fact that's the next verse. So not only did God create the the trees, but he chose a place that had a river There is a river flowing out of Eden to water the garden, verse ten. And this is a river unlike any other river on the earth today. Because rivers today don't divide into multiple rivers, uh uh unless they're much smaller. uh rather um rivers uh this particular river flowed into larger ones. So we have one river splitting into four, and it starts in the garden and goes out from there. That's what the text says. And Many have been confused because of how it refers to Tigris and Euphrates, which are rivers that um are identified in the world today. But why can we be confident that the rivers that we know today as Tigris and Euphrates are not the rivers described here. Yeah, exactly. The the flood. The flood dramatically changed the entire contour of the earth And there's no way that we could uh come to uh any sense of what um these particular rivers were. So Pastor, wasn't wasn't the rain also part of God's uh judgment uh pre fall it was um uh he give and he also takes away uh uh pre fall it was uh So I don't remember what Pastor Rob says about this. Whatever he says is right. Um, Uh I don't have a strong um conviction on that. My understanding is that may be true and it may not be true, that rain isn't necessarily we don't have to say it started at at the time of the flood. that it may well have started before. And and I I I leave that open in part because of how uh Genesis 2, was it verse 5, uh says that no rain had yet come on the earth. And it seems to me, just wrestling with the text, that uh what m Moses is implying is that once mankind began to populate, that they were then um, you know, working the fields and at that at that point the Lord the rain cycle was w was functioning uh as it was designed. But um But it's possible also, and I've heard explanations that uh go into the scientific reasons for it, which are well beyond my understanding, uh that that it started at the flood. So Yeah. Yeah, for sure. For sure. Yeah, whichever way God wants wanted to do it, that's how He did it. uh that here it being theory of push yeah you know lands that are are here today, you know, push me after Yeah. So you know, Pastor Rob said the first week of this class that uh we what we don't know is how did Moses have all of this information? Did he have records uh that had been passed down? uh which of course Noah would have had to carry on the ark. Uh was he just revealed, give given all this by revelation of the Holy Spirit? Yeah, we don't know exactly. Uh whatever the case was, it seems as though he is trying to give the readers uh um you know some sense of how these things correspond. Uh but, you know, now two thousand years well really four thousand years after uh well, sorry, thirty five hundred years after Moses, um, you know, it's harder even for us to understand, you know, w what is he reflecting uh was original versus um familiar to them at that time. Alright, so then it says, Then the Lord God took the man and put him into the Garden of Eden to cultivate it and keep it. I just I have to say this. It's not in the notes, but Uh is anybody familiar with the book Wild at Heart? Wow, really? Oh okay, uh Alright. So forgive me if I uh offend, but uh I would not recommend that book on for multiple reasons. Uh one of which is uh I mean in an overarching way is just uh a very poor handling of scripture and one of the evidences of that is uh he makes this big point. His name is John Eldridge, the author of the book uh that you know man is made for adventure, man is looking for an adventure. And he uses verse 15 as his initial evidence. And he says, in a positive way Or he's trying to make a positive point that God put Adam in the garden and ever since Adam is trying to, you know, find a way out. He's trying to go out to the wilderness for an adventure. And um th th that would imply that Adam is actively trying to uh go against God's design and God's command for him to stay in the garden and to cultivate it and keep it. So I just I I've never forgotten that uh and uh you know we we need to be very careful with uh finding implications like that. But anyway. Stay too late. After the fall, perhaps. Yeah, yeah. I don't think I'd kick kick out of the garden He didn't escape that. That's right. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Anyway, all right, forgive me for that. Uh uh So now the Lord God, Yahweh Elohim, as Anne pointed out, uh places the man in the garden that he had so carefully prepared. Um man was not to be idle. Work is not a part of the curse. Work is part of God's design. However, it was designed to be, you know, what m we might consider easy and pleasurable Um not to say that um you know it wasn't uh it didn't require effort, but it didn't have the Um y you didn't have the the resistance of creation as we have now after the fall, which we'll get into in chapter three. Yeah, work was satisfying, delightful, it was a good thing. In the same way that God delighted in his work in creation, you know. He's given one negative command embedded in uh in the permission to eat freely, of course, not to e from the knowledge of good and evil And the consequence is, you know, it's translated, you shall surely die. Literally it says, dying, you shall die. dying you shall die, which we can, you know, based on further revelation, uh, understand that when Adam and Eve ate of the fruit They obviously didn't die instantly in the way that one would think, uh, physically, but they did begin dying. They began the process of process of of you know growing older. They obviously lost access to the tree of life. But they also died spiritually. They they their relationship with God, the giver of life, was broken. So this was the the negative command not to eat of that tree, and we'll get into that. uh more next week. I don't know the makes any particular point but as far as I remember, Elohim from in the very beginning is a floral floral god. So it's not God fathered. Yeah, and and that's uh that's a larger conversation of how much should we read into that because it i in uh out outside of scripture Elohim is also a a a term that uh nations use for their one God. Um so it doesn't require that um the the God have multiple members of the Godhead, the term itself. But there's um Some things to consider there. Alright, let me try and wrap up here. Almost almost done. So God put Adam into the garden to work, to to tend the garden He also paraded the animals before Adam to g uh uh enable him to name them, which reinforces the authority that he had over creation. That's what you do when you name your you're exercising authority over that thing. Another per purpose of that was to show Adam that he was different in kind from the rest of creation, so that none of these animals uh would ever serve as physical, emotional, intellectual, or spiritual companions for For Adam. And so the only possible suitor suitable helper would be someone else made in God's image. We'll get into that next week. Now, some have said There's too much going on on day six of creation. There is no way this could take uh this could all be done in one, you know, normal twenty-four-hour day. Uh but uh I think there's good reason to say absolutely it could all be done in one day. Again, Genesis 2. 19 states that God brought the animals to Adam so he didn't have to go out, you know, catch them all. And it also says that the number of created kinds, or the text doesn't say that, but the kinds of creatures was much smaller than what we know of today as the various species. So there's the dog kind, the cat kind, you know, that kind of thing. He wasn't naming, you know, you're uh gro um um Yeah yeah. Why am I forgetting all the ki kinds of dogs right now? Poodles and you're a Labrador and you're a Chihuahua and No, he was just naming the the kinds of animals So it wasn't an exhaustive uh reality. Uh the scripture explicitly says that he named all the cattle or the livestock and the birds of the air and the beasts of the field. So again, those are kinds of creatures. But not the fish. Excellent. Or any other marine organism. He wasn't naming the worms and the spiders and the creatures, the insects, all of those things. Yeah. So it was just a certain amount of animals of the earth. So all of that to say, um That there was plenty of time. Even if you say that there was as many of 2500 kinds. If you took five seconds per kind, which for uh uh a super intelligent human being not affected by the fall Uh it's certainly possible. Uh he could take a five minute break every hour and he could have done it all under four hours. But you could say he took eight hours, you know. Because God didn't need all that much time at all to make Eve, right? He just put Adam to sleep. We'll get into that next week. But there was plenty of time on day six for all the take uh all that takes place Whew, all right. We made it through. I just want to get I'm reminded of God also brought all the animals to the ark and Yeah, indeed. All right. Let me pray and uh if you have any questions, uh you can come up um or feel free to email Pastor Rob. All right. Heavenly Father, we thank you for uh this um opportunity to reflect on this significant chapter. Uh so much more we could say and just to meditate on the glory and the wonder of your creation. Um time does n uh never allows really for us to uh fully wrap our minds around what you have done. Uh and yet you have given to us what we need. for life and godliness and uh may this uh teaching, this this understanding help us in uh setting our convictions in what you have done in history and moving things forward to reveal yourself and ultimately accomplish the plan of redemption. Lord, as we transition now to corporate worship, as we enjoy time of fellowship, Would you be glorified in our conversations? Help us to encourage one another, be a blessing in the words that we say, and receive our worship as in As ref coming from our hearts in an act of love to you. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.