I think I have four or five uh paper copies of it if you want to take one of those. But if you don't want to read a thousand pages of geology textbook, here is uh a four or five-page synopsis of it It doesn't look like that anymore after 4,500 years post-flood. Uh the Grand Canyon is what geologists call a water gap and there are water gaps all over the world. It took about seven months for the floodwater to flow off the continents and into the current ocean basins. If you open your Bibles or your devices to Genesis chapter 7, that's who we're going to be today. And that means it's another seven months for the water to run off and for the land to be dry. So barring any mutations in Ham, Shem, and Japheth, there was only one Y chromosome on the ark, Noah's, which he passed to his three sons, the same one. We'll see that uh at the end they come off the ark a year and ten days later, twenty-seventh day of the second month for next year. The floodgates of the sky or the heaven then gets a description in verse twelve that that's forty days and forty nights of rain. We also get the word every for additional emphasis. It says that in the Greek, knowing the God. Thus he blotted out every living thing that was upon the face of the land, from man to animals, to creeping things, to birds of the sky, and they were blotted out from the earth And also killed a lot of sea creatures. Uh twelve point five percent. We're gonna do the the back seven months of the flood uh next time. Uh then the flood comes on the earth. that the earth is millions of years, there was never a global flood, and um and so this won't so this won't act as a warning for them. What's the mechanism, the insulation properties of the heat comes in and can't kick it out? So what we're going to learn today, so we're we're uh we're gonna talk about the flood, so the timing of the flood's onset, the details of Noah's obedience, what this is a theme that by Dr. Which is also available electronically on Hope Book, like I said. Uh it's not just the fact that they have um uh a tradition of a flood, but that there are so many elements Because everything else has been changed by erosion and this is not. So here's Scientist A, he has a uniformitarian worldview, a secular worldview. And they come to different conclusions depending on what their presuppositions were before they started looking. uh six lines of evidence and uh Dr. because the oceans were covering all of the land masses. It's made of marine limestone, so it's made of limestone that was laid down underwater. uh fossil sea creatures. in the Redwall limestone. And we can trace those, geologists can trace those across all of North America. And so what that requires is an ocean that was across all of North America at one time. to fold. And there's a person for scale. We have pictures of what it looked like before there were pictures right after the eruption. Those sediments were all laid down in three hours, uh, from 9 p. in March of 1982. Uh there's a there's a formation called the Grand Staircase that's near the Grand Canyon that goes much higher than the the Grand the rim of the Grand Canyon And so the rim of the Grand Canyon is actually well down into the area of sedimentary rock that was carved away by the receding flood. uh because there hasn't it's a desert and there hasn't been much erosion since in the 4500 years since. On the seventeenth day of the month, on the same day, all the fountains of the great deep burst open, and the floodgates of the sky were opened. The sons of Noah and Noah's wife and the three wives of his sons with them entered the ark, they and every beast after its kind, and all the cattle after their kind, and every creeping thing that creeps on the earth after its kind and every bird after its kind, all sorts of birds. The water prevailed more and more upon the earth, so that all the high mountains everywhere under the heavens were covered. and to birds of the sky, and they were blotted out from the earth, and only Noah was left, together with those that were with him in the ark. And so we have an absolute beginning of the flood, the seventeenth day of the second month of almost Noah's 600th year. Uh so as an overview, we have the chronology of the flood. When Noah was five hundred years old, he had uh his children Shem Ham and Japheth. in close succession after he was five hundred. Only eight people on the ark and if they were a hundred years old that means that they didn't have any children before going on to the ark or they didn't go join them on the ark As you say, Shem Ham and Japheth didn't have any kids before they were a hundred, or they had kids and the kids didn't come with them on the arm. what was going to come on the ark, and now we get what actually goes onto the ark, and of course it's the same thing that God said would go onto the ark, actually goes onto the ark. And then in gray is the rest of their lifespan. So, for example, all human males have the sex chromosomes X and Y. Only one Y chromosome on the Ark. They're shocked that there are no highly divergent Y chromosomes. And there have been that many generations there should be highly divergent Y chromosomes, but there are not. And if we get a Y from our father, then we're a man. down through history by mother, daughter, daughter, daughter, daughter, daughter, right? Um I I couldn't put, for example, enough water in the atmosphere to flood the whole earth how well how much water vapor could I put in the air in the atmosphere before I would cook the planet and no life could exist? And then we get the absolute final act, the point of no return. uh at the summit. And that's the fossils that are at the very top of Mount Everest. So 70% covered with water, and the ocean, the average depth of ocean is much, much, much deeper than the average height of land. That's more than a mile deeper than the height of Mount Everest. There there were warnings, yes. And so and Jesus says it's going to be the same way when he comes back again. Now it doesn't mean they know the gospel, but they know the God of the Bible. And only Noah was left, together with those that were with him in the ark. Many would have been buried because we had water covering the whole earth and we had uh lots of sediments in this water and we have that were in ecosystems that were a little farther away from the water. and then marrying your sister or first cousin caused a fitness decrease in the population after the flood. uh that the Holy Spirit comes back to over and over again in these couple of chapters from six to nine is oh uh Noah's obedience to the Lord. We're going to talk about the fact that the the Bible tells us a number of times the Ark's passengers goes through uh there's an emphasis on what's on the ark. And then the fact that God shuts the door. of the biblical story in these flood traditions. Um and they all knew the true story of what happened in the flood. That's what we expect to see. uh Grand Canyon, that it was carved out by water. And the record should be preserved in rock layers that are sedimentary rock, rock that was laid down by water, and that should be, the extent of it should be all over the earth Oh, that must be caused by natural processes over millions of billions of years and a particle at a time deposition, slowly cut by the river. uh a sm uh gradual laying down of the layers and then a gradual cutting of the canyon. a little bit of water over a long time or an enormous amount of water over a short time. uh we see lots of evidence for an enormous amount of water over a short time. Hard copies that I brought here today, he he summarizes those six lines of evidence that the Grand Canyon was laid down sedimentary rock, so it was laid down underwater and laid down together. you know like a hundred feet. June nineteen eighty and went through about nineteen eighty two. Um my memory for sedimentary rock is you gotta have a bunch of sand and it's gotta get squished underneath a whole lot of layers of other rock and stuff like that. But it's layers that are kind of wet sand, wet sandy particles. They precipitated out. And I said, well wouldn't wouldn't water over this amount of time feels enough pressure? And so it does take some time for the water to evaporate out and for the rock to harden. Cheap flow and then channelized flow. uh recedes. uh the Grand Canyon present Grand Canyon Rim and then the great erosion is the channelized flow that cut the canyon itself. Uh the Bible says, starting in verse 6, now Noah was 600 years old when the flood water came upon the earth. It came about after the seven days that the water of the flood came upon the earth. And the Lord closed it behind him. So that it rose above the earth. All flesh that moved on the earth perished, birds and cattle and beasts, and every swarming thing that swarms upon the earth, and all mankind. The water prevailed upon the earth 150 days. Noah's flood. The flood begins with enormous amount of water from the fountains of the Great Deep and from rainfall that lasts forty days. And we'll talk about the fact that there's no reason to believe that the mountains were exactly the same height as they are today. Uh so in verse six we see the pr precise beginning, the record, precise record of the timing of the flood. Four three hundred and forty nine, because there's a year of the flood. after the flood and nobody lives anywhere near as long after that. And then um a few generations after that, by the time of Moses, it's a hundred and twenty. So we don't have any information to know as to why that is, but we do know that it's a good thing. Uh but the Bible doesn't say. God is in charge, Noah is obedient. In fact they outlived many of uh Shem in particular outlived uh a bunch of his um uh of the flood. also died before the flood. And then um this event in the flood, he he God reaches down and kills probably millions of people all at once. Not so shocking to those who read the Bible and see that there have only been 4,500 years since the flood and there was only one Y chromosome on the arc, and so we expect them to be very similar across males on the entire planet of one half of each pair from your mother and one half of each pair from your father across these twenty-three chromosome pairs. So female humans have XX configuration on the 23rd chromosome pair. though uh so she has two and so the the boys get one over the other of her X chromosomes. uh then twenty-five percent that you would put two heads in a row and twelve point five percent that you would put three heads in a row and if that happened then uh all three boys could have got the same X chromosome around the world. So her mitochondrial DNA ends. The genetic scientists call these three lines M, N, and R. One is the fountains of the great deep and the other is the floodgates of the sky, or the floodgates of the heaven, depending on uh what which English translation you have. temperature rise. Otherwise the planet would cook. So this divine enclosing of the ark assured the people inside that they were a divinely protected believing remnant. As God commanded. The Lord closed the door. And the use, therefore, the use of the covenant name Yahweh for the closing action is befitting of this divine protection. He was protecting them. current height. obvious geologic evidence of uplift. uh the entire earth at one time. Now it was gradual enough to take seven months to do that. That God's judgment is total and inescapable. And that's what Jesus says in the New Testament. Yes. And that's what Peter says. to to bother them so that they they have to think about this when they ordinarily wouldn't. There was a flood and and God came in and judged the whole earth at one time and he's going to do it again. And then the receding stage is what we're going to study next time, took about seven months for the water to drain off. buried near the bottom of the fossil record. uh amphibians and uh creatures that that uh load dwelling creatures. Now, other speculations that I have heard and read are that even though there wasn't, you know, a a huge number amount of water vapor in the in the atmosphere that would cause the planet to cook Yeah, so um well I'll get into this a little bit more um in a couple of lessons, but uh modern population genetics um tells us that when you have a population bottleneck The reason is we had a population bottleneck. Um and he has written kind of um he wrote uh a two-volume set of books that are like geology textbooks that explain all the geologic evidences of the flood um from the Middle East, the Assyrial what were to call the Assyrial Babylonian ones, especially the uh Gilgamesh Epic, um are the closest with these remarkable similarities to the biblical account of Noah's flood. Uh the the people, the immediate descendants of Noah's sons were at the Tower of Babel uh to the f when when they were scattered across the earth. But without the Holy Spirit's supernatural preservation, all those flood legends changed either a little bit or a lot. um over the years. mountains with a a valley carved out by the flow of water. Someone who looks at the Grand Canyon with a biblical worldview says, aha, that looks like supernatural creation, thousands of years, global flood, deposition during a flood, canyon cut out catastrophically. But we can help them to try to see it the way it really is, uh, by giving them some facts, some facts that are much more compatible with um of one view than the other. quickly, catastrophically, by an enormous amount of water. These fossil graveyards where there is a mixing of different creatures from different ecosystems, including sea creatures and land creatures, all mixed together. all the way across North America. what's called um sand waves, so the remnants of the water flow that is th that is uh left imprinted in the sand that's left behind. to occur before the next layer was laid down, if there was a bunch of time between layers. Then if you apply apply force and pressure to it, uh you can fold it. very severe uh folding of the rocks in the upper uh reaches of the Alps and it's sedimentary rock It it won't go into folds. And so in order for it to look like that, you have to believe that it stayed wet for hundreds of thousands or millions of years, not hardening. sedimentation can occur, we know for certain from watching what happened in Mount St. The Grand Canyon. that was carved that now shows these uh sedimentary layers um was carved in one day So we have absolute physical evidence in the present that this can happen very quickly. into sedimentary rock. And it it doesn't take any time. Um but once it does, it's hard. So what I think uh the hypothesis then is while the earth was covered with water, a lot of sediments were getting floated around and stuff like that for it to come to to for the to particip precipitate out and also to carve water gaps, especially towards the end. for some number of months there is a big column of water over top of uh the sediments. But it's it's still wet. denudation and the great erosion. And if if you look at an aerial, if you look at a satellite view, you can actually see it really, really clearly that there's about 14,000 square miles of sedimentary rock that's been stripped off today. But the Grand Canyon sized flow was just a tiny little channel compared to the sh continent-wide sheet flow that was just before that and was stripping off um entered the ark because of the water of the flood. The rain fell upon the earth for forty days and forty nights. Of all that was on the dry land, all in whose nostrils was the breath of the Spirit of Life, died. on the 27th day of the second month of Noah's 601st year. That's a really long flood. And seven months for it to run off back into the ocean basins. Um and they go in by male and female and of course God they didn't have to round them up. So he has them when he's 500, the flood starts when they're six hundred. Um and so it and Noah lives to be 950, and so he's 600 when the flood starts. Uh Shem is the longest-lived person after the flood. And he lives another 500 years after the flood. Grandsons, great grandsons, great-great-grandsons. Uh you could have gone and seen, if you had been alive then, great Grand Pappy Shem, and he could have told you what it was like in the pre-flood world and he could have told you what it was like on the ark for the year of for many generations after that. Uh so that it was preserved and so the Holy Spirit preserved it by having Moses write it down. Okay. meet it out. Um and so that is God uh the Bible telling us that God is faithful to his promises. nice and pleasant and wonderful and the ones that are uh ominous and dangerous too. And this is exactly what we find. And so there were four women, so there were eight. Girls that were sisters to one another, then there could have been fewer than eight. uh Noah get an X chromosome from their mother and a Y chromosome from Noah. uh mitochondrial DNA. Um and so what we would expect if the Bible is true is there would be three kind of mitochondrial DNA lineages. Um because that's the only way you could have only three mitochondrial DNA lines today. Because there's no exact description of exact well what is that? I if we if we look at um climate science today, when when you analyze uh when you're trying to look at uh greenhouse gases, for example. up above mountains. the arc resting on the mountains, then the peaks being seen, then the the the birds being sent out after that As God commanded, and that's Elohim, that's the name of God as the Almighty Creator of the universe uplift in the past. So there is plenty of water existing in the current oceans to have once flooded the continents. And so ocean basin's dense, continental rocks much less dense. The dense material sinks, and the lighter material rises. Water will go where? Number one, the flood was global in extent. God's judgment was total and inescapable, with the single exception of the salvation God Himself provided on the ark. the example of what's going to happen when Jesus comes again. with a single exception of the salvation that God has provided. They c they can't see it. that you can see it. um or uh there could be other uh words that are used in your English translation. So it's really clear from the Hebrew that it's God who is doing the exterminating and the obliterating. God obliterated, exterminated, blotted out all these things outside the ark, and God saved this remnant inside the ark. We have uh four minutes left to talk about the very hot fossil. the current geologic evidence of thousands of feet of sedimentary rock all over the earth. um in it as the it moves, uh would have ground had m there would have been bottom dwellings, marine creatures that would have been caught up in these turbidity currents in the water. fossils that we have today are shellfish. creatures that occurred millions of years before other creatures. And since the water was moving around, we would expect there to be big fossil graveyards where they got mixed up. also be a reason why they lived much longer than people now live. Uh because there's so much genetic load now that if you if you had to marry your sister now, it would be a genetic disaster. That's the most distant relative you could marry after the uh in the immediate aftermath of the arc was your first cousin. So uh first we'll do a little bit of review. actually happen. a catastrophically cut Grand Canyon than a particle at a time evolution, evolutionary lay laying down of uh And it's between 7 and 8,000 feet above sea level, depending on where you are in the canyon. What we would expect if it took millions of years is as a strata is laid down, there would be time for wind and erosion Um there's some very tiny people in this one picture here. From a big flood we get a big Grand Canyon. big tanks like the size of this room filled with water and s and sediments and you slosh them back and forth and see what happens. to it, then you can make those layers fold. But once it hardens, it actually will harden. fourteen thousand square miles of sedimentary rock before he even started carving the Grand Canyon. Okay, so let's take a look at the text. you know, 350 years, it may not that's a blink of the eye to those guys that were living with 900, but that's a long span of life that he had after the flood, 350 years With the flux because they were not So yeah, if you do the math, uh Methuselah and Lamex seem to have died Don't know. that's a a a reality that keeps showing up verse after verse in Genesis chapter five. And so when when when the science shows that that's true, we say, not surprised. And so every single one of us gets an X chromosome from our mother, and then we get either an X or a Y from our father. How could there have been fewer? uh the maximum would be eight. the same X chromosomes as Mrs. Provides power to do things. So, and in fact, when evolutionists look at this, they they s they postulate that there must have been a population bottleneck at some time that went down to only three women And there are fossils at the summit of Mount Everest of ocean bottom dwelling crinoids, a kind of shellfish that goes on the bottom of the ocean And so I've mentioned this one time before. Geologic formation of the Earth points to this kind of a mechanism that ocean basins sink, continents rise, water there therefore runs off. birds and cattle and beasts and every swarming thing that swarms upon the earth and all mankind, of all that was on dry land, all in whose nostrils was the breath of the Spirit of Life Died. what is what can be known about God has been revealed to them. The thermal properties of water. When when the po population was necked down to eight people on the ark, that was a fitness um detriment to mankind in that fitness decrease, which could very well explain the decrease in uh in ages after the arc. To the biblical account. Because this is a desert, and so there's no rain, and so there's no plants. First of all, the water causes erosion, and then the plants that grow cause erosion, and eventually it looks like an ordinary mountain valley. We also see bending and folding. And it uh it does not make sense for that to have been hard for a hundred million years and then And so in the evolutionary story, the long ages story, rocks like this, those sediments represent uh hundreds of thousands or millions of years. Okay. Um it it would have carved it once you get channelized flow. above the rim of the Grand Canyon. About 14,000 square miles of sedimentary rock stripped off above the rim of the Grand Canyon. Um and so y you have to you have to it's difficult to imagine, but you have to put your mind in uh in this j in the the scale of this thing is so big. Hold that for a second. It's not a sequence of vast ages, but a sequence of burial as the flood buried successive ecosystems as it encroached on the land from the sea. um the s the sons of Shem Ham and Japheth. Um eight people, the family of Noah, the land animals that God brought. the year of the flood. And so they ate of the tree of the knowledge of fruit of fruit of the knowledge of good and evil and they died. And so that's this Y chromosome. Eight. only it's it's only passed through the mother, so it has to be daughter to daughter, daughter, daughter to daughter. And um and as a as a believer in Christ and as a believer that the Bible is true, I can raise my hand and say, Oh yeah, I know of I know about a population bottleneck that went down to only three women there on the ark Okay. Okay. So, in other words, sometime after the flood or during the receding stage of the flood, the mountains were coming up. Well, there's actually enough, I've mentioned this a couple of times, but we'll take a look, a little closer look at it now. Also, the average ocean depth is about 2. Um in order for that water to run off the continents, it had to have somewhere to go. And if you don't take advantage of God's one means of salvation in Christ, when Christ comes again, then you're going to die. And in English that's not as powerful, knowing God, because it it's not clear. They know the God of the Bible. There could have been more water vapor in the pre flood atmosphere, at least to a certain extent, and that would certainly have protected people in the pre flood world better than now from solar radiation. Both the lesser protection because lesser water vapor in the atmosphere and the fact that there's a genetic load that had built up from creation to the flood. It is a genetic disaster. And so what is required for that is water flow in the same direction over a size of a continent. And they they s the sediment settled over a short period of time. And you can see this on small scales. So day by day the the Bible tells us exactly what day the flood started, exactly what day Noah and his family and the animals came off the ark, and it's a year and ten days. We know if we can do a calculation about how much water is in the ocean. Tells us when it started. one chromosome number one for your mother and one chromosome number one for your father and all the way down through the chromosome pairs and then there's something special at the uh the 23rd chromosome pair that determines your sex I can tell you all about it. If you increase the water vapor a little bit, you get a big temperature increase. So we get a reiteration of what's in the ark. Everything has always gone along as it as it did since the beginning of creation. We talked about some of them. And so geologists have been able to make tests, boreholes, thousands of boreholes, all across North America, and all these sand waves are pointed in the same direction. Yeah, so um when um there's transport of s of uh sediments in water, uh we can actually do laboratory experiments with it. And in the laboratory we can see that those sediments sort themselves. We're not going to talk about that right now. So there's plenty of water to cover the whole earth right now in the oceans. So we get the fact that God is in charge, and we get the fact that Noah is obedient Because the stories could be told uh face to face. He's the initial people that he created. Um because of wickedness on the earth is what the Bible tells us. But we would what we would certainly expect is much greater diversity in X chromosomes around the world, because there were eight of those on the Arc. than the one Y chromosome that was on the arc. 900 degrees or a thousand degrees Fahrenheit on the surface of the Earth. And notice in verse 16 that both of the key names for God that come up in Genesis, in the early part of Genesis, are used in verse 16. And so when you do the calculation, well uh and also the deeper the it's much deeper at its deepest point than the highest point. If this section of scripture, in this section of scripture, the Holy Spirit seems to be intent on communicating the absolute nature of the flood to ensure that two things are crystal clear. And so the things that can be seen from creation and the nature of man, that's what the Romans chapter 1 particularly says, from creation and the nature of mankind in themselves. Absorb heat to a much greater extent than other chemicals that we find in nature. The particular scientific term is heat capacity. Who who did who did um Shem Ham and Japheth's kids marry? There's rapid deposit of sediments across vast areas, and we can see these layers with our own eyes in the Grand Canyon, and then geologists can trace them across all of North America. And so you get that layer cake look, but then it's still wet. And then once the the water had gone down to the point where it was in just channels of water being flowed out, tiny little channels like the size of the Grand Canyon, then carved the Grand Canyon And so it tells us that it was the second month, the seventeenth day of the second month of Noah's 600th year. CO2 is a very weak greenhouse gas. And then we see that the prove what's what uh theologians call the prevailing stage. Um and so uh the the what's called turbidity currents uh occur when water is moving. Andrew Snelling. We also see evidence in the Grand Canyon of the rapid burial of plants and animals. There's there's no known process that we have to make rock fold like that once it's hard. based on the density of the particles. um uh above the rim of the Grand Canyon. Or they could have got uh one of them could have got the other. Now, let's talk about what the effect of the flood was. Yeah, yeah. This word that's translated blotted out. So there were eight X chromosomes because there were four women and each one of them had two. The DNA that uh that forms the pattern of who you are, everything about who you are. And that is, in fact, exactly what we see. And so that's what we see. There are these vast fossil graveyards, not just here, but all around the world. And so we see all these lines of evidence. that tell us the facts of the flood. So Mount Everest of course now is twenty nine thousand feet high. So if you made the Earth into a smooth sphere, the current seawater that we have in our current oceans would cover the entire surface of the Earth to a depth of almost two miles. when Jesus comes again. There's a passage after Romans 120 is a famous one, but later on there's a passage that says knowing God, they did not worship him as God. And once again we get a list of all the things being destroyed by God through the flood, men and animals outside the ark, and then a contrasting list of those who God saved in the ark. And so when you're talking to an unbeliever, we have to realize this, that they don't look at the world through a biblical lens, and so they can't see it for how it truly is. And we see rocks like this all over the world. But they were not on the ark. So we talked about the human genome before. There's another thing, um, there's also uh there's two genomes. As a student of the Bible, I'm not surprised because I can look at the number of people on the ark and see that there should only be three mitochondrial DNA lines in the on the whole earth. Any questions in the last uh ninety seconds? Noah's obedience to God previously stressed already twice, 622 and 7. During the flood. But if you put water vapor in there, you get a big temperature rise in a big hurry. One examp one possibility of salvation, his one method or means of salvation. Then we talk about Mount St. He could have told you what it was like to come off the ark into the strange new world of the post-flood world. So that means that Adam died before the flesh, right? So, uh continuing along, uh so from the biblical information we can deduce some things about modern genetics, about population genetics, um, if the Genesis account is an accurate historical record. And so there has been, there's obvious evidence of uplift in not just the Himalayas, but in mountain ranges all around the world. In fact, the secular geologists called this the Little Grand Canyon. So let's go back to the flood. Okay. there in verse 16. This was his designed salvation and God shut them in. So Noah was a preacher of righteousness before the flood. Yes. So what else would we expect to see? And one of those punishments was death. So um continuing, the Bible tells us that this flood started on the 17th day of the second month. Once again, we're gonna we're gonna talk more through this timeline next time about what happens. In other words, that an entire formation is now higher than it was at some time in the past. The red wall limestone, which is a little bit further down but still 5,000 feet above sea level, has all these marine sea creatures in it. There's fossil graveyards that are across hundreds of miles of northern Arizona and southern Nevada. Yep. So marine limestone, so it's limestone that was laid down under the ocean, is at the summit of Mount Everest. Peter says a time will come when scoffers will scoff and say, where is this coming? And that's what we talked about last time. Continent-wide flows of water, then channelizing down to something the size of the Grand Canyon. There could have been fewer if the daughters-in-law were sisters. If I put that kind of amounts of of uh water vapor into the atmosphere, um you get temperatures like If if there was a big flood that wiped out all life on Earth, then there should be a record of billions of dead things. But you're saying this stuff was all clumped with water. The Bible does say that they had kids after the Ark and we'll follow the uh the kids of Shem Ham and No and and Japheth, especially in chapter ten, uh the table of nations, it actually sh uh talks about where they went. Fifty fifty percent chance over three times is twelve point five, right? And so um and as I mentioned in the classes before, when I do apologetics, one of the thing my goal is to put a rock in their shoe. Well so yeah, so because of the curse, because of the um so when Adam and Eve sinned there was the the series of punishments that God And then in the second half of verse 16, we have the Lord, Yahweh, close the door. So the account implies um that the mountains uh the it tells us that the mountains were submerged, uh but it doesn't imply that the mountains were the the the And so even with lower mountains, it still must have taken an enormous amount of water to cover the entire Earth's landmass. Water will go to the lowest point. I have a few copies of it. And then as you get farther away, they uh some of the elements of the biblical account drop off. So one day there was a flood um down the side of Mount St. Um but if you look at something like the Grand Canyon, so the Grand Canyon, the rim of the Grand Canyon, is actually way below where the sedimentary rock starts It's not a local flood. And that um most likely if you do a kind of a s if you apply some scientific analysis, most likely most of the water came from under the earth. It's really clear that they know the God of the Bible. Only the true story in Genesis has been perfectly preserved. So uh Romans chapter one makes that really clear um that um uh all are condemned uh under condemnation because And then they moved around again and another layer precipitated out after that. Uh-huh. Yes. That's all men since Noah have inherited that one Y chromosome. Actually, a majority of the fossils we have today are fossils of sea creatures. Um we have evidence of the transport of sediment from long distances. A year and ten days is a really long time. Noah's wife would have passed on one or both of her ex-chromos to the three sons. I don't know how this Holy Spirit could be more clear than this. Um and it's folded. The water prevailed and increased greatly upon the earth, and the ark floated on the surface of the water But the Bible tells us he was five hundred years old, then he started having kids, and he had these three kids. Noah. The Tapete sandstone, which is towards the bottom, the Coconino sandstone and the Tapete Sandstone are towards the bottom of the Grand Canyon. And we talked about the fact that that's why it was not at the time necessary for Genesis to be written down. But you had the mitochondrial DNA of three m d daughters-in-law And that DNA is only passed from your mother, from one mother to the next generation. And so the parallels are there and Jesus deliberately draws that that parallel. The only way it can go into folds is if it's still wet. Helens at the end of our time last time. It turns into hard rock. What does the text say? That's what Peter says in the New Testament. Um and so if you look at yes, go ahead. And that's reiterated over and over and over again. And the mitochondria are kind of the the power uh organelle in the cell that uh that So most of it had to come from either the pre-flood oceans coming up over the continents or from underground. And so there are um current evidences that geologists can look at that point to So these so the bottom of the fossil record are those sea creatures that were caught in these turbidity currents. Yes, they are. Andrew Snelling in his book um goes through all six of these in great detail and if you want to look at the short paper he did either on Hope Book or one of these um So they didn't get on the on the ark. Or if the if the uh daughters in law were related to Mrs. So we're going to talk about uh we're going to go back to chapter seven. It's very carefully crafted to the nearest day. So here you have Noah, five hundred when sons are born, another four hundred and fifty years after that, Shem, uh a hundred um when his sons are born kind of after the flight. So Shem was still around, as I mentioned before, in the time of Abraham. And then uh there were only two that died. So there was only one Y chromosome, but there were eight X chromosomes on the Arc But yes, so this is another area where modern scientific discovery has caught up to what the Bible has said all along. So last time we went over evidences for the flood, and I've got um I've got a paper here. Those were all laid down in three hours. So right now the earth's surface is about seventy percent covered by water. And and they were also surprised when they came, in spite of the warnings I mean it it just as soon as they precipitate out within hours you have layers of the sediment that used to be taken up in the water that was moving along So the great denudation is giant cheek flow taking off uh uh this this uh sedimentary rock above And it's very shocking to secular humanists, to evolutionists But assuming that they're they were not relatives to one another or to Mrs. From this point, humans and animals outside the ark were doomed. We have this global language used over and over and over again for emphasis. It means to exterminate or obliterate. Not land creatures, not anything else, but shellfish. Now that's what you would expect if there was a big flood that covered the whole world. So uh water in all of its states has very unusual thermal properties that it's able to um um Uh and they died the year of the flood, those two. The the ocean basins are made of mostly igneous basaltic rock that is much denser than the continental rock. If you watch uh waves come in on the beach, you can watch a sheet flow and then it can end up being a channelized flow in small areas as the water goes back out Uh it's still wet sand at that point. So Noah was 600 years old. People had to marry their sisters or first cousins coming off that arc, and that caused a fitness decrease to the uh the age limits that we have I I posted the electronic copy of it on Hopebook, but here's a couple of Now s most of them have been corrupted over time, and interestingly enough, the ones So there's two possibilities then of explaining the observations that we see, the scientific observations we see in the Grand Canyon And the same thing exists all over the earth, but they don't look exactly like this. So this is the facts of the flood, as as recorded in the Bible, the historical record of what happened in those days. Yeah, so uh everybody died, of course, except But not for the flood, not because If we get an X from our father, then we're a woman. What is the fountains of the great deep? And so we see that in the Grand Canyon. So it'll sort out into layers, even it's moving through the water. Nothing outside the ark survived the flood. I'll probably have to cover this more next time, but um a globe-covering flood would be lethal to land-dwelling vertebrates, because it covered all the land, including man The flood covers the globe. So what happens when we look at something like the Grand Canyon? But the mechanism is the same. Of clean animals and animals that are not clean, and birds and everything that creeps on the ground, there went into the ark to Noah by twos, male and female, as God had commanded Noah Obviously, we've got lots of warnings that Jesus is coming again. So it makes sense that the flood would be passed down and all those languages and cultures Like if it gets pressed from the sides or pushed up from underneath, it it'll bend. And you can see the formation of the Grand Staircase go up from there. So they went into the ark to Noah, by twos of all flesh, in which was the breath of life. Yeah, this it's probably like steam burns really fast. So what did we talk about last time? So yes, so this is a unique opportunity to look at what what happened what looked like after the flood We also see evidence of rapid uh strata deposition with no erosion between strata. Uh but he's he lives a long time after the flood They've never been able to find a highly divergent Y chromosome. So God himself closed the door of the ark. There's some very famous uh examples in uh the Alps. It causes almost no warming. That's what Romans 1 tells us. So the kids are about a hundred when the flood starts. So they could have she they could have passed them, uh she could have passed both or maybe only one to the next generation. Now, if if you took the whole population of the world right now down to eight people, then i in a few generations we would be extinct Uh but so um the actual eruption was in June of nineteen eighty and s there's sedimentary layers. On the very same day Noah and Shem and Ham and Japheth They give letters to them. And this is why both Jesus and Peter in the New Testament use the flood as the type, the case. So if there was a big flood, what we would expect to see is billions of dead things buried in rock layers laid down by water all over the earth There was only one type of Y chromosome on the arc. And this massive amount of sedimentary layers of rock m. And it doesn't require enormous amounts of pressure to do that. I mentioned this before. And so the water will run into the ocean basins, off the continents, into the ocean basins. Uh Dr. And then God confused their language. So uh and geologists, flood geologists call this the Great Denud And he had told him that beforehand, he had said, if you eat the fruit of the knowledge of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, you will die. And of course that's exactly what we see. Then the flood came upon the earth for forty days, and the earth, and the water increased, and lifted up the ark. Um okay. There are 46 chromosomes in 23 pairs. 4 miles. The water prevailed upon the earth for one hundred and fifty days. And I think I've got some pictures of that here in a minute. to midnight on June twelfth, nineteen eighty. The water will precip will evaporate out eventually, and it'll harden into rock. So this gives it this gives you an idea of how long Noah and Shem lived after the flood But once the generation started shrinking, and once Shem was gone, then it needed to be written down 23rd chromosome pair is an X and a Y for all human males. Because if a mother has sons, the sons can't pass that mitochondrial DNA on. So uh and then we we finish out this section of scripture. So first you get what's called sheet flow and then you get channelized flow. So the first few verses Uh the door is shut on the post flood or the pre flood world. And they use the flood as their example. They didn't get on the ark. So you can submerge Mount Everest down into that thing and still have a mile of water on top of Mount Everest. So the heat heat capacity of water is much higher than the heat capacity of CO2, for example. And so those six lines of evidence we talked about last time. Since there were four in an arc, there could have been eight different X chromosomes on the arc. We're gonna talk about these details that are in there about uh That's what that's right. Um so i it's interesting if you look if you read through the whole Romans um uh one passage that there's a Andrew Snelling is a uh PhD geologist. Um and so yeah, so they can't see it and it is a great blessing Yes, Ryan. And of course this is not surprising if we take the biblical account as historical record of what really happened. The rock goes like this. It can you remind me real quickly how So that is one year and ten days. So yeah, so God keeps his promises. So when Jesus comes again, the judgment is total and inescapable. But this one has been preserved because it's a mountain that's a desert. So how did a single layer get laid down on a continent-wide level? We find out at the end of here, chapter seven, that what we call the prevailing phase was about five months, 150 days He lives to be 600, so he lives about 500 years. The average depth of the ocean across the entire globe is about 2. Okay. And so this is what we would expect if the sequence of events that happened in the Bible, including the Tower of Babel We see it all around the world, but it's easy, really easy to see in the Grand Canyon. He didn't they didn't die during the So notice the absolute language. The next few generations go into the four hundreds and then it drops down to the two hundreds. But most commentators seem to agree that it was some kind of subterranean water. And so we get a timeline. It's a big flood. Fifty percent chance that you roll that you flip uh uh heads on the coin. But if we look at Mount Everest, it's got marine limestone He looks at the Grand Canyon and he sees So uh Mount St. You can put a lot of CO2 in the air and you won't get much They know the God of the Bible because of what they can see in creation and what they can see in themselves. All these evidences for the flood. So I showed you this diagram before, but in red is the age the person was when the son that the Bible describes was born. But if they weren't sisters, and there's no indication they were sisters, then there was eight We don't know if they were triplets and born together, or if they were born But you can't fold it once it's hard. Helens, it can occur in very short order. And she looked me in the eye and smiled and said Noah boards the ark with his family and all the animals. And it and it the Bible doesn't tell us whether they were actually killed by the flood or if they died that year before the flood started. In the Greek there's an article there. That the facts are much more supportive Uh so we get an in then we get a a repeating of what went on the ark. Notice that the it's the Bible says they went they went into the ark. And the only difference would be caused by mutations during the 4,500 years since the flood Is it there must have been some time the there's a population bottlenecked to only down to three women No land animals and no people It amounts to thousands of feet of sedimentary rock. But from a flood geology perspective, it's just different ecosystems. They were scattered around the world, and they took knowledge of the flood with them Um it's a place that is um in And so when we look at the evidence there The the top layer of the Grand Canyon where the rim is is called the Chi Babylon limestone. Three hours. Well and for the pressure, the water creates a lot of pressure. It's definitely not a local flood, and we'll we'll talk about the language that the Holy Spirit employs here So the flood was responsible and we'll see we'll talk about this at the very end. His sons and his wives go into the ark because there was a flood coming, and the animals go into the ark. God uh God f caused them to come to Noah and go into the ark uh by males and females, the animals We get a reminder that they were doing as God had commanded. And geologists can tell that by looking at the fine details of the structure of the Now the the floodwaters we'll see, we're going to talk about this next time, we're going to focus on this next time In the 600th year of Noah's life, in the second month There's uh there's the um uh the the the sex genome I mean the um Very weak. And so if you weren't in the ark, if you weren't, if you didn't take advantage of God's one And it could be a combination of those two things. So there's still kind of water um that needs to evaporate out after the the floodwater. Each woman has two X chromosomes. We see much greater diversity of X chromosomes than we see of Y chromosomes And so I want to read these scriptures. When you have a a differential in density, what happens? So two miles, there's plenty of water in the ocean. And so Noah did preach. So the prevailing stage of the flood lasted about five months. Because once it's hard, sedimentary rock, it will crack if you put pressure on it. Helens and it carved this canyon through that those sedimentary layers in one day Yeah. And so sinking ocean basins, rising continents, There's the total destruction of life on Earth. We talked about one in France. Um and if you apply some sort of uh geologic geologic process of pressure And so the mitochondrial DNA from Mrs. The timeline for what we're gonna cover today goes up through the 150th day, about five months into the flood Um but it's a very strong word in the Hebrew Those two things are the major speculations that I've read and it could be a very well a combination of the two. About seven months. So so basically like kind of like God you know, like saved this It's still wet until it hardens. If the Earth were a smooth sphere, the seawater would cover the surface of the Earth to a depth of about two miles. And the best place to see it is the Grand Canyon. We have these uh uh what's We're going to cover verses six to twenty-four. Yeah. And um his sons are He had sons and daughters and he died. They would put it out of their mind and say, No, we know Well it depends on your worldview. It's the same sandstone layer across all of North America. Very tiny people. If you if you have sedimentary rock and you lay it down and it's still wet, hasn't had time to harden And you can actually still see evidence of that. And so everybody died. The Bible is really clear that Jesus is coming again, so the warnings are there, and yet people are going to act surprised. Uh we talked about six. We were that we we were there. That's what the Bible tells us. So the other thing, the other piece of the puzzle, is we can see And in fact, we do see big fossil graveyards where they got mixed up. Helens was in nineteen eighty, and so there were various uh geologic events around Mount St. There is some pressure involved. So we're gonna talk about fossil formation today. So starting in verse 21, we get the effects of the flood. And in other places there is rain and there is plants, and so It's a year-long flood. Um, the ones that are um that we consider And obviously nothing could live with that kind of temperature. And that somewhere to go was the ocean basins. And notice what the subject of that verb is. So the the furthest distant relative they could have married was a first cousin Um so he promised that they would die and they died. They're all very similar in every single male across the entire planet. There's also a much smaller genome called the mitochondrial genome But Peter says scoffers will arise and they will scoff and say that there's Really clear in the Greek in Romans chapter one. And then above that we have creatures that uh And so the kids are about a hundred. Yeah, yeah. He does what he says he's gonna do. Second coming of Jesus. Yeah, it has to do with um the Well, one of the evidences for the flood is these flood traditions that we find all over the earth. But that's not what we see in the Grand Canyon. Well no, so uh there was enormous amounts of water flowing with enormous amounts of sediment in it And so this is a good we can see the effects of the flood really well in the Grand Canyon So uh if you go back to this one, um each of the three sons of And evolutionists are really surprised by that, that there's only these three lines of mitochondrial DNA. If you weren't on the ark, then you died. So repetition of this word, this verb blotted out. At the same time, because it had to lay this is the same layer of the same sandstone Water vapor is an extremely powerful greenhouse gas. And so um you can do calculations, done with dynamic calculations about God had closed the door. So you get about thirty percent land and seventy percent water today Number two, and even more importantly And That's their name for it. Evolutionists are really shocked by that result There's actually more than enough water in today's oceans to have covered And it contains fossil sea creatures, enormous numbers. Then Noah and his sons and his wife and his sons' wives with him The Bible makes uh carefully constructs a timeline of the flood So you get So how would that work? And that could And so this kind of layer cake Okay, so yes, go ahead. Thus he blotted out every living thing that was upon the face of the land, from man to animals to creeping things. We'll find out in chapter 8 when we do this next time that they come off the earth 5. So if the if the sons of Noah married sisters, Use of the word all four times here, along with the repetition of the kinds of animals, is used for emphasis. The water prevailed fifteen cubits higher, and the mountains were covered Noah. Now it could have been all the same one, that's possible. So basically there's these flood legends and traditions from cultures around the world And this is how the human mind works. We talked about one outside of Chicago. So Um Noah was six hundred, that means his sons were a hundred, so we found out in chapter six that Now, we're going to talk in a second about X chromosomes. And And then if you stop the water, they precipitate out and they precipitate out in layers. So five months of the water covering the whole earth The flood is clearly global. So the the uh only eight people on the arc and so either Uh but Jesus also says up to the day that the flood started they were marrying, giving in marriage, and then the flood came and took them all away. Um and many fish. It's very simple. It's Nantas Tantheon, Nantas Tantheon, knowing the God And we when we went through uh Genesis chapter five we saw that And it's not a whole lot. That's the covenant name, the personal covenant name of God, Yahweh. This is the last two verses we're going to do today. And we talked about why that is. So this is a gigantic formation that's uh They actually sort themselves on the fly while they're going through the water. And that's sheet flow, like continent-wide sheet flow Uh the I've I promise the math won't get too much harder than that Fossils of sea creatures high above sea level Now, according to modern population genetics, that alone would cause a fitness decrease. And so there is some time where it is layers He's got a year on the f on the so he's got about 350 years in the post-flood world So if they were like nieces of Mrs. And so what could cause that? So that's about the timescale. And that's exactly what we see. Yeah, it's it's c the the particular uh uh Let me uh yeah, so um uh this is hard to see, but Now rock will not do that. He could have told you that face to face. If you look at some pictures of the Alps, you'll see We had eyewitness. Um and so Shem was there to uh be able to Your unbelieving friends cannot see this Everything has always been the same as it was before. Corn ocean holds plenty of water to flood the entire earth And so Then God shuts the ark's door. Now this section of scripture repeats again that everything here is as God commanded Noah. He had sons and daughters and he died. Noah, then the maximum is eight. And from a small flood, we get a little Grand Canyon That was it. God had shut them in. He's a he he's a geologist for a living. And you get one The fountains of the great deep have been the subject of speculation It's one of one of our topics today. And so uh I've read uh several authors who postulate that that's the reason. What kind of presuppositions do you bring to the investigation The water does create pressure, that's true. And that's very shocking to evolutionists Noah was 600 years old Burial fossils. And the evolutionists interpret that as Those that entered, male and female of all flesh, entered as God had commanded him, The science is very simple. So Uh that's currents of water with uh uh s sludge and particles uh The flood begins and rises. And so it's only then passed So where did all that water come from and where did it go? It really gives you pause. We don't see anything like this anywhere uh subsequent to this 4 miles. We talked about why that is last time. Uh there was there's the Bible tells us about two sources of flood water. We see very uniform layers with no erosion between layers You can ax you can definitely see it from space and you can see it by looking at the formation of the Grand Staircase. And it looks a lot like If it's still wet. No more chance to get on the ark. So the Challenger Deep and the Mary Ass Trench is 35,814 feet deep. The subject of that verb is he, God. Noah went extinct because she only had sons. So Um It prevailed for five months and it covered all the high mountains The flood does not act f as a warning for our unbelieving friends because they don't believe there was ever a flood. There's billions of straight-shelled chambered nautiloids We we know what it looked like before the eruption And the Grand Canyon, if you've been there, is absolutely enormous. So Noah didn't have to go find them and herd them And we get our Y chromosome from our biological father. So obviously most of the floodwater could not have been in the atmosphere Um Uh the flood and human genetics we're going to talk about today. And we'll talk a little bit about the burial of fossils at the end. There's one in Montana Noah, then they could have had five Well something like the runoff from a gigantic flood could could cause that. And so here's how the Holy Spirit has chosen to describe it. Um and so the And then next we have those creatures that live near water This is too far afield, just move them out. So we've we've heard this already And we see that in Genesis five repeated over and over again. There could have been fewer So some kind of water coming up out of the earth The average continental height above sea level is only half a mile. He had sons and daughters and he die We have The canyon Modern science is and and the the So The flood was responsible for the fossil record and we'll talk about why that is. Translated into English, blotted out And that really doesn't make much sense There would have been eight That takes a little bit of time. Seven months. And so this is a theological lesson of the flood. I po I oppose that to a geology professor So Notice that it's God who shuts the dark's door. All flesh that moved on the earth perished How many X chromosomes were on the arc? If you try to bend rock, it cracks So And if people have been around for hundreds of thousands of years Okay. Peter says, no And we see that. They're called uh slurry tanks It won't fold. And this is And in fact, that's what we see. And over and over again he died, he died, he died, he died. And all those waves point in the same direction. All right, good question. And why is that? God blotted out We see about ninety-five percent of all f Helens that started in It's it's not like anything we see. We'll talk about that today too. They look at the same evidence. See those sedimentary layers? So eight. Well, if um So let me close us with prayer