So part twelve of thirteen. So we're we're getting close to landing the plane. Um Starting in uh Genesis chapter one, uh three quarters ago, uh we're up to we'll be up through Genesis chapter forty-two today and Um the final lesson will be about the last few chapters of Genesis. So first I want to just say happy birthday to my son Alex. And so Alex uh he looks like he's not quite awake yet. Uh Alex's birthday is actually tomorrow, May twenty second, and he'll be twenty-four years old tomorrow. Uh so today we're going to talk about uh three more things from the life of Joseph and and how God has worked in this life uh of this this young man. So we're gonna talk about the The fact that he interprets Pharaoh's dreams at the beginning. Then we're gonna talk about how that leads to Joseph becoming prime minister of Egypt. And then finally, we're going to talk about how Joseph's brothers come down to Egypt, and Joseph's dreams from Genesis chapter 37 are going to come true. here in Genesis chapter 42. And between the dream and them coming true, it doesn't look like there's any possible way that these dreams are actually going to come true. Uh but they do. Uh so first a little review of what we did last time. So an overview of this last section of Genesis. So Genesis is uh Divided up into these tolodats. Toledots means what comes forth from, what comes forth from. And the final section of Genesis is the Toledot of Jacob. What comes forth from Jacob. And that's Genesis 37 to 50. And it's about Jacob's sons. Particularly, quite a bit of it is about one son, Joseph. But of course there was a section about another son, Judah, that we talked about last time as well. And so we're going to see in today's lesson that the events that take place start when Joseph is 30 in today's lesson and go to when he's 39 or 40. um in today's lessons. So last time we talked about Genesis 38, which is a we're talking about Joseph, talking about Joseph, talking about Joseph, and then all of a sudden there's a whole chapter about Judah, a different one of Jacob's sons. And uh Judah is of course a despicable character in this uh that whole chapter, and at the end he finally realizes he's a despicable character. Which is the first step. And we'll see later on, we'll talk about it mostly next week, that Judah starts to take a leadership role once God convicts him. uh at the very end of chapter 38. Uh but this is definitely one of the one of the R-rated chapters of uh of Genesis. So Judah has a son he first he moves to Canaan. He kind of abandons his family and moves to in with the Canaanites. He marries a Canaanite woman. Um He has a son, he has he has three sons by the Canaanite woman, and he stays and lives in Canaan long enough that his sons grow up to where they're getting married. So it's a long time. So uh but he has a son by the Canaanite i with the Canaanites he's living with them. He has a Canaanite wife, he has a son who grows up, obviously, in Canaan, in the Canaanite culture And he's evil enough that God outright kills him. God just strikes him down dead, the the firstborn son of Judah Um and so there's uh an ancient law that says that if um a brother dies, that the next brother is supposed to marry the wife so that she can have children. And the next brother marries her and he dies too. Uh God strikes him down because he refuses to fulfill his duties under the Leverate law Um God kills both the first and second born sons of Judah. Uh then he promises his third son to the to the wife, but he has no intention of keeping that promise. She finds out that he has no that the third son has grown up, but he's not going to be given to her as a wife, and so she dresses up like a prostitute And he comes by and wants to hire a prostitute. He does hire her, not knowing that she's his uh daughter-in-law. And um He sleeps with her, she gets pregnant. Um he's give he he's promised her a certain payment, but in the meantime he gives her some items, some personal items, a seal and a cord and a staff to promise that he will pay. He tries to pay, can't they can't find her. Then she goes back to her father's house, puts her widow's garb back on, but then she's pregnant. And so um Judah is told that she's pregnant and he immediately wants to burn her to death because she's pregnant. Um but she sends the cord and the seal and the staff and says, Hey, the guy that got me pregnant is the guy that owns these things. And so it's Judah. And he realizes what's going on and he confesses that he's been unrighteous in this situation situation. She gives birth to twins, one of whom is Pires. So The Holy Spirit, for some reason, stops the story of Joseph and has this whole Genesis chapter 38 with Judah. And it's important because Judah is the line that eventually produces the Christ. And so uh this Holy Spirit gives us a snapshot into who this man Judah is, and it'll be a contrast to who he becomes uh in a few chapters when we see him again. But it's important because the entire uh the entire scriptures is about Jesus Christ from Genesis to Revelation. It's a story of God's redemption through Christ. And so we've been following in the book of Genesis one particular line. Not because those people in and of themselves are more important than any other people. So for example, um after the Tower of Babel, some people go off and found the the uh culture and countries of India and China and come over and form the Inca and Aztec cultures here in North America and we don't hear anything about them in the Bible. And that's not because they're not important. It's because that's not the line that leads to the Messiah. And the Bible is a book about God's redemption in Christ. And so we follow only this one family. And when it comes down to this part of Scripture, the one family that we're going to really end up having to follow is the family of Judah. And so we get in Genesis 38, okay, what's happening with this line that's going to lead to the Messiah? And this is a s very strange incident, but it's an incident in the line that's going to lead to the Messiah. And so Judah is, of course, he's be behaves abominably from beginning to end, but God uses it to bring his lying to the Messiah. And it just shows it's another example that out of the wicked plans and acts of men, God brings about his good and just purposes. We see that over and over and over again in the scripture. So just as a reminder, Jacob had four wives, but only one of those wives has a child that leads to the Messiah, and that's Leah. the uh the first wife. And it's only one of her six sons, Judah, the fourth son, that leads to the Messiah. And so uh in Matthew chapter one we get the uh the genealogy of Christ. And it works backwards from Jesus. I mean, it works forward from Abraham to Jesus in this case in Matthew chapter 1. And notice that in this little section of scripture, it's essentially a male genealogy, but there are three women mentioned. And notice who the three women are. None of the three is a descendant of Abraham. They're also from outside that promised line of Abraham. We have the story that we just said in Genesis 38 with Tamar. Tamar is a Canaanite woman who pretended to be a prostitute so she could sleep with her father-in-law. Rahab is a Canaanite prostitute. Ruth is a Moabite of the descended from Lot from his incestuous relationship with one of his daughters And so those are the three women that the scripture points out in this particular genealogy. Just to show what God does in his providence. Well with any circumstances and any behavior of people, God's plan is irresistible. that his purposes will be fulfilled no matter what people do. And and even when people do wicked things like Judah did in chapter 38, God still works those out to bring about the Messiah. Okay. Then we saw the second thing that we did last time was Joseph and Potiphar. And so we see that, and this is a big contrast between Judah's behavior and Joseph's behavior. So Joseph sold has been sold into slavery. We saw that before. And the person who buys him down in Egypt is Potiphar. And he rises up within his household. Uh Buddy's handsome and Potifir's wife likes him and she's uh constantly trying to tempt him into an adulterous affair. Um and one day she grab she he's in the house h uh with just her and she tries to grab him and he flees and leaves his garment behind. And so the biblical author comes back to Joseph right after this story of Judah. Judah succumbs to uh the whole culture of Canaan. He has no qualms about walking down the street and and buying a prostitute. Uh but Joseph is different. Uh Joseph um he refuses to give in in a in a situation that's um uh much more difficult situation quite uh frankly than Judah was in. Um so we get in this story the phrase the Lord was with Joseph over and over again and so that's the one of the key themes of uh this whole story of all this all this unfortunate, all these terrible circumstances that happened to Joseph, but we keep getting reminded that the Lord was with Joseph. The Lord was with Joseph. The Lord was with Joseph. Uh it emphasizes that that's a key part of the story that the Holy Spirit wants us to see. Uh with all the tragedy in Joseph's life, abuse by his brothers, sailing to slavery, now a false accusation that puts him in prison. God is with him, and God is in control of the whole circumstances, and we don't get to see how that plays out until after all this. So just think of just remember as we're as we're reading the scripture and as we're thinking about the scripture, that we can read it's easy for us to read all the way through to Genesis 50 and see the end. But think about Joseph, um, who's submerged in these events, that's uh, you know, it's been abused Sold into slavery, now he's rotting in prison. It it doesn't look like these anything's gonna work out okay. It really doesn't look like it from a human perspective if you're Joseph. But we keep getting reminded in the scripture the Lord was with him, the Lord was with him, the Lord was with him. And so everything is in fact unfolding according to God's purposes, but it would be very difficult if you're if we're honest with himself, if if I'm honest with myself, if I was in Joseph's shoes, riding in that prison, it would be really difficult uh not to get discouraged. But we keep seeing that the Lord blesses him wherever he goes, even in these terrible circumstances. He's promoted to overseer and poster's household. Unfortunately, that promotion leads to some severe temptation. And the temptation goes on and on and on. Um he f he refuses and he gives her reasons why he refuses. Uh two big reasons that first of all Potiphar trusts him to put him in charge of the whole household and it would be betraying a trust And second, that activity that she does she desires is a sin against God, he tells her. So he we get the picture of a upright, moral, godly young man Uh but he keeps getting tempted over and over again. Uh she's really insistent and finally corners him. Um and then when he refuses this last time, um She needs to arrange a cover up. And so she first calls the servants, blames this foreigner, uh that the the head of the household, her husband has brought in He she first sells this story to the to the servants because she needs allies and they probably resent a foreigner coming in and being appointed over them. So she tells the servants first, and then she tells the husband that she was attacked. Rather than she being the aggressor, she says that he was and she's got evidence. She's got the physical evidence. Here's the here's the garment right here laying in my bed where he was was trying to attack me So she's got some physical evidence to show her husband. Um and so she didn't get her way, so she's trying to destroy Joseph. Um And she tells her husband that Joseph tried to attack her, and Potiphar sees the evidence and hears what is what and and throws Joseph into prison. And of course the Lord is with Joseph even in the prison. So he's gone from one tragedy to the other. He's a s first he's a slave, now he's a prisoner. But the Lord is still with him and he rises in the estimation of the jailer to the same thing kind of same uh pattern as Joseph being a slave in Potiphar's household, he gradually rises to the top of the organization there. Same thing when he's in prison. Joseph is put in charge of all the other prisoners. And so we talked about at the end some an application, a particular application of that lesson from last week that If someone a a typical false teaching in not our church, but some churches um is that if someone has enough faith or they're godly enough that you won't be subject to persecution, uh that everything will be well for you f in a from a physical, financial or uh health or uh persecution standpoint here in this world if you're faithful. And that's obviously not what we see in scripture. I mean this story of Joseph, he's faithful uh all along the way, and his life is an absolute train wreck. It's a disaster. Everything goes wrong for Joseph in spite of the fact that he is a good and godly man. And so we look to what our Lord said in John chapter 15. Jesus promised his disciples that a slave is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. That's a promise from Jesus to his disciples. And so it's It it's a s kind of a slippery slope or and it's an easy th trap to fall into when you when you read all the wonderful promises of God and you read about how things will be in heaven, to overpromise how things will be here on earth But that's not what the scripture says. The scripture does not say that we will be persecution free if we just have enough faith, or if we're just good enough, if we're just uh uh you know, a wonderful servant of the Lord, then you won't get persecuted. But that's not the f not the case and uh that's not what the scripture says. Uh we are promised um an eternal weight of glory. Uh us that far outweighs our light and momentary affliction. That's how the Bible puts it. Our light and momentary affliction is building for us an eternal weight of glory. So we have an eternal weight of glory coming. And compared to that, light and momentary afflictions. And the man who wrote that, the Apostle Paul, had just categorized all of his light and momentary afflictions, things like being beaten with rods many times and being shipwrecked in the sea and being thrown into prison many times. And so he considered that light and momentary affliction compared to the eternal weight of glory. And so we have the same thing. But Just think about the things that happened to the Apostle Paul, whips and rods and thrown into prison many times and uh stoned and uh left for dead and All these things happen to him, and he c that's what he considered a light and momentary affliction. Okay. Uh so then Joseph has uh he interprets some dreams while he's in prison Um so the cupbearer and the baker uh were thrown into prison. So Joseph's already there. He's already been there long enough to become the head prisoner, uh the guy that's in charge of all the other prisoners. When The Pharaoh's, two of Pharaoh's officials, his chief cupbearer and his chief baker, are thrown into prison with him. And those two each have a dream. The dreams have particular meanings and they don't know what they are But Joseph interprets the dreams, and the interpretation is that the cupbearer is going to be restored to his position and the baker's going to be killed And so those things actually happen and Joseph asks the ba the cup bearer, Hey, remember me when you're restored to your position and of course he doesn't. He just forgets Um and so the things that Joseph interprets for the dreams actually come true. And so one of the things that we talked about then at the very end about this story was It can feel a little bit odd to us in this day and age to deal with all these dreams and visions and uh angels appearing to people. And um the book of Hebrews ex in the first chapter explains it this way God after he spoke long ago to the fathers and the prophets in many portions and in many ways. So all kinds of different uh avenues of revelation in the Old Testament. So uh then the the the scripture goes on to say, In these last days has spoken to us in his son, whom he appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the world. And so the point, um F. F. Bruce is a guy that's kind of the uh one of the the great scholars and biblical canon. And he points out the story of divine revelation is a story of progression up to Christ, but there is no progression beyond him. And so the revelation is complete. So everything that God intended to reveal about his plan of redemption in Christ is done. And so the purpose of those dreams and visions in the Old Testament was to reveal God's word, and those are recorded in God's Word. so that we would be able to understand and see God's plan of redemption through history, but that revelation is completely done now. Um and the New Testament is clear about that, but it's done. Um and so we would not expect further revelation any in from in any kind of form Uh that doesn't mean a person can have a dream or a vision, but he can have a dream or a vision that reveals God's word in like this these Old Testament uh dreams and visions did because the revelation is complete. And the book of Revelation makes that really clear. At the very end it says if anybody adds anything or takes anything away, they'll they'll get the plagues of of this uh that are that are described here in this book. If they take away, they'll be their name will be taken away from the book of life. So The revelation is complete, and so we don't get these kinds, we don't expect to see these kinds of dreams and visions as a revelation of God's plan of redemption. Um it's different now. That's what Hebrews is saying. It's different now that Christ has come. Okay. And uh the final thing is something I mentioned before, that there's no indication anywhere in the text that that Joseph became discouraged or despaired. Uh which is really remarkable for somebody that went through the things that we read about Joseph going through. Um it would be really tough. If you put yourself in your in Joseph's shoes and you're really honest, it would be tough to did not despair in the situations that he found himself in. Uh but evidently uh he didn't So uh we're going to pick up the life of Joseph in Genesis chapter 41. So if you open your Bible to Genesis 41, Maybe I'll just read the the whole thing here. So um I've only put I haven't put quite all of the uh the story in my my notes in the overhead here. But let me uh let me read the whole thing. So Genesis chapter forty one, um this is how God brings about um it's another step in the process of of saving uh his chosen people, what will become his chosen people, uh, in order to produce the line of the Messiah. Um so Genesis chapter 41 starting in verse 1 Now it happened at the end of two full years, so two more years in prison. So he's been a slave, he's been in prison, he's been in prison for a number of years. He interprets the baker and the cup ma cupbearer's dreams. And yeah, he when as the cupbearer is leaving the prison he says, Hey, remember me. Well two years go by. Two more years were as he rots in prison. So at the end of two full years that Pharaoh had a dream. And behold, he was standing by the Nile, and lo, from the Nile there came up seven cows sleek and fat, and they grazed in the marsh grass. Then behold, seven other cows came up after them from the Nile, ugly and gaunt And they stood by the other cows on the bank of the Nile. The ugly and gaunt cows ate up the seven sleek and fat cows. Then Pharaoh awoke. He fell asleep and dreamed a second time, and behold, seven years of grain came up on a single stalk, plump and good. Then behold, seven ears, thin and scorched by the east wind, sprouted up after them. The thin ears swallowed up the seven plump and full ears. Then Pharaoh awoke, and behold, it was a dream. Now in the beginning, his spell in the morning his spirit was troubled. So he sent and called for the magicians of Egypt and all its wise men, and Pharaoh told them his dreams. But there was no one who could interpret them to Pharaoh. Then the chief cup-bearer spoke to Pharaoh, saying, I would make mention today of my own offenses. Pharaoh was furious with his servants, and he put me in confinement in the house of the captain of the bodyguard, both me and the chief baker. We had a dream on the same night, he and I. Each of us dreamed according to the interpretation of his own dream. Now a Hebrew youth was with us there, a servant of the captain of the bodyguard And we related them to him, and he interpreted our dreams for us. To each one he interpreted according to his own dream, and just as he interpreted for us, so it happened. He restored me in my office, but he hanged him. Verse fourteen. Then Pharaoh sent and called for Joseph, and they hurriedly brought him out of the dungeon. And when he had shaved himself and changed his clothes, he came to Pharaoh. Pharaoh said to Joseph, I have had a dream, but no one can interpret it, and I have heard it said about you that when you hear a dream, you can interpret it. Joseph then answered Pharaoh, saying, It is not in me. God will give Pharaoh a favorable answer. So Pharaoh spoke to Joseph. In my dream, behold, I was standing on the bank of the Nile, and behold, seven cows, fat and sleek, came up out of the Nile and grazed in the marsh grass. Lo seven other cows came up after them, poor and very ugly and gaunt, such as I had never seen for ugliness in all the land of Egypt. And the lean and ugly cows ate up the first seven fat cows Yet when they had devoured them, it could not be detected that they had devoured them, for they were just as ugly as before Then I awoke. I saw also in my dream, and behold, seven ears, full and good, came up on a single stalk. And lo, seven ears withered, thin, and scorched by the east wind sprouted up after them And the thin ears swallowed the seven good ears. Then I told it to the magicians, but there was no one who could explain it to me. Now Joseph said to Pharaoh, Pharaoh's dreams are one and the same. God has told to Pharaoh what he is about to do. The seven good cows are seven years, and the seven good ears are seven years. And the dreams are one and the same. The seven lean and ugly cows that came up after them are seven years, and the seven thin ears scorched by the east wind will be seven years of famine. It is all. It is as I have spoken to Pharaoh. God has shown to Pharaoh what he is about to do. Behold, Seven years of great abundance are coming in all the land of Egypt, and after them seven years of famine will come, and all the abundance will be forgotten in the land of Egypt, and the famine will ravage the land So the abundance will be unknown in the land because of that subsequent famine, for it will be very severe. Now as for the repeating of the dream to Pharaoh twice, it means that the matter is determined by God and God will quickly bring it about. Now let Pharaoh look for a man discerning and wise and set him over the land of Egypt. Let Pharaoh take action to appoint overseers in charge of the land and let him exact a fifth of the produce of the land of Egypt. in the seven years of abundance, then let them gather all the food of these good years that are coming, and store up the grain for food in the cities under Pharaoh's authority, and let them guard it Let the food become as a reserve for the land for the seven years of famine which will occur in the land of Egypt, so that the land will not perish during the famine. Now the proposal seemed good to Pharaoh and to all his servants. Okay, we'll stop there for a second here and see what uh is going on here in this story. So uh two years of pet yeah, I'm sorry. Yes, go ahead. Sorry, Diane. I think it was on the second screen where the baker the wine, the wine guy, says um something like way that he refers to Pharaoh. And I'm just checking, is this the same Pharaoh that was in power when Joseph was first in jail and is this the same Pharaoh So um the it's the same pharaoh as so so um W we don't know exactly when that pharaoh came into power, but he was definitely in power with and through the cupbearer and the baker into prison because the cupbearer saying to this pharaoh, yes, you you threw me uh you were furious with me and you threw me into prison. So that's the same Pharaoh. Now we don't know how long before that that that pharaoh was in power. Like was he in power when Joseph was in Potiphar's household and was first put into prison? We don't know. We can't tell from the scripture, but he's definitely still the same pharaoh as threw the a cupbearer and a baker into prison some a few years maybe uh before uh and two years have passed since the cupbearer got out of jail in this particular story. Is it possible? Oh yeah, yeah. So he he is he refers to um the Pharaoh and he's saying what the Pharaoh did and he says that the f he says um Uh where where does he say it? Uh right. So you uh he's talking to the Pharaoh and he's saying the Pharaoh is serious and Yeah, he does third person. Yeah. He uses third person. Um yes he does. But I think that's because he's addressing the the pharaoh and he doesn't want to use you because that's way too familiar to use with with the pharaoh So use a third person pronoun. Yeah, yeah, that that's a good point. Yeah. Um okay, so we get um a couple of years have passed, and so Uh Joseph continues to rot in jail while the cupbearers are living it out there. Because uh for the first two years the cupbearer has nothing to gain by by sticking his neck out for Joseph. But now comes an opportunity when the cupbearer can be a hero. Right? The pharaoh needs a dream interpreted, and so the cupbearer can come up with a way the dream dream can be interpreted Um so he's kind of a coward, the cup barrow is. Uh but he does bring up Joseph uh in this particular case. Yes. Well, i it's hard to imagine. Imagine yourself having a having a really bizarre dream that comes true. And the guy and there's a guy that interpreted that dream for you. Is that something you're gonna forget happened There's no possible way he forgot that that happened. Uh so yes, I think he's deliberately uh he remained silent for two years and didn't speak up And, you know, just is just me, just my guess that it's out of cowardice. That if he sticks his neck out, he's he's already been thrown in prison once because this sparrow He's kinda he's seen he's maybe he's an unpredictable guy and he can fly off the handle and throw people into prison. The the chief cup bearer has experienced that already one time for himself, that the pharaoh is a uh he's kind of a incendiary guy and he'll throw people in prison off the uh at the drop of the hat. And so if you know that and you've been restored after having been in prison, are you going to rock the boat Are you going to be inclined to rock the boat? I don't think so. You're not going to be inclined, unless you're a very courageous person, to stick your neck out for somebody else. And he's not a very courageous person. But when there's an opportunity that that looks like it could put the cupbearer himself into a good light By suggesting something that helps the Pharaoh oh yeah, he's he's there then. He's there then. Uh yeah, so he He um he hears that the pharaoh, he's the cupbearer, so he's standing there next to the pharaoh, and the pharaoh's got these magicians coming in one after the other and they can't figure it out, he has a suggestion for the pharaoh. Okay. So he sends for his magicians and wise men. They can't interpret. The cupbearer remembers Joseph and tells Pharaoh. Pharaoh sends for Joseph. He explains his dreams and Joseph interprets them and gives God credit. Uh and of course like everything else in the uh in the Bible There is a uh an ancient painting uh of Joseph interpreting Pharaoh's dream by Peter Cornelius. Uh this pharaoh, this pharaoh doesn't look very Egyptian to me That Joseph doesn't look very uh this this Joseph here doesn't look very uh Semitic to me either. Uh looks suspiciously uh northern European there for the Pharaoh and uh And the Joseph. Um so uh Joseph does the interpretation, it represents years. Um Years of plenty and years of famine. Um and then Joseph not only interprets the dreams, but he's pretty bold here and he gives a whole set of policy recommendations. Um, I mean this is real think about this. This is you know this young kid who's been a slave and a prisoner, not only does he interpret the dream But he's got he's got the whole set of government policy recommendations that he makes in great detail to the Pharaoh. Yeah. God really prepared him for that He was over proper zone and all the bad in him, which was probably an awful lot of that. And then in jail he's over He is. But running a country running a country and running a few prisoners seems that's a pretty big leap, but you're right. Yes, he has been uh kind of um honing the skills of how to be an organizer, yes. And he's obviously got talent for it, uh organizational skills and talent that everybody who has worked with Joseph has immediately recognized. He's got organizational skill and talent. Yeah. And he didn't have any chance to think it over what he was told. He immediately I mean he he he obviously doesn't know what these dreams are before he walks in there and Pharaoh tells them to him. But he Right and right at the same audience he's got a whole set of policy recommendations for a situation he didn't know about five minutes ago. Uh that's pretty remarkable. Uh yes. how much how much grain they have collected in the seven years. It's only a sift, right? It's not even two full years. But it's a fifth, a fifth, a fifth, a fifth of this time seven years. Yeah. Right. So yeah, what that tells you is that the seven years were really super abundant years, not ordinary years, but super abundant years. So that, um, yeah, so if you take uh you know twenty percent for seven years, that's uh one year and forty percent of a year. So it's less than a year and a half worth of these stupendous Years of plenty, and that's enough to cover seven years. Uh but but um y you know they probably weren't eating as well for those seven years as they were during the seven years of plenty. There had to be rationing and that sort of thing and of course Um tragically, in a famine in those days, many people would have starved to death. Yeah, many people would have starved to death. Um so yeah, so that's the whole situation, the whole background here of how Joseph ends up becoming Prime Minister. So this one's a little bit more Egyptian looking. This painting by Guigne Guigne. I don't know how to pronounce that. Um they they look a lot more Egyptian to me. Uh Egyptian and Middle Eastern and things like that in this painting Uh so let's take a look at what's going on here. So first of all notice two years have passed. So the cupbearer he's rescued because uh he's rescued in accordance with a spectacular dream of his that gets interpreted by a guy who says, Hey, please remember me, and then two years pass. Um so a and the Bible tells us in the next chapter that he's thirty when he goes to interpret these dreams. Um and so He's been either a slave or in prison from age seventeen to age twenty-eight and then he still has to wait another two years till he's thirty before he's in there. So he rots in prison for two more years before God rescues him. So this is an interesting time. So think about your own life from age 17 to 30. And think about being either a slave or in prison from age seventeen to age thirty. And whether that would have scarred your life or n or not. I I mean for me, I I just it's really hard for me to imagine. I I joined the Navy when I was seventeen. So uh from my my age seventeen to thirty, uh that entire time I was in the Navy. Seventeen age seventeen, age seventeen to age forty one I was in the navy Um and sometimes that felt like prison. Um but no not really. Not really. Um but but um Really being a slave and being in prison for um f those formative years, your your late childhood to early adulthood, all the way up to thirty Being either a slave or a prisoner. And so then Pharaoh, the ruler of Egypt, he has two dreams that trouble him. He appears to have a collection of what's described here. The English translation here is magician. The literal Hebrew is a soothsayer priest. So these were some sort of religious leaders, religious guys. These there's magicians or soothsayer priests and wise men who he calls on to tell him what these dreams are about Uh but none of these religious leaders or learned men um can interpret the dreams. And at that point, the cupbearer who's most likely standing next to Pharaoh to give him his wine And he's seen all this stuff going on. Finally, after two years, he brings up the story of how Joseph interpreted his dream while he was in prison. Uh so Pharaoh right away summons Joseph and he i it's interesting that he's gotta wash and shave and so he's evidently he's probably he's been in prison so he's kinda scruffy and he's not fit to go to court. So Um as as urgent as Pharaoh's summons is, he first gets a bath and a shave before he goes up there to have an audience with uh with the Pharaoh. And the very first thing that Pharaoh asks is if Joseph can interpret, hey, I heard you can interpret Dreams Canyon. And, you know, this is a really bold thing for Joseph to say. He goes, no, I can't. But God can. So um you know you can just imagine um This is a lot of pressure on Joseph. He goes up there and it would be very tempting for him to say, oh yes, I can. Let me tell you about how I can interpret dreams. But he doesn't He says no. He he from the very beginning to the very end, he gives all the credit and all the glory to God And this is a really important part of the story. This little detail of the story is important because it shows that Joseph understands who is the source of the power to interpret dreams. And he gives credit and glory where it belongs to God. And so God says, I'm a jealous God. And so when he says that, that can be jarring to us because we think of jealousy as a bad thing. And in most circumstances for a human being, of course, it is. Um but not for God and not particularly in in the In the context with which jealousy, God's jealousy, is usually described in the scripture. It's usually jealousy for his own name and his own glory. And if you or I were to have jealousy for our own name and our own glory, that would be wrong. But For the the Almighty Creator of the universe to be jealous for his name and his glory is not wrong. Um and it God takes that very seriously. And so Joseph is absolutely righteous in this respect that he gives continually from the very beginning to the very end, he gives credit and honor and glory to God where it belongs. And then Farrell goes into the details of his dream. So he gives the details, we hear it uh twice in there, we hear the whole details. He adds some more details. that we didn't see in the first recitation about how how really, really, really ugly these cows are, the second set of cows. And he talks about these dreams that are troubling him. At the end of the recitation, we see in verse 24 that Pharaoh expresses frustration that no one has yet been able to interpret these dreams. It's clear that hey, he's got all these what are all these soothsayer priests around here that I've got and they can't even tell me my stinking dream. Um he's he's frustrated by the end of this recitation with Joseph Um and then uh Joseph, after he's heard all this from the Pharaoh, he starts out by saying that the two dreams have the same meaning. So the Lord has obviously given Joseph the interpretation, and he tells him first, hey, the both dreams are the same thing It's seven years of plenty followed by seven years of famine. That's the basic meaning of both dreams, the cows and the ears of corn. And he also points out that the dreams themselves, as well as the interpretation, are from God. That's God is revealing to Pharaoh, his political instrument here on on earth, um what's going to happen. Uh and and Joseph F actually repeats that three times, that God is revealing to Pharaoh what's going to happen. Okay. Uh then continue the story in verse 38. So uh picking up in verse 38, what happens next? So So Joseph has interpreted a dream, and he's also given a detailed list of policy recommendations to the Pharaoh. And you might think, well, who is this you know, slave prisoner guy to give policy recommendations to the Pharaoh in his court Um but in verse 37 the proposals seemed good to Pharaoh and to all his servants. So all of his um his court ministers are hearing this too, and they're like, well, that sounds like a really good idea And so then we pick up the story. Then Pharaoh said to his servants, Can we find a man like this in whom is a divine spirit? So Pharaoh said to Joseph, Since God has informed you of all this, there is no one so discerning and wise as you are. You shall be over my house, and according to your command all my people shall do homage. Only in the throne I will be greater than you. Pharaoh said to Joseph, See, I have set you over all the land of Egypt. Then Pharaoh took off his signet ring from his hand and put it on Joseph's hand, and clothed him in garments of fine linen. And put the gold necklace around his neck. He had him ride in his second chariot, and they proclaimed before him, Bow the name. And he set him over all the land of Egypt. Moreover, Pharaoh said to Joseph, Though I am Pharaoh, yet without your permission, no one shall raise his hand or foot in all the land of Egypt. Then Joseph named Then Pharaoh named Joseph Zephaneth Panea, and he gave him Asenath, the daughter of Potipharah, priest of Aan. as his wife, and Joseph went forth over the land of Egypt. Now Joseph was thirty years old when he stood before Pharaoh, king of Egypt And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh and went through all the land of Egypt. During the seven years of plenty, the land brought forth abundantly. So he gathered all the food of these seven years which occurred in the land of Egypt, and placed the food in the cities. He placed in every city the food from its own surrounding fields. Thus Joseph stored up grain in great abundance like the sand of the sea, until he stopped measuring it, for it was beyond measure Now before the year of famine came, two sons were born to Joseph, from whom Asenath, the daughter of Potipharah, priest of Awn, bore to him. Joseph named the firstborn Manasseh, for he said, God has made me forget all my trouble and all my father's household. He named the second Ephraim, for he said, God has made me fruitful in the land of my affliction. When the seven years of plenty, which had been in the land of Egypt, came to an end, and the seven years of famine began to come, just as Joseph had said, then there was famine in all the lands. But in all the land of Egypt there was bread. So when all the land of Egypt was famished, the people cried out to Pharaoh for food, and Pharaoh said to all the Egyptians, Go to Joseph. Whatever he says to you, you shall do. When the famine was spread over all the face of the earth, then Joseph opened all the storehouses and sold to the Egyptians, and the famine was severe in the land of Egypt The people of all the earth came to Egypt to buy grain from Joseph because the famine was severe in all the earth. All right, so uh Joseph is put in charge. Um he he he appoints him second-in-command, gives him a wife, uh an Egyptian wife. Um And the scripture tells he's 30 years old now. So 17 to 30, the Lord has put him through this unbelievable crucible of suffering. And at the end of that thirty years he makes him the Prime Minister of Egypt, one of the most powerful nations on earth. Um and he he goes about his responsibilities. I mean we see him taking charge and And leading this nation. Um, i you know, it's it's reminiscent of what'll happen later with the with Daniel Um so he he gathers up grain, he stores it during the seven years of plenty. He's also given a wife and has two sons and Manasseh and Ephraim. So later on when we get to um uh the book of joshua and the uh the children of israel go into the promised land. The land is divided up into uh twelve portions And there is no portion of land for the Levites, but Joseph actually gets two portions, because there's a separate portion for Manasseh and a separate portion for Ephraim. So there's a tribe of Manasseh and a tribe of E Ephraim. But those are really the sons of Joseph. So Joseph actually becomes two of the tribes of Israel, Manasseh and Ephraim. And they're yes. Other than the Bible, is there any record anywhere of Joseph being prime minister during this time or is it clear any writings or anything that talks about that? So um there's there's nothing that's clear. There is um there's indication of um interaction between Egypt and the Hebrew. There's cape paintings with physical features and also dress, uh characteristic dress. Um but there is no direct mention that I know of of Joseph as Prime Minister. And I've heard uh various commentators talk about well why that would that be? Um and most likely I think is because of the events of the Exodus, um, were such a disaster for Egypt that And it was a and it was a common practice to expunge i um embarrassing things from the national record. Not just the Egyptians, but many countries did that. um that it was embarrassing for the Egyptians to have had a foreign leader over them and not only that but this people that rebelled against them and this people that they that humiliated them. uh all those plagues and the drowning in the Red Sea, you know, nobody wants that in their national history. Um and so That's how most commentators that I read will say will answer the question, well why don't we have this big why don't we have a detailed record in the Egyptians records of of Joseph? I think that's why. Is there any indication in the Bible about a worldwide famine? So there are lots of famines. So it's hard to pick it out from many, many famines. There's lots of records of lots of famines. Yeah, so uh it's it's You have to be careful about what's meant by world. So there's there's different wor there's different words for world in different places in the scripture. Yeah, and sometimes it's difficult to because there's many cases in the New Testament, for example, where you read the world the word the whole world and it's very obviously talking about the Roman Empire Um yeah, it's it's definitely not talking about the Incas and the Aztecs and the Chinese in that case. And I don't think it's talking about that here either. Uh now it's possible that there could have been a famine in China and a famine in South America as well, uh, but it's very unlikely that the Incas sailed across the Atlantic Ocean and through the Mediterranean and came to Egypt for further. Very unlikely. So I think it's talking about the world from their perspective, which was the whole Middle East. That's my my guess for that. So, uh so what do we have going on here? So uh in addition to giving Pharaoh God's interpretation of the dream, he offers some three pieces of advice, some uh actually some uh policy uh Policy ahí is. Um he tells them first to find a discerning and wise man to put in charge. Find it find a good person, the perfect person to organize all this, you gotta put a guy in charge of that. This is gonna be a major fourteen year project. You need to have a a guy in charge of that. Uh and they said you you're gonna also have to have an organization under that guy. There's gonna have to be overseers in all the different areas where these grains are gonna be, so you're gonna need a guy in charge of the whole project, you're gonna need some subordinates are going to carry out the plan at the local level. It's not just a one man project. And then he says that you're going to need to s store away a substantial portion, twenty percent is a lot to be uh to t you know to tell people that they can only they gotta live on eighty percent. And no no matter what the size of your paycheck is, if somebody tells you you gotta live on eighty percent of it, that's a that's a sacrifice you gotta make. uh that you're gonna live on eighty percent of your paycheck and gotta put twenty percent away. I mean how how many here have been faithfully saving at least twenty percent of your income since you started earning income when you were twenty one Um I know I d I didn't put away twenty percent from the time I was uh a young man. Um so that's a lot to put aside, twenty percent. Um although in this case the Lord has provided so abundantly in these seven years that twenty percent is a huge amount. So um and so the the so Pharaoh watches this and his advisors, his ministers watch this whole thing that's just happened. They see that Joseph is not only able to interpret dreams, but he's also proposing a sensible solution to this whole thing. Pharaoh decides to make Joseph his prime minister or vizier. Uh in verse 42 Pharaoh gives Joseph the symbols of office. He gives him he takes the signet ring, the the Pharaoh's ring that he uses to press into the seal thing and make it an official document. He takes that thing off his finger and gives it to Joseph in front of all the other ministers of his government. Um he gives him fine clothing and a gold necklace And so we see God has taken Joseph from being a slave and a prisoner to being the second most powerful man in Egypt. And Egypt, at the time, is the most powerful nation on earth. So he makes Joseph the second most powerful man on the entire planet from being a slave. One minute he's a s he's a slave and a prisoner, and the next minute he's the second most powerful man on the planet And God did that, and God had that planned all along. Joseph couldn't see it. Nobody at the time could have seen it, but this is what God had planned. Um and and that should be impossible. It should be impossible for somebody who is a slave and a prisoner to then just in a blink of an eye become the second most powerful man on earth You've probably seen pictures. This is a picture of a gold necklace that came out of a tomb in Egypt. And so that's the gold kind of gold necklace that we're talking about that Pharaoh put around Joseph's neck. That thing You've probably seen this in Egyptian archaeological exhibits or something. But that's what that's the kind of the symbol of office in ancient Egypt. A gold necklace that looks like that. We're not talking about a little tiny string here, but something like that that everybody can see from a mile away. That's what he put around his neck, gave him the signal ring, put him in fine clothes, uh all these things. And so uh I just want to point out one of the commentaries uh talks about there's a document from a tomb A tomb from about this time period, 1500 BC. It's the tomb of a government official, Rechmire. From the 18th dynasty in Egypt, and the document lists the duties of the vizier, the prime minister of Egypt. Its head says he's the grand steward of all of Egypt. And he was the vizier under Tutmosis III, King Tut III. And his list of responsibilities is Overseer of the Treasury, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. Chief of Police, Minister of War, Secretary of the Interior, Secretary of Agriculture, and other positions. So essentially he's in charge of the whole country. All the responsibility, all the authority in the country. And this is most likely the position that Pharaoh gave to Joseph. So it was a position that had been there under other pharaohs. And He gave it to Joseph. He gave all this these authority and to Joseph. And so if anybody came to Pharaoh with questions, he said, go see Joseph. Um so uh an application of what we see here. Uh three times in this section dec uh Joseph declared that what is happening in Egypt is due to the providence of God. In chapter 41, 41, verse 25, verse 28, verse 32, he see he he's very specific that this is God's action. God is taking action here And so once again, the the whole section of scripture is about the providence of God and the sovereignty of God. But we see that here in this section of Scripture very, very clearly. And Joseph sees it Joseph's very explicit about telling Pharaoh that God is telling him telling Pharaoh what he's going to do. Nothing is occurring in Egypt apart from God's will is what uh what Joseph is telling this pagan king John Calvin said, hence we maintain that by his providence not heaven and earth and inanimate creatures only, but also the counsels and wills of men are so governed as to move exactly in the course which he has destined. That's what's going on here. So the final thing we're going to talk about to oh we've only got 10 minutes. The final thing we want to talk about is is the initial meeting of Joseph with his brothers. So uh let's go through this quickly. Um we'll get back to it next week we'll talk about it some more. But Genesis chapter 42. So the very next chapter, starting in verse 1. Now Jacob saw that there was grain in Egypt. So Jacob's back up there in Hebron in the land of Canaan. And the famine has started. Jacob saw that there was grain in Egypt, and Jacob said to his sons, Why are you staring at one another? Why are you idiots sitting around looking at one another. He said, Behold, I have heard that there is grain in Egypt. Go down there and buy some for us from that place, so that we may live and not die. In other words, things are getting dire. And you clowns that I have for sons are not doing anything about it. But Jacob did not uh so so then ten brothers of Joseph went to buy grain from Egypt. So how many brothers does Joseph have? It's got eleven. Ten of them go, but Jacob did not send Joseph's brother Benjamin with his brothers, for he said, I am afraid that harm may befallen. He doesn't care that harm will befall the other ten, but he's afraid that harm will befall Benjamin. So we still see this favoritism of of Jacob. So the sons of Israel came to buy grain among those who were coming, for the famine was in the land of Canaan also. So it's not just Egypt, it's a widespread famine. Now Joseph was the ruler over the land. He was the one who sold to all the people of the land. And Joseph's brothers came and bowed down to him with their faces to the ground. What does that sound like? When Joseph saw his brothers, he recognized them, but he disguised himself to them and spoke to them harshly. And he said to them, Where have you come from? And they said, From the land of Canaan, to buy food. But Joseph had recognized his brothers, although they did not recognize him Joseph remembered the dreams which he had about them and said to them, You are spies. You have come to look at the unfended parts of our land. Then they said to him, No, my lord, but our your servants have come to buy food. We are all sons of one man, we are honest men, your servants are not spies. Yet he said to them, No, but you have come to look at the undefended parts of our land. But they said, Your servants are twelve brothers and all the sons of one man in the land of Canaan, and behold, the youngest is with our father today And one is no longer alive. Verse 14. Joseph said to them, It is as I said, you are spies. By this you will be tested by the life of Pharaoh. You shall not go from this place unless your youngest brother comes here. Send one of you that he may get your brother while you remain confirmed. Find that your words may be tested, whether there is truth in you. But if not, by the life of Pharaoh, surely you are spies. So he put them all together in prison for three days. Ha! Get a little taste. Three days of prison for you, Fowl brothers. Now Joseph said to them on the third day, do this and live, for I fear God. If you are us men, let one of your brothers be confined in your prison. But as for the rest of you, go carry grain for the famine of your households, and bring your youngest brother to me, so your words may be verified, and you will not die. And they did so So, the brothers come down to Egypt and the famine comes, people are all over uh from all over the Middle East go to Egypt to buy grain 'cause it's the only place they have grain, because they were the only ones that were smart enough to save during the seven years of of plenty. Everybody else ate up all their grain. They partied and they don't have any left now. Uh Jacob learns that there is grain in Egypt, so he sends his son, except for Benjamin. Joseph recognizes his brothers, they bow down before him, but they do not recognize him. He speaks harshly with them And ask them whether and we'll see later, uh uh later when we s talk about this next week that he's actually speaking in Egyptian. He's got a Hebrew translator So he's he's speaking harshly to them in Egyptian and uh if somebody's translating so uh they they have no idea that this is Joseph because he It's hard to recognize somebody's voice if they're speaking in another language. Uh they tell Joseph that there are twelve brothers, the sons of one man. They explain the youngest one is home and another's dead Um he commands them to send one brother back for Benjamin while the rest rot in prison. Uh after three days in prison he changes it he he relents and says, hey, just leave one guy in prison and the rest can go. As I mentioned, there are things, there are indications that there were uh Hebrews in Egypt all the way back in the time period we're talking about. Uh there's a tomb painting. that shows a garb that's recognizable as ancient Hebrew garb. And of course we have a painting from the 1700s of Joseph, his brothers bowing to him Uh once again it doesn't look very Middle Eastern uh in this painting. Um so what's going on here? So we have People from all over the world have to go to Egypt, because uh and God has arranged it, so then people from all over the world have to go to Egypt for grain It's the only place that has food, and this is two years into the seven-year famine. So the seven years of plenty have passed. Now we're two years, we're the second year into there being no food everywhere else. People are starting to get hungry And they have to go to Egypt to get food. Uh, Jacob seems a little annoyed that his sons are just sitting around not doing anything. He takes action and commands his sons to go down into Egypt to buy grain. He sends ten of his eleven sons, holds back Benjamin, the only remaining son, or so he thinks. of his beloved wife Rachel. Skill with the favoritism thing When they get to Egypt, the brothers come face to face with Joseph and bow down to him with their faces to the ground. And so this is an obvious fulfillment of Joseph's dreams in Genesis 37. So God had Predicted this in a dream years before. So uh this the dream was when J when Joseph was seventeen, now he's almost forty. Um and so the dream was decades before. Uh Genesis uh chapter 37. The brothers do not recognize Joseph. So the brothers don't realize that they're fulfilling this dream Which is no great surprise. They last saw him when he was seventeen. Now he's about forty. So he was thirty when he interpreted Pharaoh's dreams. Then there has been seven years of a good harvest. and there have been two years of famine. And so assuming that they started that the good years started immediately, which is really what kind of what the Joseph says about the dream being something that's about to happen, then at a absolute minimum Joseph is 39. Um and so there can be differences in appearance between a seventeen-year-old boy and a forty-year-old man. And not only that, but he's dressed as an Egyptian. He's dressed up in this fancy Egyptian garb, and the Egyptians shaved. And the uh the ancient Hebrews didn't shave. So the ancient Hebrews had big beards. The Egyptians shaved, and so Joseph would have been shaved, and he's in fancy Egyptian garb and he's speaking Egyptian. And so they don't recognize him. This guy does not look like the little 17-year-old boy they threw into the pit that's standing up there as the lord of all of Egypt. They don't recognize him He's dressed as an Egyptian, he has the Egyptian name, and he's speaking Egyptian. So he would have been he would not have been introduced to them as Joseph, but as his Egyptian name. Pharaoh had given him an Egyptian name And that's how he would have been introduced. And he's speaking Egyptian, he's dressed as an Egyptian. And they think that Joseph is dead. So their eyes are not going to tell them that that's Joseph. No no possible way. And Joseph plays the part. He speaks he recognized them right away, but he speaks harshly to them. And he speaks harshly to them in Egyptian. He repeatedly calls them spies. There's like three or four different times in this little six in scripture. No, you're spies. No, no, you're spies. They try they try to tell him, no, no, we're not spies, we're just brothers. No, you're spies. He keeps going over and over again, No, you're spies. I know you're spies. Um and then he throws them into prison. Um And although he he ends up only keeping one brother, he originally threw them all in prison and said, I'll let one go back and get your other brother. And then after three days, three days of riding in prison, not knowing what's going to happen to him, He switches that and says one stays in prison and the rest can go back with with grain. Um so and we're gonna pick the story up there next week because we're out of time. Uh any last-minute comments or questions? We have just a minute or two about what we see here in the life of Joseph and how God has orchestrated events through uh tremendous coincidences um to really make joseph suffer, put him through a lot of harsh treatment, and then elevate him to be the second most powerful man in the world. Just at the right time to save his chosen people. Okay. If there are no yes, go ahead. Even though very difficult things happen to Joseph, at every step of the way uh God chose his faith was by giving him Faber in Costner's house, getting them paper and then in uh prison and then getting in paper and ferrol. So God's mercy with doesn't kind of uh Right. Joseph knew that God was with him. He had some sort of understanding that God was with him. Um and I think we can infer that's why he didn't despair. Uh because he knew that God was with him. He could see God's hand He couldn't see the whole picture, but he could see enough of God's hand taking care of him in in his his uh circumstances, however bad the circumstances were, he could always see that God was God's hand was there taking care of him um i if you if you know where to look. And so if you're if you're looking for God's hand of providence, then I think you can see it in many cases, even in difficult circumstances. And I think that characterizes Joseph's attitude, the way Joseph looked at things. Uh yes. Uh yeah, go ahead. And so it was not a positive thinking, you know, in a way. It was suffering and hard. Yeah Yeah. It wasn't, you know, e everything is wonderful. He he recognized I mean obviously he was a slave and he was in prison. That's not that's not ideal. Yeah. Very good. Alright. Any any others? Alright, let's close in prayer.