Okay, so here we are in part twenty-five, which is the last part of this particular series. So This week ends our study of Genesis 1 to 11, and next week starts a new quarter with new classes. And so you have to sign up for a new class starting next quarter. I will be teaching one of those classes and it'll be a continuation of this class essentially. So I'm going to be teaching of Genesis 12 to 50. next quarter. And so it's quite a bit s uh faster pace uh than taking twenty five parts to do Genesis one to eleven than taking thirteen parts to do twelve to fifty. So twenty five parts to do eleven chapters and then thirteen parts to do thirty-eight chapters. Um so uh it'll be a little quicker pace. And essentially it's gonna be about the life of um Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and Joseph, those four patriarchs. But the focus is going to be the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Joseph. uh Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. So um that's gonna be what I'm gonna be teaching. There'll be other options of course. Um and then Uh eventually um I found out this week that after that I'm gonna be teaching the book of Revelation. Uh So from the beginning to the end. Uh so but next quar but so next Sunday is a new quarter, uh a new set of classes, and I'll be continuing on in Genesis uh in that court. Okay. So um let me s let me just uh for the last part of uh uh last Sunday of Black History Month, I want to go through uh another person uh who I consider to be a a great man from history, uh Booker Telefero Washington, usually known as Booker T. Washington. He was born into slavery at the very end. So he he was kind of the last generation of African American leaders that was born into slavery. He was born in 1856. He was an educator. He established and founded his own college. He was an author and orator. He was a trusted advisor to multiple presidents of the United States. Um between eighteen ninety and nineteen fifteen he was the dominant leader in the African American community. Um He was as I said he was the last generation born in slavery. He was a little boy when the the Civil War ended. Um And he was the last generation that was born in slavery and then was a boy of kind of of a leading voice for former slaves and their descendants. He was a proponent of African American businesses. He founded a business league for African American businesses. Uh he founded the Tuskegee Institute, a historically black college in Tuskegee, Alabama. And he was the key to forming a coalition uh of uh African American leaders and also he he he was he was a great uh builder of uh of coalitions and He he formed this collision between African American leaders and the church was one of the key things that he did. Um and then also philanthropists and politicians. And his long-term goal was to build economic strength in the African American community and strengthen pride by focusing on self self-help and education. He really focused on education And so he wrote an autobiography, which I also recommend. You should definitely read the autobiography of Frederick Douglass, and you should also definitely read the autobiography of Booker T. Washington. It's called Up From Slavery. And uh I just put a quote, I pulled a quote from his autobiography here. Uh this is what Washington said, if no other consideration had convinced me of the value of the Christian life the Christlike work which the church of all denominations in America has done during the last thirty-five years, by which he means eighteen sixty five to nineteen hundred when he's writing the autobiography. for the elevation of the black man would have made me a Christian. So that's a quote from his autobiography. And he's talking about the witness of the church, the the actions of the church in his experience uh as a black man in America after the Civil War. So great men of history, uh worth getting to know. So what we look what will we learn today? So we're gonna we've uh we've been through uh verse by verse through Genesis 1 to 11 that gives us this perspective, and now we're trying to apply it to uh situations that we could encounter in our lives today. So there's two possible cultural perspectives, and we'll talk about what those are in 1 Corinthians chapter 1 And to one, from one of these perspectives, the cross of Christ is a stumbling block. That's to the uh essentially the Jewish perspective. The cross of Christ is foolishness from the Greek or Gentile perspective. And so we're going to look at two examples in the New Testament. about how the Holy Spirit prompted different apostles to approach different groups of people based on their worldview One will be Peter's sermon in Jerusalem in Acts chapter 2. He has a Jewish audience with a Jewish worldview. And at the end, there are people that are saved through this sermon of Peter's. And then we'll look at Paul's sermon at the Areopagus on Mars Hill in Athens in Acts chapter 17. That's a Gentile or Greek audience with a Gentile or Greek worldview. And of course, some sneered, but also some joined him and believed at the end of that sermon which the Holy Spirit prompted Paul to give in Athens Um and then we'll talk about which one of these worldviews uh most closely aligns with what we see in contemporary America. So which in other words, which approach do we need to take with most people that we're going to meet in our daily lives. And then we'll talk about at the end, hopefully I'll have time to talk about an application within the church. So that's what we're going to talk about today. So first we want to do a little review. So in part three, uh we we did first we talked about the foundation of the biblical worldview, uh which was a review of what we had gone through from many weeks before. The God of the Bible created everything, including people, and he's sovereign over his creation. Um and people created in his image there therefore are different from the rest of creation. So there's this hierarchy. There's God above everything, and then there's people that are made in his image, and then there's everything else that's not made in his image. There's a hierarchy there. Um and men and women all have therefore very high value um because everybody's made in the image of God. People are made in the image of God. People are also made, particularly for a relationship with that creator. Uh and then we so that was the beginning, that was the that's the foundation of how we see people. That's one foundation. The second major component of how we see people is because of the fall we see through um starting in Genesis chapter three but but very fully explained by Paul in Romans chapter five and Romans chapter six is that because of the fall we have sin in the world and all of Adam's descendants are born with a sin nature. And so every man and woman that we encounter needs salvation. Uh and everyone alive today then falls in it falls under these two very important facts. First of all, everybody's descended from Adam, so we're all one race. And second, everybody has fallen in Adam and therefore in need of salvation. So infinite value or very high value because created in the image of God, all one race, descended from Adam. And all in need of salvation because all are born with a sin nature. Those are the critical elements of who we are as human beings. And we get all that from uh we get a foundation for that in Genesis 1 to 11. And so then we want to apply what we learn about who people are. to this contemporary problem of racism, which is a manifestation of the particular sin, a particular manifestation of the sin of partiality And all sin is lawlessness and rebellion against God. And so that particular sin of racism, par partiality, is an act of rebellion against God and lawlessness. Um and so the solution that the Bible gives is repentance, followed by obedience to God, which is only possible in Christ. Uh and so if we really want to solve the contemporary problem of racism The answer is to do the work that we're assigned, that Jesus assigned his disciples at the very beginning of the church to make disciples. uh because there is unity in in Christ. And so uh we went over last time uh these two facts. One is a biological fact that all humans are one race and then we're going to get to the fact the spiritual facts. So there's a biological fact and a spiritual fact that we went over last time That we're uh Adam's race, the human race, there's only one race. Um Acts chapter 17, which we're going to look at more today, says that from one man he made every nation. We went through this what this is I borrowed from AIG, Answers in Genesis, the seven C's of history, which go through the the historical and biological fact that we're all descended from Adam and Eve and more recently from uh Noah and his sons, but also this the Bible's description of history also talks about A spiritual fact that there are two spiritual races and we got into that last time. So first of all, we're a created race. So uh we have Genesis 1, creation of men and women. Uh so we're a created race But we're also a corrupted race. Originally everything was made very good, Genesis 131, but then we had the fall in Genesis chapter through three. So we're a created race that has corrupted uh we're a fallen race. Um and Romans 5, uh Paul talks about the fact that through one man sin entered the world and death through sin and death spread to all men. Then there was a catastrophe, uh the flood. Um God looked at the um the evil of man on the earth and he decided to blot out all but eight people on the ark. And so the eight people on the ark from whom all of us are descended were a rescued remnant. And so we're a rescued race. All of us are descended from those who were rescued. Um just a few people, eight, were saved uh on the ark, and we are descended from those eight. We're a rescued race. Then there's the confusion of the Tower of Babel where God scattered people across the world. So we're a scattered race, scattered into different people groups and cultures. by the action of God at Babel. Um and so that's the historical fact. So we went through that historical fact and we took great pains to show that uh everybody is descended from those sons of Adam or son of Adam and Eve and then Noah and his sons. That was the biological historical fact, but there's another fact Um that's even more important than the historical fact, and that's the spiritual fact that all humans are divided into two races. And those that division is not based on superficial external characteristics Notice that the two spiritual races we talked about, the kingdom of light, kingdom of darkness. The kingdom of light is full of people from all different racial and ethnic backgrounds and the kingdom of darkness is also filled with all sorts of people from every racial and ethnic background. Uh it's uh what matters is the direction in which they are racing. Are they racing towards the kingdom of darkness or are they racing towards the kingdom of light? two races, one and two kingdoms, the kingdom of darkness and kingdom of light, and there is no third. Um and so then we talked about Christ that um um that God sent uh Christ to be a man, the incarnation, uh to die on the cross. Um and then we talked about a couple of the verses that taught that show that There is a spiritual inflection point then. If you confess with your mouth, Jesus is the Lord, believe in your heart, God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. And then the fact that the Bible describes that saved race as a those that are saved as a race, uh a chosen race, a holy nation, a people for God That's how the Bible describes those who are saved. And so this is the spiritual idea of two spiritual races. Um and then the cross we have uh Paul's further description in Romans chapter five that through one man death came, but through the the The righteous act of one man, Christ, justifies all men, and through the obedience of one, many were made. will be made righteous. So that's the cross, and so there's a saved race. So spiritually, spiritually now you have two races. You have a saved race in Christ. Uh Ephesians 2 says this is by grace through faith that people are saved, and that's one spiritual race. And then we talked about well what's the other spiritual race? And so when Jesus was in his earthly ministry He talked about this fact that there are two, two groups of people. Um he talked about a narrow gate and a wide gate, uh, and that there are a few that go through the narrow gate, and there are many that go through the wide gate And then he talked, that was in Matthew chapter seven, and Matthew chapter twenty-five, Jesus talks about his second coming. When the Son of Man comes in his glory. So Jesus is talking about his second coming and all the angels with him. And then there's going to be a separation, he says. Sheep and goats. is how he describes them. And at the end of that passage in Matthew 25, verse 41, Jesus says, Then he will also say to those on his left, Depart from me, accursed ones, into the eternal fire. Which has been prepared for the devil and his angels. So there is also spiritually there's a lost race. So spiritually, there's a saved race, and spiritually there's a lost race. Uh and we find out about that um uh uh the fate of that lost race in Revelation chapter twenty The Great White Throne judgment, and anyone whose name is not found written in the book of life is thrown into the lake of fire. So there's a lost race. And so when we look out at the people we know, our neighbors, our friends, our coworkers, our family members Who are not saved, they're in this lost race, and the Bible tells us where they are headed. They're headed for being thrown into the lake of fire. Um and so this should stir in us compassion and it should stir in us action. Um because we see where these people that we care about are going. People that are created in the image of God and therefore uh of very high value Um they're headed for being tossed into the lake of fire, according to the scriptures. Now, uh there are different ways that you can explain that to people. Um Some that are more likely to convince than others. However, remember that a person that is not in Christ is spiritually dead. And spiritual things are discerned by the Spirit, and the only way that they can discern spiritual things is to be regenerated by the Holy Spirit. Now, there's a mystery there. Then W wh why does God need us? And so the easy answer is, of course, he he doesn't need us. However, he has called us to be to participate in this process. And so out of obedience, we do participate in the process. And so we know, we've read in the Bible what ha w where these were these people these valuable people, people that we care about where they're headed and they don't see it. And so God, of course, He can save who He chooses without us. But the Bible explains that We're commanded to make disciples. So uh the final C is uh consummation, so uh where we are headed in the future. Uh described in the book of Revelation, uh I looked in a great multitude which no one could count from every nation and tribe and people and tongues, standing before the throne, before the land, clothed in white robes palm branches in their hands, uh salvation to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. Um and of and then of course uh in Revelation chapter one 21, he will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There will no longer be any death, no longer any mourning or crying or pain. So that's where we're headed at the end of history. Christ's second coming, new heavens and new earth No sin, no death, no pain, no suffering. That's the end of history as described in the Bible Um and so at at that point there will only be one race, uh the Lamb's race, in the new heavens and the new earth. There's only one spiritual race too, uh, the lamb's race. Um No longer any curse. The throne of God and the Lamb and his bondservants will serve him. His name will be on their foreheads. They're his people. Um no longer any night, they won't need a light because the Lord will illumine them and they will reign forever and ever. That's the end of history, yes. So the conservation is the second coming of Christ, and so there's a whole series of um uh events described in the book of Revelation that uh accompany the second coming of Christ. Uh the rapture, the tribulation, the thousand year reign, and finally the great white throne throne judgment and the new heavens and the new earth So yeah, that's that's the um revelation in a nutshell. So what does all this tell us? So we have these this biological fact and we have this spiritual fact and so when we look at a human being what what do we just think? Um well first of all I think we need to look past the the superficial um uh look past the genetics, look past the the m the the outward appearance of a person. Um look at the person's mind, needs, heart, cares, hurt, spiritual condition. Um in 1 Samuel chapter 16, Samuel goes to anoint a new king, and he's got all the sons of Jesse lined up. And he looks at the firstborn son of Jesse, and he's a big strapping lad, and um, and the Lord tells Samuel something very interesting. The Lord said to Samuel, Do not consider his appearance or his height, for I have rejected him. The Lord does not look at the things people look at. People look at the outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart. And so this is a call, I think. This is an important thing for us to internalize. Uh we should think of people and look at people the way the Lord does And so we need to look at the spiritual condition as the most important thing about that person. And so Satan has a way of distracting. And so uh Satan would love for us to look at the external appearance and be distracted by all kinds of things that the world talks about in the world uh obsesses over, but the Bible tells us we're supposed to look at people's hearts and their spiritual condition as the most important thing about that person. And not be distracted by the things that Satan wants to say are important, because those things, according to the Bible, don't look at his appearance. Look at look at his heart. So we talked about at the end of class last time um this idea of the ministry of reconciliation in second chapter 2 Corinthians chapter 5 that We were once of the kingdom of darkness. Now we're in the kingdom of light, and God describes us as ambassadors for Christ back to that kingdom of darkness, people that are stuck in that kingdom of darkness. making an appeal, uh begging on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God. That's the ministry of reconciliation. Those of us who are saved out of the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of light, going back to people that are still stuck in that kingdom of darkness. and making an appeal on behalf of Christ that they be reconciled with God before they get to that point where they're tossed into the lake of fire. Okay. Uh and then we talked uh about unity in in Ephesians chapter four, one body, one spirit, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God. There's a unity. in Christ that peop we are people from all different walks of life, different backgrounds, different different ethnic people groups. But once we're in Christ, we're one body, one spirit, one Lord, one faith, one baptism And uh but there is a diversity, I want you to see, that is celebrated here in Ephesians chapter 4. And that diversity is the diversity of gifts that He's given each one of us Everybody's been given some different spiritual gift that's supposed to be used for what purpose? For the equipping of the saints, for the work of service, to the building up to the body of Christ. That's the diversity that is celebrated in scriptures. diversity of spiritual gifts within the church. So if you see somebody that's serving in a certain way, that's something that the Holy Spirit says should really be celebrated. You should really celebrate the gift that the Holy Spirit has given that person. Not what they look like on the outside. You should be celebrating what gift they've been gifted by the Holy Spirit and how they're exercising their spo their their spiritual gift to equip the saints for service Um and and at the end of this passage, the proper working of each individual part, each one of us that has been given a particular role, a particular gift by the Holy Spirit Each one of us doing our role within the church, that's what causes the growth of the body. Um that's how the the the scriptures describes uh unity in the church. And then uh Ephesians chapter four comes after Ephesians chapter one through three, which gives us the background of the foundation for unity, which is uh the sound doctrine that is explained in in chann in chapters one through three. And he explains, Paul explains that the unity which is in the church is by the action of the Lord Jesus Christ, an action completed in the past, his work on the cross, that's what gives us unity. And so um I'm quoting from uh a book by Martin Loyne Jones called The Basis of Christian Unity But he says this at the end of his um his exposition of Ephesians chapter four. He says we must get rid entirely of the notion that the Ephesians are being exhorted to produce or to arrive at something. The Ephesians are not being called to to make unity in the church by their own power. Because that's a disaster. We as human beings don't do the unity thing very well. We we don't. Just look around at the the world around us. People are divided in so many different ways. When people try to uh to create unity based on their own strength, their own power, their own intellect, it's a huge disaster What the Bible is telling us is the unity that we have in the church is built on Christ, the work of Christ, and that is a finished fact. something that he's already accomplished, not something that we have to, in our feeble efforts, arrive at or build or produce Uh and that's really good news that that we have unity in a cr in Christ that doesn't depend on me and my my efforts. What a what a disaster that would be. But it's it's based on Christ and his finished work on the cross and therefore we can have real good confidence in the unity that we have in the church. Okay. So that was last time. So Uh now we've got to do the new stuff. Um so I want to talk about two particular applications the Bible tells us about that we can look at that can help us when we approach people with the gospel in 21st century America. So looking back at 1 Corinthians chapter 1. So open your Bible to 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and let's take a look at this passage So this is Paul writing to the church in Corinth, and starting in verse 17, he says, For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel. So I'm here for I'm here to preach the gospel, not in cleverness of speech, so that the cross of Christ would not be made void. For the word of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing But to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the cleverness of the clever I will set aside. Where is the wise man? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? For since in the wisdom of God the world through its wisdom did not come to know God, God was well pleased through the foolishness of the message preached to save those who believe. For indeed Jews ask for signs and Greeks seek for wisdom. But we preach Christ crucified, to Jews a stumbling block, and to Gentiles foolishness But to those who are the called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God, because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. So I want you to notice that the cross of Christ, the the preaching of the gospel, that Jesus died on the cross for our sins, it's a stumbling block Jews, those who have a worldview that's steeped in um in Judaism, that understand the Old Testament, the cross of Christ is a stumbling block. And we're gonna talk about how that is and why. And to Gentiles, it's foolishness. Okay, so we're going to take a look at two sermons in the in the uh New Testament, two sermons that illustrate this point. First one is Peter's sermon on the day of Pentecost in Acts chapter 2. So what was the audience? Who was Peter talking to in Acts chapter 2? So yes, so the Bible tells us who his audience were Acts chapter 2 verse 5. Now there were Jews living in Jerusalem, devout men. So these are devout Jews. So they would have known the scriptures. Devout Jews. That's who he's talking to. And where are they from? They're from every nation under heaven, Parthians and Medes and Elamites and residents of Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia, Pontius and Asia, Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt and the districts of Libya around Cyrene. and visitors from Rome, both Jews and proselytes, so people that were born Jews and people who had converted to Judaism, Cretans and Arabs. So people from all over had come for the Passover to Jerusalem and they were still here for Pentecost. And so they were devout Jews who would have known the scriptures, and they're from everywhere. That's who the audience was for Peter's sermon in Acts chapter 2. So let's take a look at how Peter goes about. How does the Holy Spirit prompt Peter to preach to this particular audience? So, turn over in your Bible to Acts chapter 2, and let's take a look at this sermon he preaches to this particular audience. And then we're going to look at how different a sermon by Paul is to a completely different audience. Okay, so Acts chapter two. Starting in verse 22, men of Israel, listen to these words. Jesus the Nazarene, a man attested to you by God with miracles and wonders and signs. which God performed through him in your midst, just as you yourselves know. This man delivered over by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God you nailed to a cross by the hands of godless men and put him to death. But God raised him up again, putting an end to the agony of death, since it was impossible for him to be held in its power. So take a look, men of Israel. So this is who he's addressing his audience. And he's addressing his audience and he tells them first off that this Jesus is attested by God. Notice He doesn't try to explain which God. They know who God is. These are uh devout Jews. He doesn't have to try to explain who God is. He knows his audience. They know who God is. He just starts out by saying, Jesus is attested by God, the God you know. He doesn't have to say anything anything more, just attested by God Uh the miracles that were performed were performed by God, uh through God, which God performed through him. And then it was God who raised him up again. Um so they have a background, he assumes their background, he preaches the sermon knowing that they understand what he's talking about. He doesn't have to explain who God is. Then he continues, therefore let all the house of Israel know for certain that God has made him both Lord and Christ. Christ in Greek means anointed one. The Hebrew is Messiah, which means anointed one. Same thing. This Jesus whom you crucified. Now, when they heard this, they were pierced to the heart and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Brethren, what shall we do? Peter said to them, Repent, and each of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. So then those who had received his word were baptized, and that day were added about 3,000 souls. So once again, we see he he knows his audience, house of Israel. He's talking to Jews, a Jewish audience here Um and then he ref he says that God, who they know from the scriptures, has made him both Lord and Christ, and so God has made him uh Christ, the Messiah Um which is a term that they understood from the Old Testament. And then so they they understood what he said, and the Holy Spirit regenerated um uh there was a s there were three thousand people who were brought from spiritual death to spiritual life and were added to the church that day through the sermon that the s the Holy Spirit had Peter preached that day in a certain way to a certain audience. Um so in Acts chapter two, this is another cartoon I stole from uh AIG They have a certain foundation. The audience has a foundation. They know God the Creator. They know about man and sin and death. and and the the the consequences of sin from Genesis chapter three. They know all that. They have this foundation already in place. And so Peter doesn't have to explain all that. He knows they have that foundation and he can go straight to Christ crucified and resurrected. He doesn't have to lay the foundation that's already there in his Jewish audience. However, the cross of Christ is a stumbling block. They stumble over the fact that the Messiah is killed because what was the Jewish expectation for this anointed one? He was David's descendant. He was going to take David's throne. He was going to kick the Romans out. They had a certain expectation. And dead on a cross was not it. That was a stumbling block. to the Jewish audience. So he adds this not only is Christ crucified, but resurrected. God raised him from the dead in power. That's what he adds on top of their foundation already there of Creator. So that's one sermon. Very effective. A certain audience. The sermon is crafted by the Holy Spirit to be able to reach that audience Now let's take a look at a totally different audience with a totally different worldview. So Paul's sermon at the Areophagus in Athens in Acts chapter 17. So turn up to Acts chapter 17. And so who was the audience in Acts chapter 17? So he's in Athens. Athens was the cultural capital of the world going back centuries. Um no city in the world had more idols than Athens. There was a Roman consul named Petronius who left this uh in his writings. It is easier to find a god than a man in Athens. That's how many gods they had. Um they sought after wisdom. Of course, this uh earthly wisdom would never lead to the true God. So what else does it say about the audience? So if you get to um Acts chapter 17 and verse 18, we get this description. And also some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers were conversing with him, conversing with Paul. So part of his audience was definitely Epicurean and Stoic philosophers. Some were saying, what would this idle babbler wish to say? Others, he seems to be a proclaimer of strange deities So, who are these Epicurean and Stoic philosophers? So Epicureans were followers of Epicure Epicurus who had died about three hundred years before this. So he died in about two seventy B C this is uh you know, about fifty um A. D. the Paul's talking at the Areopagus during his second missionary journey, somewhere around 50 A. D. So uh he's been dead for over three hundred years, but he still has followers in Athens. They didn't believe in afterlife. They believed that there were all these gods, but they were uninvolved, sort of like the deists believed. Um similar today's secularist Uh the chief good, according to the Epicureans, consisted in gratification of appetites. Pleasure was the only end in life. That was the Epicureans. What about the Stoics? They followed a philosopher named Zeno, who had also been dead for over three hundred years. They used to meet in a place called Stoa in Athens, thus the Stoics. Man should be free from passion, moved by neither joy nor grief, pleasure nor pain. We get the the English word stoic, stoicism, stoic, to be stoic from this philosophy. They believed in gods, but that all human affairs were governed solely by fate. They believed that there was a divine spark in all, similar to today's New Age thinker. So this is the audience. And so how does Paul, prompted by the Holy Spirit, approach this audience? And I want you to notice how it's different from how the Holy Spirit has Peter address the audience in Acts chapter 2. So in Acts chapter 17, so Paul stood in the midst of the Areopagus and said, Men of Athens I observe that you are very religious in all respects. For while I was passing through and examining the objects of your worship, I also found an altar with this inscription, to an unknown God. Therefore, what you worship in ignorance, this I proclaim to you, the God who made the world and all things in it. Since he is Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made with hands, nor is he served by human hands, as though he needed anything Since he himself gives to all people life and breath and all things, and he made from one man every nation of mankind to live on all the face of the earth. So where does Paul start So first he's addresses his audience, it's the men of Athens, it's these people with a Greek world view. He but first he starts with explaining who God is. Peter didn't have to explain that to the Jewish audience, they knew who he was This audience, they need to know who in the world is this God that Paul's talking about. He explains who he is. He's the God that made the whole world. He goes back to creation, back to Genesis 1. This is the God who made the world. He needs to explain the true history of the world from Genesis 1 to these people. Peter didn't have to do that in Acts chapter 2. He is the Lord of heaven and earth. He's in charge. He's sovereign over this whole creation. And he also made people. And he he gives a very brief description of what we learned in Genesis 1-11, that from one man he made all the nations of people. He explains that. Peter didn't have to explain that to the Jews. They knew all that. Uh that he was talking to in Acts chapter 2. In Acts chapter 17, Paul needs to explain. He needs to go back to creation. He needs to go back to Genesis 1 to 11 and explain who this God is. This is the God who made everything, and he made people, and people are all descended from one man that God made And that's who uh all people are. Yes. Well, um we don't know for sure um but it would have been Certainly not clearly enough for them to understand really what Paul. So Paul needed to make some details here. And so he goes back to these details about who God is first who people are second, and then he brings in Jesus once he's done that. Um and so, um then to verse thirty Uh Paul goes on. He says, Therefore, having overlooked the times of ignorance, God is now declaring to man that all people everywhere should repent. Because he has fixed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness through a man whom he has appointed, having furnished proof to all men by raising him from the dead. Now, when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some began to sneer. But others said, We shall hear you again concerning this. So Paul went out of their midst, but some men joined him and believed, among whom also were Dionysius, the Areopagite, and a woman named Dameris, and others with them. So after he's explained who God is and who people are, he goes to judgment. The judgment for sin. He has fixed a day in which he will judge And that judgment will be through a man who God has appointed. So this creator, the one who created heavens and earth, and is the Lord of heavens and earth, and he created people, he's going to judge sin and he's going to judge through a man who's he he's appointed and he's furnished proof That this is the man that God has appointed by raising him from the dead. So who's he talking about? He's obviously talking about Jesus here. Um and he's explaining um the resurrection and the fact that the resurrection is God's stamp or seal of approval that Jesus is the one through whom he's going to judge the world. That's what Paul says to this group of Greeks that have no background. or very little background anyway, on who the God of the Bible is. So some began to sneer. Resurrection of the dead, yeah, yeah, yeah, right. So some somebody came back, somebody dead and it came back to life. Yeah, right. Sneer, sneer, giggle, giggle. Um But some joined him and believed. And so as a result of this particular sermon that the Holy Spirit prompted Paul to give the Holy Spirit also regenerated people, people from spiritual death to spiritual life, based on this sermon. uh the Holy Spirit also used to bring people from the kingdom of darkness to the kingdom of light. So in Acts chapter 17, if if Paul had just said God then what what mental picture would his audience have given? Does he mean Zeus? Does he mean Aphrodite? Does he mean Poseidon? They had all these gods And so he couldn't just say God. He needed to explain who he was talking about. Peter didn't need to do that in Acts chapter two with the Jewish audience. Paul needed to do that because if he just said God, just said the word God, the word picture wouldn't have been right. The mental picture they got wouldn't have been right. He needed to clarify. Uh I want to give a modern example. Um so in if you go to Japan today, the the Japanese word for God is Khan. And if you go to uh the a ordinary, regular Japanese person and say the word kami, they don't they won't necessarily form a word picture of the God of the Bible. That word kami in Japanese doesn't generally mean the God of the Bible. It does for Christians, of course But for uh an unregenerate gen general run-of-the-mill person in Japan, that word kami in Japanese doesn't conjure up the God of the Bible. It conjures up all kinds of other stuff Uh Japanese history and tradition. Um so and the same thing with the word sin, it's not gonna work. Um in a culture like Japan. Anyway, so in general, in somebody that's got a worldview that's not based on uh the truths of the Bible. Uh The the gospel is foolishness, especially the part about somebody coming back from the dead. Somebody dying Dying, you know, being executed on a Roman uh cross two thousand years ago and then coming back from the dead, that's all foolishness to the Um the secular the general secular humanist mindset that's represented by the Greek way of thinking in Acts chapter 17. That's foolishness. So to the Jews it was a stumbling block that their Messiah would be killed. To the Greeks it's foolishness that somebody dying on the cross two thousand years ago uh would would mean anything and oh by the way, people don't come back from the dead. And so that's that's all foolishness. So what does Peter do? Peter says, well let's go let's start from the beginning. We need to go back and see who this God is and what the history of mankind is. We need to go back to Genesis, which is what he does Talks about God as creator. Talks about people being all descended from one man. Let's start from the beginning with that particular worldview. And so in Acts chapter seventeen, he needs to first replace the foundation that they have, many gods. Um Um with one God who made everything and is the Lord of heaven and earth, as Paul put it in Acts chapter seventeen. That foundation needs to be replaced first, and so that's what Paul does first Peter doesn't have to do that. That foundation is already there for those who know who God, the God of the Bible is. For those who don't, you need to replace that foundation first before you can even get started. And that's what Paul does in Acts chapter 17. And so in the world today, in our world today, what do we see? We see mostly this kind of Greek or Gentile worldview where if you s if you just say repent Jesus died for your sins, that's foolishness to most who we will be addressing in the twenty first century world. Well so where do they get where do they get their foundation from? Uh well it's the whole secular culture, education, media, everything. Is telling everybody that evolution is true, that people are the product of blind evolutionary chance, it's goody UV of the zoo Um you you're just evolved animals. Um that's the foundation that most people in our world today have. Um and that has consequences. We talked about that. And so in in many cases, even people that um that go to church, they they get Bible stories in church, but then when they go to school, they get real history. See see what I'm saying there? So this happens even within the church. People nod their heads and and they get Bible stories, um, but That's on Sunday, but then uh Monday through Saturday they they go to school and they learn from not just school but also everything that's in movies and everything that's that's in in media in our culture is telling them that the real history is the that we're evolved animals. Yes. That's very good. And I think we really need to be intentional about that in our education of our kids within the church. uh understand that the Bible gives us true history, what really happened. The the things that happened in Genesis one to eleven are uh are true. They really happened in real space-time history um and that If somebody tries to teach them something different than what they're trying to teach, which is contrary to the Bible, is wrong, is objectively false. Uh and that they need to we need to train people in the church from from childhood to be able to detect those things and to recognize them as falsehoods So that's a a great question. So what do you do? No. You know, public school teachers don't get to choose their uh and uh from the for the most part, don't get to choose the textbooks that they use. Um so y you can't you can't say uh um if you're a biology teacher you can't say I'm not gonna t teach evolution. I think that would be a mistake anyway. I think kids need to know the theory of evolution. Um Because there's so many things wrong with it. There's so many things that are obviously contrary to evidence that you can show, but you need to learn it to be able to see that it's false. But yeah, you don't get to choose. As a public school teacher, you don't get to choose the textbook that you use. You don't get to choose the curriculum that you're uh that you're going to teach. Um so as a public school teacher, what can you do? Well, you can, uh, to the best of your ability, teach what is true. However, in many settings, that's that's not allowed either Yeah. So um is is anybody here a public school teacher that can give that can give any um um insight into what you are allowed to do Yeah. So I mean and they kick them out for doing that. Yeah. Yeah, I think generally you should um In in whatever walk of life you're in, you should try to present the truth, God's truth, in any possi any way you can Uh if that's just with one-on-one interactions, then that's with one-on-one interactions. So uh with the other teachers, for example, um you could say, hey, I I don't believe that this is who people are. People are not evolved animals. They're created by God. So yeah, so I I taught physics at the academy and so um I can re you so most of physics of course has nothing to do with uh spiritual issues. However, um there are some issues in cosmology that do come up. And I can remember having some very interesting con uh conversations with uh my fellow professors In including one Christian, uh there was a Christian physicist, he was an uh astronomer, and um he made a statement to me that uh Well, I I can't I can't appro it wouldn't be appropriate for me to approach astronomy um as a Christian. I have to lay that aside. And I told him, No, you can't do that. Brother, please don't do that. Don't set aside your Christianity in order to study astronomy. Um And he paused and and I think he got it, but but that had been kind of his mindset coming up through his PhD pre he was a PhD astronomy guy uh and he was a devout believer, but he had like this um he had this divide here where on Sunday he got Bible stories And then he was a PhD uh astronomer, uh astronomy guy from Monday through Saturday. And um and I told him, Please don't don't do that. Your your Christianity should inform everything you do, including your astronomy. Yeah. So there's uh yeah, there's a lot of interesting um issues that you can bring up with somebody who's a believer in evolution and of course they have answers. They have their you know the the fossil record is incomplete and therefore it's missing and You know, we we would expect it to be there except the the fossil record is so spotty that th those uh intermediary forms are missing because we haven't found them yet. We we'll find them, but we haven't found them yet, but we will but The fossil record is very incomplete and once we've got it all filled in that they'll all be there. That's the kind of it's the kind of faith that they have and and that works. Yeah, so he he was kind of um he was doing what a lot of people do, um in it's a postmodern way of looking at things, that he had a separation in his brain where uh what Francis Schaeffer calls the upper story and lower story. The the upper story is spiritual things, lower story is w worldly things, and there's a wall there that separates them and they don't uh interact. So on Sunday I come and I I s I switch off my brain and I go to church and I hear uh spiritual things. And then on Monday through Saturday, I'm back in the real world Um and I I look at things from a s a secular view. And what I'm saying is that's not okay. That you that you that you're there is no difference between Sunday and Monday through Saturday and that uh that the truth from the Bible applies to not just Sunday but Monday through Saturday and everything in life. And uh so we need to see everything in life through a biblical lens. Your job and your your relationships with other people, everything through biblical lessons. Yeah, yeah. So of course yes, so persecution makes it uh uh makes it there's a cost. There's a cost from living your Christian life Monday through Saturday, there's a cost to that. And you know, as human beings we don't we shy away from uh pain and and suffering and things like that and Uh the Bible has some pretty stark passages about uh embracing suffering for Christ. Um and those are not popular passages. Uh most Most of the time. Yes. Right, that's right. So yeah, this is not going anywhere. Um the uh you know the s the secular worldview is not gonna um Evaporate. It's not gonna say, oh my bad, I was I was wrong about all this. That's not gonna happen. It's gonna be in our face for uh for the foreseeable future. Now of course the the Holy Spirit couldn't um I mean there it's possible for there to be revivals that really change cultures. That is possible. Um, but absent that, then we we've got this to deal with and it's going to be something we're gonna have to deal with. Alright, so uh and so what does 1 Peter chapter 3 tell us? Uh but in your heart set apart Christ as Lord. Always be prepared to give an answer to everyone who asks you to give the reason for the hope that you have. But do this with gentleness and respect. And so, um, this is the idea that if somebody asks you somebody asks you, Well, what do you believe? You need to be ready. We need to be ready to say what we believe and be bold about what we believe, but in gentleness and respect. So it's not going to do any good to um to beep somebody about the head and shoulders uh uh rhetorically about any of this. That doesn't do anybody any good. It has to be done in general respect. But we need to be ready with an answer when somebody asks because they will. Eventually somewhere along the line they're gonna ask, Well what do you believe? So are are you ready? Are you ready for that? So the Bible of course has answers Uh for all these things. Uh and we need to be ready with those answers from Scripture. And we have need to have an internalized biblical worldview where we understand we have this firm foundation of who God is, who we are as human beings who all the other human beings are that we're going to be talking to, who they are, that's the background and foundation for how we address them. What we're going to say to them has to have this foundation from the Bible. And so um we can start with, let me tell you about the true history of the world. Um, you know, this idea of who you are. You're you're not worthless. You know, we've we've got there's a terrible problem. I I um I just read a couple of articles yesterday about uh teenage girls in American culture today. The suicide rate is is just skyrocketing. It's the it's the leading cause of death. For teenage girls right now is suicide. Um there is hopelessness out there. Um and so going back to Genesis and and just telling people who they are as as cre as being created by a loving creator who created you in in his image and therefore you are of such high value Uh just telling a teenage girl that, who knows what impact you could have on the life of that person uh by telling her that. But I I was just Amazed by this article that I read yesterday about the suicide rate among American teenage girls. Just unbelievable Anyway, uh but we have there's there's hope in this the the Bible story. There's hope and so we need to be ready to give an answer to the hope that is in us um and portray it in such a way that they understand how they are loved You know, that's that's one of the great stories of the Bible is that people you're you were created by a loving creator that that cares about you. Um and I think that many in our culture need to hear that Now as a as a in a that's an an emergency need of many in our culture is to hear just that. You're created by a loving God who loves you. um just as a starting point. Okay. Um so in 21st American Secular Worldview, um Um if you tell an unbeliever that God sent Jesus to die on the cross for your sins, and he responds by saying, Which God are you talking about? And what do you mean by sin and why would someone have to die for it? So uh so God sent Jesus to die on the cross for your sins, that's the gospel. So you've just presented the gospel, and the and the response is this something like this So what do you do? Uh where do you go to show that person answers for his questions? Well, Genesis 1 to 11 is where you need to start. They they don't have any kind of background about who God is, who they are as a creation of his, created in his image, and fallen because of sin and therefore in need of salvation. All those things are background that need to be explained to that person before the f the phrase God sent Jesus to die on the cross for your sins will make any sense to to him. And so essentially in a twenty first American uh twenty-first century America we have a Greek worldview, the culture is the more like the Greek culture that Paul encountered in Athens than the Jewish culture that Peter encountered in Acts chapter 2. So maybe a hundred years ago in America, everybody knew if you said the word God, everybody would think of the God of the Bible. Maybe a hundred years ago Not today. Not today. And they don't have a maybe a hundred years ago in the general culture, everybody knew who Jesus was, knew that he died on the cross for sins, and if you said that phrase everybody would at least know what you were talking about. Today that's not the case. And so we need to have an approach that that uh takes into account the cr the audience. And the Bible shows that that's exactly how the early apostles did. Peter did not use the same kind of sermon in Acts two as Paul used in Acts chapter seventeen. Yes. Yeah, so that's right. And so notice in Acts chapter seventeen, Peter gets to um Jesus' death, resurrection, and judgment for sin. He he gets to judgment for sin in that sermon. Um the the problem, as you point out with pre evangelism, if it never gets to sin, the problem of sin then there's never going to be any um understanding of the need for salvation. And so um y you're absolutely right. You you do need to land the plane Um you you need to be able to so if if there's a teenager in crisis that's cont contemplating suicide, they need to hear that they're created by a loving God first But they still eventually need salvation. I mean, i if you can keep them from committing suicide, that gives you time to get to the point where they understand that they're a sinner in need of salvation. But you do need to get there. You you can't just you can't just tell people that God loves them. Um because you y you'll never get to the point where they understand that that you also are separated from that loving God by your sin and you need Christ to reconcile you to that God. Yes. Rachel. So transit? Yeah, that's right. So yes, yeah, I think you need to start there. You need to do this pre evangelism, but You you need to go all the way. Um now, um it's not necessarily the case that one person will do the whole thing. So it could be that Paul plants the seed, Apollo's waters, and it's the Holy Spirit that gives the um y you may be the person that intervenes to save somebody from suicide and somebody else is the one that ends up giving them the rest. Now um if you have an opportunity, I think that you you have an obligation to go the whole way and tell the whole gospel to somebody if you have the opportunity. But that won't always be the case. Uh but you should always have in your mind where I want to get. I want to get to the place where I can explain the need for salvation, the s the the fact that sin separates us from a holy God, and the only way to reconcile that to that holy God is through Christ Jesus. You want to get there. But if you start there, if you start with God sent Jesus die on the cross for your sins and the person says, What do you mean by sin? and which God do you mean? And w you know, y you need to start somewhere. uh I think. And but not but not um but not use it as an excuse not to get to the final gospel. Don't use it as an excuse But don't s but but understand that you may need to do some pre evangelism before you can get there. Okay. Very good. Okay. Uh let me close this in prayer.