So uh we are up to part 16, believe it or not. Uh so uh what we're gonna learn today, we're gonna look at evidence for the flood. So if there was this big globe covering flood, you would think that there would be some evidence uh to look at. And so we're gonna do that We're going to talk about the fact that wh why do we care about the flood? One of the reasons, main reasons we care about the flood is it's a warning about God's coming judgment when Jesus returns. And the New Testament is clear about that, but that's one of the main purposes for the fact that God recorded the flood story in the Bible. Uh we're going to look at the Grand Canyon in particular, and I'll talk to you a little bit about why the Grand Canyon is so important, why it's such a a key piece of evidence that shows that there really was a global flood and the fact that there's plenty of evidence all around us for this global flood, if we'll just open our eyes But first we'll do a little review of last time. So last time we talked about the preparation for the flood, the last part of the preparation, up to and including Noah and the animals and Noah's family getting onto the Ark, right up to before it started raining. Um so God tells them, he tells Noah that he's going to destroy the world with the flood and everything on the earth is going to perish. And he tells Noah what to bring on the Ark. He's already told them to build the Ark. He's given them the the builder's plans essentially for the Ark. And now he tells them exactly what needs to go onto the Ark. uh his family, he and his wife, his sons and his sons' wives, eight people. Then he tells them seven every clean animal, two of every unclean animal, seven of every kind of bird. and enough food to feed his an him himself, his family, and the animals while they're on the ark. And so God makes clear that the flood is not an ordinary event. We saw that. It's not a natural event. It's an He says There's a special word we talked about for the flood. It's Mabul. Not used for ordinary floods. There are lots of ordinary floods described in other places in the Bible, and it's a different Hebrew word. This is a special Hebrew word. just for the giant earth-covering flood of Noah. And likewise there's a a a singular Greek word, kataklysmos, from which we get the English word cataclysm that describes this flood. And there's a different Greek word for ordinary floods that's used in other places in the Bible. But cataclysmos is for this flood, the special flood that destroyed the entire earth. So the uh animals go into the ark and and the the Bible makes clear that um the animals will come to you, not that Noah has to go out and round up these animals and figure out if one's a female. Is that a You know, is that a female lizard or whatever? Uh no, he doesn't have to figure that out. Um, he doesn't have to track them down, they come to him. Um Then he tells them to bring the food. They've got to bring food for the for for the people and they've got to bring food for the animals on board the Ark as well. And then we see that Noah is an obedient person Noah's righteousness is based on his faith, and his faith is demonstrated by the fact that he's obedient to God's commands. And then everything is prepared, and God tells, commands Noah to get on the ark. And there's a seven-day countdown, because in seven days he's going to start to flood. Uh so he tells Noah to get on board the ark, and then we get repeated in the beginning of chapter seven a repeat of this fact that Noah did according to all the Lord had commanded. It's in chapter six and it's repeated again in uh the beginning of chapter seven. Just to make sure w that when when there's a Hebrew historical narrative and it repeats something, it's repeating it for emphasis. So God's emphasizing that Noah is righteous and faithful and obedient In the New Testament, of course, we went through this fact that there is the testimony of Peter and Jesus both about this flood and about and the context that Peter brings up the flood in. is people talking about um the fact that Jesus doesn't seem to be coming back. So it's in the context of Jesus' second coming. that Peter brings up the flood. And he makes a parallel between what God did once in judging the entire earth Is a parallel with Jesus coming back to to judge the entire earth. And so Peter's talking about a day that's in the future from his perspective, Christ's second coming. uh the universal intervention of God in world affairs. And uh Peter's point is that God has done this before Um he will do it again at the second coming, direct intervention into uh the entire affairs of the world. Peter says, Oh, by the way, he's done this before, and he points to two things, he points to the creation and to the flood In the creation, of course, he made everything out of nothing. Uh that's a global event, uh, with God's direct intervention. And the flood was a similar global event of God's intervention into into history. And he makes a parallel between that and Jesus' second coming. And that that therefore the flood provides the best warning to mankind that yes there will be a future judgment. There has been this judgment in the past, and there will be a judgment in the future. Um okay. So, and Jesus taught the same thing about his second coming, that it'll be just like the days of Noah Jesus said. And of course Peter was there to listen to Jesus teaching this. And so Peter's just really repeating what Jesus taught. All right, so um we talked about the the fact that um not only do we have the testimony of the Bible, which is enough But when you're talking to somebody who's an unbeliever who won't believe the Bible and ask questions about, well, is it really plausible that there was a really big boat and you could fit all the animals on there? There are, there is this wonderful study by John Wood Morrape called the NOAA's Arc Feasibility Study that goes through every possible angle and how it, yes it was in fact possible The animals could have fit, the eight people could have cared for 'em, and they could have fit enough food on there to be able to feed them for a year. And we went through some of the uh details of John really got into a lot of details, forest-based allotment, water and provide waste, he has a whole chapter on waste management. uh the construction of the ark, the manpower study of eight people being able to do all the work that's necessary, all that kind of thing. We also talked about the stability of Noah's Ark, these per particular dimensions are perfect for stability. So believe it or not, God knew what he was doing when he designed the ark. And modern naval architects have verified that these dimensions are perfect for stability. We talked about that. We talked about the fact that the the the description that we have in the Bible is not it doesn't have a tremendous amount of details, but it does say that there are three decks Which it does say that it's forty-five feet high, so each deck would have been about fifteen feet high. And it does say that there were rooms And so each of the decks had to be divided up into rooms according to the biblical account. And so if you cut a cross-section, then it would have probably looked something like this. We know it had three decks and we know it had rooms. And there's a little person in there to show you about the size of a person compared to a 15-foot high deck Okay, so that was all that we covered last week. So new stuff. Uh evidence for the flood. So We'll start out with uh the curious fact that there are flood legends and traditions all over the world. Um That that amount to that amount to the thousands, thousands of flood legends from around the world. Um and so pretty much any culture that we have ancient records for Has an ancient flood legend in it. And the existence of these flood traditions seems to be in many aspects consistent with the Genesis account. And the detailed nature of these widely spread accounts points back to the biblical account And so this is just a couple to illustrate. So what's along this axis here is details of flood stories from around the world. Uh Man in Transgression, Divine Destruction, Favored Family, and Ark provided, destruction by water, humans saved, animals saved, universal destruction, landing on a mountain, birds sent out Survivors Worship God, Divine Favor on Saved. Those story elements, of course, are all from the Bible And the accounts from ancient Mesopotamia have all of them to the point where Secular um scholars think that the Bible copied this thing called the Gilgamesh epic because it's got all of those elements in it. Now, as you move further away, it has few the stories tend to have fewer of the elements of the biblical story. But they have many of the elements of the biblical story. The examples that are listed here are a couple from Mesopotamia, one from Syria, Asia Minor, Greece, Egypt, Italy, Lithuania, Russia, China, India, the Cree peoples of Canada, the Cherokee peoples of the U. S. the Papago peoples of Mexico, the Aztecs, the uh people the ancient people of Peru, people from the Pacific Islands, the Leeward Islands, the Fiji Islands, and Hawaii. They all have flood legends with these various elements of the biblical account. So why would that be? Why would that be? Where did it come from? So what you've got is you've got these flood legends or traditions from cultures all around the world and they have remarkable similarities to the biblical account of Noah's flood, but they most of them have been corrupted in some way. So why would that be? Well, we haven't got to the Tower of Babel yet, but all the peop the the the immediate descendants of the eight people that got off the boat, uh got off the ark, were present at the Tower of Babel. And they all knew the true story. Then God confused their languages and scattered them. It makes sense that the story of the flood would be passed down in all those languages and cultures that spread out from the Tower of Babel. But without the Holy Spirit's supernatural preservation, all of those flood legends changed either a little or a lot as they were passed down. They weren't perfectly preserved They were corrupted to a certain extent. So only the true story in Genesis has been perfectly preserved. And that makes perfect sense from the the biblical account So what we see what we see in the actual uh anthropology is what we would expect to see if There was a giant flood, and if everybody knew it, up to the point of the Tower of Babel, and then people scattered and the tradition was passed down, but it was corrupted over generations of telling and generations of telling. Without the perfect hand of the Holy Spirit to keep it the story perfect, it became corrupted. And so all that fits with the biblical account. So let's take a look at some of the facts about the flood. So what are the facts about the flood? So um the Bible cell gives us the facts about the flood and we're gonna go over just some highlights of it today. We're gonna go back in detail and look at verse by verse uh starting next week. But for today I just want to go over the highlights and then talk about the the evidence that we have that these highlights are in fact uh what we see from evidence, uh can be confirmed by evidence. So uh starting in chapter seven we see all the springs of the great deep birth force. So what is that? Well we don't know exactly what that is. What are the gr what are the springs of the great deep? Um and so most commentators believe that that's water coming up from the ground. Um And the floodgates of the heavens were opened. That's rain. Rain fell upon the earth forty days and forty nights. And so this is the f beginning of the flood. And then we see as the waters increased, they lifted the arc high above the earth. So think about this arc. This is an ocean liner-sized, enormous vessel. And the Bible tells us that the floodwaters lifted the ark high above the earth. So an ocean liner-sized vessel is lifted high above the earth. So this is not a little river flooding, a little river spilling its banks is not going to lift an ocean liner size vessel high above the earth. Then it says all the high mountains under the entire heavens were covered. And so one of the things that you'll notice if you read through this flood account is the this language, this definitive, and um the the language about um the extreme nature of the flood and it's repeated for emphasis So all the high mountains under the entire heavens are covered. The waters rose and covered the mountains. to a depth of more than fifteen cubits. So fifteen cubits is about eighteen inches. And so you've got uh like twenty, what it twenty five feet, something like twenty-five feet above the highest mountain is where the flood water went to. This is the description from the Bible. Every living thing that moved on land perished. Birds, livestock, wild animals, all the creatures that swarmed over the earth, and all mankind. So that's one description. And then the very next sentence is, everything on dry land that had the breath of life in its nostrils died. This is a repetit repetition for emphasis to make sure you get the point Everything died. Nothing escaped. Everything died. Um every living thing on the face of the earth was wiped out. Only Noah was left and those with him on the ark. So it's this Extreme language repeated over and over for emphasis to make sure we get the point. Everything died. Nothing was left. Only the people, animals, and the ark survived this flood. God's really, really, really clear. It's if he wanted to describe a low-a global flood, I don't know how he could be more clear than the language that's actually in the Bible. So the waters flooded the earth for 150 days. So this is this is n normally referred to as the prevailing segment of the flood. 150 days, that's about five months. So about five months, the flood is covering the entire earth. Covering up the entire earth five months. Now the springs of the deep and the floodgates of heaven had been closed, and the rain had stopped falling from the sky. In other words, so the flood's covering the whole earth, but it's not continuing to go up. So the rains had stopped, the water was not coming up from the ground anymore, but it's still covering the whole world for five months, but not continuing to go up forever and ever and ever. And on the seventeenth day of the seventh month, the ark came to rest on the mountains of Ararat. So first the ark touches under the water. So there's the water still covering the entire earth. You can't see the mountaintops, but the the the there's a a mouth of the ship that's under the water say twenty feet or whatever, fifteen, twenty feet, and now the ark has touched ground under the waters. That's still under the water. But it's touched the top of the mountain, under the water. By the first day of the first month of Noah's 601st year. So they got on the ark in the second month of Noah's 600th year. This is the first day of the first month of his 601st year The water had dried from the earth. Noah then removed the covering from the ark and saw that the surface of the ground was dry. By the twenty-seventh day of the second month, the earth was completely dry So if you do the math from what it's told in the Bible, you have a year plus either 10 or 11 days, depending on whether you count the day you got on and the day you got off as days on the ark. So that's what this looks like in a line diagram. So the Bible gives us great details about exactly what day and month they got on the ark, exactly what day and month they got off the ark. So they get on the Ark in Noah's 600th year, they get off the Ark in Noah's 600 in the first year. And so it's a year plus ten or eleven days that they're actually on the Ark. So it's a year-long flood It's five months with covering the whole earth, and then it takes about seven months for the water to drain down. And the Bible's description says that at the at this five-month period, the ark touches, first touches land that's still under the water And there's there's still another two and a half months before they can actually see the peaks of the mountains peaking up from the water as the water recedes. And then there's a 40-day period and they start sending out birds, a raven, a dove, another dove. And then there's still another month after that when the ground surface looks like it doesn't have any water pulled on it, but it's kind of still muddy. And then there's another almost two months before the earth's all dried out after that. And so it takes a long time for these flood waters to go down. Once it's covering the whole earth, it it doesn't just instantly sink back down. It takes a huge amount of time for it to run off. And where did so where did it go? So it went into the current ocean basins. So we have lots of good evidence for the current land masses that we see, the current continents having risen And those current continents are actually made out of rock that is much less dense than the the um earth's mantle and much less dense than the ocean floors. So the ocean floors are much denser rocks than the continents. And so what happens when you have things that are higher density and lower density? The higher density thing sinks, the lower density thing rises. And that's exactly what happened in the flood, and that's exactly the features of geology that we see dense ocean crusts, less dense continents, less dense continents go up, more dense ocean crusts come down. So where does the water go? Water flows off of continents into the oceans So it's pretty simple from a uh scientific standpoint, from a hydrodynamic standpoint, but it's so much water that it took seven months for that to happen, as it ran off and ran off and ran off and ran off and ran off. And so what we see from geology today is evidence of that runoff, deposition and runoff. So But it's a long time. It's a year. So the the big point is the Bible tells us that this flood is a big flood that covers the whole world and it lasted a year And so this is not like floods we see. So floods we see today don't cover the entire earth, including high over top of high mountains, and floods we see today don't last for a year Okay. Well so it's not a local flood. So this is a little picture to uh just put front a little bit front of the idea of a local flood. So Yeah, if you have a a flood that goes over the top of the highest mountains, it's not going to stay local. It can't stay local. That's not how water works. Um so it's not a local flood. It's uh over the whole globe And so one of the things that is the most interesting and the most productive to study is the Grand Canyon. And so we're going to take a look at the Grand Canyon and know its flood. So if there was a big flight, what would we expect to see? First I want to talk about the fact that this Grand Canyon, and we're going to get to it at the end. This Grand Canyon was formed by the runoff from the flood. And one of the questions one of the first questions you may get from an unbeliever is, well then why don't we see Grand Canyons all over the earth? Right? If the flood was running off from every continent all over the whole world, why don't we see, you know, dozens of Grand Canyons everywhere? And the short answer is we do. W we do. There's there's features exactly like this all over the world. Geologists call geologists call them water gaps. It's uh it's big giant valleys that have been carved by water that show they You can do a geological estimate, uh uh uh uh uh analysis and see that that these valleys were carved by running water. Now, why don't they look like this today Well, the reason they don't look like that today is because there's been 4,500 years of erosion, especially by water, and especially by plants. Water and plants cause something that once looked like this to become very smooth and to be covered by plants and trees. And so there are valleys that look like that that have over 4,500 years been smoothed over by especially water and especially the growth of plants and trees. Why didn't that happen here? Because it's in a desert. And so there is no water. And there is no grass and there are no trees to do all those things. And so Much of the earth probably 4,500 years ago looked like that, but it doesn't today, except here. And here it's been preserved because it's in a desert. So why didn't other deserts get Grand Canyons? Because other deserts are not high deserts. They're not up in the mountains for a water runoff to do this from a mountain. So I mean the top of the Grand Canyon is seven to eight thousand feet of elevation. The top of the Grand Canyon. And so other deserts don't have that. And so they didn't get this This is a high desert, so it got this. This is one place on the earth where it was high up in the mountains, and it's a desert, and so it was preserved. And so this is the place where we can look at the effects of the flood the very best, because it's been preserved. to this day. It hasn't been that way everywhere else. I saw did I see a question? Yeah, go ahead Doug. Example of water gaps I I I don't know what you So local ones maybe? No, so in mountains all over the place there are water gaps that uh there are valleys that are cut through mountains. that uh when a geologist looks at the digs down into the soil into the underlying rock, it's made of sedimentary rock that has been cut through by water, that shows the evidence of having in the past been cut through by water. But it it's all rounded and it's got grass and trees all over it. Because that's what's happened over the forty five hundred years since water cut through that mountain. So when you see a mountain pass, for example Most of the mount what we call mountain passes all over the earth are water gaps, what geologists describe as water gaps. So uh so yeah, this something like this happened all over the earth, but it doesn't look like this now. Only here was it preserved for us to look at uh what it looked like 4500 years ago Is there like a good resource that you like to use that really does good in-depth study of that? So I would recommend Dr. Andrew Snelling's book called Earth's Catastrophic Past, Volumes 1 and 2. Andrew Snelling is a PhD geologist, a working geologist, and so he does for a living. And he looks at geology starting from the point of being uh a born-again Christian who looks at everything through the lens of the Bible, and then he does geology. And so he's really good. I would uh most of the information that I'm going to tell you today came from Andrew Snelling, either his articles or his books Uh so this is pretty high-level stuff. He's a PhD geologist and he writes like he's a PhD geologist. And so this is like this is like a geology textbook From a biblical perspective, looking at the world all over not just the Grand Canyon, but all over the world at evidences for God's creation And the flood. It's really good and very thorough. So if you want a really good, very thorough view I would say that. If you want a more Raymonds treatment of evidences for the flood. This is a book called A Flood of Evidence. Forty Reasons Noah and the Ark Still Matter. So this is a good one too. So if if you don't want to do the PhD level study of geology, this is this is a good one. So you can come up and take a look, take a picture of these books with your phone. So the author of this one is two authors, Ken Ham and Bodhi Hodge. So yes, so there's good resources out there. There's a lot of good articles too. And I posted one of them uh last night. I tried to do it last night, didn't work. I did it this morning. So if you're registered for the class Uh there's an o there's an article, it's like a five or six page article by Andrew Snelling, with it's a overview, a big overview of evidences for the flood in like a five or six page article. Yes. Is there any evidence for Pangea? So that's a good question. So uh Pangaea is one of the uh theories about the the continents maybe were all one and they broke apart Uh we don't have any I would say there are there are lots of speculations about how the continents that we have now, how they got that way. Both from in secular geology and also from Christians that are writing from geology. So Stenling talks about that in here And he thinks the continents were work both were together as well. And the the evidences for that is kind of the the fits and the plates and how they look and and the current um uh tectonic plate drift and and the fact that that could have in the past, like during the flood for example, could have been much faster. There is a theory by a Christian scientist called catastrophic plate uh tectonics and he goes through all the reasons he believes that during the flood the continents drifted very rapidly. Um From from an initial place where they were together to where they look like today. So yeah, I think there are you can say yes, there are some evidences that the continents were once together. Okay, so uh what would we expect to see uh if there was a big flood? Yes. Sorry, if you're thought that the mountains are higher now than they used to be? Yes. Most certainly. Um most certainly. Uh because if if you had a flood that had to cover the current Himalayan mountains That's way too much water. Way too much water. Um so yes, most likely. And of course there's lots of evidence for uplift, what we call uplift uh in the continents. And so um yeah, there's there's a lot of evidence that the mountains were not as high then as they are now. Okay, so if there was a big flood, what would we expect to see? Well what we we would expect to see is billions of dead things buried in rock layers laid down by water all over the earth That's what we would expect to see. So if the flood wiped out everything on Earth, then we would expect to see billions of dead things. If it was if if the flood was a big flood of water all over the earth, we would expect those dead things to be buried in sedimentary rock layers, rock layers that were laid down by water, that's sedimentary rock. And we'd expect it to be all over the earth. And so of course that's exactly what you see in the fossil record is billions of dead things in f Sedimentary rock laid down by water all over the earth. So and we see that in the Grand Canyon. Um so What if we look at the Grand Canyon through a biblical lens? So uh I did a trip, uh 2011. That's me right there. That's my dad. Uh we did a trip uh ten days down the Colorado River, uh two hundred miles down the Colorado River Every night we just pulled off to the bank and slept under the stars. So we took ten days to go through the Grand Canyon. And we we went down we went through it with a PhD scientist And um Dr. Young, and we the purpose of the trip was to look at the evidences for the flood in the Grand Canyon. Uh that was the trip we took. Uh just a couple of other side notes before we go on. This man right here was eighty-eight years old when he did it. And the Colorado River is not calm. I mean there's a lot of very extreme rapids. This man, 88 years old, and as a 21-year-old, he landed on the beaches in Normandy. In nineteen forty four. And so the anniversary of Normandy actually occurred while we were on this trip. And he should have seen this man's face On the anniversary of Normandy. Tears coming down his eyes. Remembering what it was like to land on the beaches of Normandy. Um And and his wife was eighty-five ship. So we had an eighty-eight and eighty-five year old man and it was uh the rapids are extreme on the Colorado River. I I don't know how he survived. And this kid was eighty This kid was eight and so we had an eight year old and an eighty-eight year old on this trip. Um it was a great trip, fascinating, uh through the Grand Canyon. So why does it give it matter uh how the Grand Canyon formed? The Grand Canyon, and we talked about this last time, is a monument to the judgment of God and the flood and the purpose One of the purposes for the that being recorded in there is to show that God is a righteous judge and he's judged the whole earth before. He's going to do it again. That's what Peter's point was. That was what Jesus' point was in the second coming. And so uh so what does Satan do So, uh, Satan in the Garden of Eden, he asks Eve, did God really say, did he really say that you'd die if you eat that fruit? Did he really say there's going to be a judgment? And so that's what Satan does. He he he tries to cast doubt on the fact that there will be a judgment, that you'll be judged. And um and so Today, and so the the two things that Peter pointed to to show that there was going to be a future judgment was the creation and the flood. And so what does Satan attack today? He attacks the creation and the flood. Is there really going to be a judgment? No, there's not going to be a judgment because there's never been a judgment. There was never a flood. That sort of thing. That's what Satan attacks Uh so that's why it's important. Uh so we talked about this before. I want to go over it again real quick. Uh what is science? So this is setting up science against the Bible, really, when we talk about the the flood and whether there was a flood So science uh is knowledge really. Uh it comes from a Latin meaning having knowledge, uh to know. Uh and of course, many years ago, um theology was known as the queen of the sciences the queen of the knowledges, the most important of the knowledges. But over the past 200 years, science has come to be a method of knowing, a way of discovering the truth. um this kind of formulation of uh uh of hypotheses and then modifying and correcting based on observations. And there's nothing wrong with that. Nothing wrong with doing science. I'm a scientist myself But today, many secular humanists come to believe in a philosophy of life called naturalism or scientism The the and so this philosophy says that the scientific method, observation through the senses, is the only way to gain knowledge. And of course that's self-refuting if you think about it logically How do they know that? How do they know that science is the only way to know? Did they get that by measuring something? No, they didn't. That's a philosophical premise. That's not a scientific premise that science is the only way to know things It's self-refuting. Uh the Bible is not a science textbook, and I say thank goodness for that. Uh when I was a physics professor at the Naval Academy, I was also the uh the associate chair of the physics department. And so one of my uh one of the requirements of my position as the associate chair was to review textbooks for use at the Naval Academy. And so and we're teaching basic physics, Newtonian physics, mechanics and electromagnetism. Those things have they haven't changed the seventeen since the seventeen hundreds But the science the textbooks change ev every uh every couple of years. There's mistakes in the textbook. They've got to change the textbooks. About physics that's been nailed down for 300 years, 300 plus years Uh so I'm I'm very glad that the Bible is not a science textbook. Uh but the Bible gives us propositional truth based on events that happened in real time real space-time history. Um it's a history book Essentially, if you want to put it in a category. Now it does other things too. It has poetry and prophecy and other things in there. But most of the Bible is giving us history, things that happened in the past Now the of course that the reason the Holy Spirit chose certain events in history to reveal in the scriptures is for a religious purpose, for a purpose of us understanding who God is and who we are and his plan of redemption. But the way he has gone about doing that is by telling us about historical events, things that happened in the past. So what about the Bible and science today? So all scientific observation is done in the present, unless you have a time machine. Unless you have a time machine, every scientific observation I do is done right now Um and so operational science, one branch of science, is applying present observations to draw conclusions about the present. And that's how we make spaceships and computers and things like that uh observations in the present applied to the present. Historical science is different, a total, totally different branch of science. That's applying present observations filtering them through philosophical assumptions to make guesses about the past, uh historical science or forensic science, sometimes called that way. We look at things in in the present and we guess how did what happened in the past to make things look the way they do today. Geology is like this. We can only look at what the rocks look like now and then make guesses about what what was it that made in that happened in the past to make the rock look the way it does right now So the these are different branches of science and and it requires different skills. Um but the uh when you're when you're having a debate an argument, I don't want to say argument, a debate, with your secular friend, he will try to trust me, he will try to conflate operational and historical science. He will try to merge them He will say, don't you believe in evolution? Don't you believe in gravity? You know, it's the same thing, you know, gravity and no, it's not Gravity I can measure right now. Evolution, even by their own standards, is something that happened millions of years ago. Um so I can't see it right now. So if I'm talking about the evolution of uh Homo sapiens from uh an ape-like ancestor in the past, I I can't observe that in the present. There's no possible way to observe that in the present Uh even by their own admission. It happened sometime in the past. It's not the same thing as gravity. It's a di to it's this com trying to compare operational science to historical science. They're different things Don't let them get away with that. They try it. They will try it. Don't let them get away with it. So there's not even the potential for conflict between the Bible and operational science. The Bible is stuff written down a long time ago about all these historical events. Operational science is in the now. Only the historical science where poor assumptions can lead to poor guesses can be set up against the truths of the Bible. And we actually see that primarily in the controversy between the historical science conducted by Christians and historical science conducted by non-Christians in the area of creation and the flood. Historical science of evolutionary biology try to use to invalidate the biblical creation account. And the historical science of geology to invalidate the biblical account of Noah's flood. That's where we see it. That's where we see s Satan attacking biblical truth And in today's twenty-first century America, it's typically done through science. So what happens when when we look at the Grand Canyon? So scientist A, he's got a uniformitarian worldview. He's a secular humanist. He looks at the Grand Canyon, and his conclusion is Naturalism, millions of billions of years, no global floods, article of time deposition, canyon cut by a little river. Scientist B, he's got a biblical worldview. He starts with the truths of the Bible before he looks at the Grand Canyon. He looks at the Grand Canyon and sees supernatural creation, thousands of years of global flood, rapid deposit deposition, and a canyon cut by the catastrophic flood. So why can two people look at the exact same evidence and come to different conclusions? It's because they started with a different lens. They started with a different lens through which they're looking at the evidence. And that makes all the difference in the world. You look at the same evidence and come to different conclusions based on your starting point. If you start with the truth of the Bible and you look at the Grand Canyon, you will see the flood. If you start without the lens of the Bible and you look at the evidence of the Grand Canyon, you won't see the flood. Um Uh that's a that's an issue when we come at these kinds of evidence. When we're trying to do evidentiary apologetics, we sometimes run into this brick wall. Where the the the person you're talking to just can't see it. His mind his mind can't go there many times Yes. Yeah, we'll get to the Mount St. Helens. I'll show you some uh pictures of that, and so that's really good evidence that things can form rapidly. I'll show you a picture of uh uh uh sedimentary layers uh tremendous sedimentary layers that we know for a fact from observation we we were there watching it uh happened in three hours. Three hours laid down uh like a hundred feet of sedimentary rock Uh and then I'll show you a canyon that's actually called the Little Grand Canyon, uh, by Mount St. Helens. It was carved in one day. Uh I'll show you those. I got I have pictures of those a little bit later. Uh yes. Yes, absolutely. Um I I'm not anyone that can start to debate people when it comes to kind of scientific stuff trust me. I mean but what I do notice is that when I speak to them and tell them these things and share with them these things, what you said is really the key. They cannot say Yeah. And so the real truth is that what I'm basically doing is sharing with them the gospel, if you will, ultimately by God's creation so that it hopes at some point So that's good. That's a good point. So to see the big picture, uh when I talk about apologetics. Um my goal in apologetics is to put a rock in their shoe. Um, not to argue 'em into the kingdom. I don't think that can be done. uh but to bother them enough so that they take a second look and makes them think, maybe maybe my world view is not quite right. Maybe there's something wrong. So they may, during the entire time I'm talking to them, they push back and push back and push back and push back and never concede a single point. But my hope is that it causes them to think about it later that day or later that week and think, you know, maybe maybe I don't know everything and maybe I maybe this maybe the things that I thought were absolute truth, maybe they're not I'm trying to make the the Holy Spirit is the only one that can change a person's heart, can change a person's complete view of life, can make a dead person alive. That's the regeneration of the Holy Spirit. I we can't do that. Um and so the analogy that I like to use is I'm just trying to put a rock in his shoe. Um something that bothers him that maybe his comfortable false view of the world is not correct. There's something else to think about out there. I'm trying to jostle him into thinking about things he may not have thought about before, and thereby give the Holy Spirit an opening. That's how I think about apologetics. Uh not that I can argue into the kingdom. And so uh we're looking at the Grand Canyon, uh nose flood and um uniformitarian genealogy. There's two possible explanations for what we see in the Grand Canyon One is the standard secular view that a little bit of water over a huge amount of time, that this tiny little river, given enough time, could carve down through the Grand Canyon. The other view is an enormous amount of water over a short time. That a huge amount of water from the flood carved this canyon in short time. So that's the two major views of how this thing formed. And so if you go to the Grand Canyon today, there'll be these plaques all around the Grand Canyon telling you about how this little tiny river carved this uh this big canyon. Um But there's some reasons to that that's not quite right. So um for example the shape of the canyon, that's not how the shape of a riverbank is The I mean the shape of a riverbank doesn't go down like in the triangle like that. That's not how rivers work. Um th they Th their their banks are uh I mean the river is is the width that it is and it and it doesn't it it doesn't carve things in a triangle. Um But so there's there's reasons to to be able to look at that thing and say, no, that's not how it worked. Uh but if you look at the Grand Canyon, there's there's different, there's all these layers this kind of layer cake effect that you can see because of the king. You can see these layers. There's the upper horizontal layers There's some parallel tilted strata that are visible in some parts of the canyon and not visible in others. And then there's the crystalline basement rock under that. um uh that's different kinds of uh crystalline rock, uh igneous rock and and schist and uh things like that. Um and granite. So uh these layers of the Grand Canyon, you can see them. They're there for everybody to see. These horizontal layers are there, then you can see that there's a an unconformity, and I'll talk about that in a minute Um there's a there's several different unconformities. There's what's called the Great Unconformity, and and at that point there's a billion years missing. A billion years. And and it's just rock that's one rock layer right on top of another rock layer and they say, Oh, billion years missing right there. Because the rocks on the bottom are a billion years older, supposedly, than the rocks that are sitting right on top of them. And they say, there's a billion years missing. And then there's the tilted layers that are that are visible in some parts of the canyon and not in others. This is a section of the canyon you can see horizontal rocks, and then there's this unconformity And it's the horizontal rocks are sitting right on the basement rocks, crystalline basement rocks. That's at a certain part of the canyon. Um So what would we expect to see? So uh there's me again, me and my dad, my dad dressed like the Frido Bandito there, uh with his um so the king is very interesting in that um The the water that flows through the Colorado River comes from mostly uh snow melt in the mountains to the north in Utah. Um and so it's very cold. Even in the summertime, very cold. Now it doesn't and it doesn't heat up as it comes down because there's a dam. There's a dam right before you the place where we got on And the water that feeds the rest of the Colorado River comes from uh an outlet at the bottom of that lake. And so this lake is made from snow melt runoff, and you take water from the bottom of that lake, and that what that's what forms the Colorado River. And so the water We we were there in June and the water was in the forties. Water temperature was in the forties. And the air temperature was in the nineties. Um and so what happens is you go through the rapids and you become completely drenched with 40 degree water And it's absolutely freezing. Uh until you until you can dry off in the air. Um okay, so uh what are the evidences? So there's six main lines of evidence from geology that the flood happened. So fossils of sea creatures high above sea level due to the oceans being flooding uh having flooded the continents. Rapid burial of plants and animals, rapidly deposited sediment across vast areas of the globe. Sediment transported from one area to another over vast distances. uh rapid or no erosion between strata. So if this was if the strata were laid down rapidly we expect to see erosion, but we don't. Many strata laid down in rapid succession. So many, many layers over a short period of time. There's evidence for that in geology. So uh we'll take very quickly a look at these six lines of evidence in geology. So first fossil sea creatures high above sea level everywhere. So the the highest the rim of the Grand Canyon. So if you're at the top of the Grand Canyon looking down in You're at between, depending on where you are in the canyon, you're between seven and eight thousand feet above sea level when you're at the top of that Grand Canyon And there are at the very highest level, the the first layer, the Kaibab limestone, is the is the the layer at the very top. Right when you're standing at the top of the Grand Canyon, that's full of marine fossils, ocean fossils, ocean creatures. So how did the ocean creatures get to 8,000 feet above sea level How did that happen? Well that happens if you have a big flood that covers the whole world. You get sea creatures at 8,000 feet of elevation. Um so uh they had to be deposited, there had to be an ocean above there, above eight thousand feet of evol uh elevation to get sea creatures up there. It's loaded with lime. It's a limestone. And those sediments swept over all of northern Arizona and beyond. Uh there's enormous number of marine fossils in the red wall limestone, which is a little bit further down, but still four or five thousand feet above sea level Brachiopods, corals, crinoids, all kinds of sea creatures in these layers that are thousands of feet above the current sea level. And in fact, there are um i all the high mountains in the world have fossils of sea creatures. The Himalayas, the highest mountains in the world, at the very top of the Himalayas There are sea creatures. There are fossilized sea creatures in the Himalayas. All the high mountains, all over the earth, have sea creatures all the way uh as far up as we've been able to look. So um the the the the hero of the plot always is time. So what they say is, given enough time, there must have been, hundreds of millions of years ago, billions of years ago, an ocean there at some time. And then over millions of years the after the sea was gone, there must have those mountains must have lifted up. That's that's the story. So they they say wherever there's a sea creature they say well there must have been an ocean there sometime in the past and now now it's been lifted up by uplift Essentially. So i they they can they can put the story into the into their worldview. And they will. A any any evidence that you give to an unbeliever, he's got a he's got a big b he's got a big sack over his shoulder, uh the fact bag. And he'll just throw those facts into his fac bag. And and if he can't explain them now, he'll say, well, we'll come up with an the scientist will come up with an explanation someday. I have faith. They won't say it that way, but they they have faith that secular science will come up with an explanation for whatever facts you just gave them. They'll just toss it in the fact bag and move right along That's why I say y you could you can't ar you you you can't argue somebody into the kingdom. You you it just can't be done. You have to know some evidences, and I think there are value to having evidences, and I think there's value into Maybe shaking a person's worldview. They won't admit it while they're talking to you, but maybe when they're thinking about it later, they'll say, hmm, I wonder if my worldview is true. Maybe And that's what you're try you're trying to do. But they they will fit every piece of evidence into their worldview, and if they can't They'll just say, the scientists will figure out someday why that is that those sea creatures are at the top of Mount Everest Um but from a biblical point of view what we see is this is exactly what we sh would expect from a big flood covering the whole earth. Everything we see in geology is what we would expect from a flood covering the whole earth Okay, uh was there another question? Okay. Uh second evidence, rapid burial plants and animals. Uh billions of straight um Straight-shelled chambered monaloids fossilized other marine creatures in the red wall limestone. You've got These fossil deposits, we see them in the Grand Canyon, and we also see them everywhere else too. So I just want to go through a couple of other examples. For example, there are hundreds of thousands of marine creatures buried with amphibians, spiders, scorpions, millipedes, insects, and reptiles in a fossil graveyard in Monceau-le-Mine, France. And so these fossil graveyards are all over the world, and it's creatures from different habitats and environments all mixed together in the same fossil graveyard. Not from the same environment. So sea creatures with land creatures and land creatures of all different kinds that wouldn't have lived together. There's no speculation that those creatures lived in the same spot But there they are in a fossil graveyard all over the place. There's one, a famous one in Montceau-La Meen, France. There's a hundred thousand fossil specimens re representing four hundred species in the Maison Creek Formation near Chicago. Includes ferns, insects, scorpions, tetrapods, jellyfish, mollusks, crustaceans, and fish. Sea creatures and land creatures all together in this same fossil graveyard. Alligators, fish, birds, turtles, mammals, crustaceans, insects, all buried together in the Green River Formation in Wyoming. So sea creatures, land creatures, different kinds of land creatures that shouldn't that nobody believes lived in the same environment, all jumbled together in the same fossil graveyard. Um and that we see that all over the world. And so so what what do the secularists say about that? Well they say that there has been subsequent mixing. They say that Sometime in the past, these must have been stratified in different layers from different times, and then somehow subsequently there's been what they call reworking. to make these fossil graveyards. So they have an explanation. They always have an explanation, an alternate explanation. Uh yes, go ahead. So good point. Why don't we see h uh human fossils? So I think the biggest reason is probably that humans were the most clever at avoiding this flood and avoiding it for the longest time, the longest possible time. And so most likely they were overwhelmed last. And the things that were overwhelmed last then were at the very top, most likely, of the sedimentary rocks that were laid down. So Sedimentary rocks are uh sediments that are mixed up in water and then they precipitate out. And so most likely things that were buried earlier were things that were overwhelmed by the flood first. And so that's what we do see in many areas. Uh there's there's a stratification and and so that's why scientists look at it and say And and from their explanation they say, well that's an older thing. And they they call it millions of years older. But And in many places we do see something like that, a sequence that's but there's many places where they're out of order. And so their explanation is, well, that somehow it was mixed up later But when you come to humans, most likely humans were the cleverest at not getting caught by this flood. And the topmost layers were the ones that were most mixed and most kind of destroyed by the flood runoff. And so I I think it's very unlikely that we would find things of humans. Although we may. I mean the the fossils that we know about are a really tiny fraction of the fossils that there are And something like n more than ninety-nine percent of the fossils we found are sea creatures. Um and so There's still a lot to be found. And so I I'm not a hundred percent convinced that we won't find human fossils sometime in in these areas. But so far we haven't. Um but we have found many different kinds of species from many different uh habitats all mixed together. Um and the secular ex explanation is it's been um There's been some reworking of what was originally a perfect strat s uh uh perfect uh uh layers of i in in the uh Uh in in our story of millions of years, it it was once perfectly layered and now it's all mixed up by reworking sometime later on. So they have an explanation. They always will have an explanation. But there's fossil graveyards all over the place that cover miles in northern Arizona and southern Nevada, 10,500 square miles Um there's these squid like fossils of all different sizes, small, young, and old, all mixed together. Um and you can do a calculation of how much sediment was needed to be able to bury this many to bring them along in um uh in this slurry of sand and stilt uh and it would take twenty four cubic miles to be able to get that much sand and still to bury that many sea creatures in that one just in this one layer in the redwell limestone. Um The third thing is rapidly deposited sediment layers spread over vast areas. So we have in the Grand Canyon, we can see these layers. But we can also, uh geologists have been able to do drills, uh drill samples all over North America and see that these sequences of rocks are not just at the Grand Canyon, but cover a very wide area. Um so the some of the lower areas of the Grand Canyon, for example, the Tapete sandstone uh goes across the entire US. It's called the Sauk Mega sequence. And at the base of that, the lower level of the Grand Canyon, the lowest level of sedimentary rock, at the base of that thing are huge boulders, boulders the size of houses and buildings. Um and those things w look like they were deposited in the r in a run of a gigantic storm. Uh it's evidence of massive forces to roll these boulders the size of houses and buildings to where they are and embed them in those sedimentary rock. Uh the Cocanino sandstone. Yeah, go ahead. So what you're saying is this isn't a big rock just sitting down in the middle of a field in the bottom of the canyon. These are rocks stuck in the sandstone. Stuck in the sandstone, yeah. Okay. Yeah. Um on the lowest level we talked about Grant Canyon. Um Is that crystallized layer or something across the case? So I'm talking about the lowest level of sedimentary rock. So the lowest of seduced sedimentary rock is sitting on top of crystalline basement rock. But the thing that I was just talking about was the lowest level of sedimentary rock. Um it got pushed up in the Grand Canyon. Is is that seen? So um there are some evidences of geologic work. And and I'll show you some evidences of that uh here in a minute, where the rock uh goes like this. It has the horizontal stratag stratification like that, but then it's it's all m folded And rock won't do that. Rock won't fold like that. So i if you if you try to bend rock, what happens? It cracks. It i it it won't it won't go like this unless it's still wet Right? But the layers that are bent like that in the evolutionary story is millions of years. So so how did it stay wet and not turn into rock for millions of years That makes no sense at all. It had to all have been wet when the when the geologic forces that caused it to fold are like that. And we see rock like that all over the world. There's lots of it in the Alps, for example The Alps have lots of layers of of uh sedimentary rock and they're folded like this, uh all over the Alps. Okay, and then back to the the living things, the plants. Um let's see if there were you know tons and tons tons of um living material. Mm-hmm. So it's probably true that we're only seeing a small percentage of it as Yeah, and so we'll talk about coal in a minute. So there's lots of it in the coal. I'll talk about coal here in a minute, but lots of the plant matter uh from the floods in the coal seams. things could be all buried in big areas producing coal. Yeah, so yeah, I'll talk about the coal seams 'cause that's really interesting. to let me let me keep going and I'll I'll I promise to get back to that. So um in addition to um this s sandstone going all the way across the whole continent, we also see uh the the fossilized w uh waves from the water that was moving the sandstone that has left fossilized waves and they're all going in the same direction across the entire North American continent. That's very curious. Why would there be wave, rippling waves, moving these sediments all in the same direction across an entire continent? Yeah, over millions of years. Yeah, so here's a map. So the Coconino sandstone is one of the main layers of the uh towards the bottom of the uh Grand Canyon And so the Grand Canyon is here, but the Coconino sandstone, that same layer that we can see in the Grand Canyon, we can drill down and find it at the same layer. of this extent. And for the Tapete sandstone, the very lowest of the sedimentary rock in the Grand Canyon, that goes all the way across the North American continent. The same layer of rock all the way, that sandstone, Tapete sandstone, the exact same crystals of sand that make that exact same layer goes all the way across North America. So that sedimentary rock was laid down at the same time all the way across North America. So the same And it has the same water currents. And so uh we can we can we've drilled, we have drilled um thousands of drill sites across North America. Um And so it um uh let me see if I can if I can look it up here. Um Yeah, so fifteen thousand six hundred and fifteen sites across North America, more than a half a million measurements, and all the paleo currents go in the same direction in that to Pete Sandstone. All going from the north if they go from the northeast to the southwest here and from the the northwest to the southeast here, all flowing down this direction. So Uh what hap I mean this is giant runoff from the flood all going in the same direction is what it is. Uh let me go back to the uh coal seams for just a second. So Um oh i and the sand um the sediment that was transported um Well let me just talk about the coal. Okay, coal beds. So um we had this question about the coal beds. So much of the plants have been compressed into coal. Um that's where coal comes from. It's compressed plants The coal beds in the east and midwest of the U. S. are the same coal beds with the same plant fossils as those in Britain and Europe. It's a continuous coal scene. It's it's divided by the Atlantic Ocean, but it's the exact same coal scene in the east and midwest of the US and in Britain with the same exact fossils, fossil plants associated with that coal seed. And it actually stretches all the way aro around the world. to the Donuts Basin in the North Caspian Sea in Russia. That same coal scene. So there's a continuous coal scene that goes from the Midwest, the US, it's actually interrupted by the Atlantic Ocean, but then it picks up again in Britain and goes all the way to Russia. Same coal scene. There's also in the southern hemisphere the same coal beds are found in Australia Antarctica, India, South Africa, and South America. They share the same plant fossils, but they're different from the Northern Hemisphere plants. So the there's a continuous coal seam all the way across the northern hemisphere, there's a continuous cold seam all the way across the southern hemisphere They have the same plant fossils associated with those coal seams all all the way across the southern hemisphere, but a different set in the northern hemisphere Now, coal. The standard story is that coal is formed over millions of years. And so um, but coal is primarily carbon. And so you can do carbon-14 dating on coal. Now, historically, carbon-14 dating has not been done on coal because there can't possibly be any carbon-14 in there in the standard story. So the half life of carbon fourteen is a little over five thousand years. And in ten half lives, it's all gone. So if you divide something in half ten times you get nothing. And so there should be, there can't possibly be any carbon-14 in anything older than 50,000 years So anything that's assumed to be older than 50,000 years is never carbon-14 dated because it wouldn't make any sense. And so um some creation geologists, including Andrew Selling, got together and sent samples of coal to carbon-14 dating labs, who initially tried to reject them and said there can't be carbon-14 in coal because it's too old. And they said, well we know, just run the samples anyway. And they they took samples from all over the world, coal samples. And guess what they found? Every single one of them has carbon fourteen in it. Every single one of them. And so what that means is every single coal sample they took is younger than fifty thousand years. In the secular story, that's not possible. It's not possible. They say coal takes hundred million years to form. But We yet we have the scientific fact that there is carbon-14 in coal seams from all over the world, meaning that it absolutely positively has to be less than 50,000 years old Um this is just some of the evidence that you see all over the world. They did the same thing with diamonds, by the way. And and diamonds are supposed to take of the order of a billion years to form. And they took diamond, crushed it up, sent it to uh uh dating labs for carbon fourteen, and every single diamond sample they sent had carbon fourteen in it too. Which means every single diamond was less than 50,000 years old as well. And so there are these scientific evidences that that confront the standard story uh that that contradict the standard story. Um and they're out there for everyone to see if they will just open their eyes and look. So uh I talked about the sediments being uh transported from long dis distances away. Uh the sediments that we find in the Coconito sandstone in the Grand Canyon We do uranium-lead testing on there and are able to identify where it came from. And it came from the Appalachian Mountains. the sandstone in the Grand Canyon came from the Appalachian Mountains. So how did it get there? How did it get transported all the way across the whole north? Well it got transported because there was a giant flood runoff all the way across the North American continent that transported sand grand s sand grains from Pennsylvania to the Grand Canyon. Alright, and the sand waves all point in the same direction. We've got sand waves in several formations that we can see that we can track across North America that all the sand waves point in the same direction. Uh I promised let me uh I'm gonna have to skip some things because we're out of time. I promise to show the uh there's some of the folded sediments. I promise to show Mount St. Helens. So Um this is the last thing we'll do today. So here's uh the vicinity of Mount St. Helens. And so this is a bunch of sedimentary rock layers, many, many, many sedimentary rock layers. And every s that whole thing was laid down in three hours. We we have direct observational evidence of it being laid down in three hours. This is what the size of a person here. This is the size of those sedimentary layers that were laid down in three hours. By a little flood, laid down in three hours by a little flood, a tiny little local flood. Then we have this what's this is known as the Little Grand Canyon. This is also from Mount St. Helens See the stratic uh this the these layers of sedimentary rock that were laid down. And this canyon, we watched it being carved in one day, the 19th of March 1982. That this canyon was carved in one day. Uh by a little flood one day. Um and so we can see how these things can happen. on a small scale. And in the Grand Canyon we see how it did happen on a gigantic scale. Alright, we're out of time, so let me uh uh let me pray.