Okay, so um part two. Here we are, we're talking about the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and we're going to be talking about the life of Abraham. So uh today we're going to talk about Abraham. Uh he's still Abram. Uh Abram and Sarai, who become Abraham and Sarah. Uh they take a trip to Egypt and uh uh Abram goes through a time of testing and of course he fails spectacularly. Uh Abram and Lot part ways. Um And Abram then rescues Lot. Rot's uh Lot's kid captured in a battle and Abraham goes and rescues him. We'll talk about that incident. And then at the end of that incident, Abraham meets this man named Melchizedek. And he's a really weird character. He's an important character. He's mentioned several times in the New Testament. Abraham probably met lots and lots of people during his journeys, but The Holy Spirit has prompted the writers of the scriptures to talk about this one particular man, Melchizedek, and we're going to talk about him. as well as we go through the life of Abraham. So last week, little review, we did kind of an overview of Abraham's life. As we said, the book of Genesis is divided up into these sections called Toledots Toledot is a Hebrew word that means what came forth from, sometimes translated as um as the descendants of a particular person, if it's a person. Um and so we're following the Toledot of Shem. What came forth from Shem, it's Shem's descendants at the very end of chapter eleven. And then the Toledo of Tirah, what came forth from Tirah, and the most important thing for our purposes that came forth from Tirah was Abraham. So Tirah was Abraham's father, and what came forth from Abraham's father was Abraham. And so that la that goes from the end of chapter 11 all the way through chapter 25. And that's what we're studying here, the life of Abraham. So here's the genealogy that we follow from Noah. So here's Noah here and Shem coming off the ark. And Abraham is actually the tenth generation from Noah. So Noah, Shem, Arfax and Selah, Eber, Pelig, Ryu, Sirag, Nahor, Tirah, and then Abraham. And Pelig is the time of the Tower of Babel, so there's been several generations after that when we get to Abraham. And so generally from Shem to Abraham we we get down it goes very rapidly through that. There's lots of people being born and doing things, but the scripture doesn't concern itself with those people. And why not? Because they're not as important to the story of God's plan of redemption as the people that the scripture does focus on So we get down to this point where we we get the family of Tirah. He's has three sons, Abraham, Nahor. and Heron and they live in a place called Ur. And that we s we looked at that on the map last time and I'll show you again, just as a reminder, uh in southern Mesopotamia, which is Iraq today. Uh they get up and they get up from Ur of the Chaldees and they um they move towards the land of Canaan but they don't get all the way there. They get to a city called Haran, which is in northern Syria And Tirah dies there at the age of 205, and Abraham, Sarah, and Lot then go on. Uh we looked at a little bit at the genealogy of Tira and uh showed you that this family kind of uh There's some intermarrying in this family. Uh for example, you have one of Abraham's brother Nahor, another one of his brothers Haran. Well his so Abraham's brother Haran has a daughter named Milka, and that daughter marries her uncle Nahor. So this is an uncle and a niece. They marry and have Bethuel, and that's the first cousin of Isaac, because Isaac is Abraham's son, and Bethuel is Nahor's son, who's Abraham's brother, so they're first cousins And then Bethuel has Rebekah and Laban, and Isaac marries Rebekah. So that's his cousin's, his first cousin's child, who he marries. And then Rebecca, of course, is Jacob's mother, and Laban is Jacob's uncle, and so Leah and Rachel are Jacob's first cousins. He marries two of his first cousins. So there's a intermarrying going on in the family. And there's a reason for that, which we'll get to when we uh when Abraham sends his servant off to um to find a wife for his son Isaac. Okay. He's he's called out of Ur of the Chaldees when he's about seventy, the Abrahamic covenant is given to him when he's seventy-five, he dies when he's 175. So there's a hundred-year period that the Bible follows from Genesis chapter twelve, when he's first given the covenant, till he dies. It's about a hundred year period where all these things happen. And we're going to talk about uh just a few events from his life. We don't have time to go into detail for everything, but we're going to talk about uh kind of three of the events from his life today. And as I mentioned last time, all the these slides are available in Hope Book. So if you have access to Hope Book, you can go in there and you can look at all these slides. slides uh for last week and this week and every week as we go along. So then we took a look at the scripture what the scripture says at the end of chapter eleven, beginning of chapter twelve about this family as they move From Ur, uh they get to uh halfway through the journey, part of the family ends up staying there in Haran, part of the family goes on And then we get this covenant that the Lord makes with Abraham, or this promise that at this point that he makes to Abraham, a threefold promise, land, descendants, and blessing. in chapter twelve. And so Abraham he obeys God, he departs, and goes to the land of Canaan. He is 75, the scripture says when he departs Haran and northern Syria to go down to Canaan. Uh and he goes with Lot and he goes with his wife Sarah. And then we see that the promise gets repeated. So we see the promise for the first time in chapter 12 Promise of land, promise of descendants, promise of blessing and redemption. Genesis chapter 12, it's repeated again in chapter 13, chapter 15, chapter 17. And we get in chapter 17 we get the sign of the covenant which is circumcision. So uh we looked at a couple of maps and I'll show you uh just a little bit of this. I don't know if For me I like to be able to see a map of where these things are happening. It helps me to fix it into my mind. So uh the route is up the Euphrates River from Ur, which is in southern Mesopotamia, southern Iraq. up the Euphrates River to into what is today Syria, the northern part of Syria, Haran, and then thence down probably through Damascus and into Canaan. Then he keeps going as we see today uh because of a famine he actually goes all the way to Egypt. Here's another picture with uh the kind of colors showing where the green is and where the brown is. So uh this map really shows you why he can't go straight across. So it it would be I mean it would be really nice and Shorter if he could go straight across like this to where he's going, but he can't do that because that's a big desert there. Um That's uh the western part of Iraq, part of Jordan, part of Saudi Arabia, if you were to go straight from Ur to Canaan and it's desert. So he follows the river. Uh much more practical There's an overlay of the present-day countries on the route. So Ur is down there in the southern part of uh Iraq. He went all the way through Iraq, up through Syria, to the northern part of Syria, and thence Down into what is today Israel. Then we talked about this idea of faith and works because Abraham is used in the New Testament. uh as an example over and over again. And there's a curious thing that we got to eventually was um actually Paul and James used the exact same event as an example, one as an example of faith, and the other as an example of works, the exact same event. So we talked through that last time. So in Romans chapter 4, Paul says that Abraham was justified by faith, not works. So uh then in Galatians chapter 3 Paul says the same thing. That Abraham believed God and it was credited to him as righteousness. That's in Genesis chapter 15. uh that we'll get to next time. Um and so then he's at the end of that passage Paul says those who are of faith are blessed with believing Abraham. So it's all about faith with Abraham according to Paul. Uh Hebrews chapter eleven, we don't know who wrote uh Hebrews, but the writer of Hebrews says that by faith Abraham obeyed And by faith, Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac. So this example of Abraham offering up Isaac, that is According to Hebrews, the book of Hebrews is an example of faith. Then when we get to James chapter 2, that exact same event Abraham offering up Isaac is uh described this way. But you are you willing to recognize, you foolish fellow, that faith without works is useless? Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he offered up Isaac his son. So it's the same example, and in one case it's an example of faith. In the other case it's it's an example of works. And so we said, hey, what's going on here? Um and so we went to a couple of other passages to see how the the the Bible uses um some kind of physical demonstration to show a spiritual transaction. Uh to um to to kind of make it so that we limited people that can't see a a spiritual transaction have something that we can see to verify it Um and so the example was the the people that let down their friend, the paralyzed friend on a on a through the roof in front of Jesus. And Jesus doesn't right away heal him. The first thing he does is say, Your sins are forgiven. And that causes the scribes and the Pharisees to start to grumble. Uh who is this man who speaks blasphemy? Only God can forgive sins. And then Jesus does a miracle. He tells him to get up and walk. And in this case he says exactly why he's doing the miracle Um he says, so that you may know that the Son of Man has authority t on earth to forgive sins, he said to the paralytic, I say to you, get up, pick up your stretcher and go home. Immediately he got up before them and picked up what he had been lying on and went home glorifying God. And so uh Jesus is saying that the reason he's doing this miracle is to show that he first of all that he has this authority and by the way he's just exercised that authority. And so for whose benefit is that? That's for the people that are standing there and for those of us reading it. It's not for Jesus' benefit Jesus has already forgiven the guy's sins. The spiritual transaction is done. He knows it. God the Father knows it. The Holy Spirit knows it. The only people that don't know it Are the people that are there watching, because they can't see that spiritual transaction. But they can see a paralyzed man get up off a mat and walk And so Jesus does it to show them, to verify his authority and the fact that he has in fact forgiven this guy's sins. So and and of course the ultimate example of this uh worked out in Scripture is Jesus' death Burial and resurrection. So when Jesus is on the cross, John chapter 19, he says, it is finished. And we talked about that word that's translated as finished. It's Tatelasti It's a accounting term which means paid in full. And so Jesus says this while he's hanging on the cross. He says, it is finished. Well, if you just read that in English, it is finished. Well, wait a minute, Jesus, there's you're gonna do lots of stuff after this. You're gonna uh rise from the dead, you're gonna walk around and teach your disciples, you're gonna You're going to ascend it to heaven and you're going to come back again someday. There's lots of stuff. It's not finished. But there is something that is finished, and that's the justification for sins. Sins are paid in full. So Jesus said that's finished. The paid in full is finished. But can human beings see that spiritual transaction? We cannot. We cannot see So in order to put a stamp of approval on Jesus' payment for sins, to demonstrate that by some outward expression that people could see, God raised Jesus from the dead. That's something that people could see. There was a guy that was dead, and now he's walking around alive. And so in 1 Corinthians chapter 15, Paul really focuses on that. He gives the gospel. This is the clearest presentation of the gospel that in verse 1, Paul actually says, this is the gospel, and then he gives the gospel. So that there could be no confusion about what the gospel is. And the gospel is this: Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, and he was buried, and then he was raised on the third day according to the scriptures. But then Paul says a very interesting thing later on in that same passage. He said, if there is no resurrection of the dead Then our preaching is vain, and your faith is vain. If Christ has not been raised, your faith is worthless. You are still in your sins. So he what he's saying is that the resurrection was this physical manifestation, this kind of sealing of uh the work of justification that was done under the redemption on the cross, that was the thing that everybody can see. And if that was a lie, if that's not true, then the whole thing falls apart. Uh that's what Paul's saying here in 1 Corinthians 15. And so this is a common theme in the scriptures that um when a spiritual transaction uh occurs Often God will validate it with some sort of physical event that people can see And so that's what's happening here. Uh that's what's happening with Abraham. So Abraham has faith to offer his son Isaac. But um he I mean he has faith in God's promises, but he then goes on and demonstrates that faith by offering his son Isaac. uh some physical event that he does. Uh now, for whose benefit is that done? Is that done for God's benefit? Does he have some sort of doubts about Can he not see into Abraham's heart and know what is it? No, God can see into Abraham's heart. He knows what's in there. This is for Abraham's benefit and for our benefit. That we go through this. And so that's why James says this is a work, a physical thing that Abraham does that demonstrates his faith. And that that work that outward work is the kind of the seal of Abraham's faith. And oh by the way, as James is explaining there in chapter 2. Real, true, saving faith always is accompanied by works. Okay, uh so works are the confirmation of faith Uh that's what we went through last time. So a any questions about last time before I go on to new new stuff. Okay. So the second part of Life of Abraham, we're going to go through a couple of events that happened in his lifetime. So uh this is a map of Canaan during his lifetime and um he's he he goes down to e Egypt. He starts out in Canaan, goes down to Egypt and then he comes back to Canaan during the events we're gonna talk about today. Um so if you open your Bible to Genesis chapter twelve. Genesis chapter twelve. We're going to start in verse 10 today. So God uh God arranges a test for Abraham. And Abraham in this case is a huge embarrassing failure. So Abraham has three huge embarrassing failures that are recorded in Scripture. Uh we're going to talk about one of them today, one of them next week, and one of them the week after. And so when we get through this, keep keep in mind as we're going through this that Uh the scripture is unique among religious books, I think, in that um even the heroes are presented with all their warts. Abraham is a hero of the faith. He was a great man. But he was also a huge embarrassing failure on numerous occasions. And God still used him powerfully So whose power was it? Whose glory is it that shines forth in Abraham's life? It's God's glory. It's God's power. It's not Abraham. And so that's the lesson for us, the over, the big picture lesson for us, that God can use you powerfully no matter how flawed you are. No matter how flawed I am, because whose power is it that's that's that's doing mighty things, that's accomplishing mighty works? It's God's power, not my power Um and so that's the that's what we really get from uh Abraham's failures. Uh okay, so here's how God sets up the test. Starting with verse 10. Now there was a famine in the land. That's the land of Canaan, where Abraham is now. So Abram went down to Egypt to sojourn there. And so this comes up again, right? There's a famine in uh Canaan that drives um Joseph's brothers down to Egypt. But there's a famine in the land at this time also. So Abraham went down to Egypt to sojourn there, for the famine was severe in the land. It came about when he came near to Egypt that he said to Sarai his wife See now, I know that you are a beautiful woman. And when the Egyptians see you, they will say this is his wife, and they will kill me, but they will let you live Please say that you are my sister, so that it may go well with me because of you, and that I may live on account of you. It came about when Abraham came into Egypt, the Egyptians saw that the woman was very beautiful Pharaoh's officials saw her and praised her to Pharaoh, and the woman was taken into Pharaoh's house. Therefore he treated Abram well for her sake, and gave him sheep and oxen and donkeys and male and female servants. and female donkeys and camels. But the Lord struck Pharaoh in his house with great plagues because of Sarai, Abram's wife. Then Pharaoh called Abram and said, What is this you have done to me? Why did you not tell me that she was your wife? Why did you say she is my sister so that I took her for my wife? Now then, here is your wife. Take her and go. Pharaoh commanded his men concerning him, and they escorted him away with his wife and all that belonged to him. Alright, so uh what's happening here? So a famine, so and who's in control, who's in providential control of everything in this universe? God is. So this famine is under God's providential control. He drives Abraham down to Egypt, which is where God wants him, to go through a test. So God, through a famine, drives Abraham to a time of testing in Egypt. Okay. So Abram begins to fear what will happen to him in Egypt. Before he even gets there, his imagination is running wild. What's going to happen when I get to Egypt? He talks himself into fearing the worst. So what does this demonstrate? This demonstrates a complete lack of trust in God and his promises. God has just told him that he's gonna make him uh he's gonna have descendants uh and he's gonna possess that la his descendants are gonna possess that land. So can that happen if he's killed now in Egypt None of that could happen if he was killed in Egypt. So he he he has a he demonstrates a extreme lack of faith and trust in God in this instant instance. So in some instances he has faith. In other instances, his faith wanes and completely crumbles in this case. So Uh, does that sound familiar to anybody? Does anybody here ever have a time when your faith wanes or you stumble? Yeah, so this is why the the Holy Spirit makes sure that we see that this is the human condition, even for the spiritual superstars. their faith crumbles. They fear and they give into fear. Um and so this lack of trust in God ends up having long term consequences for Abraham and his family and for the entire world. As we'll see next time with the Hagar Ishmael incident. So Abraham has great faith in some instances. In other instances, he stumbles and falls. Um and this is the story of who we are, even as followers of Christ. Who who Abraham was He believed God and it was credited to him as righteousness. He was a follower of the one true living God. And yet he went through these times where he failed spiritual tests. Yes. So yes, so that's one possibility that even though there's a famine he could have stayed right where he was and trusted that God would have not let him starve. Yep, that's one that's one way you could have trusted. Um now um God knows everything and he in his providence knew that Abraham was gonna go down to Egypt in response to the famine And so the testing was kind of done in a different way. But yeah, so he goes down to a uh he drives Abraham to a place where he has fear, and once once he's subjected to fear, he has a choice trust God in spite of my fear or try to take things into my own hands and figure out a different way. And so Abraham tries to take things into his own hands, and he does this a couple of times in his life that we'll see. result of that he brought Havar. Yeah, so uh w yeah, one of the things that we'll see here in a minute is he's given male and female servants. And Hagar's an Egyptian and so most likely, yeah, he he collects Hagar as part of this uh um the the the things that Pharaoh gave to him when uh when he thought he was trying to win a brother's approval for for a a sister, uh one of those is probably Haber. So In this instance we see Abraham struggling with a lack of faith in God's promises. God's promise he's gonna have all these descendants, his descendants are gonna but he's afraid the Egyptians are gonna kill him now. Well that can't those you know, h if God's promises are true, then he can't die there in in Egypt. Uh he had convinced himself in fear that bad things were going to happen, though they never did in this situation So uh we see the big picture is fear leads God's people towards doubt and away from faith, uh, which is why the Lord so often commands us in Scripture not to fear. Fear. Do not fear, fear not, do not be afraid. Variations of that are repeated over and over and over and over in the in the Bible. There's more than 150 incidents in the Bible of God telling us not to fear. Um it's one of the most frequent commands in the Bible is do not fear. Because fear leads us away from trust in God. And it does here for Abraham, and it does in our lives as well. So as one Jew mentioned, notice that uh he's given male and female servants by Pharaoh, one of whom may very well have been Hagar. Uh I mean it's it's theoretically possible he could have picked up an Egyptian servant somewhere else, but this is the most likely place where he got this servant Hagar for uh to be a maid for Sarah Part of this incident. So the significance of Abraham's action is much deeper than lying about his wife. He did lie about his wife. That was bad. Um and think about what he did here. What what think about the the way he exposed Sarah here. Um I mean she she gets taken into Pharaoh's household and he's planning to make her his wife Um that's a terrible p position for the man to put his wife in. That's that's really awful, uh, if you think about it. And as we find out, God intended to bring his Redeemer through Abram's seed. And he makes clear later that he meant means to bring both his chosen people and his chosen one, the Redeemer, the Messiah, to the offspring of Sarai. Um and so Abraham sends her into this man's house, um, and that's not what God has planned. His lack of faith actually endangers God's plan for the coming Messiah, but of course God will not permit man's actions to interfere with his purposes. um not gonna happen. So God takes action. For this reason, and because Sarai was the one in real peril from a human perspective, God intervened to protect her from becoming Pharaoh's wife. So Abraham's lack of faith also placed Pharaoh and his household in jeopardy, even though Pharaoh had not done anything to threaten Abram. So in this case, this Pharaoh hadn't done anything wrong. in in in regards to uh to Sarah, uh but Abraham's actions had put him in real jeopardy And so this is another principle that we see in Scripture, not just here but in other places, that the sin of one man, one man's sin will often endanger others. And that's the case here. Abraham's sins and Pharaoh and his whole household are put into jeopardy. Unfortunately, Abraham does not learn his lesson well enough, and this entire sad episode will be repeated with Abimelech, another king. in Genesis chapter twenty. So this exact same thing happens again. So God uh puts Abraham through this test thing and We'll see here in a minute that that Abraham goes back to the land of Canaan and he builds an altar and he worships the Lord and y uh there's all sorts of good faithfulness that happens following this incident. But the next time he's tested in a similar way in Genesis chapter 20, he does the same thing. He tells Abimelech that Sarah's his sister. The same thing. So this is like uh if you you're in a you're in a class in school and you you take a practice test. and you and you fail the practice test. And then the real test is coming up and the teacher hands you the real test and it's the exact same test as the practice test. So you knew all the questions the second time around. And you still failed. Uh so this is Abraham. Uh he he he He goes through the same exact test in Genesis twenty and he fails it in the exact same way. So um as I mentioned, there's at least three huge embarrassing failures by Mose uh Abraham that's re they're recorded in the scriptures. Um and we're gonna go through the three of them, but the reason they're in the scriptures is for our good, for our benefit, for us to learn from that uh that God does allow tests, spiritual tests, into our lives for our benefit. And we can learn not only from the spiritual tests in our own lives, but from the spiritual tests in other people's lives as well, especially those that are recorded in Scripture. And so Abraham goes through spiritual tests, and of course he he fails this one and he fails another one coming uh up. So, uh out of this incident we see for certain that fear is the enemy of God's people. And Satan loves to use fear to draw God's people into disobedience. To draw us away from God through fear. So for us, the lesson to learn is when anxiety creeps in We are wise to remind ourselves of all that God has done for us already. So Abraham could have looked back and seen that God had been with him already in his life and that God was trustworthy and he should have trusted God. And the same thing for us. We can see what God has already done in our lives. Look back. Look back on what you were saved from. Look back at all the faithfulness of God in your life up to this point. And the next time you're in a situation where you feel fear or anxiety Keep those things in mind, the things that God has already done for me and you. Focus on his promises. And of course focus on God's Word. So God's Word drives out the fear that's introduced by the devil. So if the devil introduces fear, we have so many things in the Word that show us Beyond any doubt that God is faithful to his promises. We can see that over and over again in Scripture. And so when we start to fear, we can go to the Word. And drive out the fear that the devil is trying to introduce into your life. So that's one incident. Any questions about that incident before we go on to the next one? So a next incident in Abram's life, so after this, he goes from Egypt back into Canaan, and there's an incident with his nephew Lot. So turn to chapter 13, Genesis chapter 13, and we're going to start in chapter in verse 2. And uh we see that so uh Abraham has uh we don't know how rich he was when he first went to Ur from Ur to Haran, but The Bible tells us when he when he left Haran to go down to Canaan, he took all of his household and all his possessions with him. So he was already accumulating a lot of stuff by the time he left Haran. Now Pharaoh's giving him a bunch more stuff. So now he's really got a lot of stuff. He he's becoming a very wealthy man with lots and lots of lots of people that are in his household, as we'll see in a minute, and lots of livestock. Um so he's kind of become a big deal, a a rich guy. And in verse 2 in chapter 13 it says, Now Abraham was very rich in livestock, in silver, and in gold. So no doubt. No speculation. Abraham's a rich man. He's got a lot of stuff. He went on his journeys from the Negev as far as Bethel. Negev is the southern part of the land of Canaan, between uh really between Egypt and Canaan. as far as Bethel, to the place where his tent had been in the beginning, between Bethel and I, to the place of the altar which he had made there formerly And there Abraham called in the name of the Lord. So does he have some reason to call in the name of the Lord? He's just failed a spiritual test. uh put his wife in danger. So yeah, he's he's got to call in the name of the Lord. He's got to confess his sin. He's got to make himself right with the Lord. And he does that. Abraham does that. So he called on the name of the Lord. Now Lot, his nephew, went with Abram, also had flocks and herds and tents. So Lot's become a rich man too. And the land could not sustain them while dwelling together, for their possessions were so great that they were not able to remain together. And there was strife between the herdsmen of Abram's livestock and the herdsmen of Lot's livestock. Now the Canaanite and the Perizite were dwelling then in the lion. So it's not just Abram and Lot, there's other people there too. It's getting crowded in the land of Canaan. Continuing, so Abram said to Lot, please let there be no strife between you and me, nor between my herdsmen and your herdsmen. for we are brothers. Is not the whole land before you? Please separate from me. If to the left, then I will go to the right, or if to the right, then I will go to the left Lot lifted up his eyes and saw all the valley of the Jordan, that it was well watered everywhere. This was before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah. That's a little editorial remark by Moses. So remember Moses is writing this down much later. Hundreds of years later. And hundreds of years later when Moses is writing it There is no more Sodom and Gomorrah. And so Moses puts it in this little parentheses, this little editorial comment, this was before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah. Like the garden of the Lord, like the land of Egypt, as you go to Zoar, so Lot chose for himself all the valley of the Jordan, and Lot journeyed eastward. Thus they separated from each other. Abram settled in the land of Canaan, while Lot settled in the cities of the valley, and moved his tents as far as Sodom. Now the men of Sodom were wicked exceedingly and sinners against the Lord. So let's take a look at a map. So he comes out of Egypt, he goes back into the land of Canaan, and he goes back up to between Bethel and I, which is where he first came in uh in Gen Genesis chapter twelve, when he first comes down from Quran, he goes through Shechem, and then he makes an altar between Bethel and I. That's where he first went in the land of Canaan when he first came in. Then he goes, there's a famine, he goes down to Egypt, and now he's back, and he goes back to where he built that altar in the first place, between Bethel and I. Now, um this here is That's the Sea of Galilee up here, and this is the Jordan River, and this is the Dead Sea. And that's a big rift valley. And there's hill country here to the west of that whole valley and there's hill country here to the east of that whole valley and this is a valley in between. And so Abraham and Lot are over here, up on the hills, looking down into the valley at the Jordan River Valley down there. Uh w as they as they talk about this uh separation between the the two of them. Uh and then It it ends up that uh Abraham moves to the south towards Hebron and Lot goes to the east, down t down out of the hills, to the east, down into the um Jordan River Valley, and eventually he he m works his way t all the way down south to where Sodom used to be, uh on the east side most likely of the Dead Sea. And so that's what's happening here. Here's another map that shows where Sodom and Gomorrah might have been. Most uh modern archaeologists think that s the ruins of Sodom and Gomorrah are under the Dead Sea. Uh that the the the Dead Sea has expanded a little bit in the areas where those two used to be so that their ruins are under the water now And then also there's a there's an ancient coastline down to the south. Um so it looks like the the Dead Sea was kind of um narrower and longer, and now it's shorter and wider than it was in those days. Um and so Uh Lot eventually comes all the way down and settles in the city of Sodom. Uh initially he he he kind of pitches his tents towards Sodom, he moves his way towards the city's down there, but uh by the time we s we meet up with Lot again, he's actually living in the city of Sodom. And uh and Abraham comes down here towards Mamre and Hebron. That's where he is. Yes. It is. He he recovers from his spiritual disaster and now he's walking with the Lord again. And we'll see that for the next several chapters he's i it's de he's definitely restored his relationship with the Lord. He he has. And so that's something that we can have in our lives as well. Even if we have a uh some sort of a misstep, some sort of a spiritual um uh disaster, you you we can recover from those things. The Lord is faithful to forgive us for our sins. If we uh if we if we repent and um Ask for forgiveness. The Lord is faithful to forgive our sins and restore our relationship with Him. We see that over and over again in the Bible, and we see that here with Abraham's life. And so we have here's a here's this is a NASA satellite photo of what it looks like today. You can see that there's Hill country to the west, hill countries to the east, and there's a this valley, this kind of deep valley between that goes from the um the uh Sea of Galilee up in the north. Whoops I didn't mean to do that. Sea of Galilee up in the north. Down to the Dead Sea down there. It's a valley between sets of hills, with Sodom down there in the south. So what's going on here? So after years of traveling together, they've been together for years, all the way from Ur to Haran, they stay in Haran for a while, they come down to Canaan They've been together for years, um, Abram and Lot part company more by compulsion than by choice. It it's come to the point where they can't stay together, the way the Bible puts it. And so here's another tragic fact of our world. Even close relatives can be driven apart by possessions. It was because they their possessions had gotten so great that they were no longer able to stay together. Well that's pretty sad that these the an an uncle and a nephew have to physically separate because of their stuff. Abram's path will be marked by divine protection now that he's restored his relationship with the Lord, while Lot's will be characterized by temptation and compromise. Yet God was using these circumstances to providentially divide the two and keep Abraham away from the evil influence of Sodom and Gomorrah. So We don't know what what would Abraham have chosen if he had if Lot had said, no, no, no, Uncle, you choose. That doesn't happen, but we don't know what he would have chosen. If he had, but God made sure that Abram stayed away from Sodom and Gomorrah. Uh so he uh uh and of course in this situation Abraham demonstrates great humility and generosity. Uh as the elder and the head of the household, um he could have insisted on his right to choose first. Uh he had the the right, under ancient Near Eastern laws and customs, to be the one that got the first choice. But he doesn't insist on that. He lets his nephew Lot, he defers to his nephew Lot to choose And so Lot looks out over the Jordan Valley below him, and he sees wealth and comfort. He sees that beautiful green valley and says, that's where I want to go. That's where the the wealth is. He's already rich, he's already wealthy, but he wants more. He sees the best and he goes for the best. Wealth and comfort are beckoning to Lot. So Lot, of course, when Abram said, No, you choose, then Lot had a choice. He could have deferred back to Abram. He should have said, no, no, no, Uncle, you're the head of the household, you're my elder, uh you've been looking out after me uh for me all these years Um, no, you you get the first choice. But he doesn't do that. He seizes the opportunity to look out for his own interests, uh, in this case. So uh this whole incident demonstrates the deadly power that wealth and comfort can exert on even a righteous man. And uh in spite of all we read here in Genesis, the New Testament describes Lot as a righteous man. Uh if you look at 2 Peter chapter 2, it uses that description of Lot, that Lot was a righteous man. Um and so that's true because the scripture tells us it's true. So he's a righteous man who falls into this temptation because of the pool of wealth and comfort. Abram continues to dwell in tents in the land that God had promised him. So Abram stays in Canaan. Lot actually goes outside of Canaan. He's on the eastern side of the Jordan, which is Moab. And Moab and Ammon are over there. But Abram stays. He stays dwelling in tents, and he stays in the land that God told him to go to. While Lot eventually moves all the way into the city of Sodom So, in this situation, Abram and Lot make different decisions about where to live and what lifestyles to adopt And those decisions have consequences for both of them. And this is a principle that we find emphasized throughout Scripture. Our obedience or disobedience will affect our lives and the lives of others in ways that we can't possibly know when we make the decision. So when you have a decision to trust God or not When you choose not to trust God, when you choose disobedience, there are always consequences, and we often have no idea what those consequences are going to be. Yes, is there a question? Yes, go ahead, one. Correct. Correct. Right, that's right. So but what the New Testament tells us is that he was saved. He was an Old Testament saint. Lot was, just like Abraham, in spite of the fact that we we tend to see Lot's failures in a worse light than Abram's failures. But they both had failures. Abram terrible failure in Egypt. Lot has this failure with Sodom Uh and we'll see later on he has more failures. I mean it's cascading failures that ends up in incest with his daughters. Um But they yes, they they both are saved by faith. And that's not of not of themselves. Um right. Um and if there's any doubt about Lot's salvation, the New Testament settles it by saying he was a righteous man. Okay, so uh this is the principle uh that our obedience or disobedience will affect the lives of others, our life and the lives uh of others, and including in ways that we uh do not anticipate. So the comforts of the world can become a deadly trap. And there is always a difficult balance for those of us that are trying to follow the Lord. God's people are called to be in the world, but not of the world. So where do we strike that balance? We have no choice but to live in society, which is a secular society And to take part in the working economy, we have to feed our families and you have to do the sort of things that are necessary to be able to live. Yet we must also be on guard to ensure that these things do not become the focus of our lives, as they did for Lot in this instance. And so 1 John chapter 2 tells us this: do not love the world nor the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the boastful pride of life, is not from the Father, but is from the world. The world is passing away and also its lusts, but the one who does the will of God lives Forever. So this is a warning from the New Testament from the Apostle John that you can't love the world And love God. You have to choose. And in this particular case, Lot chooses the world. Uh he sees that valley, he sees the riches that are there, he he he sees the the city life, he eventually moves into Sodom and he wants it and he and he goes for it Um and it causes him all kinds of trouble. His wife ends up dead, he ends up, you know, in a cave with his daughters and Um yeah, it's everything everything crumbles for Lot uh when he goes after the things of the world. Um and this is, as we're reminded in the New Testament, this is in the life of a believer. So make sure you see that. In the context of what 2 Peter 2 tells us that Lot was a believer. So this is what happened to a believer. who was tempted by the things of the world and went after the things of the world and it it he he ends up losing everything, his wife dead, living in a cave. Um that's what happened when he went after the things of the world, as a believer. Okay. Um then uh after this in chapter thirteen, uh after Lot goes away, uh God comes to Abraham and he repeats his promise. So Abraham's Abraham and Lot remember up on a hill, on a high hill, so they can look down over the Jordan Valley, so they can look at all this land and decide where to go. And as soon as that's done, God comes to Abraham and he tells him to look around. Look around from this hilltop that you're on and says, All this land I'm going to give to you and your offspring. So it's obvious that Abraham's relationship with the Lord is restored after his spiritual failure in in Egypt. And he built another altar. He's built an altar before, between Bethel and I. He built another one down near Mamry, in this case, chapter 13. uh any worships. Uh so going back to the promises, so Genesis chapter twelve, promise of land, promise of descendants, promise of blessings, and then here in chapter thirteen God reiterates the promise of land. He also reiterates the promise of descendants as well, as part of his promise about land, because he says your descendants will inherit this land. And so God is patient with Abram, and he's willing to say the same thing again. Um, you know, Paul in the in the book of Philippians says it's no trouble for me to say the same things to you again. Well, God the Father has no problem saying the same things to Abraham again, repeating the promise to make sure Abraham understands because what's just happened? What's happened between Genesis 12, 1 through 3 and Genesis 13, 14 to 18? Well Abraham has had a stumble He he's had a he's had a crisis of faith where he he didn't trust these promises. And so what does God do? He repeats the promise that he gave. And so what does this tell Abraham for certain That the fact that he has been unfaithful has not made God reneging on his promises Right? God's making this clear to Abraham and also to us from our position thousands of years later that even when we s when God has made a promise Even when we stumble, God's promises are still good. And so God repeats the same promise. Even though Abraham, I know you've just failed by going down to Egypt and pimping your wife off to Pharaoh, my promise still stands I'm gonna give you this land, I'm gonna give you the descendants. Um so he's repeating. Um so the last thing we're gonna go over today, one more thing to go over today, is this incident with uh uh the four kings and the five kings and the battle and the capture of Lot. So Lot when he goes down to Sodom The first uh uh so we get here in Genesis chapter four. If you turn over to Genesis chapter fourteen, let's go quickly through this scripture. Um we we won't do the whole thing. There's a battle between four kings and five kings and the four kings defeat the five kings and and carry off a whole bunch of people and stuff. after the battle. So when Abraham heard that his relative had been taken care, including Lot. So Lot and all Lot's stuff, because the king of Sodom was one of the kings on the losing side of the battle. And Lot's living in Sodom, and he gets captured at the end of this battle. So when Abraham heard that his relative had been taken captive, he led out his trained men, born in his house 318, and went in pursuit as far as Dan. So that gives you an idea of how big Abraham's household is. He's got 318 trained fighting men as part of his household He divided his forces against them by night, he and his servants, and defeated them and pursued them as far as Hobah, which is north of Damascus. He brought back all the goods, and also brought back his relative lot with his possessions, and also the women and the people. And Melchizedek King of Salem brought out bread and wine. Now he was a priest of God most high. He blessed him and said, Blessed be Abram of God most high, possessor of heaven and earth, and blessed be God most high, who has delivered your enemies into your hand. He gave him a tenth of all. So Lot finds his choice of residence in Sodom has led to the first of many negative consequences. He finds himself captured at the end of a battle. Lot was firmly invested in the community of Sodom. When the city fell, his goods were confiscated, and he was taken captive. When Abram finds out about the capture of the nephew, he musters his private militia of 318 members of his household who were a trained fighting force. So his household was huge. If if he had 318 trained fighting men Imagine how and so that there's women and there's children and there's l there's other people that are old or too young to fight. So a 318 fighting man, he's got thousands of people in his household Um and so he puts together his fighting men and he pursues the kidnappers and he goes more than 150 miles after him. He overtakes them, defeats him in a battle. And Abram does not hesitate to respond to Lot's distress. He does his duty as a kinsman And so here's a map. Um the um uh the the the Four Kings came down the east side of the Jordan Valley Um and they attacked Sodom and Gomorrah and two other the kings of Sodom, King of Gomorrah, two other kings. Uh they did some more raids all the way down to the uh to the Red Sea, Kadeshfarnia And then they went up the west side of the Jordan and they were planning to go back, back where they came from to the east in uh Mesopotamia. Uh but Abraham goes after him from Hebron, tracks him down, all the way up in Damascus, and defeats him. So it's a hundred and fifty miles he goes to track him down. He takes his his fighting force and he he he goes after him and he goes and goes and gets him. And so at the end of this incident, there's this mysterious guy, Melchizedek. So this guy pops up out of nowhere. Um so who was this Melchizedek and what is his significance? So there's a couple places, uh other places in the Bible where this Melchizedek is uh mentioned. And so for one, Hebrews chapter five. So if you turn to Hebrews chapter five, there's a mention of Melchizedek And actually, embedded in Hebrews chapter 5 is a quote of Psalm 110, which we'll take a look at in a minute. So Hebrew chapter 5, starting just verse 5 and 6, so also Christ did not glorify himself so as to become a high priest, but he who said to him, You are my son Today have begotten you. Just as he says also in another passage, you are a priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek. That other passage is Psalm 110. We'll see that in a minute So this is the author of Hebrews pointing back to Melchizedek, that Jesus is a priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek. What in the world is that about? Well turn over to Hebrews chapter 7. So there's a little bit more, a fuller explanation of this in Hebrews chapter 7. So, uh Hebrews chapter seven, starting in verse one, says, For this Melchizedek, king of Salem priest of most high God who met Abraham as he was returning from the slaughter of the kings and blessed him, to whom also Abraham apportioned the tenth part of all the spoils was first of all by the translation of his name King of Righteousness. So evidently Melchizedek means king of righteousness And then also king of Salem, his position, Salem or Shalom in Hebrew is peace Uh so he's King of Peace. So he's King of Righteousness and his name is King of Righteousness and his position is King of Peace. Without father, without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but made like the Son of God, he remains a priest perpetually. And so Melchizedek pops up in scripture. We don't get his genealogy. We don't know who his parents were, his grandparents, like we do for Abram, for example Uh he just pops up out of nowhere. Uh and that's the point the writer of Hebrews is making. Now observe how great this man was, to whom Abraham the patriarch gave a tenth of the choicest foil And those indeed of the sons of Levi who received the priest's office have commandment in the law to collect a tenth from the people, that is from their brethren, although these are descended from Abraham. But the one whose genealogy is not traced from them, that is the Levites, collected a tenth from Abraham and blessed the one who had the promises. But without any dispute, the lesser is blessed by the greater. So this is a discussion in Hebrews chapter 7 of the significance of this meeting between Abram and Melchizedek. And so What do we get? What do we get as a comparison or as a foreshadowing of Christ in this man, Melchizedek? So he's a priest and he's a king. And so is Jesus, a priest and a king. Jesus is three offices, prophet, priest, and king. But priest and king here are combined in this one man, Melchizedek. Nel because his name means King of Righteousness. He's not in the line of Aaron. Jesus likewise is not in the line of Aaron. tribe of Judah, not the tribe of Levi. So he's not in the priestly line by uh natural descent. Um He's from the tribe of Judah. There is no record in Genesis of either the birth or the death of Melchizedek. And so this is symbolic. uh of the eternal priesthood of Jesus Christ because there's no record, obviously because it died, but there's no record of it. So the Bible says, like the Son of God, he remains a peace priest forever in verse three of chapter seven in Hebrews. And the summary statement found later in uh Hebrews chapter seven, verse twenty-four Jesus because he continues forever holds his priesthood permanently. That's the point. Um and so the name Melchizedek is a it's in it's an old Canaanite name, so he's a Canaanite king Um so he's descended from Canaan, uh from through Ham, from Ham to Canaan. Um he's also uh most likely, we don't have his genealogy, but the name itself is a Canaanite name Um and then he's described as a priest of God most high, El El Elion, um God most high, uh that that Hebrew there in um in Genesis, L. Leon. And the combinations of these two offices in one person is not unusual in the ancient Near East But it never occurs in the history of Israel. So there were other peoples that had this, but not Israel. Israel never had a priest and king in the same person. So the uniqueness of this combination for the covenant people becomes a sign of the Messiah, who will one day combine these two offices. And so there are other um prophecies that this will happen. Uh Zechariah chapter six, for example. Uh Zechariah chapter 6 verse 12 to 13 has a a little passage that seems a little confusing, but if you look at it carefully, it tells you that the Messiah is going to be both King and priest. So it goes like this, Zechariah chapter 6, verse 12. Then he say to him, Thus says the Lord of hosts, Behold, a man whose name is branch, for he will branch out from where he is And he will build the temple of the Lord. Yes, it is he who will build the temple of the Lord, and he who will bear the honor and sit and rule on his throne. So he's going to be a king. Thus he will be a priest on his throne, and the council of peace will be between the two offices. And so this is a prophecy from the prophet Zechariah that the Messiah will be both priest and king. So the importance of Melchizedek is demonstrated by the only other reference to him in the Bible. So we'll close with this. So Psalm 110. So if you turn over to Psalm 110 So Psalm 110 is a messianic psalm, and it's quoted in several places in the New Testament. It's quoted in Matthew chapter 22, it's quoted in Mark chapter 12, it's quoted in It's quoted in Luke chapter twenty. It's quoted in Acts chapter two. And the references are to it being about the Messiah. This Psalm. So Psalm 110. Starting in verse 1. The Lord says to my Lord, Sit at my right hand, until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. The Lord will stretch forth your strong scepter from Zion, saying, Rule in the midst of your enemies. Your people will volunteer freely in the day of your power. In holy array from the womb of the dawn, your youth are to you as the doom. The Lord has sworn and will not change his mind. You are a priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek. So this is a. Messianic psalm, a prophecy about the Messiah, talking about him being a king and also a priest. In the order of Melchizedek. And so Psalm 110 talks about the Messiah being a priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek. And so we have this Um this man that Abram meets, and so I'm sure Abram met many different people who are not recorded in the Bible. But the Holy Spirit has made sure this one, this one man, this one encounter with this person about Kizedek is recorded in the Bible, and it's it's a It's a foreshadowing of Christ, is what it is. So we see that Melchizedek is a priest and a king, and he's a type of foreshadowing of Jesus Christ. He's a historical person who points ahead to the Redeemer. He's the shadow. Well, Jesus Christ is the reality. That's the purpose of Melchizedek in this story. To be a type of Christ, a shadow, a foreshadowing of who Christ will be. Alright, so what did we learn today? We learned uh some incidents in Abraham's life uh that he goes to Egypt uh in a spiritual test and he fails miserably Then he comes back and he restores his relationship with the Lord and he parts ways with his nephew Lot. Um the there will be many disasters because of Lot's choice to uh to go and live in Sodom. The first one is he gets captured in battle and Abram rescues him And then we have at the end of this rescue his meeting with this man Melchizedek, and Melchizedek is used throughout Scripture as a type or foreshadowing of Christ because Melchizedek is both a priest and a king, and Christ will be both a priest and a king. Alright, let's close in prayer