In that he says, curse those who curse you and bless those who bless you. Now Isaac relays the decision to Jacob. So with a blessing that Isaac gives to Jacob in verse 3 and 4, there's a direct link with God's blessing of Abraham in Genesis 12 and 17. So look at uh Genesis 28, verse 5. Uh so that's how far he's gotten on this trip. And so you had to come kind of along the coast and then go in. And it's going from the earth up to the entrance of heaven is how it's described. He's lying in this particular spot in what becomes Bethel, right in the center of the land of Canaan. Uh he's faithful by generation after generation, century after century, millennium after millennium, all the way down to where uh he saved me and he fulfilled this promise for me Um that I can still read in the book of Genesis because God made it so. Uh he's and he's happy about it. Uh so it's a similar story here. Uh but he eventually makes it to the vicinity of Haran and stops at a well. Laban because that's who he's looking for. Yeah. Uh and then we'll see that God directly um comes to Jacob in a dream, and Jacob receives the same promises that his grandfather Abraham and his father Isaac received. And eventually we're going to get to Jacob's family. Leah and her servant, Rachel and her servant, and then uh twelve sons uh that become the twelve tribes, uh the heads of the twelve tribes of Israel. Uh I mean for a bowl of stew he's gonna sell this birthright. uh that have been made. So Isaac thinks he's old and dying, although as we talked about last week, he lives at least another 45 years after this. Um and then he goes in and executes the plan. Um he uses kind of these sinful behaviors to bring about what he had promised in the first place. Well, God had promised that uh older would serve the younger, so Rebecca came up with a scheme. She decides to send Jacob away temporarily, she says, for a few days. and by it many be defiled. Uh the previous meeting, he was trying to pass himself off as Esau. what will become Israel Israel. It's way up to the northeast. Uh the only roads are to go north first and then east. Uh Bethel comes is a is a place in Israel for uh all the rest of the Bible. You're uh you travel along this uh this hill these hills, yes. And it was much more built up by then. But then also going down to the south because Egypt was a major uh major nation, a majing major trading partner for uh the countries that were to the east. Uh and then he this promise that's been given to Abraham and given to Isaac, now it's given to Jacob, God not only promises land and descendants and blessing, but he he promises his very own presence. Until I have done what I have promised you. Uh no different. So I have done what I have promised. It it's all the way till Joshua. I mean that was the reason uh people have latched on to that to make all sorts of uh r racial nonsense, but the purpose of that was not to pollute their worship. Uh but now he's revealed through Christ that he is in fact the God of everyone and you don't have to become Jewish. to show to Isaac that he's the one that he's chosen chosen. Uh he's chosen 'em and then throughout their life as we see he kind of molds them from um Uh he he gives him a a a dose of his own medicine. And the Holy Spirit made sure was recorded here in the scripture so that we can read it and we can see. Um you know, they it it takes something happening to them to th for them to understand a a behavior that's not right. There had been doubts about that, of course, uh, in the family dynamics, but Isaac finally came around, and now God is himself uh referrals to this uh this kind of um this actual event in the New Testament. And God giving him the promises, the children of Israel, the nation that became Israel, they knew the story. So this is a really nice thing for Jesus to say about Nathaniel. Now the stone on the mouth of the well was large. It was a servant instead. And for Jacob, he goes by he goes himself, but he doesn't have a bride price. Kind of sitting around this well. And so he's he's specifically up there looking for this one particular family. Uh he rolls away the big stone and starts watering the flocks. Exactly as his mother and his father had commanded him. So with Abraham's servant, if you remember, he comes to a well and it just so happens that the very person He's looking for, comes to the same well at the same time, what are the odds, who could figure it? Bone of my bone, flesh of my flesh. Uh but seven years seems like a long time uh to work for a guy uh and everything that you do is kind of goes to paying this bride price. And so seven is the number of completeness. He's a a hard-headed, hard-driving businessman. Uh to put it into context, we're really looking at about a now we're looking at a about a two hundred and sixty year period of history. the twins that were in her womb at that time and now we see that start to play out. First the birthright. Um so it's it's really kind of shocking that just because he's hungry and wants a bowl of stew, he's willing to sell his birthright. the skins of the sheep that he killed uh to prepare the sheep prepared the meal with. That's his concern. purposes. Uh she needs a pretext, and so there is this existing tension because of Esau's Canaanite wives, and she uses that as the pretext to try to s uh make this plan to send Jacob away so he's not killed. He didn't before, he knows now. Jacob is to go to his mother's family to find a wife, just as Abraham sent a servant to Pharaon to get Rebekah as Isaac's wife. uh his mother Rebecca's brother, of course is his uncle, uh to get um a wife from his children, which of course would be Jacob's first cousins. Gave him the promises in Genesis 17. But God's plans and purposes come to pass, no matter what. And he took one of the stones of the place and put it under his head and lay down in that place. And will bring you back to this land, for I will not leave you until I have done what I have promised you That's where they took their inspiration from. Uh it was called Laws. But what's really important is uh God gave him these promises. And on your right is the Jordan Valley, and so it goes down to the Jordan Valley. Yeah, I don't think it was called that then. Anything to the west of that was the west. uh a little bit later. And so the angels are coming down to this bottom of this ladder and that's where Jacob is. And so the angels are are descending and ascending back and forth between God and heaven and doing his bidding. And so Jacob goes all the way to his death and God hasn't finished doing these things, right? I don't want to get too much into that, but there there is a there's always a little bit of controversy about um well what what are God's plans for Israel and and did they run out Because that's the end of the problem. Uh in reality, he's the God of everyone. It's a huge leap for them because and one of the reasons is because God had spent so much time and effort separating of everyone. It's very difficult for the Jewish apostles to understand, it's a big leap for them to understand that God is including the Gentiles He he chose for himself a particular people for a particular purpose to bring the Messiah to the earth, but he had always been the God of He kind of uses miraculous signs to show that uh so who is the one that he has uh uh supernaturally intended to be Not because they're special. before you could become Christian. So he's going to make a nation of people uh that will be his, called by his name, uh and and so forth, and that people that are called by his name will then have the Messiah. God's showing he shows Jacob that same thing. So this was in the scripture and so Jews knew about Jacob's ladder. Jesus actually refers to it in John chapter 1. on the Son of Man. So Nathaniel has said something. The culmination is Jesus. uh in some ways maybe difficult for the people to understand at the time they were given, but now Jesus is here. and came to the land of the sons of the east. He looked and saw a well in the field, and behold, three flocks of sheep were lying there beside it. Then Jacob kissed Rachel and lifted his voice and wept. So when Laban heard the news of Jacob, his sister's son, he ran to meet him, and embraced him, and kissed him, and brought him to his house. So that's the kind of the broad brush of the story. Uh Abraham sent his servant up to Haran to find a bride for Isaac. The other main difference is that Abraham sent treasure. Uh and so we'll see next time that so at the beginning of this whole thing, Rachel said, go for a few days to Haran, to my my brother Laban. Now we see at the end of this passage he's going to stay for a month. Uh i I think it's uh it's just this customary greeting, the uh greeting kiss, because he does the same thing to Lavan when he arrives. Uh yeah, so th this is kind of a greeting kiss he gives to Rachel and also his uncle Laban a little bit later in the story. from either one of them. uh the deceit to come in this first meeting. He he he just comes and and they he invites him in and he's a guest and he stays in the house for a month. Yeah, and so there was in Genesis chapter twenty-four there was a specific prayer that the servant made and he requested certain things and those things happened as soon as he finished praying. So you can see the providence of God at work uh in this situation for sure. uh question. building for himself a people so that he would have uh they would bring forth the Messiah from these people. So Laban's in that story too. uh under the law of Moses. And and and God will do that he through a wicked person, he's teaching his servant Jacob a lesson by by having him change his wages ten times and and and scheming and s the whole scheme with that Laban knew that Jacob had schemed uh Esau out of his his birthright. Laban knew that. you know, servants and flocks and all kinds of So God blesses him even in his uh even when he fails. Alright, part seven. And uh we're up to part seven and we're in the life of Jacob. um does in the life of Jacob to mold him into uh the man that the Lord needs him to be, to be kind of the the patriarch of his people. Notice that it is the first wife, Leah, through whom both the priesthood of Levi and the future kings Of Judah and the Messiah come. Isaac favors Esau, Rebecca favors Jacob. But in the end he was a man of faith, and the one through whom the seed came and and Esau was not. Um and he does. seen a little bit earlier in scripture that Esau has married Canaanite women and it's caused all kinds of problems to his parents. But Isaac is unable to see that. Sounds like uh Jacob and not Esau. Uh Rebecca and Jacob try to kind of help God along to fulfill this promise. And so this is the New Testament commentary on uh Esau's spiritual condition. And now he's he and Rebecca are in fear for his wife. Arise, go to Padan Aram, to the house of Bethuel, your mother's father, and from there take to yourself a wife from the daughters of Laban, your mother's brother. May God Almighty bless you and make you fruitful and multiply you that you may become a company of peoples May he also give you the blessing of Abraham to you and to your descendants with you, that you may possess the land of your sojournings, which God gave to Abraham. Then Isaac sent Jacob away, and he went to Paden Aram to Laban, son of Bethuel the Aramean, the brother of Rebekah, the mother of Jacob and Esau. So this is a big shift. And that's the name that in Genesis chapter 17, God had specifically revealed to Abraham when he gave him the blessings. Now Isaac understands that that's not God's plan. He gets it now, and we see that here for the first time in Genesis chapter 28 Isaac in this passage specifically says that it's this God, El Shaddai, who gave specifically used that name to give the promises to Abraham. Okay. Rebecca said should be done. He has both the birthright and the blessing, and that's all acknowledged by the current head of the family, Isaac. He said that the older would serve the younger. And behold, the angels of God were ascending and descending on it. The land on which you lie, I will give it to you and to your descendants. And in you and in your descendants shall all the families of the earth be blessed. So um he starts on this journey. Uh and we'll see this place is going to be named uh Bethel. Uh as I've pointed out many times before, uh the the the great artists of the Middle Ages all painted specific scenes from the Bible. And so in order to to get between Egypt and those Mesopotamian countries, they had to come down through um Canaan. Um and then Jacob has a dream, so he's has he's he's gonna s rest. God sending his angels to do his bidding, and his bidding in this case has to do with Jacob. by their descendants, by uh his descendants blessing all the families of the earth. the his grandfather and his father both had moments of doubt and fear. He he never gets uh the he doesn't finish with with all these things. Israel from their neighbors, telling them not to marry the the foreign wives, uh and for the particular purpose of not polluting their worship. Christ died for not just Jews, but also Gentiles, and so it requires a lot of explanation in the New Testament for this fact that God has always been the God of everyone. It was a something. But the plan is to bring about this Messiah. in the New Testament. unfaithful people, he uses their life events to mold them into um faithful servants of his. And and Jacob is like, oh that's not fair. See? to promises to me that he made to me four thousand years before I was born. And so God uses, we'll see next week, God really uses his uncle Laban to teach Jacob a lesson Jesus answered and said to him, Because I said to you that I saw you under the fig tree, do you believe? That he is the Messiah. And he said to him, Truly, truly I say to you, you will see the heavens opened, and the angels of God ascending and descending. In him, in Jacob's descendants, all the nations of the world will be blessed. kind of takes off on that and he ties himself back to the promises that were made to Jacob there at Bethel in Genesis. uh being fulfilled in Jesus. in these last days has spoken to us in his son, whom he appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the world. For whom that well they watered the flocks. And so that's John chapter 1. Explaining everything about these promises that had been going on and on and on for generations and centuries and millennia. And he said to them, Is it well with him? Then he related to Laban all these things. Uh he comes with his staff and the clothes on his back. Uh he's gonna he's gotta work for uh for Laban and Laban s schemes a way to keep him working there for for twenty years. sh flock of sheep. Uh they kind of make a contract that involves seven years of work and then seven more years of work and then six more years of work, and it'll end up being over twenty years. It's really clear in Genesis 24 he arranged events for Rebecca to be there right when the servant got there, a multi-day trip, or we're long distance, and he just so happens to arrive at the well at the same time as re Rebecca comes. shape their lives so that they are uh conform to to his will in such a way that they They end up at the end of a long journey and process with very strong faith in the Lord and his promises And but they but none of them start out that way. And that that kind of that's kind of what it's stacked up to is seven years worth of work to make something similar to that ten camel's loads of gold. That's my guess. Um all of that is in the law of Moses, and that's hundreds of years in the future. And so that could play into it too, but um yeah, so seven is in Hebrew the number of completeness and So seven years for Rachel, uh well, f seven years for Leah and then seven more years for Rachel and then six more years for the Fox and yeah, it's uh it becomes more and more and more. Uh it's he i he the schemer has been schemed uh in in this case and and he doesn't like it That's essentially 260 years of history that we're walking through in these chapters of Genesis Um and of course we got a setup earlier when the Lord came to uh Rebecca and said there would be conflict between And so Jacob was certainly not sinless. uh the creation to produce for him, it's for him to have preeminence over nations and over his brothers. Um and and so Esau i Esau makes a plan, as soon as his father dies, we'll have this period of mourning, and then I'm gonna kill that little brat who stole my my blessing. uh kind of the definitive assessment by the Holy Spirit of Esau And so all the cards are on the table now. that God's plan is for these blessings and these promises to flow down from Abraham to Isaac and now to Jacob. bestowing this this blessing on you. The place where he's encountered with God was called Laus, but after this incident Jacob renames it to Bethel, meaning house of God. So uh from Beersheba to Bethel and then on to Shechem, which is a little farther north, is a well-known north-south travel route. to the east of the Euphrates River. And so the major trade route was along this route and that's what Jacob's following. uh to uh Canaan. And then he says, your descendants will be as the dust of the earth. two thousand years after this. uh Council of Scripture but but that is one thing that people have used this particular scripture for to say that She's not Jewish, but she's uh David's ancestor and therefore Christ's ancestor. this important part of God's plan. the w the the the the method by which he makes this people. And in verse 47 it says, Jesus saw Nathaniel coming to him and said of him, Behold an Israelite indeed, in whom there is no deceit. Um what Jesus is saying is I'm the fulfillment of those promises that were given. how the book of Hebrews starts to say that Jesus is the culmination of all these things. And they said, we are from Haran. And so, of course, there's a famous painting of this as well. And they do. Uh Jacob appears to have nothing but the clothes on his back and a staff. And so notice the difference in the reaction. Nothing like that happens with Jacob. Well, the same thing happens here. He's specifically going to search for this one particular family and the uh you know the the daughter of that one particular family just shows up right at the well, right where Jacob is as soon as he gets there So any questions about any of these events in the life of Jacob and how he's moving forward his plan of redemption? You know, he he he's no that's not that's not fair. And then we'll see Jacob meet Rachel. It starts with the birth of Isaac and ends with the death of Joseph. And it's very probable that the whole family knows about that that Abraham and Isaac didn't keep that a secret, that the whole family knows about these promises. of the blessing, of the the outright deception that comes with the blessing. And uh he uh Isaac seems to think he's gonna die soon. And Esau has always been Isaac's favorite. There are no roads here, and this is desert. But sleeping on a rock, he has a dream. So uh I don't know if it was called the King's Highway at that time or if um if that was later, uh but I think this was became part of what was called the King's Highway And it it probably became what was in the time of Solomon the King's Highway. God appears in heaven at the top of his stairway or ladder, and he identifies himself. that when the Messiah came, that God is not saying, I will leave you, forsake you, and have nothing to do with you, but I will not be with you in the way that I am Um and so that's God showing, hey, this is my doing, my work, this is the one. Um and so this we we refer to this as a theophany, God appearing, and now he's not appearing uh in Um the blessing of being reconciled to God through faith in Christ is really what God is talking about in that particular part of the blessing that he gave to Abraham, then he gave to Isaac, then he gave to Jacob, and Um he's confirming it with Jacob. Jesus answered and said to him, Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you. And put the stone back in its place on the mouth of the well. the the family immediately sends Rebecca to marry Isaac. Seems like a lot. So first Jacob is sent away. And there there'll be some a lot of interaction between those two, but they're just going to meet uh in the incident, uh the event that we look at today. And today we'll pick up that story with Jacob fleeing for his life. So uh and also the one last thing in this little passage of scripture, notice the order of the brothers in verse five. That he's the one that's going to be receiving the blessings and promises of Abraham and Isaac. And of course the the most important thing about this dream is he received the promises. the it's it's a high it's high hills there and to the west if you're going north to the west on your left is the coastal plain so it goes down to the coastal plain on your left a promise of the Messiah. Um and so I just don't see them as running out. progressively makes that revelation and that promise through first through Abraham and then he He's appearing in a dream. So uh Jacob continues his journey. Um and so a few days turns into a month, turns into at least twenty years. Um so there's some difference. And so they go to the house of Laban, and Jacob explains who he is and why he's there, and Laban recognizes him as a relative. Because in seven days God created the heavens and the earth. at the end of Genesis chapter 50. And so um it's interesting to see that um not only is Isaac physically blind, but he doesn't seem to be able to see the faults of his son Esau because we've already And he tells him to go out to hunt. So Isaac called Jacob and blessed him and charged him and said to him, You shall not take a wife from the daughters of Canaan. And so it's Jacob and Esau, not Esau and Jacob. And so did uh Domenico Feti in the 1600s, painted Jacob's dream. The Hebrew word translated angels here, it simply means messengers. weak weak um uh you know weak fearful um y you know That promise is in fact fulfilled over and over and over again every time somebody comes to Christ, because that's the blessing that God's talking about here. When Jacob saw Rachel, the daughter of Lavan, his mother's brother, and the sheep of Lavan, his mother's brother, Jacob went up and rolled the stone from the mouth of the well and watered the flock of Lavan, his mother's brother. So notice that this first meeting between Jacob and his uncle Laban is congenial. But in in the beginning it's just, hey, come stay at my house for a month, because you're my nephew. Um and so he knew what the price was that ten l camel loads of gold was for Rebecca. Laban was gonna drive the hard bargain for a similar kind of compensation for uh his daughter, Rachel. So, yeah, so I think that's part of it, that he's he's going to teach him a lesson. So in the end, God's will is done. Well, so a good question. They don't get the promised land. So he's made this promise to Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, and the promise includes the Messiah. And so it was God Himself that had always made them separate, separate, separate, separate. So this is something from the Holy Spirit that Nathaniel is, he's essentially prophesying. So he helps water the flock, and he introduces himself to Rachel, and when Laban hears about Jacob, he welcomes him into his home, and Jacob stays there a month. Yep, yeah, so yes God did that on a number of occasions. Um Esau um is angry. the rest of the story. There's no deception here. So Rebecca, Leah and uh Rachel are um Jacob's first cousins God said to Jacob that he was going to be done with him once these promises were all fulfilled, and when Jesus came, that was the end of it. So this is he meets Rachel. So, yeah, Jacob just happens to come to the right well at the right time to meet Rachel. Not not necessarily, no. And of course there's a contrast between the two boys. Jacob is originally a little bit resistant. Rebecca gets wind of what Esau's planning to kill her favorite son Jacob. resurrection of Christ, we can see that this is uh and the New Testament makes clear that these are um these are promises of the Messiah. Yeah, I think that's a reasonable way to look at this passage. So uh and so he asks about them, how's my uncle doing? So Jacob sent away. And then we also get the promise of the Messiah, and your descendants shall all the families of the earth be blessed. He has moments of doubt and fear as well. Um I don't think they have because the promises to Abraham are unconditional promises without without end. And and you can actually see little hints of that uh in the way God brought non-Jews into the line of the Messiah. It's the same it's the same promise. See what it's like when you're you know, you're you're pulling these tricks on other people, you don't like it when it happens to you. This is the providence of God eranging uh arranging events such that his purposes are accomplished. I don't know. Okay, so uh last week we l we saw that uh first Jacob kind of uh wheedled the birthright out of Esau. It involves her making food to imitate what uh what Esau would bring in uh and Jacob going in there and and deceiving uh his father. So he receives these promises. The promises that God gives Jacob are very similar to the ones that he made to Abraham in Genesis chapter 13. And will keep you wherever you go. And so, yeah. The one that Jacob didn't want, but but God providentially arranged for him to her to be the wife through whom would come the Messiah. First of all, a double portion of the inheritance, that was the the the birthright of the firstborn. So he's got a careless and indifferent attitude towards it. And then in verse 13, within the dream, God reveals himself as the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac. In uh this present chapter, um in verse thirteen, it says, the land, God says to Jacob, the land on which you lie I will give to you. So, any questions about that before we move into chapter 29? Then verse 9. So uh so we talked about these three events in Jacob's life and how God was uh superintending the events of his life to bring about um his purposes and his long term purposes of Yeah. The only way he would know it is if Jacob told him, and Jacob was probably not gonna tell him. So Esau comes in hungry and he ends up selling his birthright because he's really hungry. What if I get caught? And uh so Hebrews chapter twelve says this, pursue peace with all men and the sanctification without which no one will see the Lord. So starting in verse 10, then Jacob departed from Beersheba. You can see it in the book of Romans, you can see it in Galatians, where there was a particular heresy, uh, that no, God's not just the God of the Jews. We'll talk about this more next week, but the whole scheme with Leah instead of Rachel is very reminiscent of Jacob's scheme to steal the blessing. Not from Rachel the favorite wife, uh or either of the uh handmaids that become his wife, but Rachel uh Leah the the first wife. And he finds out that the shepherds are from Haran, which is nearby, and that's the whole place he's coming to, and that they also know his uncle Laban. And so and and Esau just doesn't seem to care about that. And then she adds another layer to the plan. So and there's a bunch of indications he he brings up Abraham in there, but also he uses the name El Shaddai here, God Almighty. So Rebecca's plan for Jacob's safety comes to pass. Yes, and so that was a problem from the very beginning. Jacob doesn't try to tell him some story about who he is, he tells him the truth of who he is. Now, it could be that there was a you know kind of a fixed price and everybody knew it. And uh in this application, they seem to be it's a dream, so it's and the dream is focused on Jacob. He carries out Rebecca's plan. So there's similarities. He's been sent up to find Laban. Yes, it will be the fact. Same as the central part of the blessings that went to Abraham, and then it went to Isaac, and now Isaac is acknowledging that they go to Jacob next. Okay, so let's continue the story then in verse 10. In this case, Jacob himself goes. Um it's possible that um so Laban Laban was there when Rebecca received her bride price. So you can either go north first and then east, or you could go east first and then north. And so Jesus is referring back to this passage that we're reading now in Genesis with angels ascending and descending on Jacob. In Hebrews chapter 1, so the book of Hebrews opens like this, God after he spoke long ago to the fathers in the prophets in many portions and in many ways He departs from Beersheba and went toward Haran, which is to the northeast from there. As a result of Laban's apparent acceptance of his nephew, Jacob remains with his uncle a month. So uh you know I can see they're they're making a scriptural point. There's a uh kind of a Hebrew idiomatic expression that says, this is my close relative, uh, my bone and my flesh in the NASB. Uh he calls it Bethel, he renames it Bethel, and then for the rest of uh uh scripture times it's called Bethel Yes. And Paul said, No, no, that's not right. Jacob's not offered Rachel, oh yeah, go t take Rachel. So he kisses Rachel, uh later he kisses Lavan, so this seems to be kind of a family greeting. Remember, uh for all his life, the these boys are most likely it uh somewhere between their fifties and seventies, they're twins. Abraham doesn't get it. God's plan is special and he's chosen them to do something special, but it's not because they're so good or wonderful or um or s you know spiritual or righteous Rebecca comes up with the plot. So what does he mean by that? It's a little bit different, but he's he's appearing, he's identifying himself in the dream, and appearing in the dream. There's some similarities, but there's some real distinctions between these two events. So uh so that's so Jacob has kind of finagled the birthright. For the what does that mean? And so Isaac is with the program. Now it's it's not clear that any of these patriarchs understood, and they certainly didn't fully understand what God meant. So this is the same pre promise he had made to Abraham, same he had made to Isaac, to be with him, and yet When Joshua goes in and they start taking the promised land, that's when they get the land. And there's a large stone over the opening of the well. Jacob makes this multi-day long trip, and he just happens to arrive at this one well exactly when Rachel gets there. So the great painter Raphael, he painted Jacob's Dream, a painting called Jacob's Dream. Um in fact the it seems that this was this part of it, this southern part of it was just called the spine. But this was the kind of the trade route to go um between what was called the east and the west. He's the one that's the fulfillment of all these promises. We're walking through chapters twelve to fifty of Genesis now. He's unable to see the flaws in Esau because Esau's his favorite. That there be no immoral or godless person like Esau. So he meets with Jacob. There's no deception. He's sleeping on a rock. So um this is called the this this road was called the spine. Um and so his promise is really long term. He he he's been pointing forward to Jesus, but now Jesus is here. While he was still speaking with them, Rachel came with her father's sheep, and she was a shepherdess. When Rachel arrives, Jacob springs into action. And so um God his his method of doing that is to make a people. And uh in Hebrews there's uh it's not a specific reference to this event, uh, but it's the tie-in to the all the prophecies that have come before. Let's take a look at uh some of the particulars. Um then my father will be angry with me instead of blessing me. Jacob and Esau, with Jacob listed first. And so he's done the rest of the journey. There's it he's just he's happy to see him. And so if you want to do something that's complete, it's a seven worth of it. Uh but he he carries out the deception, Jacob does, uh and he gets the blessing. Um and so he's being sent specifically to his uncle Laban. So this is the Euphrates River right here. Uh so I think that that this is God God was providentially arranging these circumstances and it's not necessarily the case that And so it's a 260-year period. Uh he goes in with the food. So Isaac meets with Jacob to give him instructions and also to bless him once again. And so there's there were trade routes and of course y you couldn't you couldn't go across this way. So anything east of the Euphrates River, that's the east. He doesn't know exactly where he lives. He calls Jacob and gives him tells him what he's supposed to do. That whole passage of scripture starts out with God appearing to Abraham and saying, I am El Shaddai. And now people have made speculations about what this means for the current nation of Israel. Just a coincidence, I guess. Priesthood, King, Messiah, all from Leah. He came down along this road right here. So he promises to be with Jacob and to protect Jacob. And and so and you can just I you know I can just imagine God saying, see When all the flax were gathered there, they would then roll the stone from the mouth of the well and water the sheep. And so he's got to work for the bride price. Esau is described as a hunter of a man of the field. With Isaac's blessings and his directives, Jacob travels to the northwest Mesopotamia to the family of Rebecca. Isaac doesn't get it. So open up to Genesis 28, and we'll start reading at verse 1. And and I I think the Bible is really clear that they're they're chosen not because of who they are. So Jacob's this big schemer, he steals this blessing. He said to them, Do you know Laban, the son of Nahor? Nahor was Rebecca's father. He goes in there. That's the Galatian heresy. And then he does the same thing for Jacob, and I think it's for their good, for for them to understand that they are chosen to be Molds him into Yes, go ahead. So we'll have the first meeting between Jacob and Rachel, who will one day become his wife, and also his uncle Laban, who he's he's never met before. Uh and has always really been the God of everyone. It's got so God has this kind of purpose and plan to bring about the Messiah. And they said, It is well. His mother told him in Genesis 27, his father told him in Genesis 28, go up there and find uh your mother's brother, and he's found the family And it doesn't matter what kind of sinful human behavior intervenes. He starts uh they're living in Beersheba, which is way down here, and Haran is way up here. And so uh the uh the initial answer is uh Jacob never gets the land. So Jacob knows directly from God that he is the one. And so this is the calling of Nathaniel and Philip. So he's had this incident in Bethel, then he goes on to to Haran. The major distinction is that Isaac played no role in choosing of his wife. And of course the number seven to the Hebrews was the number of completeness. He's gotten from where he started here and then he rests here. Laban said to him, Surely you are my bone and my flesh. I work for Rachel. We set it up last week, but this week he's going to be actually fleeing for his life from his family. And there have been some twists and turns in the road, uh, and lots of human sin along the way We'll see more of it next week, but uh with ten camels of gold They start out with all kinds of fears and doubts and he molds them. Go up to my brother uh he uh in Haran uh for a few days. And so there were kind of standard trade routes that went along that route between the east and the west. Does it mean that like after that he's not gonna be with he would not be with them? You are the Son of God, you are the King of Israel. She puts the garments on him so that if he smells him, it'll smell like Esau's garments, the skins on his hands and neck. He sees a staircase or ladder going up to heaven. So you're way up in the hills, and on your left is Coastal Plain, on your right is Jordan Valley, and so it's called the Spine. He sent ten camel loads of gold and silver and shiny objects. He uh when Abraham went into Egypt and deceived them with the cult Sarah's sister, he comes out with giant He says, well, what if I get caught? Uh Jacob is actively involved uh in this uh search for a wife. That's where this is all driving to. And not only that, but this family, um now we've seen God Trek talk to Abraham and and God talk to Isaac. Jacob said to them, My brothers, where are you from? God's plan is for the blessings and the promises to flow down to Jacob Uh that's a real callous attitude towards something that was actually very important in those days. She's the prime motivator of the action. There's gonna be conflict between these brothers. It's always been Esau, it's always been Esau, it's always been Esau. This was her plan. I don't know about that. And Paul made these arguments that, no, God has always been the God of everyone. He lives somewhere up here. He's going to use all these circumstances to teach uh teach Jacob this uh this lesson. He he doesn't die soon. So before we've had an analogy, your descendants will be like the stars of the sky. Jacob doesn't get it. And Isaac is specifically acknowledging And of course the blessing includes, it's centered on these two ideas of him becoming a people, a nationhood, and the land. Your descendants will also be like the dust of the earth, and you will spread out to the west and to the east and to the north and to the south. And so that's what he does. And so you have the miraculous birth of Isaac, uh to s a woman that's ninety years old. Nathaniel said to him, back to Jesus, how do you know me? There's a famous painting of almost every event in the Bible. No no questions asked. And behold, the Lord stood above it and said, I am the Lord, the God of your father Abraham, and the God of Isaac. He makes part of the journey, he's gotta rest, has a dream, he sees a ladder or a stairwell. So they're kind of um it seems to be a depiction of Jacob's ladder or staircase, this incident of him having a dream and And we'll see next week that he stays for at least 20 years. So on his journey, Jacob stops to rest and he has a dream So these are God's messengers. But but there are people who point to this one and say, well, okay, see, once the Messiah comes, God's done with Israel He's going to get what he can get. He um he's got Esau's clothes on, he's got uh Uh Isaac's intention was to bless Esau, but that's not the case here. No matter what um human schemes uh are all along the road, uh what God purposes comes to be. Uh it was Luz when he got there. And go on where was the um change highway For from that well they watered the flocks. He goes to the well, talks to the shepherds, and it happens that these shepherds do know his Uncle David. They say he's well, and oh by the way, there comes Rachel with the his with Laman's. Uh so God has arranged events Isaac is a little suspicious at first because even though he's blind he can still hear and it sounds like uh And in fact that's what Abraham followed. Yeah, that where when God says I will not leave you until Jacob told Rachel that he was a relative of her father, and that he was Rebekah's son, and she ran and told her father. So uh Bethel was the first night, and then he's got many nights more. And so today we're gonna look at three more events, uh three more things that uh God He's with he he understands that it's Jacob that these promises are going to come through. So it's totally impractical for him to go east first and then north. The the there were people in the Galatian church that were teaching you had to become circumcised. So that was the number of completeness. That's that's not fair. And then in Hebrews chapter 12 we read that uh Esau is described as an immoral and godless person So this whole story really ends up fulfilling what God had promised. Anything to the east of that was called the east Now until I've done what I've promised you, w what is the other part of this promise? No, go ahead. And so the story plays out. As I mentioned before, in the New Testament, in the book of Hebrews, Hebrews chapter 12, we get Um yeah, that's so um he was the god of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob and Jesus is saying, I'm the fulfillment. Um he's overjoyed uh that he's found his mother's family. Birth of Isaac, his life, birth of Jacob in his life, birth of Joseph in his life. So the la the last event in the book of Genesis is the death of Joseph. They're both happy to see one another, uncle and nephew, uh, in this first meeting. Now, it could be that that was based on the w customs of the time of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, but all of that is way in the future. He knows who it is. They know Laban. So yeah. He starts out north, he makes it a certain distance, and he stops there. And in the dream he sees angels going up and down. So, chapter 29, we're going to do just a little bit of chapter 29 where he meets Rachel. And now Isaac sends Jacob himself up to Haran to find a bride. He doesn't have ten camels of stuff Uh he's old and blind. He's got 'em on his arms and on his neck. She sold it to Isaac. I I'm you know, I never tried to use a rock as a pillow. Um house of God, because he had this dream there. But that required a lot of explanation He recorded in his word so that I can read it and see that he's been faithful. And he uses an event here from the book of Genesis that we're reading about to tell Nathaniel. Um the s the snazzy angels going up and down a ladder are nice. Um so he he had done little things like that to show that it wasn't a racial thing And here is Rachel, his daughter, coming with the sheep. No. Uh so he arrives near his destination, he sees a well with some flocks around it. Um and so this is Um and God still, in spite of that, uses these sinful misdeeds to further his Uh but he's gonna be sent away. Joseph doesn't get it. Laban was Rebecca's brother, but it's Nahor, and it's actually Laban who does most of the negotiations. So yeah. Jacob's a peaceful man of the tents. And now, when we get to the New Testament, All these promises that go back to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and then also the prophets that were sent to the nation of Israel after that They uh they're they're they're in there. Uh Esau also seems to think Isaac's gonna die soon, even though he doesn't die soon And he meets Rachel. Okay, he goes to a well, which is a place where people would meet, and he asks, Hey, did anybody know Laban? He doesn't have ten camels of gold And so uh Jacob's family, he ends up having these four wives. He had a dream, and behold, a ladder was set on the earth, with its top reaching to heaven Yeah. Just like Abraham and Sarah kind of tried to help God along. Uh but we can look back, knowing what we know uh from the birth death uh Uh I I I think it's not quite correct in in view of the entire So he sees Rachel, he knows he he's she's identified for him by the other shepherds, and he springs into action to assist her. He's received that from Isaac, and now he gets the same thing from God. Uh and and Jacob is kind of retracing his grandfather Abraham's steps. So he's crossed over the Euphrates River and gone east to Pharaoh. Because he doesn't have ten camels of gold He's been schemed. And this is of course exactly as God said it would be. Behold, I am with you, and I will keep you wherever you go. So there are many similarities with the search for a bride for Isaac in Genesis 24. So he wakes up, he sets the stone that was under his head for a pillar and pours oil on it. It's not like uh this this idea that he's gonna he's not gonna leave me until I've done what I've promised, this promise is a really long term promise. And so he calls Philip first, then he calls Nathaniel. You will see greater things than these. We'll see that that's not always, it's not going to stay that way, but at the beginning, there is no sense of deception He says, I'm going to give you this land that you're lying on. Um now it eventually will be much, much, much longer than that, uh once they lay out the contract between the two. I I'm not sure I I think it would be very surprising if if uh So uh and then we have the incident of the um Now Beersheba is all the way in the southern part of the land of Canaan. So um when when do the when do they get the promised land? So this was an event that um all Jews were familiar with We had prophets, we had these promises that were Jacob strikes up a conversation with the shepherds who are near the well with the flocks. And second, he sells the right to become the head of the family when the father passes. He had told Rebecca back in Genesis chapter 25 that the older would serve the younger And God's messengers are depicted as coming down from heaven, doing his bidding, and then going back up. Um then of course he repeats the promise to Isaac to show that But he did so through these very particular events in these people's lives and he uses them to Yeah. But the you can see in many New Testament passages where it's He doesn't try to deceive him. All right, so oh we have oh we have a lot of time. I'm the God of your grandfather Abraham, I'm the God of your father Isaac. Even though God had promised them all these wonderful things and promised to be with them, they had moments of doubt and fear and of course Jacob is And so she comes up with another plan to keep him out of harm's way. Angels of God are ascending and descending on this staircase or ladder. And then his uncle Laban kind of pulls the same kind of things on him Yes, and so that's right. Um because he doesn't have ten camels worth of gold Um between uh Isaac Isaac's wife, uh the servant going and bringing the bride price He tells Esau to go out and hunt um and so that he can bless Esau before he dies. So he's notice that Jacob isn't saying, well, this is wrong. And and Jesus uh Isaac and Rebecca have already discussed the issue of the heathen wives and And then also another coincidence, here comes Rachel with the flocks of Laban. Seven days. Uh Rebecca says, hey, if uh if there's any kind of uh blowback it'll be on me. Note that he's called Jacob. When Abraham first came down from Haran Yeah, a good point. So this is the that same event, God gave the promise that So he arrives at Haran, he approaches a well, he asks the shepherds if they know Um and so he's going to bless him anyway. He was just getting ready to bless, to give his blessing to Esau, but look now. Uh it was built out, of course, that's hundreds of years later And so That's a big bold statement for Nathaniel to make on first meeting Christ. So a month Rebecca overhears, sends Jacob in with a plan to deceive Isaac. So it's now really official. Uh but after this incident he renames it Bethel. I will not leave you. So there's a warning not to be an immoral and godless person like Esau Isaac then gives the the command, the head of the family command, for Jacob to do just what Now the stone so it doesn't mention, but of course there had to be shepherds there. Uh his blessing has been stolen. But And so this is a And so um this promise to Jacob is operational until the day he dies Absolutely. And um that's that's God teaching him a lesson. Um and we also see that Esau is kind of indifferent to his birthright. She comes up with the plan and she makes sure that Jacob carries it out. And then also it's uh there's a repeat of a a little part of the uh promise to Abraham And so this is Jake so Jacob's received this blessing and the acknowledgement from Isaac. And so this is And we're seeing that gradually through the like of life of Jacob. Uh so today. Okay, God is, God has been so faithful to this promise. He's giving out these clues. So the providence of God is evident here, uh just like it was in Genesis 24 And what he sells is So uh if you open your Bible to Genesis chapter twenty-eight, we're essentially gonna look through Genesis twenty-eight and twenty-nine today. And they said, We know him. Ten camels worth of gold, oh yeah. Um Uh it was the route Abraham took when he first came the other direction from around to Canaan. And he's speaking plainly and and clearly and So then Jacob went on his journey. And so he goes in there and he lies to his father, he deceives him and he's and he gets the blessing. Um Now, we see uh some Now Jesus is here. Uh this is not uh he's making a move on on Rachel God created the heavens and the earth. And there's also the idea of parental favoritism here. And um you know it sometimes we train our children that way. And Laban doesn't show any signs of Isaac tells Esau to go out. And he's got still a long way to go. Nathanael answered him, Rabbi, you are the Son of God, you are the King of Israel. And he stayed with him a month. So And so my guess from reading the whole text is that He specifically says, hey, I'm giving you the blessing of Abraham. So So that blessing that your descend in your descendants shall all the families of the earth be blessed Jacob encountering Rachel. I think God is ch teaching him a lesson through Latin. See to it that no one comes short of the grace of God, that no root of bitterness springing up causes trouble. So He came to a certain place and spent the night there because the sun had set Now we get the analogy, your descendants will be like the dust of the earth. And Abraham went through that and Isaac went through that and Jacob's going through that now. Anything else? Excellent point. As we'll see. So It's known as the spine because um And Moses doesn't get it. So is it not possible That's the that's really the key to the whole thing. Doesn't seem like that would be uh maybe Jacob had a really hard head Isaac is of officially acknowledging that here in these verses. Uh it's a long journey up there to Haran, uh several days So first let's take a look at what we talked about last week. We'll pick up the story today. You had to become Jewish essentially He uses the Hebrew idiomatic expression, my bone and my flesh, sometimes And he confirms Jacob as the true heir of Abraham and Isaac If it happens to them, they they can see it really clearly. And he says to the north and to the south and to the east and the west. He's outright stolen and lied to get the blessing. So Isaac didn't go. He chose for himself a particular people, but Uh he comes in from the field hungry and he sells his birthright for stew He completed everything. He would finish his So he sees sh sheep, a whole bunch of sheep with the sh their shepherds Uh the blessing is in three parts. He had promised the children, so they came up with a scheme Okay, let me uh let me close this with prayer. By all rights and privileges, he's the firstborn. They're his his messengers. That's what the book of Hebrews is saying. We have ten minutes for Isaac knows that he's blessing Jacob this time So this is- he he knows who this is now Um Well that's of course in the future Um That's the name in which um She's she's off. So that was uh any questions about last week before we plunge into So anything to the I am God Almighty. So Uh Ruth the Moabites, for example. That's who was watering the flocks. Isaac understands. So They don't necessarily see all that that whole big picture. So Genesis 28, verse 1. He calls the place Bethel, which means house of God. The other part of his promise is goes all the way to the Messiah. Joseph von Frick. Laven is always asking for more and more and more. He's saying, what if I get caught? And so Um and last week I pointed out that Well, God But hey, that's not fair. Um yeah. So in Genesis 24 I mean It's uh Uh that's not the case here, but I I'll uh I'll own up to it. And He says, I am with you. Um In verse 14. So it's really important. We'll we'll talk about that next week, but Um He's