Let's pray as we begin. Father, we thank you for this morning that we can be together as a family and enjoy your word, enjoy your work in one another. to sing praises to you, to receive the teaching and proclamation of your word and uh to rejoice together this uh over this life in Christ that you have given us. I pray that as we talk through uh this section of scripture Uh which is so clear and critical, uh, that you would both inform our minds and encourage our hearts with just the the work that you did uh out of your grace. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Alright, so as we get into chapters seven and eight, let me just do a quick overview of what we'll look at today Uh we're gonna look at the timing of the flood's onset as Noah finished the ark, the details of his obedience in terms of uh bringing uh the animals, although we'll see it wasn't so much that Noah was bringing the animals, but uh Noah uh doing and fulfilling all that God had commanded. Uh we'll talk a little bit about flood and human genetics and uh I did a little bit of study. Pastor Rob could probably answer any questions you have, but I'll do my best to represent uh what uh what is helpful. Uh we'll talk uh uh about the fact that scripture repeats over and over again who it was, uh both who and what uh was on the ark And then God shutting the door. Of course, the flood covering the globe, total destruction of life, and how that uh produced the burial of fossils. So that'll take us to the end of chapter seven and then we'll get into chapter eight where God remembers Noah after the floods had been uh prevailing on the earth for five months He then begins to remove the floodwaters. The ark touches land. Noah begins to send out a s a succession of birds to test uh the uh dryness of the earth The earth ultimately dries and God commands a disembarkment. So that's what we'll cover today, a lot of ground, and so we'll move uh fairly quickly. And I will say, uh when Pastor Rob taught this back in 2023 over two quarters, the Genesis 1 to 11, in this particular section, uh he spent time talking about the ice age. And how the flood is really the only um l uh possible explanation for uh an ice age on the earth uh in the history as scripture presents history. And so we're not going to talk about that at all today. We just don't have time. So if you're interested in how can we get an ice age in the history of the world as it's presented from Scripture, you can find those sessions on Sermon Audio. And you can ask him or I for the PowerPoint for that session and we'd be glad to get that to you so you can uh think about that and see how Uh, you know, even this idea of an ice age, which, you know, when you're n when you don't know any better, like I typically don't know better when it comes to scientific stuff It's like, well, how does that fit into biblical history? Well, it actually fits in quite well. Um and it doesn't really fit in uh well with other views of history. So But first, quick review of what we talked about last week, and I'm just going to keep this short. There are three significant, and these are not exhaustive, but three significant lines of evidence that we can look at to Uh acknowledge the the fact of Scripture. We don't need these supporting lines of evidence. Scripture is true no matter whether it's whether there's extra biblical support or not. But uh sometimes it helps just to have additional support for what Scripture says. And those three lines of evidence that Pastor Rob walked through last time were first of all the flood traditions Which we know many cultures around the world have very ancient traditions about some kind of global uh or significant flood and each having different elements that reflect what the Bible teaches But the fact that there is such uh a tradition in all of these different cultures all around the world uh indicates that there was in fact some cataclysmic uh um event that took place which was handed down and of course as people got further away from both the locality and the culture uh of um the Middle East and the the preservation of the flood account through God's people, uh the the details got muddied and distorted, but but just those flight traditions are significant. uh support. As well if there were such a flood, what would we expect to see? You know, you heard this phrase multiple times, billions of dead things buried under rock layers laid down by water all over the earth. I think there's a song that one of the uh uh organizations um uh put out. It's like billions of dead things buried under rock Layers laid down by water all over the earth. And that's about I think it's repeated over and over until you get really annoyed. Um you want me to be the the Anyway, I mean just what we see very evident, very obvious all over the earth, uh at the high mountains, uh all all of the um uh fossils just are clear evidence that there was some cataclysmic worldwide global flood that covered uh every bit of land on the planet. And then uh we see the rock layers that were actually laid down, which you can see in the Grand Canyon and many other places uh around the world. And just the way that that is uh the right way those rock layers uh are uh can really only be legitimately explained by some kind of global flood. They're they can't legitimately be explained by a local flood or a uh long period of time uh of a little bit of water trickle. So uh all of those details you worked through last week, Pastor Rob did, and and so if you weren't here you can uh go back and listen to that. That'll be helpful So again, those three lines of supporting evidence for a global flood. Now today we're going to get into just walking through the scripture primarily. in Genesis chapter 7. So if you have a Bible, you can turn to Genesis chapter 7. And we're going to start here by reading verses 6 to the end of the chapter, verse 24. And then we will walk through, and of course we'll have it on the screen, but if you have your own copy of God's Word, that'd be great for you to read read it from there. So Genesis chapter 7 Now Noah was 600 years old when the flood of water came upon the earth Then Noah and his sons and his wife and his sons' wives with him entered the ark because of the water of the flood. Of clean animals and animals that are not clean, and birds, and everything that creeps on the ground, there went into the ark to Noah by twos, male and female, as God had commanded Noah. It came about after seven days that the water of the flood came upon the earth. In the six hundredth year of Noah's life, so this is basically repeating for emphasis. Uh in the six hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month, on the seventeenth day of the month, we're coming up on the I didn't get the exact year. anniversary, but uh this next week will be the anniversary in the sense. Uh sec second month, seventeenth day of the month. On the same day, uh namely that Noah went into the ark, all the fountains of the great deep burst open. And the floodgates of the sky were opened. The rain fell upon the earth for forty days and forty nights On the very same day Noah and Shem and Ham and Japheth, the sons of Noah, and Noah's wife, and the three wives of his sons with them. entered the ark. They and every beast after its kind, and all the cattle after their kind, and every creeping thing that creeps on the earth after its kind. And every bird after its kind of all sorts of birds. So they went into the ark to Noah, by twos, of all flesh, in which was the breath of life. Those that entered, male and female of all flesh, entered as God had commanded him. And the Lord closed it behind him, that is the door. Then the flood came upon the earth for forty days, and the water increased and lifted up the ark so that it rose above the earth. The water prevailed and increased greatly upon the earth, and the ark floated on the surface of the water. The water prevailed more and more upon the earth So that all the high mountains everywhere under the heavens were covered. The water prevailed fifteen cubits higher, and the mountains were cr covered. All flesh that moved on the earth perished, birds and cattle, and beasts, and every swarming thing that swarms upon the earth, and all mankind. Of all that was on the dry land, all those, all in whose nostrils was the breath of the Spirit of Life died. Thus he blotted out every living thing that was upon the face of the land, from man to animals, to creeping things, and to birds of the sky. And they were blotted out from the earth. And only Noah was left, together with those that were with him in the ark. The water prevailed upon the earth one hundred and fifty days. So I think you saw this last week. Uh we have just a general timeline of uh of uh what was just described here where you have Uh Noah entering the Ark here on the tenth day of the second month, the door being shut on the 17th day, and that's when the rain begins. Yeah, forty days and then the water prevailing for 150 days uh until as we'll see in verse uh rather chapter eight, the art resting uh in the mountains of Erap. So, brief overview of what we just read. The chronology of the flood is very cr carefully crafted, right? There's very uh all the details are given, even repeated, for emphasis Uh first Noah boards the Ark with his family and all the kinds of land animals, then God shuts the ark's door. The flood begins with enormous amounts of water from the fountains of the great deep and the rainfall lasting forty days. It's clearly a global fr flood. It prevailed for 150 days, about five months, and covered all the high mountains. And we'll consider that there's no reason to believe that they were as high as they are today. If the earth I think uh Pastor Rob might have talked about this last week. Um Either that are mixing up lessons that I listened to in preparation. Anyway, uh if the earth were a smooth sphere, the seawater would cover the whole surface to a depth of three kilometers. or about two miles for those of us who don't know what a kilometer is. The flood was responsible for most of the fossil record. And we'll consider that the record is not a sequence of vast ages as the evolutionary uh uh proposals suggest, but a sequence of burial as the flood buried successive ecosystems as the flood moved from uh the land or rather from the sea to the land. All right, let's go into The detail. So again, Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of water came upon the earth. He and the sons and the sons' wives. With him entered the ark because of the flood of water, of clean animals and unclean animals and birds, and everything that creeps on the ground that went into the ark. uh two Noah by twos, male and female, as God commanded Noah. So this is the precise record of Noah entering the Ark. It began when He was about six hundred and his sons were one hundred. We see that from the genealogy of Genesis chapter five, when we're told about uh Noah being five hundred when Shem Ham and Japheth were born. I don't know that that means that they were triplets all born when Noah was five hundred years old, but that they were all born in relatively quick succession. After Noah lived, uh after Noah, no one lived anywhere near as long as he did. Shem died at the age that uh that Noah was when he began his 350-year journey. So this you've seen this chart before. When you look at how old Shem was when he died, he was 600 years old But Noah was 600 years old when the flood began and he lived 350 years longer. So again, after the flood, no one lived anywhere near as long as Noah had lived And Shem remarkably lived longer than most of his descendants up until and possibly even including Abraham. But n as soon as the flood uh ended and uh humanity began to populate, the years of life decreased uh significantly, even being cut in half after multiple generations. So next there in verses six to nine we get the inventory of all who was uh on the ark. Of course you have the eight people of Noah's family and the land animals that got it brought to the ark. Uh notice that they went into the Ark, so Noah didn't have to find them and herd them, right? That would have been a hundred year effort by itself if he had to go out and search for them and corral them and bring them all together Uh, that must have been a sight to see, you know, to have all of those animals come to you and in an orderly fashion and not, you know, eat each other in the process. Um but they all came to Noah. The Lord directed them to Noah. And so that made it easier for him and his family to uh put them in the places they needed to be within the ark. And so Noah's a vegetarian until after the flood? Uh Is that true? Yeah, so uh in Genesis chapter one it says that the animals and people were uh ate plants. And then it says, and it was so and so yes, the the animals were vegetarians originally. Now uh in the post full we don't get a detailed description of of uh how the hall affected animal killing after that that. So it's certainly possible that the animals in the post ball world did start eating because that's possible. Yeah. That's what I was wondering. Um because violence filled the earth So s we know murder was a thing and so maybe animals murdered other animals and thought, hmm, I wonder what that tastes like. That's right. That's right. Um We already saw in chapter 6 and 7 that Noah's obedience to God was stressed, and here it is again that Noah did everything as God commanded Noah. From biblical information, we can deduce a fair amount of uh modern human genetics. Uh again, uh just as we thought about the lines of evidence in terms of the flood n uh uh flood uh narratives from other cultures, the fossil record, the rock layers, uh human genetics would also have to bear out evidence of the lineage if it's true that in fact humanity got reduced down to eight people. And so um if if if if there was Anyway, to disprove scripture, human genetics would be one way of accomplishing that. But in fact, uh the genetics that we've come to understand uh demonstrate that Um the the flood uh did happen, or at least that uh the genetic record uh affirms uh something like a flood would have happened. All males have uh sex chromosomes of X and Y So let's take us ourselves back to 10th grade biology class. And they all inherit the Y chromosome from their biological father, right? So all of us. Men have a Y chromosome that we received from our father. And apart from unnatural mutations, that Y chromosome remains the same. But of course, because we live in a fallen world, there are mutations that take place as a as an effect of the fall, not as a natural effect of uh heredity. In other words Apart from the the fallen condition, the Y chromosome will stay the same as it gets handed down, which enables one to see what are the lines, uh genetic lines that people come from And so, barring any mutations, which of course they lived in the time of the fall, Shemhem and Japheth would have had only one type of Y chromosome that they would have gotten from Noah. Thus all men since Noah have inherited that one Y chromosome. The only difference would be caused by mutations of the last 4500 years. And this is exactly what we find Uh uh if you just do a little bit of research on this, you'll see articles that highlight the diversity of Y chromosomes on the planet. But what they're actually talking about is minimal divergences and differences in different continents and different places. But they all still come from the same singular stream, if you will, of a Y uh a common Y chromosome. So um I don't remember if we've shown this picture before But uh in DNA we all receive one pair from each of our parents and so as we look at the first three pair uh twenty-three pairs of of chromosomes. You get down to the 23rd pair, which is either an XY for a male or an XX for a female. And uh apart from those chromosomes, there's another mitochondrial chromosome that gets passed through uh the the mom to uh daughters exclusively. Uh and so there's another line of potential um uh divergence if if there are multiple different uh uh generations and and genetic lines. But within one line there will be a consistent mitochondrial uh genome that's uh handed down from mother to daughter generation after generation, which means that as long as The wives of Shemhem and Japheth were not related to Noah's wife, which there's no indication they would have been. The population would have been massive by then. No need for them to marry their sister or cousin, though it's always possible that happened, but Assuming that they weren't related, there'd be three distinct uh mitochondrial genome lines uh among females in the world today. And that's actually exactly what we see. I think this is put here. Um The Ark. Uh this is from uh Jonathan Sarfati. Consider how many mitochondrial DNA lineages would have survived. the flood on the ark. Only three from Noah's three daughters in law. Mrs. Noah only bore sons and they could not pass on uh their mitochondrial DNA any further, so Mrs. Noah uh her line lineage became extinct. The evidence from people today is consistent with descent from Noah's three daughters-in-law. There are three main mitochondrial DNA lineages all around the world Evolutionists call these lines M, N, and R, although they would never say they are the ancestral sequences uh to all mankind because I would have to admit that there was um something like a flood. Evolutionists are again surprised at the lack of diversity. Many even postulate a disastrous population bottleneck to explain this. Of course the term bottleneck refers to a graph of population that is originally wide with many people, then narrowing sharply like the neck of a bottle. And of course the flood was that drastic bottleneck. You know, probably many millions, if not billions, down to only eight people and specifically three uh female lines. So uh you can you know go a lot further with thinking through uh all the DNA dynamics, but again, just another line of supporting evidence that what scripture presents as history is actually borne out in what we know today in science. Moving on to verse 11, in the 600th year of Noah's life, in the second month, on the seventeenth day of the month, on the same day all the fountains of the great deep burst open And the floodgates of the sky were opened. So the exact day of the flood is Uh not February, but the second month, uh the seventeenth day of the month, 600, where 600 is the year since Noah's birth. So this is not attempting to give an actual calendar date per se, just to give us a relative idea as the dates relate to one another And then the date that is given as to when they left the ark will be the twenty-seventh day of the second month, one year later, so a year and ten days uh from the moment that they enter the ark. The source of the floodwaters has given us twofold, the fountains of the great deep and the floodgates of the sky. The floodgates of the sky is further described. as forty days and nights of rain. And the fun foundations of the deep have been the subject of much speculation, but most commentators seem to agree that it was subterranean water. One of the great challenges that we have is we don't know have we don't have any idea of what was the uh geography, that's probably not the right word, the the condition of the planet before the flood Because the flood would have caused a catastrophe on the earth, and there's evidence that uh during a time of the flood that there was a lot of geological chains throughout the planet and so um we don't have a way of knowing what it exactly looked like before the flood You know, how high were the mountains, how low were the valleys, how deep was the ocean, all of that. We don't know precisely what it was back then, we just know what it looks like today. But by this description, what we are told is there seems to have been fountains of the deep, if you will, subterranean water that were kept uh and and then released uh for uh the flood to take place and then water in the sky that allowed it to rain for forty days and forty nights. Now that might seem Uh like a lot of rain. But if you're from Washington like I am, it's actually not that bad. No. Chapter one, it says we separated the waters beneath from the waters above, and I thought that the waters that were below the death. So that's possible and Rob you crack I'm gonna try and imitate uh or reflect what you taught when you taught this class before. But what I learned in listening to when Rob taught this before is that There couldn't have been too much water in the sky, as it were, because that would have uh increased the temperature of the earth to make it unsustainable for life. So f uh again, forty days, forty nights is not an incredible amount of rain. Now in Washington State, uh where it can rain for weeks on end, it's usually like a drizzle. Uh it's not raining hard for for that long. But um Uh the there could only have been a limited amount of w water vapor in the sky lest it overheat the earth uh you know and make it uninhabitable. Uh but there certainly was clearly clearly a lot of water. There's a lot of debate over what that means in terms of separating the water below and and above. Um and so Uh yeah, I mean when you think about how Genesis describes the earth before creation uh b before the creation of land, what does it say? It was It was a global flood, right? The Earth was a big globe uh with everything underwater And then dry land appeared. So there was cataclysmic activity that all happened instantaneously when the Lord said, Let there be land And that caused uh the earth to rise in various places, and of course water receded from that rising earth. And uh so Uh to what degree did that reflect what we see today? Uh we don't know precisely, but uh it seems as though that happened even more after uh or during uh the flood. And so that when yeah And I'm kind of out of my depth here, no pun intended. But when the m mountains rose or the land rose, it may be that water went underneath into these subterranean uh areas uh and those were released at the time of the flood Yes. If we know about how much water properties in the high comments would be too much of the wheel to make it like building flocks, do we know how much water could have been under the the ground before it caused issues like uh do were you able to hear that? Yeah, and and there's no way to know for sure, uh, because we don't know so we don't know how high the mountains were before. for the flood. We don't know how uh deep the ocean basins were, so we don't know how much water was just sitting there in the oceans at the beginning. And so we know how much water there is now uh enough to cover the entire globe up to three kilometers if we had a sphere. So we know exactly what's water there is now. How much of that was originally in either fragmental oceans and how much of it was in the thousands of gray teeth. I d I don't think there's really anywhere. What about the foundations? Yeah. Yes. I'm not so sure, but uh I think what you think is thinking that the uh guy also brought water from the bottom and started the new Jerusalem Uh that doesn't sound familiar to me. Does an anybody know what yeah, I don't recall. I don't recall. Richard? Could have been uh uh one land at or that. Yeah, so that's known as Pangea, right? That's the theory, and that that's possible. Um but again it's it's speculation. There you you know, you look at the continents and they look like they kinda fit together kinda sorta. Uh there's good evidence for that to say. What what continent do you find changing? Australia. In Australia. So it's it's a good fossil it's a good evidence that uh there was one landmass And probably after Genesis eleven when God confused the languages, the landmass began to change separated by water. Right. Right. Yeah, so there's all kinds of things that are possible and and not known. Just so you know, uh I think you already know this. Pastor Rob was like a f uh chair in a physics department Uh at the Naval Academy. I got a C in physics. So if you if you have So if you have a physics question, he's your guy. Alright, so the the the water comes up, the water comes down, ultimately you know filling the earth, and uh we'll continue to see here how it describes the amount of water But uh again they go into the ark here, verse 15, two by the tool of all flesh, in which was the breath of life. Those that entered, male and female. of all flesh entered as God had commanded him. And we we're already seeing it here, we'll just see it over and over again. Just the uh exhaustive um Uh language that refers to everything, all. And there's a Hebrew uh uh adjective or whatever, col Uh it's just used over and over and over again to reflect that it's all people, all flesh, all animals, all mountains. Uh just there's no way to r uh i the text makes no effort to limit You know, whether it was how much water there was, or how many people there were, or how many animals, uh everything is expansive and exhaustive. So again there's another reminder that they were doing as God had commanded. And this was an absolute final act. That is the Lord closing the door behind them. Notice that they use both names for God here in verse sixteen. God Elohim had commanded him, and then the Lord Yahweh closed it behind him. You know, it it's fitting that the uh covenant name of God is used for the protection of you know and his family. I don't know I don't know if you ever do this. I'd I'd encourage you to do this. Uh to sometimes when you read your scr your Bible and particularly the narrative parts, kinda try and put yourself in the shoes of the people that you're reading about. I I know many of you have been to the Ark in Kentucky. If you have, it's a little bit easier to do because you have some kind of picture in your mind. But even if you haven't been there, I think you can do this. Just imagine that you have been building this arc for a hundred years. And uh you have now brought uh God has brought all of these animals to you. You've placed them, everybody's where they need to be, and you're standing there inside the ark And the door, which had to be massive, shut. And you realize We can't get out. And no one else can come in. And just that finality Uh the that you know there's both a a sinking heart of oh this is really happening, certainly a grateful heart. for Lord of the Lord's care and protection that he's uh rescued you from this uh impending disaster You know, and more than likely they can hear what's going on outside. They can hear the rain. Maybe, maybe they can hear uh activity, they can You know, if you know there's portrayals where people are outside saying, let us in, let us in. I don't know if that's true or not, but maybe. Um but it's just a a weighty thought to consider that what God had promised i is now taking place and there's no turning back. This is no one. Uh-huh. If it hasn't rained yet, every day I would have said. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, kind of uh wonder how much argument there then How would they close this door? I don't know. Yeah. I think the Lord probably made them not not be claustrophobic. All right. So again, all those outside the ark were doomed. The uh the closing of the ark assured that the people inside they were divinely protected, and the covenant name of the Lord is used for that Alright, verse 17. Then the flood came upon the earth forty days, and the water increased and lifted up the ark. so that it rose above the earth. The water prevailed and increased greatly upon the earth, and the ark floated on the surface of the water. The water prevailed more and more upon the earth, so that all the high mountains everywhere under the heavens were covered. Again, just continual, uh, universal language. Uh n nothing uh implies that the mountains were all submerged at their present height, right? They might have been uh lower. Um there might not have been a uh Mount Everest, you know, at the twenty-three thousand feet or or whatever it is. Oh there it is, twenty-nine thousand feet. Um but clearly at the top uh uh the summit there's uh marine uh fossils in the limestone. Um there's obvious geological evidence that of uplift, that is mountains going higher in the Himalayas and other mountain ranges around the world. So it may be that they were lower, didn't require quite as much water per se. as they would if it were to happen today. Even with the lower mountains, it must have taken an enormous amount of water to cover the earth's land masses Pastor I imagine that uh Doyle wouldn't even close the arc was just thought that the fact that uh There is no water around in me building this park instead of a lay based. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Yeah, there's a lot of a lot of el uh angles to l to look at the situation and imagine you know what it would have been like. Um we have a painting that my mother-in-law gave to my wife, uh, many years ago before we were married, Savanoah's Ark. It's beautiful, beautiful painting. Uh very colorful. And it's i when the ark is in progress of being uh built. And yeah, just uh imagine what that would have been like. in the middle of nowhere if you will in terms of water. Um yeah If you can't offend enough and uh for the same Peter that you'll preach to those people You must think how hard it is, you look the message that speaks to play. How much harder it is? Yeah, I mean in the same in the same way as we proclaim God's j coming judgment. You know, if we were to go out there and instead of focusing uh on the gospel, if we were to focus on other truths and say, uh everything's gonna burn up. And say, you know, what what what God has promised to take place in the future. So turn turn to God now before you know you you you burn up and die Um and of course people mock and scoff and that's what Second Peter four tells us. Um or three. So again, thinking about the amount of water, of course the Uh amount of water t uh the the earth is covered by seventy percent water today. The average death if you were to uh make it all ro relatively evil uh even or or average it out The depth of water would be 2. 4 miles today, whereas the continental height above sea well sea level is only half a mile. And so if you were to, for example, turn uh Mount Everest upside down and put it into the Challenger Deep, uh it would there would be more than a couple uh miles uh above uh of water above Mount Everest. So there's plenty of water. Uh just a matter of you know how it worked out in terms of the um s smoothness of of the surface and the waters in the deep and all and all the rest. There there's nothing scientifically that would prevent a global flood from actually being a reality Verse 21, more universal language here. All flesh that moves on the earth perish. Birds and cattle and beasts and every swarming thing that swarms on the earth and all mankind and all that was on the dry land, all in whose nostrils was the breath of the Spirit of Life died. The word coal just in those two verses there is used five times, translated as all or every, depending on whether it's plural or singular, the nouns that it's referring to. Uh nothing outside the ark survived. No land animals, no people. And if you wonder why did the flood have to last so long, well you can imagine there were people that were holding on to floating things. And um and they could have survived for a period of time just floating, but ultimately uh everyone and everything drowned This section of Scripture, the Holy Spirit, is intent on communicating the absolute nature of the flood to ensure that two things are crystal clear. Namely, that the flood was a global event And secondly, that God's judgment was total and inescapable, apart from God's saving those on the ark. Again, there's just no way around that. Uh I I've heard many uh attempts to explain certain details of of the flood. For example, I remember Somebody's saying that the word for mountains uh in verse uh twenty, uh it can be translated hills, so they're saying, oh, it's just a the local hills in the area. It's like okay you can you can fiddle with a couple of the terms, but when you put it all together, the the constant use of all, all, all everywhere, under the heavens All of that uh demands a universal global flood Verse 23 uses very strong language here. Thus he blotted out every living thing that was on the face of the land, from man to animals to creeping things to birds of the sky. And they were blotted out from the earth, and only Noah was left, together with those that were with him in the ark. And the water prevailed upon the earth one hundred and fifty days. So the term means to exterminate or to obliterate, just one second. And it's God that blots out, right? God using the mechanism of the flood, but he is himself exacting judgment on everything on the earth uh to exterminate and obliterate it. Yeah. So that means there were birds on the ark too, not just animal existed. Yeah, if we were to go back into the list of w what all of was supposed to be on the ark, there's uh seven of every clean bird And then two of every unclean, seven pairs of un of clean birds and uh and two pairs or one pair of every uh unclean bird. And again, that's that's uh a very reasonable and rational argument for a global flood because if a bird uh if the flood was local, a bird could just fly uh uh away from the flood. Once again, we get a list of things being destroyed, men and animals outside the ark, and then a contrasting list of those who were saved. And we see that the prevailing stage, that is, when the flood was on the earth steady, was about five months. And then after those five months, chapter eight tells us that it took seven months for the water to drain. So again, we come back to our timeline here. So from the time that the rain started on the seventeenth day of the second month, Up to the seventeenth day of the seventeenth month is how long the waters prevailed upon the earth. 150 days. I know some of you have done some long cruises like a month or two or wh or whatever it's been, but five months is a long time when your main companions are a whole lot of animals. Now let's think about just briefly the fossils, and again, to get more into this, you can listen to the more extended teaching here or talk to Pastor Rob. But such a globe covering ev uh flood would be a uh lethal to land dwelling vertebrae, including man, and even to many sea creatures. Many of these would be buried and formed Fossils. Thus the fossil record is not a record of succession of great ages, but a sequence of burial And again this is from Sir uh Jonathan Sarfati. At the beginning, when the fountains of the Great Deep were bursting, this would have generated underwater mudslides or tur turbidity currents. Huge amounts of bottom dwelling marine life would have been buried and fossilized right away. It's thus not surprising that we see marine invertebrates at the bottom of the fossil record. Also, about 95% of all fossils are shellfish It would also not be surprising that we would also find many fish buried near the bottom of the fossil record. Also low on the record are those creatures at the boundary of water and land, amphibians. After that, land creatures would be buried. And so the fossil record reflects reflects a successive burial of ecosystems as the flood encroached from land uh upon the land from the sea. So again, when you look at the evolutionary worldview, they would say that the fossil record reflects, you know, the stages in history. The you you get those uh um uh uh bottom dwelling uh creatures that those were however many millions of billions of years ago and then all of the subsequent creatures reflecting uh more and more recent time. But this uh more accurately conveys uh that the ecosystems uh were successively buried over that short period of time. Alright, so that's chapter seven Where are we at here? We're making pretty good t oh no, we're not making good time. Never mind. We'll keep going. Chapter eight. So now the water will begin to subside. Um reading here uh verses one to nineteen of chapter eight. But God remembered Noah and all the beasts and all the cattle that were with him in the ark, and God caused a wind to pass over the earth. and the water subsided. Also the fountains of the deep and the floodgates of the sky were closed, and the rain from the sky was restrained, and the water receded steadily from the earth. And at the end of 150 days the water decreased. At the seventh, uh in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month, the ark rested on the mountains of Arat. The water decreased steadily until the tenth month, and in the tenth month, on the first day of the tenth month, the tops of the mountains became visible. Then it came about at the end of forty days that Noah opened the window of the ark which he had made, and he sent out a raven And it flew here and there until the water was dried up from the earth. They sent out a dove from him to see if the water had abated from the face of the land, but the dove found no resting place for the sole of her foot So she returned to him into the ark, for the water was on the surface of all the earth. Then he put out his hand and took her and brought her into the ark to himself. So he waited yet another seven days And again he sent out the dove from the earth. The dove came to him toward evening, and behold, in her beak was a freshly picked olive leaf. So Noah knew that the water had abated from the earth Then he waited yet another seven days, and went sent out the dove. But she did not return to him again. Now it came about in the six hundred and first year, that is, of Noah's life In the first month, on the first of the month, the water had dried up from the earth. Then Noah removed the covering of the ark and looked, and behold, the surface of the ground was dried up. In the second month, on the twenty-seventh day of the month, so two months later, nearly, the earth was dry. Then God spoke to Noah, saying, Go out of the ark, you and your wife and your sons and your sons' wife with you. Bring out with you every living thing of all flesh that is with you birds and animals and every creeping thing that creeps on the earth, that they may breed abundantly on the earth, and be fruitful and multiply on the earth. So Noah went out and his sons and his wife and his sons' wives with him, every beast, every creeping thing, every bird, everything that moves on the earth. went out by their families keyword by their families from the Ark. I wonder what had happened in over a year on the Ark. They went they went in two by two. They came out families, right? Alright, just a quick overview here. The flood prevailed on the earth for five months and then God began to act. And then the uh the ark came to rest on the mounds of uh Arat. Um in other words the the bottom of the ark hit uh the mountain and began to rest there before land was actually visible And then finally a year and ten days after the passengers had boarded the ark, the land had dried sufficiently, so the Lord tells Noah to leave the ark. Alright, so again just that timeline. You have the 150 days, uh the peaks that are seen on the first day of the tenth month. And then another forty days after the peaks are seen, he starts to send out the the birds. Uh and then it it appears on the first day of the first month. uh that the ground surface uh the the ground is visible um and it's appears to be dry but then it takes another two months nearly for the earth to dry to the point where the Lord tells them to leave. the arc. So if you were to chart it out, you can just uh look at successively everything that took place. That's how detailed the account is all right now we gotta speed up a little bit here. So going back through the text here, uh the account that is written here is an extensive chiasmus. Does anybody know what a Chiasm or chiasm, depending on how you wanna interpret it is. I know Rob does. Daniel? Uh Exactly. I'm just gonna skip forward here a little bit. Uh so uh thematically, content wise, the uh kiasm is it comes from the Greek letter uh chi, uh, which is an X, and so you have kind of one half of the X uh visually. And uh the there's a correspondence between uh A Uh at the top, Noah and his sons, that's kind of going into the ark, or rather uh distorting the narrative. And then the at the bottom, uh the opposite of A um again referring to Noah and his sons and every step along the way, uh the parallel passages all move toward this center of the key center uh of God remembering the ark. And it's just a poetic way as Daniel said of of both highlighting the most significant thing, but also of making a narrative memorable so that you can step through the narrative one direction hit the center of the narrative and then move out of that narrative the opposite direction. And you see this all over scripture. Uh and depending on one's um tenacity, you can kind of uh create chiasms all over the place. I read a a book a few months ago that argued that the Gospel of John is a massive chiasm with multiple chiasms built into the gospel narrative. And um I'm like, I think you're you put on your chiasm glasses and twisted your head and you're I think I see something there Sometimes you can overdo it, but there are clear passages, there's psalms that are that are kiasms. So let's go back to this slide. So all that to say, the fact that God remembered Noah is really the center of this entire narrative. Again, God had just obliterated everything. And the opposite of obliterating is God moving on behalf to deliver his people. And so God remembering Noah, of course, God never forgot Noah, but it's a way of speaking uh to say that God uh called Noah to mind and was and began to act on his behalf. And what he specifically did in this moment was to send a wind that would begin to cause the water to subside and recede. Sorry, I should have used that to point that out. And then it says in verse 4, In the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month, the ark rested upon the mountains of Ararat, and the water decreased steadily until the tenth month. And on the first day of the tenth month the tops of the mountains became visible. Once again it provides accurate timing of the events down to the day. Excuse me, probably about one-third of the arc would have been under the water, as boats tend to be. So when the bottom of the ark came to rest there would have been around fifteen feet of water still covering the mountain there. And so still water as far as the eye could see uh uh with no land Then it takes another two and a half months for the water to slowly recede, a lot of it probably going back into those underground uh aquifers and whatnot. um the the fountains of the deep, so to speak. And perhaps a combination of activity where the mountains were being raised and water uh naturally flowing to the uh lower parts of the earth. And so eventually the mountain peaks poke up through the water. Now that would have been God's perspective. Noah and his family could not see out of the ark. uh because they it says that after this Noah opened uh the window. I'm just gonna skip through this here. So one question that is often asked is is the arc still there? Anybody gone on an exp expedition or seen a video documentary on somebody found the ark. Um well, from a apologetic standpoint we don't need to find the ark, right? That that's not like the the proof we finally need to affirm that the the flood is uh a a biblical or true historical event. Um uh as often happens when people find ancient relics of of things talked about in the Bible, they get turned into a source of worship just as the bronze serpent was uh that uh the Lord had used initially to bring salvation to his people. uh who were being bitten by snakes but ultimately became an uh uh uh idol of of worship. And so it doesn't again the flo the ark doesn't prove anything about the flood Um, I didn't realize this, but uh we don't know where the Mayflower is, right? No uh that's uh that that's not something that you can go to a museum or or some harbor and find the mayflower, but that doesn't mean uh that it never uh existed. Uh more likely is in the aftermath of the flood when trees would have been basically non-existent, uh that they likely used the wood of the ark for perhaps shelters or fires tools and all the rest. So don't no if somebody were to find a flood or find something that w that masks the arc, great, but uh ultimately unnecessary Flood subsides. Um at the end of 40 days, and he opened the window of the ark and he starts to send out these birds. And there's no indication that the raven that he sent out that it came back, just that it flew here and there. Wait a baltimore. I'm just gonna walk quickly through this. The the the the text of scripture as as we saw is pretty straightforward in what took place. Noah is just trying to get a read on, hey, is there land yet uh for us to live on And so ultimately he sends out a dove, doesn't find anything, uh, comes back later on after the second time with an olive leaf. Um Which indicates that things had begun to grow again. But he still waits even longer. Sorry, I'm kind of getting ahead of myself here. Uh and the so then finally the third time that he sends out the dove, it doesn't come back, which means it's found a place to live And so uh they've been waiting for uh over three weeks, just knowing that the water had begun to subside, but then even after that, again, the let's see after this There we go. So after that second dove that's the you know, into the twelfth month, you still have Well over two months that they're in the ark. I would imagine they began to get impatience, or somebody did in that ark. Well I'm still the ark. Right. Uh you know, my my guess uh is that the Lord had made it clear to them how he would help them get off the ark. I don't know how exactly, but uh the Lord communicated with them and so probably told them, you know, hey, I'll shut in the ark behind ya and I'll open it up when it's time. So they come out of the ark uh or the they hadn't quite come out of the ark yet. It waits for two months. Even when the surface is dry because the w the land has been under the water for uh w over a year or so Um the it's an incredible amount of mud, right? The ground c ground can look dry while still being muddy, and so they wait even longer until the ground is completely dry for them to walk and and live on And so that's when the Lord tells Noah to go out of the ark. And again, he articulates everyone who was in the ark that needs to come out. And That's the eight people and all the animals. And the purpose of coming out then is to breed abundantly on the earth, be fruitful and multiply. Um since God was going to open the arc anyway, why did Noah need to send the birds up? I don't know. Yeah. Yeah, I I I don't know that he needed to. It doesn't say that you know it doesn't say that God told him to send out the birds. So it may be that he was just wanting to get a sense of what's it like out there. The dove is that the raven is a calling carnivore. Okay. The carnivore looking for flesh. Okay. Another interesting thing, uh which I didn't do a ton of research on this, but just did some quick looking as to what in terms of what is the difference between the raven and the dove. A dove has the ability to fly and stay in flight a lot longer than a raven does. Uh and, you know, that's not a detail that is meaningful as d as much as the uh the text tells us. But it's almost as if Noah was thinking, well maybe if I send a dove out it'll go further and tell me what's you know what's going on further out. But Yeah, again, it's hard to know. We're not told whether or not uh let's say the raven would have been a carnivore before the flood. Um certainly wasn't created as a carnivore, uh but Um yeah. I would imagine News respect for God in a great church. I would imagine so. Yeah. Um maybe if there were such arguments of are you sure you heard God's right? I told you so. All right, we we need to be done here. Um but uh we we see how the the flood is repeatedly affirmed and used in scripture to talk about God's power, God's judgment, uh God's um promises. Of course, Pastor Rob will get into that next week when we talk about uh the rainbow, the covenant that he made with Noah and all creation. And so the flood is is not just um insignificant uh story as if Moses was needing to fill space on the scroll. Um it is uh an event of massive, massive significance. Alright, well I think we'll just end there. for today. Alright, so that's a quick look at the flood. And again, if you're interested in thinking about the ice age that would have come after the flood. Pastor Rob's lesson on this from January 1st or sorry, February 1st or 8th, somewhere in there, 2023, goes into those details. Alright, let's pray. Father, thank you for uh this quick time. It's just flown by so quickly, but um what a what a remarkable display of your power Really not as significant as creation, where you brought into being that which did not exist. Uh but here in controlling your creation and exercising your sovereign rule over it and your justice to destroy all of the evil uh apart from those that you delivered in the ark. Uh it just uh puts us in awe of your power and your glory and reminds us, as we know from the rest of Scripture, that Because you did that then, we can have confidence that your promises of future judgment will in fact come to pass And so may this just be a reminder to us of our need to be like Noah, who was, as we were reminded, a preacher of righteousness, that both our life And our speech would convey to the world around us that there is a God who will bring judgment, but who is a God of grace and mercy and who has made a way of deliverance. Lord, as we uh transition now to fellowship and our time of corporate worship, uh would our hearts be thrilled with uh our enjoyment together uh of life in Christ and would our mouths and minds be filled with your word as we praise you together and receive your word. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.