Let's start out with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for your loving kindness, for your mercy, for your grace. uh that you've showered on us. We thank you for this Lord's Day that you have made and the wonderful privilege of gathering as the body of Christ to worship you. We thank you for your word and The opportunity we have right now to study your word. We pray, Lord, that through your Holy Spirit you would open our hearts and minds so that we could truly understand what you want to teach us from your word today. And Lord, we we pray that we would be not just hearers of the word, but doers. uh that your word would uh inform how we see the world and how we behave uh in the world. We thank you, Lord, for your great plan of redemption in Christ Jesus spelled out in the pages of Scripture from Genesis to Revelation. We thank you for the great sacrifice of Christ on the cross for our sins. We thank you that you raised him from the dead, and we thank you that he sits at your right hand interceding on our behalf as the perfect high priest. We thank you for all of that, Lord. We know that you are worthy of all glory and honor and praise and worship, and we pray that we would have a heart of worship today towards you. And we pray that your name would be glorified in all that we do and all that we say and all that we think. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. So uh you'll notice that Gabe and I swapped last week and this week because I was sick in bed last week. So We're going to close out our study of uh the first 11 chapters of Genesis. Um and we're going to be talking about Genesis 10 and 11, which are two chapters that go together Uh the table of nations and the Tower of Babel. So today we're going to talk about the descendants of Japheth and the descendants of Ham and the descendants of Shem. We'll see some genealogies there in Genesis chapter 10. We'll talk about the rebellion at the Tower of Babel in Genesis chapter 11. God's judgment and how that worked out and why he did what he did and what the results were of that judgment in Genesis chapter 11, which is the confusion of languages and the scattering of people groups that led to the world that we see it the way we see it today. Uh but first let's take a look back. Uh of course I was not here. Um but uh last week uh Pastor Gabe went through um uh The the immediate uh w what happened immediately after the flood and and Noah and his sons coming off the the uh the ark They uh first Noah builds uh an altar uh to the Lord, sacrifices one of each clean uh animals and birds. Uh God makes a co covenant with Noah, he commits himself not to flood the whole earth. He speaks to Noah and his sons and gives them commands. They have a new freedom. They're allowed to eat animals now. They weren't in the beginning, but they are now. And a new mandate uh that uh for capital punishment to execute a murderer. Uh he makes his covenant uh with Noah and his three sons and all their descendants. Um and it seems like they live close together and we'll see the results of that here today. Um we've got uh not just Noah and his sons, but then we have um the the descendants. We get to to meet s uh the first of the descendants of uh the inhabit the uh those who came off the ark. Noah, we see plants a vineyard, he grows grapes, he gets drunk, and we see uh this ev the unfortunate event in Noah's life and uh the the the depiction of what Ham did, which was not good, and Shem and Japheth did, which was horrible. And then we get a cursing, not of uh Canaan, uh not of Ham, but of Canaan his son. So Noah cruses his grandson, Canaan. Uh and then Lo Noah lives to be not Harry fifty years old. And so We get this command to the the sons of Noah to be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth, which is a repeat of the command that God had given in Genesis chapter 1 to Adam and Eve. Just a refresher for what happened in Genesis chapter 1. In Genesis chapter 1, at the end, Adam and Eve were permitted to eat every plant yielding seed that is on the surface of all the earth, and every tree which has fruit. Genesis 130 the animals were also given every green plant for food. And at the end of that passage of Scripture, God said says and it was so. So he commanded it, and it was so that people and animals were all vegetarians. There was no carnivory permitted among the people or animals prior to the fall And God did not change this command until Genesis 9, what we saw last w last week. He establishes the covenant, uh this Noaic covenant, the first explicit covenant in the in the Bible, uh and it's uh it's very broad Um it's with Noah and his sons, but also with your descendants after you, which includes what? Every person who has walked the earth since the flood, including every person alive today So the Noah covenant is with everybody and the animals. So with Noah and his sons and all of their descendants, which is everybody and all the animals. That's a really broad covenant that God makes, Noah covenant. Uh so we uh the it's unfortunate uh incident with Noah where he becomes drunk Uh the Bible, unlike most ancient books, does not hide the faults of even its greatest heroes. That's one of the things that we see over and over again with the Bible. And one of the things that is the one of the the hallmarks of authenticity is it does not try to sugarcoat even the good guys. The heroes are not flawless. Um so, um we see Moses disobeying and not being allowed into the promised land. We see God reduced from Job, we see David committing adultery and murder, and we don't he he's not portrayed as the hero king with no faults. He he commits these horrific acts of adultery and murder and the Bible records all of it Only Christ is sins. So we we saw this incident with Ham uh last week. The Hebrew, uh the subtleties of the Hebrew are interesting. Uh he looked looked at his father in the sense of violating a boundary. It's the same Hebrew phrase that's that that describes the people looking at the ark and then God killing 70 of them Um so instead of honoring his father he's um um he's violating a boundary Um and then he he goes and tells and the subtleties of the Hebrew uh there for going and told, the connotation is told with delight. He's delightfully reporting to his brothers, hey, look what our dad did. um in order to shame him further. Shem and Japheth do the audible thing, they put the garment on their shoulders, walk backwards, and cover him back up. And then Noah curses not Ham who did the misdeed, but his grandson. Most commentators agree that God had just blessed Ham in Genesis 9. 1, and so Noah didn't have the authority to overturn God's blessing. Uh um exactly all of what they uh were believed. God had blessed them. So the science they would believe or I think that's probably right. I think that's probably right. And uh w there's of course much more to it when we read the rest of this the story of Scripture where we see what happens to the Canaanites. The Canaanites become extremely wicked. Uh uh just wicked to the extreme, to the point where God orders the Israelites to exterminate them. So there's more going on here. Uh y uh it's I would say yes, and and that his descendants became more and more and more wicked to the point where they they they are key players in the story later on down the line. And we'll talk more about that today as well. Um okay. Um Then uh I don't know if Pastor Gabe went over this. I just wanted to say a few things about this. There have been attempts in the past by uh people who claimed to to follow Christ to justify slavery with this idea of a curse of ham And of course there is no curse on Ham in the Bible. First first and foremost, there's a curse on Canaan. Um and there's no evidence, there's not the slightest evidence that it had anything to do with skin color. We have Egyptian frescoes. of the Canaanites and the Canaanites and they and they they did the these frescoes were uh correct down to the details of skin shade And so if peop if there were people depicted that with that actually had dark skin, they would be dark skinned on the fresco. Light skinned, they'd be light skinned on the fresco. Well the Canaanites are depicted as light-skinned in the Egyptian frescoes So the Canaanites were not dark skinned, and the curse was on Canaan, and there was no curse on Ham. And so none of that has anything to do with slavery, but they they u there were attempts made to try to justify it using that. Uh now what does the Bible actually teach about the slave trade? Exodus twenty one sixteen, he who kidnaps a man, whether he sells him or he is found in his possessions shall surely be put to death. That's pretty straightforward. Um the death penalty for anybody that uh kidnaps a person in order to sell them. And even if they haven't done the sale yet Right? If you do if you kidnapped them in the first place and what you were thinking is I'm gonna kidnap them, sell them, even if you haven't sold them into slavery yet, the death penalty Clear and unambiguous. Anyone engaged in man stealing, the literal Hebrew words translated here, kidnapping, uh man stealing, the punishment that God prescribed was death. Um thing with the death penalty. Yes, this was another thing with the death penalty. I know there's a number of things later on that will draw the death penalty. But yes, this is uh a death penalty. God's really serious about this. So the slave trade from the very beginning, from its inception, is a gross violation of God's law. And you can't justify it by making up some curse of hand that doesn't even exist. Alright. And then Noah lives another 350 years after the flood and and he dies. Uh it's clear that the fall is still in effect after the the the flood because Noah dies. All right, any questions about uh last time? Uh oh, there was a question left over from last time uh about rain I put a file that you can download if you want. There's an article that I like to go to with this question. The question was Was there rain before the flood? And some people say yes and some people said n say no. Um Uh I I think that uh let's first of all let's talk about what the Bible does say. Uh in Genesis two, five and six, it says the Lord God had not caused it to rain upon the earth, and there was not a man to till the ground But there went up amist from the earth and watered the whole face of the ground. So clearly before the creation of man, so God creates uh the the heavens and the earth, he he separates the waters from the dry land, uh day three and four Um, but he hasn't created a person yet to till the ground. He hasn't created man yet, Adam and Eve. And so it's clear that the Bible says there was not rain between that uh between the time of the separation of the waters and the time when Adam and Eve were created on the day sixth day That's what the Bible says, that there was not rain before Adam was created. It does not say explicitly in the Bible that there was not rain before the flood. It doesn't say that. Now you can make inferences and say, well, perhaps that means there wasn't. Now the hydrological cycle is pretty important. for everything on on earth and um it would take a special act, uh a miraculous act for God to stop it from happening between the creation and the flood. You could do that. So it could be that there was no rain. But the Bible does not explicitly say that there was no rain. prior to the flood. All it does is say there was no rain prior to day six. And so one can imagine that it could take some time. The hydrological cycle runs continuously now But if you if when God first made the atmosphere, it could have taken some time for the hydrological cycle to get working. between day three and day six, for example, so that there was no rain because the hydrological cycle took some days to get going. So that's possible. So uh the the point is you can make uh there's some inferences you can make, but I don't think we should be dogmatic about it If if you believe that there was no rain before the flood, that's okay. If you believe that there was rain before the flood, that's okay too. Because because the Bible's not explicit about that time frame. Yeah, yeah. I just wanna s I just wanna be uh I just wanna be clear. When the Bible is clear, when it says something specific like there was no rain before Adam was born Yeah, we say, yep, there was no rain before Adam was born. But it does not go on to say, and there was no rain before the flood. He was created. Uh good point. It's important to have to be clear in your language. It really is. What about the rainbow? Now Uh God says that uh he put the rainbow in the sky, but it doesn't say that that rainbow was the first rainbow. It doesn't say that. It says that the rainb that the rainbow it once he makes the Noai Covenant, that's the sign of the Noai Covenant. But it does not explicitly say that And this is the first rainbow there ever was. So maybe it was. But again, that would take a mirac miracle because um even without rain, you can see rainbows in mist And so it would take a specific miracle of God for there not to be rainbows before the flood. Maybe he did that, but it doesn't say that. So it's okay to believe that there were no rainbows before the flood, but the Bible doesn't explicitly say that. Okay. Any questions about that? Okay. Good. And I posted the this it's a pretty good article that goes through all the what the scripture says, what it doesn't say, uh inferences you can draw, but don't be Um the warning is don't when when God's word is not explicit, don't uh we don't um don't pretend that it is. That will get you into trouble uh when you're speaking, especially to unbelievers or or even uh within the church. Okay. Um So uh let's roll on then to Genesis 10 and 11. So we're now into a new Toledot. Uh this is divisions of the uh uh the the book of Genesis and this one We've been in the Toledot of Noah from chapter 6 through the end of chapter 9. Now chapter 10 starts a new Toledot, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. that what came forth from Shem Ham and Japheth and ten until the middle of um chapter eleven. Um and so what's the biblical view of uh how we got where we are with all these people groups and nations around the world. Well, uh the biblical view is Adam and Eve were created by God, then they had sons and daughters. We see a genealogy in Genesis five. And then Noah, uh the God destroyed everybody except the eight people on the ark, Noah and his wife and his sons and his sons' wives. And then in today's scripture we'll see the people at the Tower of Babel were uh God dispersed them He forcefully dispersed them, and now we have different people groups and cultures around the world. And that's how we got to where we are today, what we see today, Acts 17, 26, and hath made of one blood all nations of men. for to dwell on all the face of the earth. Um that's what the New Testament tells us about where all the people groups came from, the nations came from. So Uh if you have a Bible or device, uh open it to Genesis chapter 10 or tune your device to Genesis chapter 10. Alright. So uh Genesis chapter ten uh uh often referred to as the table of nations. And so Genesis chapter ten tells us What happened, and Genesis chapter 11 tells us why it happened. So we don't get the why until after the description in Genesis chapter 10. So in In point of fact, uh the events of Genesis chapter eleven happened before the events of Genesis chapter ten. So Uh let's just read this. Now these are the records of the generations of Shem Ham and Japheth, the sons of Noah, and sons were born to them after the flood. So were any of these sons that we're about to read born before the flood? No, these are all sons to have been born after the flood. Because why? There was only eight people on that ark. And everybody that was not on the ark died. And so all these are sons born after the flood. Sons of Japheth were Gomer and Magog and Medai and Javan and Tubal and Meshech and Tiraz. The sons of Gomer were Ashkenaz and Riphath and Togarma. The sons of Javan were Elisha and Tarshish and Kidam and Dodanim. From these the coastlands of the nations were separated into their lands, every one according to his language and according to their families. into their nations. We'll see that at the end. So this is what it looks like on a on a table. The the descendants of Japhet uh Japheth. one of the sons of Noah. And then we get to Ham. The sons of Ham were Cush and Mizrahman put in Canaan. The sons of Cush were Seba and Havilah and Sabtah and Rahama and Sabdeca And the sons of Ramah were Sheba and Dedan. Now Cush became the father of Nimrod. He became a mighty one on the earth. He was a mighty hunter before the Lord. Therefore it is said, like Nimrod, a mighty hunter before the Lord The beginning of his kingdom was Babel and Eric and Akad and Kalmah and the land of Shinar. We'll see why that's important in Genesis chapter eleven. From that land he went forth into Assyria and built Nineveh and Riah Boathir and Kalah and Rezin between Nineveh and Kalah, that is the great city. So you should recognize many of those cities. Nimrod built some of these early cities that uh will later out show up in in the Bible Umisraim became the father of Ludim and Anamim and Lahabim and Naphtim and Pathrusim and Kazluhim, from which came the Philistines and Capterim. Alright, so um These names, of course, um have been kind of transliterated into English, and the transliterations are sometimes good and sometimes not so good. So, um uh for example the the country of Japan, we say Japan in English, it's nothing like what they call themselves in their own language Nihon and Nippon is is the what they call their country. How we got Japan from that I have no idea. No idea. Um so if if you ever hear some of these names actually pronounced in their original languages Um they don't really sound all that similar. Uh okay. Uh Canaan became the father of Sidon, his firstborn and Heth, and the Jebusites and the Amorites and the Gergeshites and the Hibites and the Archites and the Sinites and the Arvadites. And the Zemurites and the Hamathites and afterward the families of the Canaanites were spread abroad. So wha what what's what do we what why do we have all this detail about these particular people The enemies of Israel they'll come back into the biblical narrative. Uh the territory of the Canaanite extended from Sidon as you go toward Gerar as far as Gaza Which is still in the news. As you go toward Sodom and Gomorrah and Edmah and Zeboyam as far as Laisha These are the sons of Ham according to their families, according to their languages, by their lands, and by their nations. So this is what it looks like on a on a diagram for Ham And notice that we get no descendants of Put. We get s a few of Mizran, but we get all kinds of ones from Canaan and Kush. Why is that? Does God not care about those people? Why do we get real details down to many generations for some and not for others? And no generations at all for put. Right, because they're important to the the biblical narrative later on. We get more detail about those because w why what what is the Bible a book about The Bible is a book about Jesus Christ. And so if people come into the story of Jesus Christ, then there's details about them. Uh there's no details about the people that went out and um populated China and India. And South America, the Aztecs and the Incas, and went all the way to you know, all these people spread all around the world and we hear nothing about them after this chapter in the Bible Because they do not come into the narrative of the life of Jesus Christ. It doesn't mean that they're not important. It just means they're not important to the biblical narrative. Okay. Yes. And each one of these you're sort of saying, and according to their languages Is that sort of like the foretelling of the story of Babel? Like It is. It is. It's like they were born off, make up your language and go your way. Right So we don't uh we don't get a why this happened. We just get a description of what happened. These people spread and they're informed into their nations and languages and their people groups Uh well why why how how did that happen? Why did that happen? Genesis chapter eleven explains how and why that happened Alright, the final one is just Shem in the Table of Nations. The sons of Shem were Elim and Asher and Arpaxid and Lud and Aram and the sons of Aram were Uz and Hull and Gether and Mash and Arpaxid became the father of Sheila, and Sheila became the father of Eber. Two sons were born to Eber, the name of the one was Pelag, and f For in his days the earth was divided, and his brother's name was Jochtan. Jochtan became the father of Almudad and Sheleph and Hazarmaev. the Hazermazh. And Jerah and Hederam and Uzal and Dikla, and Obal and Abimael and Sheba and Ofer and Havilah and Jobab All these were the sons of Jochtan. Now their settlement extended from Mesha as you go towards Sephir, the hill country of the east. These are the sons of Shem, according to their families, according to their languages, by their lands, according to their nations. Yes. We'll talk about that. We'll talk about that. That's coming. That's coming. Hold hold that thought for a second. We'll we'll talk about that. We'll talk about the Hebrew structure of how that's uh How that phrase in particular and how that exact phrase is repeated in Genesis chapter 11 Um and we'll so we'll talk about that Hebrew phrase and what it means. Um so Shem, uh we get lots of details of Shem, but only of one of his lines, right? Th there's nothing about the grandsons of Shem through Elam or Asher or Lud. Um so yes, so the the line that leads to Christ gets all the detail here. Um okay, here's it here it all is at one big chart that's that's written so small you can't see it. Um the uh The d the sons of of Noah, the grandsons of Noah are red, the great grandsons are blue, the great-great-grandsons are black, the great-great-great-grand Sets a grain And then the light gray at the bottom is great, great, great, great grandsons of Noah. And only in s a few of the lines do we get it going all the way down like that And of course, uh from Pelig is the line to Christ. It is, but stem's uh one particular line through our pecs is Sheila Ever Pelig And then to Christ um eventually. Uh so and then uh the last verse of chapter These are the families of the sons of Noah according to their genealogies by their nations, and out of these the nations were separated on the earth after the flood. So that's Genesis 10 describes what happened, and we have to wait for Genesis 11 to figure it to find out why that happened. Alright, so here's what it looks like on a map. As far as people can deduce the locations that are given in Scripture, the green names are descendants of Japheth. generally going towards Europe. The orange ones are descendants of Ham. uh kind of mixed up with the descendants of Shem in many cases in the Middle East, but it's descendants of Ham that mostly populate uh Africa. Okay. Um so uh that's Genesis chapter ten, the table of nations. That's w that's who the descendants were, where they went in general. Now we get to Genesis chapter 11, which is going to describe, well, why did they form into these people groups? All right. So here is so if you'll turn over to Genesis chapter 11, I'm going to spend the rest of our time here. Now the whole earth used the same language and the same words. Alright, so does that mean that the rocks and the dirt was speaking? Right, it's the people on the earth, and that's the same Hebrew phrase that says the earth was divided in chapter ten Same Hebrew phrase says the earth was divided in chapter 10 says the whole earth used the same language and the same words So what is it talking about? It's talking about the people in both places because it's the exact same Hebrew. Talking about the people So in Genesis chapter ten, the earth was desi divided in the in the time of Pelag is Is a precursor to the Genesis chapter eleven description of how the earth was divided, how the people of the earth was divided So that's what it says. Now the whole earth used the same language. That means the people of the earth use the same language. Same exact Hebrew as the whole the earth was divided in the time of Peeling. It came about as they journeyed east that they found a plain in the land of Shynar. I'll show you a map in a minute where Shinar is. And settled there. They said to one another, Come, let us make bricks, and burn them thoroughly. And they used brick for stone, and they used tar for mortar They said, Come let us build for ourselves a city and a tower whose top will reach into heaven, and let us make for ourselves a name. Otherwise we will be scattered abroad over the face of the whole earth. Which is what God ordered them to commanded them to do. So the purpose of the Tower of Babel was to disobey God. Verse 5, the Lord came down to see the city and the tower which the sons of men had built. The Lord said, Behold, there are one people And they all have the same language, and this is what they began to do, and now nothing which they purpose to do will be impossible for them. Come let us go down th and there confuse their language so that they will not understand one another's speech. So the Lord scattered them abroad from there over the face of the whole earth, and they stopped building the city. Therefore its name was called Babel. Because there the Lord confused the language of the whole earth, and from there the Lord scattered them abroad over the face of the whole earth. So Genesis 10 and 11 are example of the literary technique of recapitulation. Here's what happened, and then an explanation of why. Genesis 10 showed how the nations formed from Noah's descendants, that they were dispersed with a brief mention of the dispersion in 1025, the earth being divided, explaining that it happened in Pelag's day. However, Genesis 10 does not explain why or how they became dispersed. Now here in Genesis 11, the reason for the dispersal and the mechanism is provided. And this explains many things about subsequent human history, starting with the nations described in Genesis chapter 10. In Genesis 9. 1, God had commanded Noah's sons to multiply and fill the earth. They flagrantly disobeyed this command. So God forced the descendants of Shem Ham and Japheth to disperse. Yes, Jim. Do you think that um when the Lord uh confused their speech, they woke up one morning I think it was terrifying to them, yes. You think they woke up one morning and they couldn't understand each other? Yes, I think that's exactly right. God miraculously in an instant made it so that they could not understand one another and it was terrifying to them because up to that point um They had all understood one another. You could go anywhere in the and they had clumped together. So we'll talk about how many people there pr most likely were, but it was most likely a small city and everybody understood everybody else for bartering and trade and working together to build this big construction project and then one day nobody can understand each other. Yes, Samaria. Yes. Yes. Yeah. Yeah, so i I think it's another just a little clue about the plurality. Um that that God is a triune God and we see some God leaves little red clums of c clues in there, uh starting with Genesis one one Um we have a a plurality uh at the very beginning. We have God uh in the plural. Elohim is a plural. So uh yeah, so uh the when God uses his name as Almighty Creator of heaven and earth, Elohim, that's a plural. Um yeah. And so the pronoun then is a plural pronoun used with it, so us, yeah. Uh uh Becky, you had a question. when the languages were confused within a family they could still understand each other. It was outside the family. Yeah, so there were groups that could understand one each other and then uh they couldn't understand anybody else except for a small group, a family group, yeah. Yep. Uh okay. Um so the narrative begins to explain the state of mankind in the post flood world Uh and for all we know before the flood as well. Notice that the whole earth is obviously referring to the people of the earth, as only the people use language. Makes it likely that ten twenty-five says uh the earth was divided is talking about the people not the ground. There are many wordplays with the Hebrew names in Genesis 1 to 6. And that's suggestive that the original language before the flood was uh Hebrew or something very close to it, because that kind of wordplay doesn't generally translate from one language to another So i i in other words i those wordplays are in the names, and so those names were m more very likely to have been Hebrew Because if they're if they were really in some other language and then translated into Hebrew, the wordplays wouldn't work. Wordplays and idioms don't really translate from one language to another. And so that's a clue that the language before the flood and the language that everybody had after the flood was most likely Hebrew. And so the Hebrew that went down the line to Christ was the original language, and everybody else got a new one. That's uh the Bible again doesn't explicitly say that But we can get these linguistic clues like those wordplays and names before the flood. Uh so Noah, the name Noah means something. It means we'll be saved through this one or or something like that. Those those names having those very specific meanings Um if they were really in some other language and then translated into Hebrew, that wouldn't work. Yeah It's just a clue, not an explicit teaching of the Bible. Um okay. Um the Hebrew, it came about, uh well he um indicates the considerable passage of time from Genesis 9. And and if it's in the time of Pelag, it's like three or four generations down. So uh there's Shinar off to the east. Shinar is really uh Mesopotamia. It's uh between the Tigris and Euphrates. The two big rivers there are the Tigris and Euphrates. And the plain of Shinar is over there by them, over by where uh Babylon was and Nineveh was. Uh Iraq is there today, yeah. And so that's where they went. Uh and they were of course in in the mountains of Ararat, which are kind of eastern Turkey, and so they slid over to the east into the plains of Shinar. As the next few generations are born, people move from the mountains where the Ark was into the plain to the east. And of course they're not spreading out. They're not filling the earth like they're supposed to. They're clumping together in the plane of Shinar. They all go in the same direction. Right? They call they could have gone north, south, east, or west. They all went east They all go in the same direction and they start to build. Hebrew in verse 3 is a couple of word plays. It literally says, let us brick bricks. Um and it says, let us burn to a burning in the Hebrew and uh kind of some poetic license to translate it into English. as come let us make bricks and burn them thoroughly. In Hebrew it's kind of a word play. Southern Mesopotamia uh lacks good it doesn't have stone, um, but it has plenty of clay. So you can make clay bricks uh by burning them. Uh so you have to you can't just use stones, you can't just use c and cut stones. You gotta burn bricks because there's no stone there. It's only clay They were baked thoroughly by fire to make them strong. They used tar, it says, to stick them together. And in verse 4, they they use the we find out what they use the brick and mortar for. They intend to build a city with a giant tower. And the reason given is to make for ourselves a name That's pride. I want to make a name for myself. We want to make a name for ourselves. But also very specifically to disobey God's commands. Otherwise, we'll be scattered So God has ordered us to scatter, and we're going to stubbornly disobey that by clumping together and building a city with a tower in the middle of it. So the rebellion centers around the tower, likely a ziggurat, because there are ziggurats remaining from the most ancient of days. And also ziggurette-like structures in cultures all around the world, including South America and India and China, they're ziggurats. Um and so the the educated historical guess is it was probably a step pyramid like a ziggurat. Um did did I see a hand? Did somebody have a hand? Okay. Um There are some famous surviving ziggurats that have been excavated by archaeologists that uh go back thousands of years. There was one known in antiquity called the Tongue Tower in the Sumerian city of Borsopa, which is southwest of Babylon on the east bank of the Euphrates River. Uh the ruins of this tower are still fifty meters taller than the surrounding ruins. Uh later Arabs and Jews identified the Tongue Tower as the Tower of Babel, and the Arabs even named it Birz Nimrod after Nimrod. Now it doesn't mean that they're correct. Uh ancient Hebrews and ancient Arabs say that this tongue tower was the Tower of Babel. The Bible doesn't say, hey, and they also called it the tongue tower. So Um this is an archaeological guess uh uh later, much later. Um and especially because it seems to have been part of a temple to the Babylonian god Nabu, after whom Nebuchadnezzar was named. Um so it doesn't mean that they couldn't have repurposed it for worshiping this Babylonian god afterwards, but it seems like this was built as a temple to Nebu. Uh there's an example of an ancient uh uh ziggurat step tower. Um there is there are some ancient descriptions. Uh the historian Herodotus lived in 484 to 425 BC, so almost 500 years before Christ. And he on his way through Babylon five hundred years before Christ describes a ziggurat that he saw there in Babylon. Um he describes it as having eight levels and standing sixty meters, two hundred feet, about twenty modern stories. above the surrounding plain. And so this is an artist's rendering from the description of Herodotus, who wrote it down in uh in his in historical writings. So this may have been what it looked like. By this time there could have been a large population. We've seen that uh in the biblical description, Shem Ham and Japheth have sixteen grandsons. If we assume that they also had granddaughters in approximately the same numbers, that would be an average of ten point seven children for the original three couples. There were 130 great grandchildren of Noah. Of course, some of the lines don't have down to great-grandchildren. Uh but being conservative, that would give a a generational number of 8. 53 children per couple. Uh using the same birth rate and extrapolation gives 554 in the third generation, 2,365 people in the fourth generation, one of whom would have been Peeling. in whose day the earth was divided. And so two hundred t twenty three hundred and sixty five in that generation plus most of the five hundred and fifty four that were still alive from the generation before. And all the way back Noah was still alive and Shem was still alive and so Uh probably at least three thousand people were alive uh at the time of the Tower of Babel. So most likely there were three hundred thousand uh three thousand people, which is enough to build a city. If you got three thousand people that's enough for a little city and enough to supply labor to build a big tower. And then the the narrative describes God coming down to see the tower. Um obviously God is omnipresent and omniscient and he doesn't have to go anywhere to see this tower. Um he knew perfectly well what was happening without going anywhere So this is an anthropomorphism uh describing God in human terms, a figure of speech ascribing human actions to God. The account emphasizes though the greatness of God and the puniness of man by comparison And think about it, these people are building this, they're trying to build this massive, awesome tower that reaches up to the heaven, and God has to come down to see it Right? They're they're building this massive thing that they think is making a name for themselves and it's so puny God has to go down to see it. Um that that's really the meaning of that the the words the way that they are. Uh So God evaluates the problem with a two-fold observation and a two-fold result. There's one people in one language, they're just beginning. And what is he primarily concerned about, their rebellion that they're they're gonna pile sin upon sin upon sin. This is sinful behavior, they're uh the sin of pride, the sin of direct disobedience to God. If he leaves them as they are They they're gonna just be just do more and more and more sins. No sin is gonna be impossible for them if they if I leave them the way they are And so once again God is uh presented as going down in verse 7. Uh let us go down, as Samari pointed out. It's uh Um it's a an example, I think, of the plurality of the Godhead because he says, let us go down. God takes action to confuse the speech so that they cannot understand one another And there are two main results. First they stopped building the city and the tower. Um and then they are scattered over the face of the whole earth, which is what God told them to do in the first place. It could have they could have done it the easy way But they chose the hard way. Uh because we always choose the hard way, don't we? Uh they chose the the hard way just like people always choose the hard way. Um they could have just spread out like God told them. But they didn't spread out like God told them, so God forced them to obey the command he had given in the first place. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Especially in comparison to God. So, uh verse nine, therefore its name was called Babel because the Lord confused the language of the whole earth, and from there the Lord scattered them abroad over the face of the whole earth. Uh and so there are some p important results of the dispersion from Babel. Um man dispersed after the most of the animals which had previously dispersed from the ark, and so there were kind of ecosystems with animals available to them. Because there's there's nothing in the Bible that says the animals clumped and there's no reason why the animals would have clumped together in disobedience to God and so Uh it seems that as they spread out, they were sp they were forced to spread out now. They were spreading out into areas where they were already um uh the full animal kingdom available. Animals that could help them, animals for food, that sort of thing were already spread out. All the main language families resulted then from this historical account of the Tower of Babel. But there has since been considerable variation within these language families producing today over 6,000 languages. So there are over 6,000 languages today Um and the various people groups would have each only had a subset of the total gene pool, thus rapidly attaining distinct physical characteristics. And so that's where uh distinct physical characteristics come together. If if everybody lives together and everybody's intermarrying, then you're you're not gonna develop um isolated pockets of groups that have distinct physical characteristics that's different from everybody else. But when you do when this happened, then you did have groups of people going off and having only a part of the human uh genes and characteristics clumping together. And that's what we see around the world now. Uh that's a result. It's one of the results of of the way God chose to uh separate people The different languages all have certain constraints and obey rules called syntax, which you may have learned in school. A common definition of a different language is mutual unintelligibility. In other words, if I speak a language and you speak another language If I can't understand what you're saying, then it's a different language. Mutual unintelligibility. That's the kind of the textbook definition of a different language. makes common sense, right? Two people are speaking different dialects if they are mutually intelligible. So there are some things that we call languages, which are actually dialects of the same language, and they can actually understand one another uh quite extensively For example, speakers of Swiss German and Standard German can mostly understand one another, so they are dialects of the same language, but neither can understand Spanish unless they learn it. So Spanish is a different language, and Swiss and German are different dialects of the same language. The ultimate example is Dutch and Flemish. Dutch is the language of Holland, and Flemish is one of the two main languages of Belgium. So the southern part of Belgium is they speak French, and the northern part they speak Flemish. Flemish is Dutch. It's exactly the same language, the same vocabulary, the same pronunciation, everything. It's Dutch But they won't call it Dutch because that's a different country. Holland is a different country. The Dutch people are a different people. We're Belgians. And so they call their Dutch Flemish, but as the same language. Um sometimes there are political considerations for what we call a different language Uh speakers of the Scandian Scandinavian languages, Danish, Swedish, and Norwegian, can understand each other. So they could be called different dialects of the same language, but for political reasons we call them different languages. Different dialects developed, which then gradually became so different that they were no longer mutually intelligible, thus new languages were born. And we can see and we can trace back these language families. Yes, Harlan. So we're going to talk about that here in a second. The Finnish language. So This process can be traced backwards as well from thousands of languages today back to far fewer ancestral language families. For example, romance languages. We can see the similarities in very specific words. The words for certain things are very similar in French, Spanish, Portuguese, Italian, etc. And so it's obvious that those came from the same language, but they became dialects and gradually became so separated that now they're mutually unintelligible. So if you grew up speaking French You can't understand Spanish unless you learned it as a separate language. But there's enough similarities that language experts can say, well, those came from the same language. uh that whole Romance language family. The Germanic languages are the same, German, Dutch, English, and the Scandinavian language. There's such similarities that we can see that they s originally came from uh single common language they became dialects and the dialects became further and further apart until they were mutually unintelligible Slavonic languages, Russian, Polish, Czech, Serbo-Croatian, similar words all throughout those, and you can uh language experts can see that they came from an original language. The Uralic languages that Harlan was asking about, Hungarian, Estonian, and Finnish, are radically different from all the other European languages. They're not like the Romance languages. They're not like the Germanic languages They're not like the Slavonic language. They came from somewhere totally different. But they're similar to one another. Hungarian and Estonian and Finnish. Yeah, so that uh aurelic language is a separate family of languages that came from a separate place. Semitic languages, Hebrew, Abraham, and Aramaic, have many similarities. So they came from the same place, most probably from the Hebrew. Probably the original language, the Arabic and Aramaic are uh were um originally dialects and then became separated, separated and now mutually unintelligible. However, it is not possible to trace back to a single original language, which is surprising to unbelievers In in the secular story we should be able to trace back where uh language evolved once and then separated and so we should be able to make these languages go back to one And we can't. Nobody can. You can't find any similarities between the Rhodance language and the Germanic language. Those are hard breaks. And so what does it look like? It looks like God made these various language groups, and now they've the languages have become Um they've kind of evolved over time with dialects into separate languages, but they were originally uh there's a group of distinct languages that just pop into existence. and very unexplainable from the secular historical viewpoint, but uh easily explained through the biblical account. God made up new languages right there at the Tower of Bevel. And so these languages don't go back to one another, can't be traced back to one another. The historical count of the Tower of Babel and the Bible gives the correct framework for understanding the origin of human language. Alright, any uh any questions about all that? I this is fascinating to me. Yeah, go ahead. And that that is neglected. Okay Yeah, so yeah, so uh that's an interesting it's uh it's a dialect of this same thing and um Uh they have some funny funny customs in the Pennsylvania Dutch. They call everybody who's not them the English The English. They they refer to everybody who's not Amish as the English. So you you're all the English, uh because you're not Amish. Uh yes, yeah, yeah. So um all those romance languages are um have some similarities or another to Latin, trace many of their words back to Latin words. Yeah. The grammatical rules are all similar. Yes, the syntax is very similar for all those. I think that's right. Yeah. Yeah, the similar grammatic rules to these language families is what Mel's pointing out. Yeah. interesting about the Spanish Portuguese mode is that we use Portuguese English when everything is Portuguese but people who speak Spanish being English and Portuguese. I have heard that. Yeah. I I have a good friend who was born in Mozambique, which is uh which uh was a Portuguese colony. His parents are Portuguese and so his first language is Portuguese. And he told me that he can understand all the Spanish peop people speaking, but they can't understand him. Um yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And so yeah, so we there are of course dialects within e very narrow. So have you been to Australia? Uh or to Scotland. So yeah, so so we have uh dialects within the English language which are mutually intelligible, sort of. Um but but one can imagine how over time it could become even more and more and more and more separated so you couldn't understand it And in my own family, my my grandparents came from Scotland and I remember my great-grandmother who lived most of her life in Scotland. Uh she lived to be in her nineties and so I remember her when I was a little boy And I couldn't understand a word she said. I mean she spoke in a really thick Scottish brobe. She was from Glasgow. Um and I I I as an eight-year-old boy, I could not understand she was speaking English. But but I couldn't understand it. Um yeah. were vaccinated if they had a team exchange hormone from Brazil. And uh first of all the girl was a teenager. And she Yeah, yeah, so there's that. There's that too. Yeah. Uh some people are uh speak distinctly and other people do not speak distinctly. Uh and when people speak very quickly and not distinctly, it can be very difficult to understand them, even if you are speaking the same language. Yeah. All right. Yes. Uh so good questions. So yeah, so there's all kinds of Asian languages. Uh Chinese and Korean and Japanese have similarities. uh b among those languages. Most likely Chinese was the first one. China was most likely settled before. As people can if you look at the geography, people came from where the ark settled in Ararat and they went east. Descendants of Magog, most people most scholars think. They would have gotten to China before they got to Korea and Japan. Uh but there are similarities in the Asian languages as well. However, there are really different um Uh like Japanese is a totally atonal language. They they don't use tone of voice to mean anything. You you have to pronounce every syllable with the same emphasis in ch Japanese. That's really different from Thai, for example, which is very total language. Yes, there's dialects of course in China and in India and and many places around the world and and there are tribes, like in Southeast Asia, there's the Hmong tribe that's uh that's right there among different peoples uh that speak other languages, but they have their own tribal language. In Africa, there are many tribal languages. Um so it's it's common for people in a country in Africa to speak four or five different languages. uh because there are so many different tribal languages that i it would be impossible to live life without understanding being able to speak to these multiple different people groups that are there. Uh yeah. speak three languages. Trilingual. I guess. And people speak two languages bilingual. Yep. You know what they call people speak one language? English. Yeah. I mean it it is a great benefit to speak a language that's very common, like English that everybody knows. Um Uh in some respects French is like that, that there's many, many countries around the world that uh either they speak French as a first language or they also speak French as a second language. Um But English is the easiest. It it's easier on us than any other people group because so high a percentage of the world speaks English as either a first language or as a second or third language. And and not only do they speak English. When I was in China at uh uh University of Beijing, the students there would crowd around people in my group because they said, No, we want to speak English with an American accent, not Australian or British. Scottish probe. They would want to speak like Alistair Begg if they if they could. If they could. They'd want to speak like Alistair Begg. Alright Uh any any last second? Yes, Professor Yay. Uh based on the genealogy later in Genesis eleven, H. was born uh hundred and twenty years after And you live uh two hundred and thirty some years. So just you know, you made the reference of uh uh there was some lengthy period of time. So it could have been anywhere from But meaning not that long after level sixteen. Yep. So I mean the population is still kind of small on the other. Well so uh uh uh one I showed you one guess, one one way to make a semi-scientific educated guess, about three thousand uh over over three thousand. But as Pastor Gabe pointed out, uh Pelig lived for a long time. So in the days of Pelig is actually he lived 200 years. So that's a pretty wide swath of time. Uh and time for if it's later in his life, for another at least two more generations after Pelag to be born uh which would make the populations uh i i if it's going up like like this, you know, it could have been ten thousand or 30,000. Uh if there were two more full generations and it was toward the end of Peelig's life, y you have a much bigger population. Yeah. All right. Any other questions or yes. Babbles related to Babylon. So uh it's i i uh uh i don't know if the if the Akkadian uh the language that they spoke and the the Hebrew word Babel is related to that city Babylon. It's in the same area, so it may very well be. Also past was it Nimrod that possibly led them to this rebellious? Yeah, it seems like he was a leader. He was a leader of men. Um and so yeah, he it doesn't specifically say and Nimrod was the king and everybody did what Nimrod said. It doesn't say that. But it describes him in terms that seem like he's important, first of all, because we don't get this two-centence-long description of who everybody else is. And the characteristics look like um like the alpha male characteristics that they may have looked at to t if they're looking to make a name for themselves, hey this is the mighty hunter, let's put him in charge. You can imagine that could be the thought process. Well, yeah. Starting with Genesis nine, they're allowed to hunt animals. So it could have been a hunter of animals. Yeah. All right. Uh we're past our time. Let me uh close this with prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for the descriptions we see in your word that can explain to us the world that we see around us and help us always to to look at the world through the lens of Scripture, through the lens of your word. Your word is truth and and so we can be confident in the descriptions that we have of of how uh we got where we are in terms of people groups and languages that uh that we know the truth of how that started and help us to see the world around us through that uh that particular lens. And we thank you that you're sovereign over all things and you do what's right. And so when the people were doing what was wrong uh you took action and made them do what was better uh to to spread out and fill the earth. And we thank you most especially for the whole plan of salvation that you put in place and that you orchestrated throughout history. And we thank you also for the opportunity we have now to worship you in corporate worship. Let us truly worship you and glorify your name and all that we do in this worship service, Lord. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.