So part 24. So this is the second to last class. So next week will be the last class, and then we'll be starting into something new. And so I will be continuing on to Genesis 12 to 50 next quarter, which essentially will be um talking about the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob and the covenants that God made with his people So that's what I'll be doing next, but you'll of course have a choice about what you want to do. There'll be a whole series of courses. So not next week, but the week after. Uh so the second to last part. So uh here we are in Black History Month, and so I wanted to um at least get a chance to talk about some people in history um that are I think worth uh looking at their lives. So uh Frederick Douglass is one such person. He was born February eighteen eighteen. Um He was an abolitionist, a preacher, uh, an orator, a writer, and a statesman. And he was born here in Maryland, uh on the eastern shore. So he was uh he was born on uh a plantation as a slave in the eastern shore of Maryland. Um he became a national leader in the abolitionist movement in Massachusetts and New York after he escaped from slavery Um he be he was famous for his oratory uh and his writings as well. Uh he was described by abolitionists in his time as a living counterexample to slaveholders' arguments that slaves lack the intellectual capacity to function as independent American citizens. So abolitionists will just say, well look at Frederick Douglass. Uh that that argument can't be right, just look at Frederick Douglass. Likewise, northerners at the time found it hard to believe that such a great order had once been a slave. Few Americans accomplished as much in their lifetime as Frederick Douglass in his 77 years on earth Douglas, who died february twentieth, eighteen ninety-five, escaped sl slavery, won his freedom, published several newspapers, became a licensed preacher, advised presidents, and became one of the most well-known speakers of his time So if you haven't read, so he wrote actually two different autobiographies, both of which I read. I really, really recommend that you read Frederick Douglass's autobiography. Uh the first one he wrote, he left out the details of how he escaped slavery because he wrote it while there was still slavery and he wanted to protect that route of escape for other slaves So he left it deliberately vague how he got f in his first autobiography. The second one, uh Life and Times of Frederick Douglass, he he described exactly how he escaped because it it was after the Civil War and it was all done Um but strongly recommend if you have not read Life and Times of Frederick Douglass, his autobiography, you gotta do it. Do yourself a favor and read it. So um I just want to do one more thing. I want to go through his conversion story. It's in his autobiography, How He Was Converted to Christianity. as to a father and protector. The preaching of a white Methodist minister named Hanson was the means of causing me to feel that in God I had such a friend. He, this is the Methodist minister Hansen, he thought that all men, great and small, bond and free, were sinners in the sight of God. That they were by nature rebels against his government, and that they must repent of their sins and be reconciled to God through Christ I cannot say that I had a very distinct notion of what was required of me, but one thing I did know well, I was wretched and had no means of making myself otherwise. I consulted a good old colored man named Charles Lawson, and in tones of holy affection he told me to pray and to cast all my care upon God. This I sought to do And though for weeks I was a poor, broken-hearted mourner, traveling through doubts and fears, I finally found my burden lightened and my heart relieved. I loved all mankind, slaveholders not accepted, though I abhorred slavery more than ever. I saw the world in a new light, and my great concern was to have everybody converted My desire to learn increased, and especially did I want a thorough acquaintance with the contents of the Bible So that's from the autobiography of Frederick Douglass called The Life and Times of Frederick Douglass. Now this is a true conversion story. You can tell, every word coming off the page, you can tell that this man knows what it means. to be wretched in his sin and to be saved by the Lord Jesus Christ. And what what is what is his uh what's the and the result, the fruits are so obvious there. I loved all mankind, even slaveholders, because at this time he was still a slave when he was first converted. And his great concern was for the work of the Lord Jesus Christ to have everybody concerned ca uh converted and he has this new love for God's word, uh to to be acquainted with the scriptures. So Every word here is dripping of truth in the true story of somebody who's converted. So this is a man worth knowing, Frederick Douglass So if you haven't read his I can't stress this enough, if you haven't read the autobiography, The Life and Times of Frederick Douglass, do yourself a favor, pick it up, read it. Remarkable man Uh remarkable man. Okay. So uh what we will learn today. So today we're going to talk about uh we've we've done this, we've gone through this a number of times now, but Uh because I wanted to establish this fact, biological fact, that all humans belong to one race. There are not separate races of human beings in a biological sense, in a physical sense. However Today we're going to talk about a spiritual fact, that all humans are divided into two spiritual races. You're either in the kingdom of darkness or the kingdom of light. We're going to talk about the seven seas of history, so we'll go back to the foundation of history in the Bible. Creation, corruption, catastrophe, confusion, Christ's cross, and consummation. So that takes us from the beginning and creation to the consummation, the second coming of Christ, the sweep of history, and the foundation of which is laid in Genesis 1 to 11. And we're applying this to a particular problem in today's society. Uh we'll talk about the seven R's of race and so we'll talk about the fact that We are a created race, a fallen race, a rescued race, a scattered race, and then there's two spiritual races, a saved race and a lost race. But at the end, at the consummation, there's only going to be one race, and that's the lamb's race. So that's what we're going to talk about today. First, we'll do a little bit of review about what we did last time. So So we're doing four parts of this application of what we learned from Genesis 1 to 11 to a particular problem today, the problem of race. So uh we talked last time about science and the fact that uh there is some real problems with a certain kind of science. Um But not that when we look at science and we see massive mistakes that it's made in the past, that doesn't mean we throw out all science. Uh operational science, for example Um we talked about the fact that when you do um observations in the present uh all scientific observations of course are always done in the present. You can unless you have a time machine you can't go back in time. Uh but operational science is applying it in in uh those present observations to uh draw conclusions about the present and make computers and spaceships and things like that. Historical science is taking present observations, filtering them through your physical philosophical assumptions, and making guesses about the past. And that is That kind of science, historical or forensic science, is uh subject to bias and leads to it has led Okay. So we talked about this class of worldviews and the fact that ideas have consequences. And so we showed one of the main consequences of this idea That uh that Darwin's idea that people are um just evolved animals, uh that that idea has consequences. Um that that was cut like a seed that was planted in people's minds and it grew and bore fruit. Um and it it took root in the scientific community and then it worked its way into other fields and then finally into the laws of government. Um and then last of all it it actually filtered into the church and had a a negative effect on people's faith. And so we took a look at at the history of of where this idea went, this idea that people are not created by God, not created in God's image, but are just evolved from animals. And one of the places this led was eugenics, and it led to eugenics most particularly here in the United States in the early 1900s. It was centered in California, not one of the Southern states, or anything like that. It was centered in California here in the U. S. this idea that we needed to help evolution along. And so uh the idea was that for animals we had nature red in tooth and claw and the and the weaker animals were weeded out But with people, we were making this big mistake of helping the poor and downtrodden and the less than. And so therefore they weren't dying off And so that the human population wasn't getting better in accordance with evolutionary theory like it should be. And so here comes along eugenics to try to correct that problem, to try to get rid of those who are undesirable and less than. And they there were several prongs to it. There were forced sterilizations here in the United States. 60,000 U. S. citizens forced sterilization against their will. Uh there were laws against interracial marriage in twenty-seven states in the United States. Um There were um and there was the founding of Planned Parenthood in the beginning of the real um aggressive abortion industry was part of this to get rid of the undesirable uh to help evolution along. And Hitler picked up on the theme um that was really s started here in America. And he really ran with it. Uh he was going to help evolution along. He he had decided what the what the superior race was. It was his of course and the others had to go to help evolution along. So this is the idea uh ideas have consequences and we trace the consequences of this particular idea that people are evolve from lower animals and in the animal kingdom you had s strict mic makes right, the strong kill the weak, and then the all the animals get better because of that And we need to make sure that's happening in the in the in the world of humans as well. And so along comes Margaret Sanger, she found Sprint Parenthood. She also has what she calls the Negro Project uh to try to um try to push abor All right. To continue with Margaret Sanger, she also took great pride in speaking before the Ku Klux Klan. Seeing this is she wrote this in her autobiography. This is a quote from her autobiography about talking to the Ku Klux Klan and about how she saw that as a major opportunity to further her ideas and and her work. And so the ideas have consequences. And we talked about the Margaret Sanger Award being Planned Parenthood's highest award for achievement. And then this example I think is the is the worst of all. In 20th century America in New York City in the Bronx Zoo up till 1916, we had a man in the zoo, in a cage, in the monkey exhibit. Uh his name was Otabenga. He was uh kidnapped from his home in Africa, brought over against his will to the US and and put in a cage. in the zoo. And this was in accordance with the science. So this was the science that was taught, taught to kids in schools here in the United States. And it was a an outworking of the idea of evolutionary biology that that there was uh people were evolved just like animals were evolved and in the animal kingdom we see uh different rates of evolution within different uh branches of different animals and so there's there's no f reason to believe within evolutionary theory that we shouldn't have different groups of people evolving different amounts. Um and so therefore we put a a man in a cage, uh in a zoo, in a zoo display in New York City in the twentieth century. Um just the terrible consequences of a bad idea. Um why they have not given that Yeah, and they haven't given any reason. Uh so I looked at their website and and I actually cut and pasted uh from their website uh this That that uh text there is cut and paste from the current Planned Pedic website as it is right now. Um But they haven't given it since 2015 Um and there has been some controversy, like uh the Planned Parenthood of New York State has said that they they don't want to have anything to do with Margaret Sanger. They they can read this history too and say Do we really want to be associated with this lady? And so there is starting to be some controversy within Planned Parenthood about where they came from. Uh because i sh she was uh she was an awful human being. But that the Planned Parenthood Federation of America website still lists this Margaret Sanger and still has these words there about the Margaret Sanger War, even though they haven't given it since 2015 So nineteen sixteen he killed himself. He he got a gun and he shot himself in the chest. Um and that put an end to the the the uh the having a man in the zoo there. But that was up till nineteen sixteen. So um so my grandmother, I think I told you this story, she was born in nineteen fifteen And she died in 2019 in 104. Um and so I used to give this talk when she was still alive. And I used to say, and in my grandmother who's still alive, in her lifetime this happened, because this was she was born in nineteen fifteen. This was nineteen sixteen when he died. And so within the lifetime of a living person in my family, we had a person in the zoo Because of this bad idea. So good question. So there were some churches that spoke out. In fact, in fact, there have been churches that spoke out against slavery going back to the 1600s. Now there were other churches, there were other churches that twisted scripture to justify slavery from scripture. But quite a bit of that was really awful biblical illiteracy, including this idea of the curse of Ham that we went over uh three or four classes ago. Uh there is no curse of Ham in the Bible. It's a curse of on Canaan. It has nothing to do with skin color we know from the Egyptian frescoes. But people twisted scripture to justify themselves. And so when people sin, when we sin we justif try to justify ourselves and we look around for any way that we can justify ourselves and so people that were involved in slavery, even in the church, tried to justify themselves And so, yes, there is a shameful history in churches of justifying slavery. But there is also a robust history of churches opposing slavery, both here in the US and in England. um England even more than here. Uh they opposed slavery earlier. Um they never had, you know, a big slave uh um a a big population of of uh of slaves in England. Um but they opposed it earlier. But there was churches that opposed it um going all the way back to the sixteen hundreds here in Yes, yeah. So when um Darwin was coming out of his theory, his church back then must have opposed like 'cause it took what fifty years before his So uh no, it they actually took a lot faster than that. Um in his lifetime uh by the eighteen eighties it was it was very strongly believed throughout the scientific community Um so yes, it took very quickly. His ideas took quickly. It wasn't it didn't take a short amount of time. It was a a very it was and and as uh Pastor Allen pointed out last time it was a perfect cover for rebellion against God And so y you know, i i before Darwin, um of course there were people who rebelled against God, but um But now with Darwin there's an explanation for where we came from, apart from God and apart from his word And so people that wanted were already in rebellion against God latched onto it and it became very popular very quick. as a justification for not having to deal with a creator to whom I was responsible. So if there's no creator and I'm not responsible to that creator, well then I can do whatever I want. Um and so that was very popular a per very popular idea. No creator who therefore nobody to be responsible to So it spread really quickly. Okay. Yes. There's a video, and I've got the the YouTube link is on there and you can get this. You can download this from Hope Book. uh this lesson with with this website in there. And there's a there's a a documentary. It's a link to a documentary. It's about 30 minutes long. It's called Human Zoos. And there's a lot of information and it points to a lot of other information in that documentary. So I would start with that documentary called Human Zoos, if you want to learn more about it Um but yes, this is a tragic thing and this is um this is the the proof that ideas have consequences and and bad ideas have bad consequences. So it's not just So um I I sometimes have people say, well, why do you care so much about this creation evolution thing? Is isn't it kind of a secondary uh issue? It doesn't really uh have to do with salvation, but And and that would it would be okay. If if if evolution was just a bad idea and it and it didn't didn't have such awful consequences, then maybe you wouldn't have to spend so much time or maybe it wouldn't be worth um uh um showing or or or spending so much time on this one false idea because there's so many false ideas out there. But the reason that I I spent so much time uh trying to uh show uh to talk about this bad idea is because it has such bad consequences. This is a particular bad idea that has particularly awful, awful consequences that we can see in history Um so and people are trying to hang on to the idea and try to distance themselves from these consequences. But that's um the The the idea will continue to have bad consequences. No matter how much we suppress one particular so people will say, well no, we would never do this now. And and that's probably true. We're we're not gonna put a guy in the zoo now. Um but that's where this led in the past and it and the idea is still the same. That same idea is still there and it's still celebrated. It's still um it's still taught in schools to every one of our kids if you if they go to a public school Um and so that that it can't fail to have other bad consequences as well. Uh yes, Doug Uh yeah, yeah. People um will use excuses to take bad ideas and run with them to places that are uh convenient to them. That that's true. That is true. Um okay. Uh so uh we we talked about the fact that only eight people came up the arc. Well why do we have such a diversity of human beings then? Um and we talked about the fact that this idea, this secular idea of race is um it's contrary in many ways to uh biblical teaching, and it also doesn't make sense in a factual matter. So uh I showed you this one family, uh Kylie and Remy, these two girls, those are twins. Uh those two girls are twins, not just sisters, but twins. And so are you going to tell me that you know, one of them's a different race than the other, within the same fan and it makes no sense at all. Um you know, much less that, you know, th this one's an evil oppressor and this one's a uh you know a uh uh a a victim somehow uh no they're sis they're twin sisters in the same family. This idea the modern secular idea of race is um um is nonsense when you look at actual human beings and actual families. That's uh uh this is the two girls when they're a little bit uh a little bit old Okay. And we've we talked about how this works with biology, that there are at least three melanin-producing genes in the human genome And if both the mother and father are heterozygous for the three, they're they're not one's not dominant over the other, um, then you can get um a great difference within the same family. The same two parents can have kids with very dark brown skin or very light brown skin. Um and m and of course we see that in reality in one family. Um everybody's brown, some are darker brown, then some are lighter brown And in fact, and this is a picture from students at the Washington International Primary School in Washington, D. C. on 36th Street. And as you can see The uh the amount of melanin or the the the the lighter brown to darker brown in human beings is continuous. There's no break There's no line you can draw there and say everybody to their right is black and everybody to the left is white. No, they're all brown and they're all shades of brown and it's absolutely continuous in human beings There's no break there in how much melanin we have. So it makes no sense to push people into an artificial category based on skin tone. Um it's it makes no biological sense, it makes no practical sense. Um it only makes sense from a political standpoint if you have something uh if you want to make some kind of a political point is the only reason it's it's done at all. So the the issue is, the central issue that we talked about last time is is God's word truth or does man get to decide what's true So uh we talked about we're going to talk more about this today. Acts 17, From One Bloody Made Every Nation of Man. And so where so where did all these different people groups come from? Well they came from uh the Tower of Babel, we had uh God divided the languages. Uh we have about 7,000 languages, but they're grouped into groups Uh we can li people that are linguistic experts can trace back to language families. The 7,000 languages can be grouped into much smaller families, but they can't go back to one. They can only go back to some number of language groups that then don't are not similar to each other in any way. And where did that come from? Well that came from all these descendants that we learn about in Genesis chapter ten of Noah's three sons. We had all these different family groups by the time of Pelag, by the time we had gone down four or five generations from Noah, we had something like seventy-eight or so um groups of people uh based on the genealogies we get in Genesis chapter ten and these would have been spread out from the Tower of Babel Uh how did they travel? We talked about the land bridges because of the Ice Age that made it possible to travel even to Australia, for example, on land. And so the biblical view is you had Adam and Eve, they had sons and daughters, you had Noah and his sons who survived the flood. Um they had started to um the the population had started to go up but they clumped together at Babel, God spread them out by confusing their languages, and so you get different people groups. So that was what we talked to up to now. So in part three, we're going to go forward and talk about this idea that there's one physical race, biological race, but we have two spiritual races. So, um as a background, here's uh here's the large picture of what we're trying to do here in the whole class is We've got Genesis 1 to 11 as the foundation for a biblical worldview. To see the world from the view of the Bible, we have to make sure that we understand Genesis 1 to 11 because that provides the foundation. So first, the God of the Bible created the world and everything in it, including men and women. We get that in Genesis 1 and 2. As creator, he has absolute sovereign authority over all his creation, including men and women. Psalm 24 People are created in God's image, unlike everything else in creation, which is not created in his image. We get that in Genesis 1, 26 to 28. And as image bearers of the Almighty Creator of the universe, men and women all have infinite value. People are valuable. People should be treated with dignity and respect. Why because they're image bearers of the Almighty Creator of the universe. People are created n in in in addition to that There's a reason or a purpose for which we are created, and that's to have a relationship with our Creator. That's why God made us in his image so we could have relationship with him. And so the Westminster Confession of Faith, the Westminster Shorter Catechism has a series of questions and answers. The first one Very first one is what is the chief end of man? Man's chief end is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. So that was the creation. in God's image, but then something else happens. Adam's fall brings sin and death into the world, and all Adam's descendants are born with a sin nature and therefore slaves to sin, as Romans chapter six puts it. Every man and woman needs salvation, therefore, provided by God's grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, in accordance with scriptures alone, to the glory of God alone. That's the primary need of every man and woman. Everyone alive today and all people who ever walked the earth are descended from Adam and Eve, and therefore we are all relatives of one family and the members of one race. Genesis 4. 11 and Acts chapter 17. So that's the foundation, the background Now we we take that foundation and that background and we apply it to one particular, we have been for these last couple of weeks applying it to one particular problem in our modern American world Racism, which is a particular manifestation of the sin of partiality, and is therefore an act of rebellion against God, our Creator And James chapter 2 goes through the sin of partiality, James chapter 2, 1 through 13. And the end of that passage of Scripture is is Uh frightful. James 113 says, for judgment is without mercy to the one who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment. That's the end of the passage about this sin of partiality. It's a very harsh end to that passage. For judgment is without mercy to the one who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment. Okay. Um So the solution to the problem of the sin of partiality, which manifests itself as racism in our modern world, uh, the solution is repentance, followed by obedience to God, something only possible in Christ. uh first John chapter five. So if we want to solve the problem of racism. So we see a problem. We look around our world and we see people are treating uh uh each other in a way that they shouldn't be treating each other. This uh based on uh these uh biological factors or or uh this superficial uh external appearance um and and it's not right and we want to solve that problem. So how do we solve that problem? What does the Bible say is the solution to that problem Well the solution to that problem is to go about God's assigned work to make disciples. There is unity in Christ and only in Christ. So uh Matthew 28 says we're supposed to be made disciples Galatians 3 says there is unity in the body of Christ. So we have a solution. We have an answer to this problem. It's not the answer that anybody in the secular world wants to hear. They want a different answer. But the different answers won't work. This is the answer that will work. And this is the answer that has worked over and over again in history with all kinds of problems. Um the uh the Christ the early Christian church, for example, conquered the Roman Empire, one convert and one martyr at a time. They didn't uh they didn't win any elections, they didn't get any laws passed, um they they made one disciple after one disciple after one disciple after one disciple And before you knew it, the Roman Empire was a Christian Empire. Um that's how they did it. They didn't do it by marching, they didn't do it by changing laws, they didn't do it by instituting government programs. They did it by the Great Commission. One convert at a time. And that will solve any problem. that we have in our society. If we have a problem that in our society, then somewhere at the root of it is a sin problem. It's not a skin problem, it's a sin problem. And the solution to a sin problem is the Lord Jesus Christ. And we have that solution We have a reason for the hope that is in us uh and we need to share it. That's the solution. So all right, so let's go back. Let's t let's go take a step back 35,000 foot view. We've established this, I hope, over the last several classes, that it's a biological fact that all humans belong to one race. Adam's race, the human race. Acts 17, 26, and he made for one man every nation of mankind to live on all the face of the earth, having determined their appointed times and the boundaries of their habitation. uh Acts chapter 17. And so if we go back to the broad sweep of history, I borrowed this from Manthers in Genesis. They have their seven C's of of history. Uh creation, self-explanatory. Corruption is the fall, catastrophe is the flood, confusion is the Tower of Babel. Christ is uh the incarnation of the God man, Jesus Christ. Uh the cross is Jesus' uh substitutionary atonement and death on the cross, and the consummation is his second coming and the new heavens and the new earth. That's the broad sweep of all of history, the seven seas of history. So uh if we go through those, uh of course the uh the first Five of them, the first four of them, are all in Genesis 1 to 11. So Genesis 1 to 11 lays the foundation for all of this. And so we've talked about this, we'll go back through it really quickly, and then I want to get to uh the the the races, how this applies to race. So Creation. So we saw creation in Genesis chapter 1. And so this is God in the Trinity saying, let us make in our image according to our likeness. and let them rule over the fish of the sea and over the So there's a purpose. Right away there's a purpose. Uh to have dominion over the rest of creation under God's authority. God created man in his own image. In the image of God he created him, male and female, he created them. So, first of all, we're a created race. So biologically, physically, we are a created race, not one that evolved up from animals. Uh we're a created race. But then there was the corruption. So first of all, God created everything very good. Genesis 1. 31. God saw all that he had made, and behold, it was very good. And then in Genesis chapter 3, we have the fall, corruption. The creation is corrupted. It's corrupted by Adam and Eve and sin. When the woman saw the tree was good for food and it was a delight to the eye, and that the tree was desirable to make one wise, she took from its fruit and ate, and she gave also to her husband with her, and he ate Then the eyes of both of them were open, and they knew that they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loin coverings. And so this is a corruption of the creation. The one that was given dominion over the rest of creation, created for that purpose in the image of God, corrupted himself and the rest of creation, as we see from uh the curses that are put on not just Adam and Eve, but the all of creation because of this sin. So we are a fallen race. The whole human race, the biological created race, is fallen. Romans 5. Therefore, just as through one man sin entered into the world, and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all sinned. So we're sinners because we sin and we sin because we're sinners. Uh Romans chapter five And then we study the next thing next May r major event we come into Genesis one eleven is catastrophe, the flood Then the Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great on the earth, and that every intent of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually The Lord said, I will blot out man whom I have created from the face of the land, from man to animals to creeping things to birds of the sky. That's Genesis chapter 6. And then in Genesis chapter 7, he actually does it He floods the earth and and kills everything. Thus he blotted out every living thing that was upon the face of the land, from man to animals, and they were blotted out from the earth. And only Noah was left together with those that were with him in the ark. Genesis 7. 23. So there is a catastrophe. But we are a rescued race. So God rescued a remnant. In first Peter chapter three, when the patients of God kept waiting in the days of Noah during the construction of the ark, in which a few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely through the water. So we're a rescued race as well. And then confusion, the Tower of Babel. So the Lord scattered them abroad from there over the face of the whole earth and they stopped building the city Therefore its name was called Babel, because there the Lord confused the language of the whole earth, and so we're a scattered race. So God scattered us. We're created, we're fallen, were rescued, and we're scattered. This is the history that Genesis 1 to 11 teaches about who we are as human beings. Uh so the biblical view, Adam and Eve created in the image of God. They had sons and daughters. And then Everybody except Noah and his sons were killed, and so those eight people, Noah and his sons and his daughters-in-law, came off the ark. They started to repopulate, but they clumped together. God spread them out at the Tower of Babel, and there we had therefore we have different people groups and cultures around the world. So this is the biological fact of who we are as people. But there's also a spiritual fact. And that spiritual fact is that the people are divided into two spiritual races. So this um this graphic illustrates that with uh uh kind of a a light background over here and a dark background over there, but notice that within each one of those spiritual kingdoms is people with all kinds of different uh skin shades and eye colors and hair colors and all that sort of thing that that's not what separates people into the kingdom of light and dark. Uh it's the direction in which you're racing Are you racing towards the kingdom of darkness or are you racing towards the kingdom of light? So there is a kingdom of darkness and a kingdom of light which people are divided into. And there's no third kingdom. And so we come to Christ His incarnation. And so the Bible tells us in Romans chapter ten that if you confess with your mouth Jesus says Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart a person believes, resulting in righteousness, and with the mouth he confesses, resulting in salvation. And then in 1 Peter chapter 2, uh it it specifically says that this is a a spiritual race. But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God's own possession, so that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who has called you out of darkness into his marvelous light, out of the kingdom of darkness, into the kingdom of light. For you once were not a people. So this is people from all over the place, but now there are people. But now you are the people of God. You had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. 1 Peter chapter 2 So then we get to the cross, and so the culmination of history here that's been building up all this time is to the cross of Christ and Christ Sacrifice on the cross for the sins of the world. So then as and so this is continu Romans five was the Everybody's uh dead in their sin through Adam. So then as through one transgression there was also condemnation to all men, even so through one act of righteousness Christ on the cross, there resulted justification of life to all men. For as th through the one man's disobedience the many were made sinners, even so through the obedience of the one the many will be made righteous. Romans 5, 18 and 19. And then in 1 Corinthians chapter 15, Paul says, For since by a man came death, by a man also came the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die So also in Christ all will be made alive. So there's two spiritual races. Those who are dead in Adam. Those who are alive in Christ. Two spiritual races that the Bible describes all the way through. One biological race two spiritual races. That's the teaching of the Bible. And so there's a saved race. And so this is in the spiritual realm. So we've been talking about races in the biological realm. In the spiritual realm, there's two. And the first one is the saved race. For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves It is the gift of God, not as a result of works, so that no one may boast. For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works. We are a saved race, those who are in Christ. So that's one spiritual race. What about the other one? What about the other spiritual race? So let's take a look at that. What does the Bible say about that? Well, Jesus in Matthew chapter seven Said this, enter through the narrow gate, for the gate is wide, and the way is broad, that leads to destruction, and there are many who enter through it. For the gate is small and the way is narrow that leads to life, and there are few who find it. And so Jesus taught this concept. He taught it in illustrations. that there are two spiritual races and he gave this uh this word picture of a narrow gate and a wide gate. Narrow gate, one spiritual race, wide gate, another spiritual race. In Matthew chapter 25, Jesus teaching about his second coming. He said, But when the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. All the nations will gather before him, and he will separate them one another as the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats And he will put the sheep on his right and the goats on his left. And then in verse 41, Jesus says, then he will also say to those on his left, Depart from me, accursed ones, into the eternal fire which has been prepared for the devil and his angels. Very harsh words from Jesus about the separation of the two spiritual races and what happens to those from the kingdom of darkness into the eternal fire. So there is also a lost race spiritually. There's a saved race and there's a lost race. Then death and so in Revelation chapter 20, there's a description of this. Jesus was just talking about it Jesus was talking about what it was going to be like, and then further on in Revelation there's a description of it. Then death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire And if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire. So this is the same thing Jesus is talking about. That there are two spiritual races, there's the kingdom of light and the kingdom of darkness, and those who are in the kingdom of darkness will experience the second death. So they'll die physically, but they're also going to be tossed into the lake of fire. Um, which is where death and Hades were thrown, where the uh Satan and his angels are thrown. Um that anyone whose name is not lit in written in the book of life, so those who are not in Christ, not written in the Lamb's book of life thrown into the lake of fire, the lost race. And then we come to the end of history and the consummation. So second coming of Christ, the new heavens and the new earth Described in the book of Revelation. So the consummation of all history. So Revelation chapter 7 describes what it's going to look like. I looked and behold a great multitude which no one could count from every nation And all tribes and peoples and tongues, standing before the throne and before the lamb, clothed in white robes, and palm branches were in their hands. And they cry out with a loud voice saying, Salvation to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. And so this is people from every tribe and language and nation and people. And so these are the people of the kingdom of of light, the the people that are saved in Christ. And it's obviously this has nothing to do with your biological characteristics. Because people from every tongue and every people group are in this group that are saved. Further on in Revelation 21 it says, And he will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and there will no longer be any death There will be no longer any mourning or crying or pain. So all that is done away with. All those were uh results of sin. So sin brought with it not only death but also uh uh it brought with it pain and suffering and guilt and shame and all those things are a result of sin and in the new heavens and the new earth it will be completely um completely saved from the presence of sin and any of the results of sin. And that's what Revelation 20 verse 4 is talking about. uh no presence of sin, so no result of the curse. There's no more curse in the in the consummation. So in that sense, at the very end in the consummation, we're back to only one spiritual race. Uh so in heaven and the new heavens and the new earth there's only the lamb's race. Uh only one spiritual race There will no longer be any curse. This is Revelation 22. The last chapter of the Bible. There will no longer be any curse. And the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his bondservants will serve him. They will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads, and there will no longer be any night, and they will not have need of the light of a lamp, nor of the light of the sun. Because the Lord God will illumine them, and they will reign forever and ever. And so that's the consummation of history, and there's only the people of God. Um those with his name on their foreheads. the lamb's race at the end. Alright, so that's the story of history. One biological race. Right now we have two spiritual races. King of Darkness, King of Light. And oh by the way, every one of us started out in the Kingdom of Darkness And were moved into the kingdom of light, uh, by salvation through the grace of God, uh, by faith in Jesus Christ. Moved from the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of light, regenerated by the Holy Spirit from spiritually dead to spiritually alive. Every single person that's in the church uh has been moved from the kingdom of darkness to the kingdom of light. And We've been told, we've been commanded by our Lord to make disciples. And so what does that mean? That means that we're supposed to be reaching out to people that are in the kingdom of darkness like we were before and explaining to them How they can move from the kingdom of darkness to the kingdom of light. Make disciples. Um that's what the Bible tells us we're supposed to do. We're we're saved for good works. Not by good works, for good works. Um and so when we look at a human being, another human being, we should see, based on what we're doing we're learned from Genesis 1 to 11, that person is created in the image of God, therefore infinitely valuable. However, that person is fallen. uh is is cursed by sin, uh has a sin nature, uh is spiritually dead, is part of the kingdom of darkness So we see both of those facets of their existence when we look through the lens of the Bible, especially Genesis 1 to 11, we see a person of infinite value made in the image of God. We see a person who is dead in his trespasses. Person that is spiritually dead. Um and we have therefore we have compassion on that person. We see that person is uh as worth worthy of dignity and respect and oh by the way especially worthy of hearing the gospel Um and so let's apply. Uh let's do some application uh to what we learned from this. Uh so first of all we need to look at a person in a certain way. We need to look past genetics We need to look past the fact that if a person has a certain hair color or or skin shade or hair amount or eye shape or height or weight or whatever. And look at the person in spiritual terms. So look at the person's mind, needs, heart, cares, hurts, spiritual condition especially. So remember first 1 Samuel chapter 16, when uh the Lord tells Samuel to go anoint uh a new king. Um and he goes and sees the sons of this man Jesse and they're all lined up there. And Samuel sees the older son who's big and looks great. But the Lord says to Samuel, do not consider his appearance or his height, for I have rejected him. The Lord does not look at the things people look at. People look at the outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart. And so eventually he gets down to David and and anoints David as the next king, the small one, the youngest son. Um but the point is God looks at the heart and we should too. Um we should be looking through especially for the spiritual condition of the person. What is the greatest need of every single person? The greatest need is salvation in Jesus Christ. Uh no matter what condition they're in. So there's nothing wrong with giving a hungry person food. But if that's all you've done, have you addressed his most fundamental need. No, you have not. You you have done a good thing by giving a hungry person food But if you stop there, you have not addressed the spiritual condition. And therefore you haven't done all that you should do for that person. Okay, so uh seeing seeing people through a biblical worldview. So what does that mean? So if I want to look at a person and see them through a biblical worldview, first of all I have to realize that all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. So that person has a sin problem. Whatever other problems he has, his personal sin, his own sin that separates us from s from God is the worst problem he has. He he doesn't know it and he would deny it if you told him, but that's the worst problem he has. Because the wages of sin is death. However, the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. And so notice wages are something we earn. So what have we earned? We've earned death. So we've earned, every single person has earned their one-way ticket to hell. But the free gift of God, not something we earn, but a free gift is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. So let's turn to a passage, 2 Corinthians chapter 5. If you have a Bible, please open your Bible and look at 2 Corinthians chapter 5. Because this is an important passage about the attitude that we should have based on our biblical worldview, based on the fact that we see, have read and understood Genesis 1 to 11, so we we have a a proper view of who people are. And then we come to this passage, 2 Corinthians chapter 5. An important passage that I want to go through with you. So starting in verse 17, I'll give you a second to get there. So verse 17. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ He is a new creature. The old things passed away. Behold, new things have come. So a person has passed from the kingdom of darkness to the kingdom of light. Because they're in Christ. Now, all these things are from God, who reconciled us to himself through Christ and gave us the ministry of reconciliation. Namely, that God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them, and he has committed to us the word of reconciliation. Therefore, we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God were making an appeal through us. We beg you, on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God. So what is this ministry of reconciliation? We don't have to worry. We don't have to wonder. It's not a mystery. It's explained right here in the text. Very clearly, there's no ambiguity. What is the ministry of reconciliation? It's that we are ambassadors for Christ. The passage explains what it means that we're ambassadors for Christ. Well, what does that mean? That means it's as though God were making an appeal through us. That's what an ambassador does. An ambassador represents his government, his king, his president, whatever. And so we're representing God, and who are we re representing him to? We're representing him to the unsaved. So we're ambassadors from Christ to those who are still in the kingdom of darkness. We've been transferred from the kingdom of darkness to the kingdom of light, and now we're going from the kingdom of light as ambassadors to those who are still trapped in the kingdom of darkness, and we're making an appeal. And it's as though God is making the appeal through us. And what is that appeal? That appeal is to beg People that are stuck in the kingdom of darkness. Beg them on behalf of Christ to be reconciled to God. That's what this passage says. So what is the ministry of reconciliation? It's us that are in the Kingdom of Right as ambassadors, begging those who are still in the Kingdom of Darkness to be reconciled to God. So that's what the Ministry of Reconciliation is, trying to get people to be reconciled to God. Now In 21st century America, when it was in the church, unfortunately, you will see, if you pay attention, people in the church twisting this passage to make it about some secular effort at racial reconciliation. Well that's not what this passage is about. This passage is about spiritual reconciliation. Those who are in the king of darkness, those who are in the king of light, go into those who are in the king of darkness. And begging them on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God. That's what you really need. You need to be reconciled to God. That's what this passage is about. I guarantee you, if you open your eyes and you Google You will see somebody in a church today twisting this passage to mean something else, to have a secular uh expression. Don't fall for it. Do not fall for it. That's not what this passage is about. This passage is way more important than that. This work is way more important than that. Um it's w it's way more important to re to get somebody to be reconciled to God than anything else that we do. Okay, Ministry of Reconciliation. Yes, go ahead. So where they're heading is they're they're they're pro focused on the things of man rather than the things of God. They're focused on um in in in fact I've seen this passage used to justify reparation payments. from one group of people to another group of people. They'll say, the Ministry of Reconciliation means we have to we have to pay money. to uh to from one group of people to another group of people. That's what them No, no, that's that's not what this passage is talking about. This passage is talking about saving souls. It's not talking about paying money from one group of people. It's not talking about filthy lucre. No. This is a deep spiritual passage, very important, about the work of the people of God to try to be involved in God's process. So does God need us To save anybody? No, he doesn't need us. But it's a great privilege that God has allowed us to be part of this process. And not only allowed us but commanded us to be part of this process. So we're supposed to be about this ministry of reconciliation. And this ministry of reconciliation is reaching out to people that are in the kingdom of darkness And begging them, begging them on this is the word, beg, begging them on behalf of Christ to be reconciled to God. Not to pay somebody money, that's That's not not right. And it's it's very sad to me that people are using this passage to justify some sort of a uh a secular position. Yes, go ahead. And uh I had very similar questions, but just to clarify or or kind of conclude what you're saying, it's not a reconciliation between man and man. Correct. Reconciliation between Yes. So that's in this what what you're saying. Right, exactly right. Now the Bible has other passages about reconciliation between man and man within the body of Christ. The fact that this is we are we are one in Christ Jesus, there's unity in the church. So the the end result After somebody is reconciled to God, then they are reconciled to others within the body of Christ. But that's not what this is talking about, not this passage. All right. And so the last thing I want to talk about is unity of the spirit in the body of Christ. So this is the next step. So if you'll if you'll Change this uh uh turn in your Bible to Ephesians chapter 4. So Ephesians chapter 4 is talking about the unity in the church, the unity of the spirit in the church Um and so i if you want to have unity, well bring people into reconciliation with God first, and then you get this as a byproduct This is one of the results of reconciliation with God is unity with other human beings within the body of Christ. And so, Ephesians chapter 4, if you'll turn there. Therefore, I, prisoner of the Lord, implore you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling with which you have been called. With all humility and gentleness, with patience, showing tolerance for one another in love, being diligent to persevere, uh preserve the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. There is one body And one Spirit, just as also you were called in one hope of your calling, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all But to each one of us grace was given according to the measure of Christ's gift. And he gave some as apostles, and some as prophets, and some as evangelists, and some as pastors and teachers. For the equipping of the saints for the work of service, to the building up of the body of Christ, until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God to a mature man, to the measure of the stature which belongs to the fullness of Christ. As a result, we are no longer to be children tossed here and there by waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine by the trickery of men, by the craftiness in deceitful scheming. But speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in all aspects into him who is the head, even Christ from whom the whole body being fitted and held together by what every joint supplies, according to the proper working of each individual, parts causes the growth of the body for the building up of itself in love. And so notable The unity and diversity in the body of Christ. So there's unity and diversity. So there's unity in Christ, but there's also this diversity of spiritual gifts that's a key part of the description of the body of Christ. We're not all gifted the same. Everybody's given some gift, and what's the purpose of those gifts? The purpose of those gifts Verse 12, for the equipment of the saints for the work of service. So what is what is what were you given a spiritual gift for? You were given a spiritual gift in order to build up others, to build up the whole body of Christ for service. So if we notice this passage, this passage, Ephesians chapter four, this great passage about unity So first, Paul makes a general appeal for unity in verses 1 to 3. Then he describes the nature of that unity in verses 4 to 6. He describes the diversity in that unity. and the means by which God preserves it in verse 7 and then 11 and 12. And then he describes the unity perfected in 13 to 60. Now, but the key to the whole exposition of Ephesians 4 is the word therefore in verse 1. So when you see the word therefore, what is it therefore? It's there to point you back to what he's just been talking about. So in Ephesians 1 through 3, Paul goes through all the doctrine, and then 4 he says, because of all this doctrine, therefore you have unity. So it's key to look at when you see therefore, go back and see what it's pointing back to. It points back to the first three chapters, emphasizes that the theme of unity is something which follows as a consequence of what's gone before. The doctrine expounded in in chapters one to three is the basis and the background for everything Paul has to say about unity. For example, Ephesians 2, 13 to 16, Paul reminds the Ephesian Christians, they are people who have realized that all their own good works, all their good living, all their activities, their nationality, their religion Everything they had before is entirely useless. And they are made to be in Christ and Christians brought into this unity which is in the church entirely by The action of the Lord Jesus Christ, and in particular by the shedding of his blood upon the cross, which is an action completed in the past Christ died on the cross, a historical fact, something that happened in the past. That's the basis of unity So we must get rid of the notion that the Ephesians are being exhorted to produce or to arrive at something. Now all that I just said, the last three slides, were a quote from a book by Martin Lloyd Jones, The Basis of Christian Unity. Um which is an essentially an exposition of of Ephesians chapter one through four. So and so this is uh Martin Lloyd Jones' words. We must get rid entirely of the notion that the Ephesians are being exhorted to produce or to arrive at something. It's not a work of human beings to produce unity. Unity is produced by the finished work of Christ on the cross. So if we think that unity is up to us, first of all, we're going to fail. Second of all, the unity has already been produced by Christ. And it's not something that we can or should be trying to do. Okay. I was going to do one more passage, but we don't have time. So we'll have to do this. We'll have to do Galatians chapter 3. uh next time. Uh so let me end then on Ephesians chapter four. We'll go into Galatians chapter three next time. We have one more uh session to talk about the application of how Uh a biblical worldview with a foundation of Genesis 1 to 11 leads us to see people in a different way, or should lead us to see people in a different way. Such that we see people as created in the image of God and therefore infinitely valuable, but also fallen and dead in their transgressions, in the kingdom of darkness, and needing of rescue by Christ Jesus, for whom we are ambassadors, begging them to be reconciled to God. Let's close in prayer.