Genesis chapter four before us this morning. Just to remind you where we're at here in the process. We are looking at, we're basically halfway through the quarter. So we're looking at Genesis chapter four, though we'll work through the whole chapter, which means that there's not there's going to be things that we leave on the cutting room floor, if you will. Uh we won't be able to cover everything. I know that uh As I was taking Pastor Robb's previous notes, which were teaching this class in two sessions, there was a you know a number of things that I had to cut out. In fact, one of the things I cut out was just all the review, all the review from last week, just so that we would have time to get through as much of the chapter four as we can. But uh he also had material he had a slide on DNA because we get into the children of Adam and Eve, uh you know, and the line of Cain and um him marrying Most likely, almost certainly, in fact definitely, his sister, and then that raises questions about wait a minute, that's not something we're allowed. Anyway, he had the slide on DNA Um with a whole lot of scientific language that I don't understand. So we won't be covering uh everything that could be talked about. Uh can you marry your sister I know no. That that prohibition came in with the law of Moses. Um But uh anyway, so that this is uh that's where we are here. Oh I didn't switch over. Sorry. I was looking at the next slide and I thought I'd switch it over. So let's pray and then we'll dive in. Father, we thank you for this morning. Every morning is a gift from you. You give us life and breath. and all things. You have sustained us through the night. And you do that so that we can live for your glory. And this morning we want to love you with our mind and our soul. We want to uh learn what you have for us in your word. And so I pray that you would encourage us with what you have revealed, that you would instruct us, and that you would uh even prepare us for our time of corporate worship. In Christ's name I pray. Amen. Alright, so just as a brief overview, we're going to work through, like I said, the whole of chapter four. So that includes doing a quick overview. We'll read um read it in two different sections, but we'll do an overview. We'll talk about Cain and Abel, the first two children, at least though that we know of. It would seem as though they are the first two of of many. The first murder in the Bible, and how God judges and banishes Cain for murdering his brother Abel Then we'll look at the line of Cain and the line of Seth. And that will bring us to the end of the first Toledo, the first record, the first uh s section of uh or or the record of the heavens and the earth that began in chapter uh two. So just to put Chapter 4 in the context of the span of history. Obviously we had perfect creation that we looked at in Genesis 1 and 2. Last time, Pastor Rob worked through Genesis chapter 3, the fall. uh the sin of Adam and Eve and the impact that that had in terms of how God responded both with judgment but also with grace and mercy. And so now chapter four really represents what life is like. when you let sin take a hold of your soul. Now sin of course is uh uh since Adam and Eve it's pervasive, it's universal, we're born with sin. But There there's a very real sense in which chapter four kind of represents this is now the result of sin. Chapter five which is a genealogy, which Pastor Rob will get to next week, emphasizes the result of sin in terms of the natural death that everybody experiences. Um since I won't be here next week, I'll I hope I don't steal his thunder, but one of the repeated statements that is utterly unique in all of the genealogies of the Bible that's found in Genesis 5 is the statement, and he died And he died, and he died, and he died over and over with every individual. It emphasizes Except Enoch, that's right. That that they died. Well that's uh by implication at least, uh they all died naturally. They died of old age. It tells us how many years they lived, and they all lived, of course, many centuries But here in chapter 4, death comes by a different way. It comes by the heart that is bent toward evil. And so we see the consequence of sin in the distortion of the heart and its result, not only in in murder, which of course is um you could almost say is the epitome of sin. But lying, lying to God, rebellion, uh complaining And so there's just a variety of sins that Cain manifests because his heart was given over to sin. So then when we move into chapter 5, then we start on the track of redemption with the line of Seth and onward through uh Noah and Abraham and so on uh in terms of God's focus. So that's where we are here in this plan. So again we're dividing up the book of Genesis. by Toledotes. Those are the records. Those are the books. And this first section is the record, the Toledot, of the heavens and the earth. So, Genesis chapter 4 is really divided up into two sections. Verses 1 to 15 introduce us to Cain and Abel and accounts for us the murder that takes place. in God's judgment. And then the second half, verses sixteen to twenty-six, uh goes down the line of Cain, introduces us to uh the seventh generation, uh uh uh down from Cain and how His line was a line where sin got worse and worse. And then that will bring us to the end of the first Toledo. So that's that's the layout of Genesis chapter 4. Alright, so uh let's read verses 1. Uh we'll read verses 1 to 16. I have them here on the slides, of course. I always encourage you to use your Bible So you can just see with your own eyes and be familiar with how it's written out on on your page. But uh let's read this and then we'll get into the details. Now the man had relations with his wife Eve, and she conceived and gave birth to Cain, and she said, I have begotten Sorry, I have gotten a man-child with the help of the Lord. Again she gave birth to his brother Abel And Abel was a keeper of flocks, but Cain was a tiller of the ground. So it came about in the course of time that Cain brought an offering to the Lord of the first of the fruit of the ground Abel, on his part, also brought the firstlings of his flock and of their fat portions. And the Lord had regard for Abel and his offering, but for Cain and for his offering he had no regard So Cain became very angry, and his countenance fell. Then the Lord said to Cain, Why are you angry? And why has your countenance fallen? If you do well, will not your countenance be lifted up? And if you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door, and its desire is for you, but you must master it. Cain told his brother told Abel his brother, and it came about when they were in the field that Cain rose up against Abel his brother and killed him. Then the Lord said to Cain, Where is Abel, your brother? And he said, I do not know, am I, my brother's keeper? He said, What have you done? The voice of your brother's blood is crying to me from the ground. Now you are cursed from the ground, which has opened its mouth to receive your brother's blood from your hand. When you cultivate the ground, it will no longer yield its strength to you You will be a vagrant and a wanderer on the earth. Cain said to the Lord, My punishment is too great to bear. Behold, ye have driven me this day from the face of the ground, and from your face I will be hidden, and I will be a vagrant and a wanderer on the earth. And whoever finds me will kill me. So the Lord said to him, Therefore, whoever kills Cain, vengeance will be taken on him sevenfold. And the Lord appointed a sign for Cain, so that no one finding him would slay him Then Cain went out from the presence of the Lord and settled in the land of Nod, east of Eden. Alright, so there's the account. Just to highlight the main points of what we just read. Cain is the firstborn of Adam and Eve, and the older brother of Abel and Seth. Cain is a farmer, and Abel is a shepherd. Abel offered the best of his flock to God, and God looked favorably on Abel's sacrifice. Cain offers some of his crops to God, and God does not look favorably on his sacrifice. So Cain becomes angry and murders Abel. And when God confronts Cain, he responds, Am I my brother's keeper? So God curses Cain. and cast him away from the land of Nod, and he gives them a mark which warns all people not to harm him. So that's the the gist, the the key points there of the narrative that we just read. Now, let's dive into the the details of the text here. Ron. Maybe since you're just reading Rob's notes that uh You don't have any idea but is there anything maybe in the original Hebrew to suggest that this was not necessarily Well, the murder was a one time event, but the the offering was it maybe a repeated event and and finally it got to a head where That's when the murder happened, or was this actually sort of like the first time they ever offered an offering? Yeah, the Hebrew text does not give us that kind of clarity. So th th the language of in the course of time uh would imply that there was some regularity, but it's it's just a kind of a shadow of an implication, so it's not anything that's clear. Yes, Maria. If I ask you where it was also could you kind of ask a few questions about ABC, where are you? That's right. He is, yeah. And we'll we'll talk about that a little bit as well, yeah. Any other questions before we move on? We'll talk about that. Yeah. Great questions. So just right here at the beginning, verse 1 and 2, now the man had relations with his wife Eve, and she conceived and gave birth to Cain, and she said, I've gotten the man child with the help of the Lord. Again she gave birth to his brother Abel So Eve conceived the first child to come from natural generation rather than by direct creation of God, and she gave birth to this child. Cain. You know, you can come up with all kinds of speculative questions on how did they know how to do that? Like how did Adam know how to help his wife give birth? Well, they were very smart, right? The Lord uh gave them intellect Uh they were intelligent and so they managed, I'm sure. Um But Cain's name in Hebrew is a word play. Uh Kayin in the Hebrew sounds like what Eve said in uh the verb I have gotten, uh, which is uh kinate. By calling this boy Ish, that is the word man, Eve recognizes the baby's common humanity. So again, th they know what the Lord's plan is. They know God's command to them to multiply and fill the earth, and so they understand the dynamic of how that's to be. And so then Adam and Eve have a second son named Abel. Okay, so then could be uh that is a good question. Breath. Breath. Yeah. Okay. Okay, it's breath. I I can remember. So here comes a question from uh Mr. Richard. Did Eve think that Cain was, if you will, to use more uh contemporary language, the Messiah. Does she think that Cain was the one who would bring the promise who would crush the serpent's head? Well Uh it's not clear. Uh let me let me show you or or or uh tell you that there are some who think she did. Arnold Fruchtenbaum, which might be a name you're familiar with, a trusted scholar. He he thinks that she did. And here's what he says about it. He supports that interpretation referred to in the main text that he believed she was giving birth to the promised divine seed by pointing out that the word Yahweh is preceded by the untranslated accusative particle et Which marks the object of the verb. In this case, gotten. So there's a little Hebrew grammar for you. In other words, there's There's a particle, an untranslatable, uh just a signal of, hey, what's coming up next? That's the direct object of the verb. And so he goes on here, thus, Genesis 4. 1 reads, And Adam knew his wife Eve, and she conceived and uh bore Cain and said, I have gotten a man, the Lord. In other words, the uh idea here is that she referred to this child as the Lord. That's the interpretation. Compare the last few words of this in Hebrew and the Hebrew with the account of Abel's birth in the next verse. In other words, she doesn't say the same thing about Abel. There's no doubt that brother and Abel are one and the same, but the same exact Hebrew construction implies that likewise the man and Yahweh were one and the same. This has been a problem for rabbinic interpreters. Now, if you will forgive, just a little bit of uh Hebrew grammar, if if this is over your head, that's okay. Don't worry about it. Can you see my mouse? Alright, I don't know if you can see it as I move it around. Uh but this particle right here, actually there's a circle, uh that's a uh again an untranslatable, it's it's it's not a word, it's just an indicator that the next word is the direct object of uh the verb. And you also see it there and you see it there and you see it there. It's all over the place in Hebrew and it's just an indicator That again, that whatever comes next is an object of the verb. And so the idea is that when it says that she conceived and gave birth and said, I've gotten a man-child that instead of saying with the help of, which isn't in the Hebrew text, okay, that's the key to understand, the words with the help of the Lord, in fact, uh Ye well I guess the whole thing is italicized. If if you have a NAS Bible and you look uh the the words with the help of are italicized, which means they are not actually uh corresponding to a Hebrew word. It's an interpretation uh of uh of the text. There is a a Hebrew word um Oh boy, how deep do I want to go into this? There is a uh the same consonants. Remember that Hebrew is a consonant only language. There's no vowels in Hebrew. The only when you see these dots, the dots indicate vowel sounds, but the The dots were not uh or are not in original or ancient Hebrew manuscripts. They were added uh in the last uh thousand years or so So uh this uh the et that those three dots in an upside-down triangle, that's uh I think that's the short E at, right There's a preposition with the same consonants, but with two dots, which you can see an example of right there. That's a long E, 8, that's the preposition with. So in other words, when you're reading the Hebrew Bible without vowel sounds, you see this, uh those consonants, and you have to decide Is this the direct object particle or is this the preposition with? So some uh interpreters, most Bible translations interpret it as a preposition with Whereas it could be uh interpreted as the direct object particle uh and and so it's not a word, it's just saying that Yahweh is the direct object. Okay, I'm probably saying too much here One thing I would correct from what we just read on the previous screen is he says that the grammar, the grammatical construction is the same here When it says that she gave birth to her brother Abel, it's that that it's the same as when it said that she got a man child, the Lord. And unfortunately that's not true. Here we have a double particle, so there's a an opposition where these two words brother and Abel are set in opposition to one another, which means they actually are the same. They're the same person. But that's not true of the man child. So There are some who interpret again that Eve is saying that she got uh a man child, she got a child with the help of the Lord, and others who say, no, she was thinking he was the Lord. I would personally hold to the fact that she was not thinking this is the Lord, but faithful men disagree. And In normal thinking. In chapter three, when she was hers, it was gonna be painful to have children. She had never had a child. She didn't know from anything. She was also told that that he was going to try to have in that same prophecy. Chapter three. Chapter four. She has her first child. What's gonna come back to her mind? Oh, Isn't it was calling me painful? But he said, but then He's gonna crush the head. I could see how she would think that's possible. This is the Messiah. She didn't know she had four thousand years. So Another way of thinking about it is she could have thought that without trying to say that this child is the Lord, she could have just recognized, hey, this is uh a descendant, this is a son uh and this is gonna be the one who's gonna crush the head of the serpent without saying, oh this is the Lord, right? 'Cause there was no at least based on the revelation that we have, they did not have clarity that the Messiah would be the Lord. As far as we're told, yeah. Anyway, all that to say, she may have thought this was the m the Messiah. She may not have. It's not entirely clear. Well Pastor, couldn't there have been other women that probably had the same idea because I'm I'm sure Adam Dean has witnessed the advent, so uh this wasn't passed down. Well yeah, uh it definitely was passed down and I think when we get to the end of chapter five Lamech, who is Noah's dad, so not the Lamech of uh Cain's descendant, but uh Seth's descendant, Lamech. I believe what he says about Noah indicates that he thought Noah was going to be the one to reverse the curse. So to me that's much more explicit in what Lamech says at the birth of Noah. So there's there's uh that uh semi-answer to the unit of um able main with mere breath. Mirror breath. Right. That would be uh interesting um Uh Psalm 444, a man is like a breath, his days are like a passive shadow. Okay. Very good, thank you. So, Adam and Eve were told to multiply and fill the earth, but they never did so in their unfallen state. We could speculate again about how much time was that was there between the day of creation and when they fell And I don't remember if did Pastor Rob t talk about that last week? I think last week So we yeah, we we don't know obviously how much time there was, but I would agree it was probably not a very long time. Um and it w there's just no way to know for certain. But uh Yeah. So uh uh unfortunate for uh for all the rest of us, all their children were conceived after the fall uh and inherited their sin nature. Later we see that Adam and Eve had other sons and daughters, right? It says that at the beginning of chapter 5, verse 4. Josephus, the Jewish historian. He wrote an account called The Antiquities of the Jews in ninety-three AD, and after introducing Cain and Abel, he writes that Adam and Eve had uh also daughters. And in a footnote he gives what is a kind of a Jewish tradition that the number of Adam's children were thirty-three sons and twenty-three daughters. Now that's just Jewish tradition. That's not inspired. It's conjecture. Now think about this though. Genesis 5 tells us that Adam was 130 years old when Seth was born. If they had I did the math, if they had f one child every five years, and assuming they fell fairly soon after uh they were created Uh if they had one child every five years, by the time Seth was born, they could have had, what is it, twenty, I'm trying to remember now, twenty-six children, twenty-two, twenty-three, something like that? So in the twenties. And that's the one child every five years. So theoretically, you know, this number could almost be a low number because he lived until you know he was in his Uh what uh first came true. Anyway, so uh it's entirely plausible that they had dozens and dozens of children And that Cain and Abel, again, though the text presents them to us as uh their first children, it may be that they were the first and they had other sons and daughters in in quick succession Or it may be that K uh Cain and Abel themselves weren't even the first because we see other instances where we're told of a child who wasn't necessarily the first. So Again, that's all speculation, but uh that's uh one way of thinking about it. So verse 2 continues, and Abel was a keeper of the flocks, but Cain was a tiller of the ground. So it came about in the course of time that Cain brought an offering to the Lord of the fruit of the ground, and Abel on his part also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of their fat portions. Now, here is the first of many biblical occurrences of the reversal of what you could call the progenitor which means that uh the priority of the firstborn, right? We typically see in in the ancient culture that the firstborn was always given the priority. He was always a preeminent one, mentioned first, blessed first, all of that. Here the Lord, by saying Abel was the keeper of the flocks, he reverses the order in which he tells us about them. I don't know how much significance there is to that, but it's just an interesting observation, if you will, a a shadow of things to come uh throughout the rest of Scripture. His occupation is that he is a keeper of the flocks, and there's no specific animal relative to that. It implies both sheep and goats. Whereas Cain is a tiller of the ground, and uh he was really following in his father's footsteps. The Hebrew phrase in the course of time indicates that there was a set time for sacrifices already known to Adam and his family. Again, we don't know precisely because the we're not just not given that revelation, but clearly the fact that they brought sacrifices indicates that they understood not only when they were supposed to sacrifice, but what they were supposed to sacrifice. Um it's w just one of those things that by implication uh it that that would have to be the case. They they knew somehow from direct revelation from the Lord uh what it is that they were to do uh in light of their This is before the law, so we can't go to the Mosaic Law and and assume that the Mosaic sacrificial system is what they had to practice. Um but whatever it was, they had Instruction from the Lord on how to worship Him. Note that the animals would not have been kept for meat, right? Because they were given only plants to eat at this point. So they had animals, but of course animals produced other products, milk and wool and whatnot. And so they were also used as sacrifices to the Lord. So then verse 4 continues, the Lord had regard for Abel and for his offering, but for Cain and for his offering he had no regard. So Cain became very angry, and his countenance fell. Yes. So God the Lord had regard to Abel. Yes. He didn't have regard for God. Yes. Although it turns out we have to operate able to not be telephone. So that is a An astute observation. And I think it's actually a critical observation that we make, that it doesn't merely say that the Lord had regard just for their offerings. It said that he had regard for them, for Abel or not regard for Cain himself. Which indicates, I think, that uh the Lord, as the rest of Scripture reveals, is far more concerned with what? The heart. Right, I think that's just as significant, if not more, than the actual sacrifice that was given. And I think it's telling that there's no explicit statement of why it was that the Lord didn't have regard for Cain's sacrifice. Now there's a couple of things we can say about that, we will. Um I think there's uh it's it's highly significant that uh that it was themselves as a reflection of their heart that the Lord had regard for or not. And then that uh what what was in their heart was then manifested by the response, right? That's what we see with Cain. I hesitate to bring this up and see if we can actually we'll see This other uh uh commentary I'm looking at, and I always wondered about the same thing, about why one is one of the other. Um this one says Cain offered produce from the ground, but we know that the ground was under the curse. This suggests that Cain had to line himself with the curse. Then on the other part, Abel on the other hand was exercising dominion over the animal as God had commanded, as well as offering the required sacrifice and shed blood. So I was kind of initially Well I kind of want to those why one without the other. Yeah, th th those are interesting thoughts. Um I think you know, I think they're valid uh to consider Uh we we always have to be careful of what does the text say and not go too far, but those are good things to think about. What what comes to my mind as I w wrestle with uh Uh what what the text actually says is again that first priority of having a regard for Abel versus Cain themselves along with their sacrifice. And also, and I'll get to you, Bob, in a second, the fact that it emphasizes that Abel brought the firstling or the firstborn depending on your translation, of the flock, whereas it doesn't say that Cain brought the first fruits. Now, again, we don't know precisely what the Lord had instructed them. We do know by pattern that in the uh Mosaic law they were w even when they were to bring the fruit of the ground, it was to be the first fruits. And we see that principle carried through into the New Testament that when we give generously to the Lord, we are to give out of the first fruits. So uh again it's an implication, but it's uh it's a detail in the text that I think is worth considering that Perhaps as it relates to the sacrifice, it was Abel's giving of the firstborn and Cain's not giving of the first fruits. That may be why the Lord didn't have regard for Abel's offering, or rather Cain's offering. So We could certainly surmise, and and some do, that Cain was supposed to give of an animal, um, and that would make sense. But the text just doesn't tell us that. So uh it's one of those things we can't be absolutely definitive on, but we can you know consider those different possibilities. Bob you were honored By the way, it will offer exhaust every sacrifice to be crisis. Yeah. And that actually draws out not only the sacrifice itself, but the heart behind the sacrifice, right? A heart of faith. So Chester, we're just going to be able to do that. We were saying that in this in the concept of what we go to forecast I have for people to talk about. It's the person. The offering was given to the part. So it's the offering is showing where my part lies. Whatever the offering is. Yeah. Versus other things that might be applied there is it's best just with really a heart meeting. Yeah. Yeah. Oh boy. Let's go to Morag and then he comes by the hearing, hearing by the word of God. Amen. So he had to have responded to God's word. That just simple. Yep, yep, Alison? Another quotation from Hebrews eleven that came to inside information that about the shedding of blood there was no forgiven. Sure. Sure, yeah. Richard? Obviously, uh Cain thought that his sacrifice was uh beautiful And um didn't able to bloody. But uh I I think that he was encouraged. uh probably encouraged by his parents and that draw drew out his pride in what he had done. Perhaps Larry? So the almost nice question is a picture of the a substitution, right? Perhaps Abel uh recognizes him and that's why he such uh what they're substitution. And and uh so with uh game being self-righteous Cain did not recognize a sin. It was about, look at me. This is what I've done. Yeah, and really both Cain and Abel are sinners, right? They're both sinners. Uh and we know that in the Old Testament the way of salvation is the same as it is as the New Testament, which is believing in the Word of God, whether it's the Word of Christ specifically in terms of the gospel or whether it's believing in the promises of God as they have been revealed to those individuals in the progress of Revelation. And so here we have two sinners, one who apparently believed God and offered sacrifices from a heart of faith consistent with God's uh expectations and and revelation and then one who whatever relationship his offering had in terms of the substance of it uh his heart was not believing in the promise of God. And yeah. Um I was thinking about Jacob and installed. Uh in that compares to two problems, JCOP was actually the bad one you're supposed to see. I mean the one with the heart that wasn't the curve it could be You know, did what they did to the part of the thing. Uh-huh. Deception, yeah. So what's the difference in the heart in Jacob's heart? in that situation. Well I think the scripture presents Jacob as just a pretty bad dude all the way around. And it doesn't in any way commend him as an a as a representative of righteousness and and but there, you know, just like for many of us, there are a lot of inconsistencies where there's a a lot of sin, uh, a lot of uh ambition, deception. At the same time there's evidences of trusting in the Lord, um where again in his case there's fewer evidences of that than of deception. But um what he saw wasn't it great Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah. Alright let's let let's let let's keep moving here otherwise we're gonna run out of time. Appreciate those those comments. Again I want to encourage us to always remember uh to not go too far beyond what is written and and if we can not not go at all beyond what is written. We want to root our thinking in the details of the text. Now that also includes not just the text itself, but other passages of scripture that illumine and and uh and give uh light to the text. Um so a lot of these uh thoughts and ideas have done that. Um but We just need to learn to distinguish those things and what's pure conjecture and what's, if you will, a sanctified imagination and what's actually rooted in biblical teaching. So of course we must come to know God on his terms. We've already talked about that. Cain was angry that God would not permit him to make his own rules. The language his countenance fell. Uh you you could um interpret that as depression, uh like a sullenness of his face. He was depressed that God didn't accept his sacrifice. And that can rise out of guilt, shame that one didn't follow God's instruction. and now I'm bearing the consequences of that. Clearly, as we see in the text, he is not repentant at all. He's only remorseful over the consequences. Um or you could take that as anger that he is uh angry at God, and certainly there seems to be uh well that's a combination of anger uh and depression there right right in the text So the Lord comes to Cain and says, Why are you angry, and why is your countenance fallen? If you do well, will not your countenance be lifted up? And if you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door, and its desire is for you, so you must master it. Just as with Adam in the garden, God is seeking or he's seeking out the one who is uh sinning and he poses question for opportunity to confess and repent Right, that's that's the kind of God he is. He he goes after sinners. And he even though he knows where this sinner is in their heart and how they will respond, he still gives opportunity for confession. and repentance. But he doesn't ask a question that he doesn't know the answer to. He he asks questions to draw out the heart. and lead to repentance if a person will submit themselves to him. And then he warns Cain that sin is crouching at the door. And so it just warns him that if hey if you keep going down this path, know that this is going to overtake you. It's going to pounce on you. And so you must master it. It's the first mention of the word sin in the Bible. The Hebrew word means missing the mark. And I think it's helpful to be reminded all the time that though that's what the word means, and it's an appropriate um uh meaning for the nature of sin, we shouldn't think of sin necessarily as uh I'm really trying to reach the right I'm really trying to be holy, but I just can't. I keep falling short. I don't have enough strength to pull the bow back and get that arrow far enough. But the reality is sin is is uh rebellion against God. It's I hate God's standards. I don't want to do it his way. I want it to be my own way. And so I'm gonna I'm not even gonna try to shoot at the arrow So um that that still fits there with that meaning of missing the mark. The question is, are you trying to miss the mark? Or or rather are you trying to hit the mark or are you not? Um in our s sense of self-righteousness, we think we're trying to hit the mark and we fall short, but the reality is we're not. We're aiming for our own desires. Uh the Greek word harm harmotano uh means the same thing. And so God tells Cain that it's essential to prevent sin from controlling him. So We're all sinners. There's no way we can control the world. Yeah. And and so what we see in the scripture is that when God engages with mankind He always shines the light on the path toward righteousness. He says, if you want to follow me, this is what it looks like to follow me. But other passages that more focus on the nature of humanity and our sinfulness make it clear that apart from God's enabling grace, we won't walk that path. But here again we just have God saying, hey, if if you want to be faithful, if you want to get rid of that anger and that fallen countenance, this is the path to go. Uh and for the purposes of God he chooses not to give him the grace uh to repent. Well he did give them the common grace though, right? Uh Cain. Yeah. Well I mean he loved Cain. We'll mention this in a moment, but uh notice that he doesn't kill Cain. Right. Right? He could have, he ought to have, in the in a sense of justice, uh judged him by put putting him to death, but in his grace uh he did not do that uh at that time So verse 8 says, Cain told Abel his brother, and it came about when they were in the field that Cain rose up against Abel his brother and killed him. The Lord said to Cain, Where is Abel your brother? And he said, I do not know. Am I my brother's keeper? So Cain speaks to Abel, the uh Masoretic text, that's uh the the main Hebrew text that goes back. uh for uh millennium, multiple min millennium. It doesn't tell us what he said to Cain, but the Greek translation of the Old Testament, the LXX, the Septuagint The the Samaritan Pentateuch and the Vulgate provide the words that Cain said to Abel, hey, let's go out into the field. Again, that's that's It's something that we can't have certainty of of what he is saying. Uh whether he told Abel about his conversation with the Lord or he you know spoke to him to take him out to the field. That's not clear, but um Mm-hmm. So we see how t terrible sin had become. Cain rose up against Abel, his brother, and killed him. Now we don't know how You know, there's if you've seen representations you've seen him take a rock and k hit him on the head, uh you've seen maybe a knife and he stabs him. We don't know how he killed him, but he took his life. He spilled his blood. So this is obviously the first murder recorded in history, and it was fratricide, which is a brother killing a brother. Note that Jesus himself affirmed that Abel was a real man. So this kind of goes back to how are we to understand Genesis, the beginning chapters? Are we to understand them as history, as myth? Well, Jesus clearly affirms Abel as a real man who was slain in history, and he used that fact. as part of his judgment on the evil generation of his day. In fact, he even assigns the guilt of Abel to uh the Pharisees there. He says, so that upon you, as he speaks to the Pharisees in Matthew 23 Uh shall fall the guilt of all the righteous blood on earth, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah, the son of Barekiah, whom you murdered between the temple and the altar. Again, everything in Scripture is cohesive and it speaks to the historical reality of what takes place in the first chapters of Genesis. Also, 1 John 3 says that we should not be as Cain, who was of the evil one, and slew his brother. And for what reason did he slay him? Because his deeds were evil, and his brothers were righteous. Now, remember in John when Jesus is speaking to the Pharisees and he says, You are your father the devil, your father is a murderer, he's been a murderer from the beginning. Well, Cain Acted in the vein of his father the devil. So as a result of Cain's foul deed, the Lord holds court again, just as he did with Adam and Eve. And again, he tempers justice with mercy. He asks the question so that he can draw out uh Abel's heart, or rather Cain's heart. He asks, where is Abel your brother? And Cain says, I don't know. So he d outright lies to the Lord, right? And again, we don't have a full understanding of what was the common interaction that uh these early this early family had with the Lord, but it seems to be that there was enough regularity that Cain was not surprised that the Lord came to him. So they must have had some measure of interaction. Uh and he must have known who the Lord was, right? He had to know that God was creator, that God would know all things, and yet he lies to his face And then he asks the first question of a human in the Bible, am I my brother's keeper? Now think about Abel being a keeper of the sheep. Cain basically says, Am I a keeper of my brother? And again, he's mocking in a sense God's omniscience, he is arrogant, he has contempt and defiance toward God. His heart is being revealed. So it goes on to say, the Lord says, What have you done? The voice of your brother's blood is crying to me from the ground. This kind of implies that Cain buried Abel. Now you are accursed from the ground, which has opened its mouth to receive your brother's blood from your hand. When you cultivate the ground, it will no longer yield its strength to you. You will be a vagrant and a wanderer on the earth Since confession of repentance was not forthcoming, God judges Cain and hands down the sentence, first biblical mention of blood. God says that Cain is cursed from the ground and goes on to explain that this means that uh when you cultivate the ground it will no longer yield its strength. Now for one who that's his occupation, that's what he does, that's what he's an expert in. That's a devastating uh reality. The final part of Cain's punishment is to be banished. You will be a vagrant and a wanderer. Now this again kind of brings to our awareness the fact that we don't know precisely what the situation was. You know, were they all uh in a s in the same general area? That seems to be the implication You know, in the next section it'll say that uh he went away from the Lord's presence, which of course you can't ultimately do because the Lord is everywhere. But again, there's that sense of God was among his people, among Adam and Eve and their family. And to leave the family is to leave the presence of the Lord Uh instead of having the support of uh one another uh with all of their different uh work and and abilities, uh he now had to be on his own uh with his own family. But again in mercy the Lord did not execute Cain So once again we see Cain's heart on display here. Instead of repenting, instead of acknowledging his sin, accepting the consequences as a gracious but just punishment, Cain says to the Lord, My punishment is too great to bear. In other words, that's not fair, Lord. Behold, you have driven me this day from the face of the ground, and from the face and from your face I will be hidden. That's and that's a idiom for I will be away from your presence. And I will be a vagrant and a wanderer on the earth, and whoever finds me will kill me. Well of course he is afraid that once the family finds out they're going to come after him. And if they find him, uh t take his life So the Lord said, therefore whoever kills Cain, vengeance will be taken on him sevenfold. And the Lord appointed for Cain a sign. Other translations say that the Lord put a mark on him. Uh what the what was that? You know, was that a tattoo? But some uh it would seem physical uh indication don't kill Cain So if you think back to Genesis chapter 3, in the Lord handing down his judgments to Adam and Eve and the serpent, Adam and Eve did not respond this way, right? They didn't complain to the Lord about uh his judgment, whereas Cain did. So his arrogant defiance is replaced by fear, and he complains his punishment's too great. Clearly this is not repentance Uh this is remorse, if you will, the repentance that leads to death that is talked about in first or rather 2 Corinthians 7, as opposed to the repentance that leads to to life. This is a repentance that is uh only sorry sorry of the consequences. Right? W when you are Confronted of your sin and you reap the consequences when you feel bad only because of the consequences and not because of your own sin And you say, oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Because you're trying to get out of the consequences, that is not true repentance. That's what Cain did. But again, he shows mercy by promising to protect him Alright, so that's the first half. We're gonna have to go very quickly through the second half. Any quick comments before we move on from there? Alright. I'll just keep going. Alright, so the next section here, chapter four, verses sixteen to twenty-six, the line of Cain, the line of Seth. In the end of the first. Let's read it. Then Cain went out from the presence of the Lord and settled in the land of Nod east of Eden. Nod means wanderer. It's the land of wandering. Cain had relations with his wife, and she conceived and gave birth to Enoch, and he built a city and called the name of the city Enoch after the name of his son. Now to Enoch was born Irad And Irad became the father of Mahujael, and Mahujael became the father of Methushael, and Methushael became the father of Lamech I had to practice that. Lamek took to himself two wives. The name of one was Adah, and the name of the other was Zillah. Ada gave birth to Jabal, and he was the father of those who dwell in tents and have livestock His brother's name was Jubal, and he was the father of those who play the lyre and the pipe. As for Zillah, she also gave birth to Jubal Cain, the forger of all implements of bronze and iron, and the sister of Tubul Cain was Naama. So this is actually let me let me keep going here. Lam Lamech said to his wife, to his wives, Hada, Zillah, listen to my voice, you wives of Lamech, give heed to my speech, for I have killed a man for wounding me, and a boy for striking me. If Cain had avenged his avenged sevenfold, then Lamech seventy-sevenfold. And then just the conclusion of the chapter, Adam had relations with his wife Again, and she gave birth to a son and named him Seth, for she said, The Lord has appointed to me another offspring to place a table for king's children. So to Seth, uh or rather to Seth To him also was born, and he called his name Enosh. And then began to call upon the name of the Lord. Alright, so Cain leaves the presence of the Lord uh and as part of his punishment, the book does that Proximity. And relationship with the Lord as he enjoyed with along with the rest of the family. Um This uh with regard to the land of Not again and he's wandering, it probably indicates that even in his partial uh settling Cain had no permanent residence. So even though he you know built a