Let's uh let's start with a word of prayer. Let's bow and pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for This Lord's Day, where we get the great privilege of gathering as the body of Christ to worship you We thank you, Lord, for uh this season that we're coming through, where we celebrated the incarnation, the birth of Christ, and that great milestone in your plan of redemption And we thank you for another year where it's our privilege to serve you. We pray, Lord, in this 2026 that you would use us, that you would equip us through your Holy Spirit so that we would be useful to you in advancing your kingdom. We thank you, Lord, for this opportunity that we have right now to study your word. We pray that through your Holy Spirit you would open our hearts and minds so that we could truly understand what you're trying to teach us from your word today. We thank you, Lord, for your loving kindness, especially your Your great loving kindness in sending Christ to die on the cross for our sins. And it's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. So, uh we're we're up to uh part five in our study, and we're going to be looking at chapter three and the fall. So today we're going to talk about we're going to do an overview of chapter three. We're going to spend two weeks really getting through chapter three. We're going to do an overview today. We're going to look at the fall of Satan. We're going to look at the tempting of Eve. We're going to look at the fall of Adam and Eve. And we're going to look at a contrast. So how how did Adam and Eve do when they were tempted as compared to how did Christ do when he was tempted? But first, let's take a look back. The last couple of weeks, Pastor Gabe has been taking us through chapter two So chapter two, of course, is we see the uh the the zooming in and the focusing on the creation of mankind, of Adam and Eve. uh and the garden. And so uh at one point God says it's not good for the man to be alone. Of course that's before everything's all done and before Eve is created and everything's very good In chapter one, we got a a cursory mention of the creation we we of man of men and women. And in chapter two we get some more details. In two s uh chapter two verse seven we get details of how Adam was made. And then in verse 21 and 22 we get details of how Eve was was created. Uh the Bible says that she was fashioned or built, a kind of a little bit different word, but nah. by God from one of Adam's ribs, and she's created to be a suitable helper for Adam. Uh s and so she's created from Adam, so she's intimately connected with Adam, bone of his bone, flesh of his flesh not separately made from dust, but made from Adam. And so that guarantees the unity of mankind under the federal headship of Adam, which is essential to the gospel. We talked about marriage. Pastor Gabe talked about marriage. God defines marriage, one man and one woman. God regulates marriage. It's exclusive and permanent. God gives purpose to marriage, it's part of the dominion, and it's an analogy to Christ and the Church There's a quote. Um I don't I can't rem did did gave did you use this quote? Okay. So uh this is Martin Luther. And so uh when did Martin Luther write these words? Wonder when did Martin Luther live? Fifteen hundreds. So uh he was he was born in the late fourteen hundreds, he was writing in the early fifteen hundreds, so 500 years ago. So he wrote these words five hundred years ago. It is God's order and institution that a man and a woman should unite in marriage in a proper way, which Moses here indicates by saying that the Lord That is, the God, the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, brought the woman to the man. Let us therefore learn from these words to defend marriage against the wicked blasphemies of those who revile it. 500 years ago there was wicked blasphemies of those who reviled marriage. Is anything different 500 years later? We still have wicked blasphemies of those who revile marriage 500 years later. It is something very wonderful that God instituted holy wedlock in the state of innocence, in other words, before the fall. So marriage is instituted before the fall. So yes. Like the church said you could be but not badly quickly. But that was one of one of the issues that eventually Martin Luther um brought up and of course he got married. Yeah, yeah. And so that's actually a um a portrait of his wife. That's Martin Luther and Mrs. Luther there together. uh in that picture. Uh yeah, so it was one of the issues that the the Roman Catholic Church had made this rule that was not biblical. I don't know when they made it. Somebody may know when they made it. I think it was pretty early though. I think it was long before fifteen hundred Okay. Uh note that God instituted marriage when there were only two people on the earth. Right? Uh Genesis chapter two, God invents marriage. There's only two people on the earth, so there's no countries There's no societies and there's no cultures. Marriage predates all of those things. Therefore, marriage is not a political, social, or cultural institution. It predates all of those institutions. So it can't be a a construct of any of those institutions. Rather, all cultures, societies, and countries are built on the foundation of God's design for the family. You can't have A culture or society or country without the foundation of God's institution of marriage, it won't work God as our creator has authority to set rules. No government or society or culture has the authority to set aside God's rules in any area, not just marriage. Uh government is not our creator, society is not our creator, culture is not our creator, the God of the Bible is our creator, and therefore he has authority to make rules. And so This is a very important concept, and so I just want to emphasize this before we get into to uh chapter three. Who has authority? What does the Bible say about authority? So uh Matthew chapter twenty-eight. So uh Matthew chapter twenty-eight, sixteen to twenty, it's the Great Commission. But uh I want you to notice the prologue to the Great Commission. But the eleven disciples proceeded to Galilee to the mountain, which Jesus had designated. When they saw him, they worshiped him, but some were doubtful. And Jesus came up and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth Let's just stop there for a minute and soak that in. How much authority does Christ have? All of it. He says right here, I have all authority. And where does his authority extend to? Heaven and earth, everywhere. So he has all authority everywhere. That's what the scripture says here. That's what Jesus claims here. And because of that, because uh he has all this authority, he can he can make commands. And he makes a command here. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I commanded you, and lo I am with you always, even to the end of the age. So the risen Christ has all the authority. And there's other scriptures, uh in Revelation, when John first sees Christ, he he falls down like a dead man and Jesus says, I am the first and the last and the living one, and I was dead, and behold, I am alive forevermore. And I have the keys of death in Hades, so his authority extends where? Even to over death And then in Colossians 1, we get this description of how Jesus is the creator, for by him all things were created, both in heaven and earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities. All things have been created through him and for him. He is before all things, and in him all things hold together. He is also head of the body, the church. And he is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, so that he himself will come to have first place in everything. Everything. So This idea of the authority of God, and especially here of the authority of the risen Christ, is an emphasis in the scriptures, and it's important to know who has authority. All right. Any questions about any of that before we go into chapter three? Very good. So we've been talking about this idea of worldviews and what's the foundation for a biblical worldview. Worldview answers these basic questions, who am I? And so we've we've seen this in the creation, the nature of mankind created in God's image. Where do I come from? God made us. And we studied in the last chapter the details of how God made Adam and Eve And who is in charge? That's what we just talked about. Who has authority to make rules? Who's sovereign And then how should I live? What are the rules? What what rules has this authority made? So who is the authority that has the the the the power, the authority, the sovereignty to make rules, and what rules has he made? And we studied one of those rules that he made. He made rules about marriage. And uh eventually, of course, we'll get to eschatology, what happens when I die. Alright, so let's uh let's go into chapter three. So if you'll open your Bibles to Genesis chapter three, I'm gonna read the whole chapter and then we'll get into the beginnings of it. It's gonna take us two weeks to get all the way all the way through it Genesis chapter three So starting in verse 1, Genesis chapter 3, now the serpent was more crafty than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made, and he said to the woman, Indeed, has God said you shall not eat from any tree of the garden? The woman said to the serpent, From the fruit of the trees of the garden we may eat, but from the fruit of the tree which is in the middle of the garden, God has said, You shall not eat from it, or touch it, or you will die. The serpent said to the woman, You surely will not die. For God knows that in the day you eat from it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. When the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was desirable to make one wise, she took from its root and ate, and she gave also to her husband with her, and he ate Then the eyes of both of them were opened, and they knew that they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loin coverings. They heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. Then the Lord God called to the man and said to him, Where are you? He said, I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid because I was naked, so I hid myself. And he said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree which I commanded you not to eat? The man said, The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me from the tree, and I ate Then the Lord God said to the woman, What is this you have done? And the woman said, The serpent deceived me, and I ate. The Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, cursed are you more than all cattle, and more than every beast of the field. On your belly you will go, and dust you will eat all the days of your life And I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed, he shall bruise you on the head, and you shall bruise him on the heel To the woman he said, I will greatly multiply your pain at childbirth. In pain you will bring forth children, yet your desire will be for your husband, and he will rule over you Then to Adam he said, Because you have listened to the voice of your wife, and have eaten from the tree about which I commanded you, saying, You shall not eat from it, cursed is the ground because of you, and toil you will eat of it all the days of your life. Both thorns and thistles it shall grow for you, and you will eat the plants of the field. By the sweat of your face you will eat bread, till you return to the ground, because from it you were taken, for you are dust, and to dust you shall return. Now the man called his wife's name Eve, because she was the mother of all the living. The Lord God made garments of skin for Adam and Eve, and Adam and his wife, and clothed them. Then the Lord God said, Behold, the man has become like one of us, knowing good and evil, and now he might stretch out his hand and take also from the tree of life and eat and live forever. Therefore the Lord God sent him out from the Garden of Eden to cultivate the ground from which he was taken. So he drove the man out, and at the east of the Garden of Eden he stationed the cherubim and the flaming sword which turned every direction to guard the way. to the tree of life. So that is Genesis chapter 3. We're going to be studying that over the next couple of weeks. So this describes the fall, and so just as an overview, Genesis 3, one of the most vitally important chapters of all the Bible, and also one of the most tragiced. So it's the foundation of everything that comes after it. Without it, little else in scripture or in life itself would make sense. We cannot make sense of the world as we see it without understanding what happened in Genesis chapter three. It explains the condition of the universe and the state of humanity. It explains why the world has so many problems. It explains the human dilemma and why we need a savior. The truth revealed in Genesis 3 is a necessary foundation for a true and accurate worldview. It explains how we got from a perfect paradise to where we are today, which is not paradise. Um every worldview that lacks this foundation is utterly and hopelessly wrong. So if anybody tries to view the world and tries to understand it, tries to explain it, tries to have a framework for how they see the world and doesn't understand the events of Genesis chapter three, they will never be able to see it correctly, see the world correctly. They will never be able to understand it. It will always be uh a mystery, a dilemma, uh confusing without this understanding of what happened in Genesis chapter three. All right. Any any questions yet? Okay, so that's the setup. Um so when God completed this perfect creation, there was no disorder or chaos, no conflict or struggle, no pain or discord, no deterioration and no death. Yet our lives today are filled with all those things all the time. That's what we see around us all the time, all these things. And so quite frankly, it's impossible for us really to imagine to properly imagine what a perfect world would actually look like. Because we've never seen it. We've never experienced it. And so it's really beyond our our capacity to imagine. what this would have been like to have a perfect world with none of these things in it. And Genesis 3 explains how we got from that paradise to where we are today. So, Scripture says that we're made in the image of God but fallen creatures, and we get the description of that fall here. So we inherited our sinfulness from Adam. That's the doctrine of original sin. And the Bible teaches that man began at the pinnacle of the created order, and because of Adam's sin, the history of humanity is a story of disgraceful moral and spiritual decline. There's some key Bible verses that tell us about that. Genesis 6 tells us that uh how wicked the world had become by the time of Noah and why God decided to wipe out all except eight people. And then Romans 1 tells us about how wicked Um things subsequently became, you know, after Noah, all those wicked people wiped out, you've only got this uh this uh good family, this righteous family of Noah. Um and so everything should be great then, right? We've gotten rid of all the bad people, we've only got the good well no. It doesn't it doesn't work that way. 'Cause really there are no good people. And so Romans one uh talks about the wicked state of of where humanity in net natural man always goes. And then of course all we have to do is read news headlines to see how wicked people are today. Humanity today is worse than ever before. Uh look what uh Paul says in 2 Timothy chapter 3, uh wicked men go from bad to worse. That's just the nature of how uh evil works. So how did we get here? And of course the the explanation is here in Genesis chapter three, but According to Romans 5 and 1 Corinthians 15, when Adam sinned, he brought death and judgment not only upon himself, but upon the whole human race. For by one man sin came into the world, and by sin came death. That's Romans 5. And there's nothing we can do for ourselves to free us from this bondage of sin. So we're trapped. We're trapped in bondage to sin, and there's nothing that we can do to escape this trap. So God had to do something. If you'll turn to Romans 5, let's take a look at this passage in Romans 5. Turn to Romans chapter 5, starting in verse 12, and we'll just read these few verses. That gives us the this is the big picture uh across all of Scripture really. Romans chapter 5, verse 12, starting verse 12, therefore just as through one man sin entered the world, and death through sin And so death spread to all men because all sinned. And so what is this saying here? Everybody's born with a sin nature, and then everybody sins. Verse 13, for until the law of sin was in the world, but sin is not imputed where when there is no law. Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam until Moses. What is he talking about there? He's talking about the fact that that Adam had this very specific command and he disobeyed. And then later on Moses had the law, and so there was all these specific laws, and people either obeyed or disobeyed all these specific laws. But between Adam and Moses, what what was there? So the but but but there was still death. I mean people were still sinning and still punished with sin by dying because that's the wages of sin. And it didn't matter that there they weren't sinning in the particular manner of Adam, which was to disobey the command to eat from this one tree. Or that they were disobeying in a specific matter later on of disobeying specific laws of Moses, death still reigned between Adam and Moses without the one specific command for the tree and without all the six hundred and thirteen rules of the law of Moses, it w w it was still this is a universal thing that people have a sin nature and they sin And the wages of sin is death, and so death reigns, whether there's we're talking about Adam eating a fruit or people obeying or disobeying the law of Moses. I think also we understand being God. So even though we sin Amazing take field paint so that's normal. Yes, that's true. And so, um, that's one of the things that God built into uh humanity. Uh it is a manifestation of being uh made in the image of God that we have God's law written on our heart And so therefore we feel guilty when we do something wrong. Um like uh uh unlike the animal kingdom where the lion never feels guilty about eating the antelope. 1 Corinthians 15 likewise, but now Christ has been raised from the dead, the first fruits of those who are asleep, for since by a man came death By a man also came the resurrection of the dead. For as an Adam all die, so also in Christ all will be made alive So same very similar teaching, Romans 5 and 1 Corinthians 15, both written by the Apostle Paul Everybody see that? With the the ramifications all the way across uh scripture. So let's drill down um to the fall of Satan. So in verse one of this chapter three, we have the sudden appearance of a crafty talking serpent. So where did he come from? And who is he? We learned by comparing scripture with scripture that this serpent was really Satan masquerading as an animal or possessing an animal We see that explained in Revelation chapter 12 and 2 Corinthians chapter 11 that this was Satan, the deceiver. Uh God did not make Satan evil, since everything God made was good, and evil did not exist in his very good creation. See that in Genesis 131. So Satan's fall must have occurred sometime between the end of creation and the events described in Genesis chapter 3. Uh Genesis, of course, maintaining focus on the creation of the earth and on the relationship between man and God, is silent about the fall of Satan. Nothing in the book of Genesis talks about the fall of Satan. Other scripture does mention the fall of Satan. In particular, I think Ezekiel chapter 28 and Isaiah chapter 14 have passages that very well seem to be about the fall of Satan. So uh Second Corinthians uh 11. 3, for example, says, But I am afraid that as the serpent deceived Eve by his craftiness, your minds will be led astray from the simplicity and purity of devotion to Christ. And so the Apostle Paul is making this comparison that Satan deceived Eve in the garden and he he's a he's Concerned that uh their minds the Corinthian church their minds will be led astray um by temptation Uh Revelation 12, 9, and the great dragon was thrown down, the serpent of old, who was called the devil and Satan, who deceives the whole world, he was thrown down to the earth, and his angels were thrown down with him. Revelation 12, talking about uh the dragon being thrown down. That dragon that's described in Revelation is very specifically here in Revelation 12. 9 is the devil. In case you wondered who the dragon in Revelation is, it's very very clearly explained there in Revelation 12, 9 that it's the devil. Isaiah 14, one of the two passages, Ezekiel 28, Isaiah 14 uh that talks ab it it the passage starts out talking about a human king but then it kinda shifts. Um and it says, How you have fallen from heaven, O star of the morning, son of the dawn, you have been cut down to the earth You who have weakened the nations, but you said in your heart, I will ascend to heaven, I will raise my throne above the stars of God And I will sit on the Mount of Assembly in the recesses of the north. I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. I will make myself like the Most High. So, um, of course, not every theologian agrees that the two passages in Isaiah and Ezekiel 28 are talking about Satan, but it sure does seem like That's not talking about a human king there in this section or in the Ezekiel 28 section. Ezekiel 28, most English translations have the word cherub in there. uh although I have read other theologians that say no that's not the right translation. It doesn't mean cherub there. Uh so just know that there are controversies there. However, I think that Isaiah 14, Ezekiel 28 those particular sections of those passages are talking about the fall of Satan. Yeah. uh certainly in the description that I will make myself like the most high but cannot claim to be the highest. Yeah. Any questions about about any of that so far? Yes. the price first of all. Yeah. And I was also thinking about about death proceeding from Adam to Moses. And for Moses we have the law seeming to war. And then Christ came and he was eternal life. So people before Christ that died because of faith to Christ, then would would they have eternal life? So uh it depends on whether they had faith. In Christ. So before Christ. Yeah, before even before Christ. So uh those who had faith, so if you read Hebrews chapter eleven Um they had belief, belief in God, and that was credited to them as righteousness, Abraham for in particular, but also all the uh the saints listed in uh Hebrews chapter eleven And that was faith in God's plan of redemption, which was in Christ. So their faith was really in Christ. They didn't know that, but their faith was in Christ. Yeah. So uh you have to have faith in Christ in order to be saved. And and they did according to Hebrews chapter eleven. Yeah. Yep. Certainly Abel must be W well w that w that's the that's the logical inference from it. Um there's a lot of kind of um left unsaid. So how did Cain and Abel know they were supposed to sacrifice? Someone had to tell them that they needed to sacrifice. So that either came from God, because in Genesis chapter 4, we have God directly speaking to Cain, for example. He speaks to him. He has a conversation with Cain. So God could have directly told Cain and Abel, you got to make sacrifice. Or he could have told Adam, and Adam told Cain and Abel. But somehow God communicated that they needed to make sacrifices, so they were making sacrifices, but the the Bible does not record that conversation or how that went or how he told people they needed to sacrifice. But they knew to sacrifice, so they had to come from somewhere. Could be. Could be. Yeah. Yes. Exactly. So it worked there. Yeah, so that's right. And so all the way back to the beginning, w what did Adam and Eve had? They had the word of God. And so all all along people have had the Word of God. Now, the Word of God that they had is not always recorded in the Word of God that we have. Right. Some of it is what God said to Adam and Eve, it's recorded. Whatever God said to Cain and Abel is not recorded for us. Yeah. Okay, good question. All the questions are good. So if you have questions, please ask them. So uh this is just an interesting quote that I ha I've I've loved this quote over the years. Uh it's from Calvin's Institutes. John Calvin wrote the Institutes of the Christian Religion Religion. This is book one, chapter 14, section 16. Well, he's talking about uh the devil and demons. Uh and Calvin says it this way, and what concern is it uh to us to know anything more about devils or to know it for another purpose Some persons grumble that Scripture does not in numerous passages set forth systematically and clearly that fall of the devils, its cause, manner, time, and character. But because this has nothing to do with us, it was better not to say anything, or at least to touch upon it lightly, because it did not befit the Holy Spirit to feed our curiosity with empty histories to no effect And we see that the Lord's purpose was to teach nothing in his sacred oracles except what we should learn to our edification. Therefore, lest we ourselves linger over superfluous matters, let us be content with this brief summary of the nature of devils. John Calvinists of the Christian Religion. So what he's saying is the Lord has said what he intended to say about Satan and his fall in Scripture. And it's probably not to our our edification, not to our good, to try to wonder and speculate about Satan. To fix our mind on Satan is probably not beneficial to us. And so the Lord has probably very deliberately not put great details about Satan and his fall and what he was like and and these sort of things. He's he's put in Scripture what he meant to put in Scripture, and he's left out of Scripture what he meant what he meant to leave out of Scripture. That's what uh Calvin is saying right here. Moses body to God did bury his body because like uh the Israelites would have taken his body uh made a shrine or something, yeah. Exactly. Yep. Yep. Alright. So that's the fall of Satan. Um so what about the temptation of Eve? The tempting of Eve. So If we open your Bible back to Genesis chapter 3, look at chapters 1 to 5, the beginning, we notice that Satan attacks Eve first rather than Adam. who was the one to hear dri the command directly from God. What do you think that is? Why does he go after Eve instead of Adam? So she's the weaker vessel in some sense. Um in in what sense What's that? Yeah, and it never heard from God. She pr i it most likely she never heard directly from A uh uh God, she got second hand from Adam, most likely Um and just the idea of separating them, of attacking one without the other, not both at the same time, I think is important too. Uh Satan's strategy is the same as he always uses. He is a liar and the father of lies, John 8. 44. But he comes disguised as one who brings the truth, an angel of light, 2 Corinthians 11, 14 Notice that he immediately questions God's word. Indeed has God said. So he questions God's word. He casts doubt on God's word. And also suddenly twists it to the negative. Shall not eat from any tree in the garden. And then an outright contradiction, you surely will not die. So notice what God had actually said. From any tree of the garden you may freely eat. It's given as a positive. Genesis 2. 16 Satan asks, indeed, as God said, you shall not eat from any tree in the garden. Notice the difference there? He cast it in a negative light. This is spin. This is like this would be this is spin worthy of a politician here. Really. Right? He's spinning what God said to the negative. Yeah, Satan's strategy was to portray God as narrow, strict, uncharitable, and too restrictive. As if God wanted to limit human freedom and deprive Adam and Eve of enjoyment and pleasure. He was implying that evil and untruthfulness were part of God's character. He was hinting to Eve that God might be cruel and uncaring. So Satan slyly insinuates that he is more devoted to Eve's well-being than God is. He implies that he is for freedom while God is restrictive. The fact that God gave Adam and Eve everything else to eat is set aside as negligible. Thus Satan casts suspicion on God's goodness. in Eve's eyes. So after subtly portraying God as narrow, strict, and uncharitable, in verse uh chapter three, verse five, Satan also openly slanders God's character and truthfulness. Uh Satan's lie is still the same today. You can be free, do whatever you want, it's your life. There are no divine laws, no absolute authority, and above all, there's definitely no judgment. You will not surely die Right. That's what Satan is selling Eve here, and that's what he's selling people today. That you can do whatever you want, there are no consequences because you will not surely die. So do whatever you want. That's what he's saying. It is. Yep. Yeah, he he he very subtly at first and by the end directly assaults the character of God So if you turn to James chapter one, this is temptation by Satan here. And James chapter 1 very forcefully says that temptation never comes from God. James 13 1, verse 13 to 15, let no one say when he is tempted, I am tempted by God. For God cannot be tempted by evil, nor does he himself tempt anyone. But each one is tempted when he is drawn away by his own desires and enticed. So where does the temptation actually come from? There could be an external catalyst like Satan, but where what what does James 1 say where the temptation actually comes from? It comes from us, yeah. Um but each one is tempted when he is drawn away by his own desires and enticed. Then when desire is conceived it gives birth to sin, and sin when it is full grown, brings forth death. That process was already well underway in Eve as she's listening to the serpent. Eve was unaware of Satan's strategies. This is the first encounter with this this being. So she replied naively, defending God to some degree. From the fruit of the trees of the garden we may eat. Genesis 3. 2 Evidently she didn't know that this was God's supernatural foe, because Scripture later on tells us that Eve was deceived. 2 Corinthians 11, which we read before, 1 Timothy 2 also says the same thing, that Eve was deceived. So she didn't know who this creature was. Uh Satan beguiled her by taking advantage of her innocence. But even though she did not know her enemy, Eve should have been able to thwart this attack. She had the means to thwart this attack. How? She knew God. She could have could have called out directly to God for help. Or she could have asked Adam. But she chose to do neither. So uh let's analyze Eve's response. So uh what did she say? So notice first what she admitted. This is what God actually said as recorded in Genesis 2. 16. From any tree of the garden you may eat freely. That's what God said. What is Eve's quote of God? And she quotes it. She says, God has said, and then she says this, From the fruit of the trees of the garden we may eat. What did she leave out? She leaves out the positive superlatives. Any in the Hebrew Mikol. And freely, a cole, from God's gracious and abundant provision. Very subtly she leaves out the superlatives that God actually put in his quote when she quotes him She leaves out the good stuff. Then notice that what she adds to God's prohibition. In verse uh chapter 2, verse 17, God had said, But from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat Eve said, God has said, and she says, she represents this as a quote, you shall not eat from it or touch it. Alright? She's added. Notice that she claims to be quoting God. It is as if Eve was beginning to feel the restriction was harsh, so she added to the harshness of it. At this point Satan knew he had succeeded and he pushed for total victory. So fast the uh this ball has No, it didn't have taken place. Right. The phone has taken place. Right. Already. It happened in w in a a certain time in history Well, so when does the sin actually occur? So when you've decided in your heart yeah you're gonna do it, or does it You know, so you you know, there's there are sins that occur in our mind without any action at all According to Scripture. But the action here is what's focused on. But the action comes from somewhere. Right? The action didn't just spring out of nowhere. It it came from this conversation and the thoughts that Eve had. It it sprung from her heart and it sprung into action Yeah. Yeah. Yep. Sometimes even though things come through somebody else's words. come to you but you have to guard it. Yes, you have to guard your heart against the inputs, yeah. So I don't think that it's where you desire it that it becomes a state. But where it comes in Because things look in every day. They do. Yeah, and so we talk about this with our kids as well, right? We have to guard our kids from inputs from places that we know are harmful to them. Right. Yeah. At this point can E if received by S We don't see this reported uh that then occurred. What's the one to Ana is to is to make up uh think of the men that he Yeah, we'll get to that. We'll get to that. The the fact that uh the the scriptures later on always um in it gives the gives the the primary blame to Adam for this this sin. Yeah, we'll get to that. Just h hold hold on to that thought for a second here. Um and so uh as we get this this bit this back and forth with Satan and Eve, he he knows he's got her now. And so he goes for the jugular Uh he suggests that he knows more than God. The serpent said to the woman, You surely will not die. God said, You'll die, and Satan says, Oh no, I know better than God, you won't die. Um this bold contradiction of God states definitively what Satan had merely implied before. Before he said, did God really say that you'll die? Now he says, you won't die. It's it's he he's he switched from suddenly suddenly leading her to this temptation to directly saying that God's a liar. When he said that you'll die. He you won't die. He openly slanders both God's goodness and his truthfulness, applying a base motive. So then he goes on to apply a base motive to God. Satan adds, for God knows that in the day you eat from it your eyes will be opened and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. So he not only says that God lied But he supplies a motive for God lying, uh a base motive for God lying. Yeah. Exactly what he followed in here on Right. He wanted to be like God. Yeah, you can be just like me, you can be like her. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So uh at this point he is faced with a clear choice, right? He's set up that uh she can either believe God or believe the devil D was God telling the truth when she said don't eat when he said don't eat and that this you'll die? Or is Satan telling the truth and saying, Hey, God's just trying to withhold this from me 'cause he doesn't want you to know all this stuff. He doesn't want you to be like him and you won't die. So can she can either believe God or she can believe Satan? Clear choice. The same choice has confronted humanity ever since. Same choice. Who is telling the truth, God or Satan? Does God want to place undue restrictions on you? Does he want to cramp your freedom and minimize your joy? Is that what God is all about? That's what Satan says God is all about. Do we believe that, or do we believe that God really loves us and has our best interest in mind? If God is like what Satan implies, he doesn't doesn't really love you, he doesn't really love us, and he's not to be trusted. And that lie is the same today. God's authority is often portrayed as too restrictive, destructive of human freedom, and detrimental to our well-being. But deviating from God's good and perfect ways always has dreadful consequences. And we see that here in the rest of Genesis chapter 3. There's horrific consequences, not only for them, but for everybody else, all the way down to today, for uh deviating from God's good and perfect ways. Okay In 3. 6, in verse 6, Eve saw three features of the forbidden fruit that seduced her. One, good for food, lust of the flesh. Two, delight of the eyes. A delight to the eyes, lust to the eyes, and three, desirable to make one wise, the boastful pride of life, exactly as Scripture describes all sin in 1 John 2, 15-17. She sees that the fruit is good for food. She sees that the fruit is a delight to the eyes. She sees that the fruit, according to Satan, is desirable to make one wise. That's the three three-pronged nature of sin that John describes in 1 John. Both Eve and then Adam disobeyed God and ate the fruit. It is ironic that the one whom God has given to Adam to be his helper became the instrument of disaster and death to him. As Satan well knew, sin always twists God's perfect design. God's perfect design was for it to be a helper. Satan comes in there and twists it so that she becomes an instrument. in his and everybody's fall. But Adam's guilt, this is a point that Henry was making here, Adam's guilt was greater not less than ease. Throughout Scripture, Adam is the one who was indicted for the fall. We saw that in Romans chapter 5, 1 Corinthians 15. It's also in 1 Timothy 2. As the head of the human race, Adam bore the ultimate responsibility for the fall. He was responsible for Eve So it was Adam's responsibility. And that's how the scripture portrays it all the way through. Um so a Eve brings the fruit to Adam. Does Adam then have no choice? He's gotta eat it. No, of course not. He could he has it he then has a choice to listen to Eve or listen to God. And he chooses to listen to Eve instead of to God. Probably not as and that's right. And she doesn't have the craftiness of the serpent to convince him. So he has Well, who knows? Yeah, that's a good qu uh a good uh uh yeah that's uh that's a good uh hypothetical question. What would have happened if he hadn't eaten? Well He ate. So that's that's the that's the world we're s we're stuck with is is he he ate. The husband, the head of his household. Yeah. That's his wife did that. Yes, y he he was responsible and that the the scriptures were crystal clear about whose responsibility this whole fall was Adams. Yeah. Yeah. Adam chose who all the time. Yes, he did. Yep. Yep. Yes indeed. All right. Um and so let's turn to first John chapter two for a second. 1 John chapter 2 starting in verse 15. This is the description of sin and how it works. Apostle John. 1 John chapter 2 starting in verse 15. Do not love the world nor the things of the world. So y you have this choice. There's always this choice. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. So it's it's God or the world. It's It's what God says or what Satan says. And that's that's always this this uh dilemma that that faces mankind. Verse 16, for all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the boastful pride of life, is not from the Father, but is from the world. The world is passing away and also its lust, but the one who does the will of God lives forever. So you either choose God or you choose this world. The way sin works, the way John has laid it out here, lust of the flesh, lust of the eyes, pride of life, is exactly what is described in Genesis chapter 3. The the fruit was a delight to the eyes. That's what he sees. It's good for food. It's uh it's it's desirable to make one wise. She has this lust of the flesh and lust of the eyes and pride of life and she takes the fruit. And that's how all sin works. Um so uh there has been uh there are questions about where was Adam when Eve was confronted by Satan. Was he standing right there next to her? Was he off somewhere else? Well, uh there are some clues in the t in the technical uh the language that's used in the Hebrew grammar. Uh when Satan was tempting Eve, some questions arrived, where was Adam? And why had he not intervened to defend his wife up to this point? Some commentators think that Adam was not around. Under this scenario, only now, around the time of Eve's moral collapse, does he arrive on the scene? Lupold defends the there's a theologian named Lupold, he was born in the late 1800s, he was writing in the early 1900s, wrote a really good commentary on Genesis. Anyway, Lupal defends this view from the Hebrew grammar and suggests a plausible reason for Satan's strategy. The fact, however, that the prepositional phrase with her ima uh which we rendered as a clause is first found at this point strongly suggests that at the outset when the temptation began Adam was not with Eve. uh but had only joined her at this time, uh at the time when she was giving him the fruit. Um here too satanic ingenuity displays itself to a approach both while they were to together would have found them in a position where they would mutually have supported one another, or that at least there would have been the possibility of that. But by getting her just alone when he wasn't around, I isolated one from the other All right, that's one view uh from an expert in Hebrew that says that the way the Hebrew grammar of uh comes up with this phrase with her a after after she's already eaten the fruit suggests that he was not there. He was not with her until the time when she brought the the fruit. Uh I've seen others argue the opposite, that he was right there with her and said nothing. But there is some suggestion in Hebrew grammar that he was in fact not there. And there's some reason to believe that Satan being crafty would have it would have been to his advantage to have them separate when he first went after it. Okay. Um let's take a we're uh I have a few minutes left and I want to just give you a contrast to temptation, failure in the face of temptation, what that looked like, we just saw that. And what does it look like to have success? in the face of temptation. So turn your Bibles to Matthew chapter 4. Matthew chapter 4. And we'll see how Christ fah did when he faced temptation. Matthew chapter 4, verse 1 to 11. Then Jesus was led by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. And after he had fasted forty days and forty nights he then became hungry I guess so. Forty days without food, you would be hungry. And the tempter came to and said to him, If you are the Son of God, command these stones to become bread So uh think about the circumstances of this particular temptation. He hasn't eaten in 40 days. Satan comes to him and says, I know that you have the power to turn these stones into bread. And I know you're really, really hungry. So why don't you just do that? If you're the Son of God, command these stones to become bread. But he answered and said, It is written, Man shall not live on bread alone, but on every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. Then the devil took him into the holy city, and had him stand in the pinnacle of the temple, and said to him, If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down For it is written, He will command his angels concerning you, and on their hands they will bear you up, so that you will not strike your foot against a stone. Jesus said to him, On the other hand, it is written, You shall not put the Lord your God to the test. Again the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory, and he said to him, All these things I will give you if you fall down and worship me. Then Jesus said to him, Go, Satan, for it is written, You shall worship the Lord your God, and serve him only. Then the devil left him, and behold, angels came and began to minister to him. So how did Jesus successfully resist the temptation of the devil while Eve failed? So through the scriptures, through the Word of God. So did Eve have Uh the scriptures, uh did did Eve have the the script scriptures that Jesus quoted? No. No, she did not. But did she have the Word of God? She had the Word of God, and she could have used the Word of God, and she could have stuck with the Word of God. God said, if you eat that fruit, you will surely die. You will die Satan said, no, you won't. She abandoned the word of God for the word of Satan. Jesus didn't do that. He didn't abandon the word of God for the word of Satan The first temptation concerns the lust of the flesh. Our Lord is hungry, and the devil tempts him to convert stones into bread. He replies with Scripture, quoting Deuteronomy 8. 3. The second temptation concerns the pride of life Here the devil uses a verse of Scripture, Psalm 91, actually two verses, 91, 11, and 12. But the Lord replies again with Scripture to the contrary. In other words, Satan is misusing Scripture here and and uh Jesus calls him out by quoting a scripture that actually applies to this situation, stating that it's wrong for him to abuse his own powers. The third temptation concerns the lust of the eyes. The devil had control over the kings of the world, according to Ephesians 2. 2. but was now ready to give everything to Christ in return for his allegiance, Jesus replies sharply, You shall worship the Lord your God and serve him only. Again from Deuteronomy. So he quotes three times from from Deuteronomy here So Jesus is tempted and he resists the temptation. He uses the Word of God to resist the temptation. And because of that, we have a great high priest that has been tempted, but has resisted that temptation. Hebrews chapter 4. Therefore, since we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. For we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who has been tempted in all things as we are, yet without sin. Therefore, let us draw near with confidence to the throne of grace so that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. That is our Savior. He he went through the temptations. He became a man and was tempted as we are, passed through those temptations without sin, and now he says God's right hand as our high priest intervening on our hat on our behalf, and therefore we can draw near with confidence to the throne of grace. Alright. Any questions? Yes? Look at first in your uh message that A left end and A was it, A left is four and all the same times. And that imply that Satan did other things well. Right. Yeah. So and John at the end of his gospel says, hey, you you've got all these things about what Jesus began to say and to do, um, but Not everything is written in there because it would take all the books in the whole world to see it. So yeah, so it's it is implied there that there were other times of temptation. Did Eve know that Satan was God's enemy? I mean that the serpent is was it common for serpents to talk? So uh we don't know that for sure, but it it certainly seems like this was a surprise to Eve. And the subsequent scripture says that she was deceived. So she d uh i that implies that she did not know that this was Satan and God's enemy and all that sort of thing. Yeah But God did hold held her accountable. He did hold her accountable. He hold Adam Moore accountable. Yeah, so we'll see next time. Next time we're gonna talk about the punishments that God meted out, and he held everybody responsible. Uh he holds Satan responsible for his part, he holds Eve responsible for her part, he holds Adam responsible for his part, and subsequent scripture tells us that Adam was the one that was ultra responsible. So you can't playing like Flip Wilson did, the devil may be doing that. No, no, God d God didn't take that as an excuse. Adam tried to use it as an excuse. Um Eve tried to use it as an excuse, but God did not accept that as an excuse. Yeah, we'll see that next time. Yeah. Any other questions or comments? Yes. Greg. I was I was read something listening to um Arthur's sermon on Matthew 4, and he was talking about the differences between testing and temptation Uh in James 1 we talked about the testimony for faith. And and in Acts 4, uh Jesus was was tempted or or tested from God's point of view. He was tested to prove that he was the righteous king. Yes. So with Matthew getting the sovereignty as kingship. But from Satan's point of view, it's a temptation to prove that he's not worthy, that he's you know, that uh temptation to sin. So the testing from God's point of view is to prove your worthiness, you know And to authenticate you as being worthy and for Satan's point of view, it's a temptation that you're not worthy. Yep. And Yep, that's a good way of putting it. You said you said you that was from a MacArthur sermon? Yeah. That's a good way of putting it. Yep. Any other questions or comments? All right, let's close with a word of prayer. Uh dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day. We thank you for this opportunity we've had. We thank you for the fact that you've revealed these important milestones in your plan of redemption. The um the the fall that we see here uh was a tragedy, but it also led to um the whole rest of the plan of redemption. We get the fall, but then we also get Christ. And what a wonderful Savior He is And we thank you, Lord, that He was tempted as we were, but that He went through those temptations without sin. And that now as he sits at your right hand, that we have such a great high priest that can minister on our behalf. We thank you that because of Christ we can approach your throne of grace with confidence. What a great, wonderful privilege that is, Lord, to be able to come to you in prayer like this. in confidence because of Christ, that we can come to you in Christ. We thank you also, Lord, for this opportunity we're about to have to worship you in corporate worship and in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs and in hearing the preaching of the word. We thank you for that opportunity and we pray that everything that we do in that worship service and everything that we do in the rest of our daily life would be uh would bring glory to your name, that we would serve you well and that your name would be glorified because of our service. And we pray these things in Jesus' precious name. Amen.