All right, well let let's pray and we'll dive in. Father, we thank you for this morning. Thank you for the fellowship we have as believers to come together. to sit under your word and to be together, sharing life and rejoicing together at your work. uh in our lives. We rejoice with John and Alva and Lord, you are so good. For those of us who know them and know at least something of their lives and their story. We rejoice at your magnificent grace in their life. And uh as we look at Genesis 2 today in The institution of marriage, uh Lord, would you just thrill our hearts with your design? And we know that in this world that is under the curse of sin, that design has been distorted and broken in many ways. And so even in this room, uh there are those who have experienced the ravages of sin on their marriage or previous marriage. And so uh we recognize that, but we want to still celebrate your design and the goodness of it. And with your help. pursue faithfulness to it and celebrating it uh as you have called us to do. So uh encourage our hearts through your word today we pray in Christ's name. Amen. Alright, so uh we're gonna move on, as I said, to Genesis chapter two, and we're gonna cover uh really the rest of the chapter. Uh last week when when we uh oh I'm going too far here. There you go. When we covered most of chapter two, we kind of uh looked at a couple different sections uh focusing on uh God's creation of Adam. We'll do a quick review of that uh today, uh but we're gonna focus in on uh the fact that Adam was created as a singular human being. And and yet uh God said that it is not good for man to be alone. So he creates Eve and he institutes marriage. That's going to be the theme of our time together today But again, I'm gonna do my best to impersonate Pastor Rob. These are his notes after all. So uh so first a little bit of re of review just to remind us of where we are. And even though these uh the quotes are um on the screen. You know, in that sense you don't need your Bible, but it's always good if if you are looking at your own Bible so that you are always getting more and more familiar with uh the text in in your own copy of the scripture. But of course you can look on the screen here. So just to remind ourselves where we are here in Genesis chapter 2, starting in verse 4 This is the first Toledo, the first account, the first record that we have in the book of Genesis, and it says this is the account of the heavens and the earth when they were created. In the day that the Lord God made earth and heaven. Now no shrub of the field was yet in the earth, and no plant of the field had yet sprouted, for the Lord God had not sent rain on the earth, and there was no man to cultivate the ground. but a mist used to rise from the earth and water the whole surface of the ground. Then the Lord God formed man from the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living being Out of the ground the Lord God caused to grow every green tree, or every tree that is pleasing to the sight and good for food. The tree of life also is in the midst of the garden, and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil Now a river flowed out of Eden to water the garden, and from there it divided and became four rivers. The name of the first was Pishon. It flows around the whole land of Hevilah, where there is gold. The gold of that land is good. The Bedellum and the Onyx stone are there. The name of the second river is Gihon, it flows around the whole land of Cush. The name of the third third river is Tigris, it flows east of Assyria, and the fourth river is the Euphrates. Then the Lord God took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to cultivate it and keep it. The Lord God commanded the man, saying, From any tree of the garden you may freely eat, but From the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat from it, you will surely die. Out of the ground the Lord God had formed every beast of the field and every bird of the sky and brought them to the man to see what he would call them. And whatever the man called a living creature that was its name The man gave names to all the cattle and to the birds of the sky and to every beast of the field. Alright, so that's just a summary of the main section that we covered last week. in the main aspects of uh the work of God in creating Adam, in uh uh putting together the garden for him to to work in, uh and the the the naming of the animals and of course that prohibition to not eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. So just a summary of these things that uh where we saw that Gen uh Genesis chapter two is not another creation story, but it's just a more detailed look of Day six, and I think that just becomes very apparent when you just read the text and see the details as they are laid out The scripture clearly has Adam as the first man, created from the dust of the ground, not as not a pre-adamic ape, but inanimate dust. Verses eight and nine, which is the creation of the garden, is not a repeat of uh chapter one, verse twelve, which talks about the creation of plants and trees on the earth from day three Uh it's just their description of God planting specific trees to make a dwelling for Adam. And then God immediately put Adam to work to cultivate and keep the garden. So work itself is not a result of the fall. Uh it is uh a gift of God. It's it's God putting a man, giving him something to do, mankind something to do uh on the earth to take care of it and represent him, exercise his rule and authority over creation. And he provided with Adam all things to eat in the garden, uh except for the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. If he eats that one He will surely die. And as I mentioned last week, the text is literally he dying, he will die. I was actually reading a book on preaching this week and uh to make a different point, um the author used this section of Genesis to uh explain why it is that eating the knowledge, even eating from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil would lead ultimately to death. And it wasn't so much that I had not heard it before, but I think it was framed in a helpful way. And the the way he explained it was that The knowledge of good and evil is uh in some ways uh to have that is to no longer be innocent. Adam and Eve were created in a state of innocence Right? They they hadn't done anything wrong. They weren't righteous in the sense that they had actively obeyed uh all of God's law and therefore were actively righteous, but they were innocent. They hadn't done anything wrong yet. And even more than that, they didn't know. uh good and evil in the sense that we do now. And the reason that God made them that way is because God intended mankind to be dependent on him. Just like a child, you know, scripture uses the language of a child not knowing their right hand from their left, which is just a euphemism for saying they don't know the difference between good and evil. They don't have that discernment about life. You know, they're very innocent in the things uh of of life. And uh for that reason, children are incredibly dependent on their parents for uh safety and protection and care. And God made Adam and Eve ultimately or initially to be dependent on him, on his care, on his wisdom, on his truth, on his explanation of what is good and what is not good. Uh but in eating that tree now they had their own sense of what is good and evil. And so they cut themselves off from the dependence on the Lord, seeking to be independent, right? And that and that's what I I know Pastor Rob will cover this. I think it's him that covers it in Genesis chapter three. That's what Eve is ultimately doing. She's when she looks at the tree and she sees that it's good for food and that it's desirable to make one wise She's now thinking independently from God. Right? God has told her, Don't do this or you will die. And she's looking at it and she's like, actually I think this is gonna be good for me. I think this is gonna give me life. I think this is gonna make me more like God. So that independent thinking cut humanity off from dependence on the truth and the wisdom in in the life of God. And it's for that reason that that God uh put that tree there for them to uh see it, to have it, but to e express dependence on him. And of course we know that th uh that disobedience to his command is ultimately his plan. So that mankind would in fact fall so that he would uh work toward redemption. Yeah. Yeah. In 1 John, sin is described as the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eye, and by life. And there you have the very first sin, being the lust of the flesh. That's because she saw it. She just wanted to eat it if it was good. The the lust of the eyes. She saw the and the pride of life. She wanted to be like God. That's right. That's right. Yeah, and it it and it's remarkable how what takes place there and and again I'm probably stealing some of Pastor Rob's thunder, but what takes place there is Uh illustrative of uh all of sin and all humanity. Um John Sandy. Yeah. That's right. That's right. Well, more on that in the coming weeks. Um so the last word there, God had previously created the animals and now God brings them to Adam. uh for him to name them. Of course he doesn't have to track them down, God's God brings them. So again we saw in verses twenty-six to twenty-eight of verse uh rather of chapter one that God said let us make man in our image according to our likeness, and then God created him, uh man in his own image. In the image of God he created Again, Barah has the idea of creation out of nothing, whereas Asa has the idea of making, forming, shaping. And so both ideas are entailed, and that's what we see take place in Genesis chapter two, that God formed man out of the dust of the ground. The Hebrew word for ground is Adama, and the the word for man is uh Adam. And then we just turn that into his name, Adam. Well not we, but the scripture does. So he is named out of uh he is named from the material from which he was made. And um That's one of the ways that uh there's wordplay in the text there. So God took that personal care in the creation of his image-bearer And then he also takes personal care in the creation of a garden. And the word Eden or Eden in the Hebrew there means delight. So we can imagine the kind of paradise, the kind of home, if you will, that Adam and Eve enjoyed. Now, does anybody know how long Adam and Eve lived, this is kind of a side note, uh before the fall. How long did they live together in the Anybody know the exact number of days? No, I don't know yet. No, I agree with Anna. I don't think it was very long Uh for one thing because they didn't have any kids and I don't think it would have taken that long to have kids uh if they had been there a while All right. Um we walked through the the river aspect and just were reminded that this was before the flood, so the flood reshaped the earth. Uh and so this was a very different uh geographical situation where you had one uh river that turned into four rivers as opposed to what is normally by our experience smaller rivers flowing into a larger one. And so all of the the names are not corresponding to what we know of today as the Tigris and Euphrates rivers. Same names, different rivers, whole different situation. Uh I won't get into all the the details there. The Lord put Adam to work here in the garden, you know, to care for it and to eat freely, uh except for the one tree. One of God's purposes, again this is all review, is in parading all the animals before Adam was to reinforce Adam's delegated authority over the rest of creation. for him to assert that authority over the animals, not that the animals knew any different, but uh certainly for Adam himself, but also for him to see that it's for Adam to see that there was no other creature like him. Uh as we said, it's not that every creature on the planet uh crossed Adam's eyes as he was naming them. But all of the different kinds of animals, the the um beasts of the field, the birds of the sky, uh, he could see that none of these were like him. And so if he was to have someone like him, uh that would have to be the Lord's uh work. So the Lord brought the animals to Adam. There was no need for him to find them and capture them. You know, if we're thinking about a 24-hour day, and let's say take eight hours, I don't know if Well Adam hadn't uh he had just been created yet and had a night yet. Let's just say it's early in the morning by our standards, I don't know, six o'clock that that the Lord creates. The animals, let's just let that take an hour. And the Lord creates Adam at 7 o'clock in the morning. The Lord gives Adam his commands, you know, be fruitful, multiply, fill the earth, subdue it. He brings the animals, and let's, you know, we what we walk through how he could have potentially named the various kinds of animals in about four hours. Let's just give him ten hours for for the fun of it. And that would take him up to Seven plus ten is what? Five o'clock. Um man, there's so much time in this day for all that takes place. So he goes through a little surgery. Lord puts him to sleep. We'll talk about that in a second. And the Lord creates Eve, brings him to Adam. uh brings her to Adam. And so all that to say there's plenty of time in this day for all that takes place. I think those who would say, and I've heard I've had family members and and others say, oh, there's way too much happening on day six for that to be a normal day. It must have been a long period of time. Uh the reality is if you just Think about the the specific details and what it's simply saying happened that day. It's all entirely possible. Alright. So now on to where we're at. And just a reminder, we always want to put this before you that in these early chapters of Genesis, we are continually given the the historical basis for the most fundamental questions of life. Genesis was not given to us as a myth, if you will, as uh a lesson-teaching story, like, oh, this is just a story to teach you a lesson. No, it's historical realities that are the ground and the root of life and how we should think about all things. So questions like, who am I? Again, based on the creation of Adam and Eve as image bearers of God. Where do I come from? I don't come from apes. I come from the ground that God formed. Who's in charge? Well, ultimately God's in charge, but mankind is has been delegated authority to rule over the earth. How should I live my life? Well, God has authority to tell us how we should live our lives, and we'll um emphasize that today, especially as it as it relates to marriage. And then what happens when I die? And again, that part isn't necessarily covered in these early chapters, but all of these questions are foundational and rooted in history. Uh if the history isn't true, then why would the lessons be true? created light, said make it so he called them day and night. But then it goes on to say, and the evening and the morning must say and from then on it says even when Yeah. Well, I think by evening and morning uh those are more uh trans transitory um terms. Uh evening meaning the end of the day, morning obviously the beginning of the day. And so that's just showing the the cycle of the day. Um Maybe Pastor Rob would have an answer as to why d did he not say it was nighttime and then it was daytime. I'm I don't know, other than Yeah. Yeah. So my best answer for that at this point is that just the the time um progression of evening and morning. But Um you all have uh Pastor Rob's email, right? Balam's donkey at token. com That's a great question for us to ask him next week. The day begins at sundown Yeah. So that would be why the evening and morning as opposed to morning is the morning. God is called. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Yeah. I'll tell you what, when we get to heaven we can ask God to use it. That's right. Alright, so moving on to Genesis chapter two here. So again, we we've already seen uh this part a little bit, Genesis two eighteen and twenty-one to twenty-three. Then the Lord God said, It is not good for the man to be alone. I will make him a helper suitable uh for him. Now just pause there for a second and realize that this is not Adam saying to God, hey God, it's not good for me to be alone. This is God declaring an absolute truth from his perspective of reality, that it is not good for man to be alone. So verse 21, so the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon the man, and he slept, then he took one of his ribs and closed up the flesh at that place. Then the Lord God fashioned into a woman the re rib uh which he had taken from the man. Excuse me, and brought her to the man. The man said, This is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman because she was taken out of man. Just uh one other note here actually, in naming the animals, and in these words right here, we have strong evidence that mankind didn't evolve from animals, you know, go from these stupid cavemen who can only grunt uh into, you know, communicating uh beings. Uh Adam was made as uh uh an incredibly intelligent individual You had no effects of the fall on his brain, uh what are called the noetiv noetic effects of the fall that di uh had nothing Uh had no impact on him. He could think with clarity, intelligence, creativity, and so he could name animals. And here Uh he doesn't just tell us where Eve came from as a historical fact. He's he's this is really Hebrew poetry He's speaking poetically and beautifully about this now woman, this being that God has made for him. And what he says, even in the words, this is not bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh, uh, yeah, you could say that's just uh uh a fact of of reality that she was taken out of his rib. Obviously that's that's what he means. But uh the rest of scripture would indicate that that's not all that he means. Uh th this is used as a statement of solidarity uh by the people of Israel. When uh David was uh crowned king after the death of Saul The people of Israel said to David, You are bone of our bones and flesh of our flesh. And I don't think they were saying Hey, you're you're an Israelite just like we are. You know, you're you're you're one of us. No, they they were expressing their submission and their solidarity uh with their new king And so m again, more than just a fact of how Eve was made here, Adam is expressing uh uh Commitment and solidarity with this new human being, with this woman. And he names her Right? And that's not to exercise authority over her, but that's what he's been doing now for he's about to say several hours. And so he gives her a name uh reflecting the fact that she was taken out of man. So it's not good for m the man to be alone. Uh this is the beginning of day six. So if we just kind of rewind a little bit in our minds, God makes Adam uh after he makes the animals, that's the first thing that happens on day six according to chapter one. But that's just a statement, let there be, you know, uh and and and the animals are made. That that's the first thing that happens on day six. Uh but then uh God makes Adam. So that's the the very next thing we we'll still call that the beginning of day six. And it's on the basis of that that the Lord says it's not good for man to be alone And so um it's at the end of the day when everything will be very good. In chapter 1, verses 26 and 27, the Holy Spirit merely stated that God would uh rather that God made man and woman in his image. And in chapter two, verse seven we get the details of how Adam was made, and verses twenty one to twenty two get the details of how Eve was made. So that's ch chapter one is just the summary statement. Chapter two is getting into the literally nitty-gritty details. Eve was fashioned, so there's a different Hebrew word. She wasn't created per se. She wasn't made in the Asa Since she was fashioned by God from one of Adam's ribs, and so she is a suitable helper for him Yeah, somebody might remember the word fashion. Uh-huh. Somebody might remember the specifics of this better than I would. Um Or better than than I do. I think it was maybe Matthew Henry who said something like she wasn't made out of Adam's head to be above her or out of his feet to be below her, but out of his side to be next to her. Is that right? Did you get that right? Yes. I had a teacher, some Bible teacher one time And he said, to prove how smart Adam was when he named all the animals, I challenge you to rename one hundred and animals ratio. Obviously I challenge myself to that. And lastly, um when everything was made, God said it was good, but when he made women That's what it was very good. Okay. That's right. All right. That's good. Alright, so Eve is thus intimately connected with Adam, bone of his bones, flesh of his flesh, not separately made from dust, but made oop made from Adam. This also guarantees the unity of mankind under the federal headship of Adam, which is essential to the gospel, right? So there's not two lines of humanity, it's just one line under Adam So now actually in these notes we don't go into the specifics of what suitable helper means, but it very simply means one who is fit for him. Right? One who is designed to uh n not be like him, you know, the same uh the same kind of person as the same go saying goes, Adam and Steve, but Adam and Eve. But they th they are to fit together and that has a physical component for obvious reasons. But there's also the other aspects of how God made man and woman differently in our personality, in our psyche, and in our strengths and weaknesses. uh such that um men uh uh males have strengths uh where uh women have weaknesses and women have strengths where men have weaknesses and so there is a a bond, there's a a benefit and a blessing uh of man and woman coming together uh in the relationship of marriage. And that's what we're gonna now spend the rest of our time talking about, how God institutes So after the creation of Eve, and Adam declares, says now bone in my bones, flesh in my flesh, the very next thing is Verse 24, which is more of an editorial statement by Moses. This is not Adam speaking, this is not, if you will, God speaking. Ultimately it is the Word of God. But it's this is not a quote from God in heaven. This is Moses uh giving a comment uh on the basis of what has just happened in the creation of Eve and bringing her to the man. So Moses says, For this reason a man shall leave his father and his mother, and be joined to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. And the man and his wife were both naked and were not ashamed. So Moses, again, inspired by the Holy Spirit, looks at the creation of Adam and the creation of Eve, the bringing of Eve to Adam. And he says, it's because of this that we just observed in this first union between a man and a woman, that's the reason why we have this thing called marriage And you know, the we have the leave, you have the cleave, and then you uh some have said the weave. You know, the leave is is f uh leaving father-mother uh cleaving, being joined to his wife, uh like coming together like glue, if you will, and then becoming one flesh, weaving your life together. And and that It can start physically, but there's uh a whole life component to weaving your lives uh together. So again, Genesis 2, the creation of Adam, the creation of Eve. is not just a story of the creation of two individuals, it is the story of the creation, the institution of marriage. The New Testament, uh we'll just kind of jump back and forth here between the Old and New Testament, but the New Testament makes it clear that marriage is to be held uh in honor among all. You're familiar with Hebrews 13. 4, which says, marriage is to be held in honor among all, and the marriage bed is to be undefiled. For fornicators and adulterers God would judge. From the very beginning of the first two humans, God created and has always upheld this institution. uh this relationship called marriage in every society, in every people throughout all history, marriage has always been uh an institution by God. Matthew nineteen, uh, it says that some of the Pharisees came to Jesus, testing him, and asking, Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for any reason at all? And he answered and said to them, Have you not read that he who created them from the beginning made them male and female? And said, For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. So they are no longer two, but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let no man separate They said to him, Why then did Moses command to give her a certificate of divorce and send her away? And he said to them, Because of your hardness of heart, Moses permitted you to divorce your wives But from the beginning it has not been this way. And I say to you, whoever divorces his wife, except for immorality, and marries another woman, commits So here Jesus is again pointing back to the very beginning. He's rooting what he says in answer to the question, to the historical facts of what God did uh at the creation of Adam and Eve. And notice that he created them from the beginning. You know, this is one of those statements that uh i in my mind w when you read the scripture you you g you get all kinds of hints and affirmations of a historical young earth interpretation of Genesis 1 to 11. And this is one of them because, if I can illustrate it this way, if if we create a timeline of history, I'll leave that open. If evolution you know, molecules to man is true, then if this is the beginning of actual time or material creation, however you want to call it, then the the start of the human race uh is somewhere around here. It's nearly at the end. You know, it in when you talk about billions and billions of years, thirteen point four billion years of the history of the universe Uh as compared to the so-called theory of evolution and its declaration of when mankind actually comes to into the picture, it's virtually at the end, right? The last what, two hundred thousand years? Is that what the going number is? Is that am I right about that? I haven't been in a high school science class for a few minutes, but But Jesus says, no, no, no, no. The creation of man was all the way here right at the beginning. So for what it's worth, let's One of the uh things I think we can take from this that uh human creation happened at the beginning. And also Yeah. This evolution. Look at all those billions of years of death. Yeah, I have no doubt we'll get into that uh in Genesis when we get to Genesis three. So uh from the beginning God created them, and he made them male and female And in uh Jesus jumps directly from that, from Genesis chapter 1, 26 to 28, to Genesis chapter 2, verse 24. For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother, be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. So the Pharisees come to Jesus, they have a question about divorce, and Jesus reminds them of how God instituted marriage at the very beginning. And he affirms and asserts the permanence of marriage as God designed it. Right? Again We're not into the curse of sin yet. That's where Jesus goes in verse 8. But in terms of God's original design before sin entered the world Marriage was designed to be a union between a man and a woman that was permanent, if you will, for life. And so they ask him about divorce, and Jesus doesn't explicitly say it, but uh Moses didn't command anybody to divorce, right? Uh Jesus says, no, he permitted you uh to divorce. Uh and maybe even another way of s of saying he permitted you is uh he acknowledged that divorce would happen. Uh Deuteronomy chapter 24 is going to be a a key Old Testament passage as it relates to divorce And it it it doesn't say, here's the circumstances under which you're allowed to divorce. It it just acknowledges the reality of divorce in a sin cursed world and it regulates and really protects uh the most vulnerable party, which is always the woman. uh in uh in that context, uh historical context. Um and so he Moses permitted you because of the hardness of your heart, because of the curse of sin, because of the wickedness in your heart, he permitted divorce. He recognized that that divorce would happen. But again, he says from the beginning, in terms of God's original design, it was not this way. Now just as a side note, um Uh Pastor Rob will be teaching uh through the book of Genesis over the next four quarters, I think. Um but this is the only quarter that I'll be do uh co-teaching with him next quarter Pastor Allen and I are going to be teaching a class on marriage, divorce, and remarriage. So just be aware of that. So that's what we get here from Genesis, or rather Matthew nineteen. uh Jesus affirming the historical creation of marriage, institutional marriage, and asserting its ongoing um uh authority, if you will, it's ongoing uh standard. That even with the curse of sin, God's design still holds true So now going back a little bit, uh God said it's not good for man to be alone, so he created Eve as a suitable helper for him. God brought her to the man. And so this is the institution from the beginning in Matthew 19. And so Jesus says, what God has joined together. Men are sorry, God has joined together men and women who are married. All of this to say that marriage is God's institution Marriage is the creation of God, not the creation of mankind. It's not as though mankind advanced in history and in you know organizing itself and figuring out how do we how do we um navigate uh life and came up with this idea of marriage. Oh, that that wouldn't be a good thing. Maybe we should have, you know, this special relationship between people. No, no, no. Mankind had no thought about this. It was God's institution. It was God's creation. Uh Martin Luther here said it's g it is God's order and institution that a man and a woman should unite in marriage in a proper way, which Moses here indicates by saying that the Lord God that is, God the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, brought the woman to the man. Let us therefore learn from these words to defend marriage against the wicked blasphemies of those who revile it. It is something very wonderful that God instituted holy wedlock. in the state of innocence. I don't know the full context of that quote, but th in his day w some of those who were Speaking against marriage were the was the church, uh saying that you know if you were gonna serve the church as a priest, uh you couldn't be married And that was one of the benefits that Martin Luther uh enjoyed. He did get married after he left his role in the church. So, note that God instituted marriage when there were only two people on earth, Adam and Eve. There were no countries, societies, or cultures. Therefore, as we said, it's not a political, social, or cultural institution. Rather, all cultural societies and countries are built on the foundation of God's design for the family. So God has uh God as our creator has the authority to set rules. No government, society, or culture has the authority to set aside God's rules in any area, not just marriage. Government is not a creator. Society is not our creator. Culture is not our creator. The God of the Bible is our creator. Now my guess is most of us here in this room would affirm these things. uh and uh s uh affirm the the fact that God not only is our creator but is the one who instituted marriage and is the one who has authority to define and regulate marriage uh and that no one else does have that authority. But just to remind ourselves of that fact that God in fact is the authority over us, let's let's talk about authority. When Jesus was about to go into heaven and he gave the great commission, he said, All authority, all authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. There there's no authority that's left out that was not given to Christ. Christ Himself has all authority. And so it's the risen Christ from this particular passage that authority rests in. Revelation Speaking of the risen Christ, right? This is a vision that the Apostle John had when he was on the island of Patmos, and he saw a vision of the risen Christ. He said, Then I turned to see the voice that was speaking to me, and I And having turned, I saw seven golden lampstands, and in the middle of the lampstands I saw one like a son of man, clothed in a robe reaching to the feet, and girded across his chest with a golden sash His head and his hair were white uh were white like white wool, like snow, and his eyes were like a flaming flame of fire. His feet were like burnished bronze when it has been made to glow in a furnace. And his voice was like the sound of many waters. In his right hand he held seven stars, and out of his mouth came a sharp two edged sword. And his face was like the shining of its of the sun in its strength When I saw him, I fell at his feet like a dead man. And he placed his right hand on me, saying, Do not be afraid. I am the first and the last and the living one. And I was dead, and behold, I am alive forevermore, and I have the keys of death in Hades. Now that last verse there, verse 18, well actually going back to verse 17 when Jesus starts speaking That's an expression of one who has all authority. To be the first and the last is to declare oneself to be God, right? The Alpha and the Omega. And Jesus says that once again in uh chapter twenty-two, uh the just in the last final verses of of the Bible, of the book of Revelation. So uh John here is seeing a a vision of Christ. And uh Jesus asserts who he is to have the the keys of death in Hades, of course, is also to have all authority, to be able to rule over the reality of death. And so this is the risen Christ who has authority because he is God. And we're reminded from John chapter 1. In the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God, the Word was God, He was in the beginning with God, all things came into being through Him, and apart from Him, nothing came into being that has come into being In verse 14, the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we saw his glory, glories of the only begotten from the Father, full of grace and truth. So Jesus is the risen Christ. He is our Creator. And I think just one more verse here. For by him all things were created, both in the heavens and on earth, visible and invisible, where the thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things have been created through him and for him. He is before all things, and in him all things hold together. He is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, so that he himself will come to have first place in everything. Again, he is the ri risen Christ, our Creator. All that to say that when Jesus speaks about marriage And what marriage is, and he regulates it, and affirming the the regulation that's given there in Genesis chapter two He speaks with authority. He's not just giving us his opinion. He's not just giving ideas or suggestions. He gives the authoritative account of how marriage was instituted and how God designed it to be. And so we cannot go to the scripture and say, well, that was for that time. That was for that culture. That was for those people. No, what Jesus says applies to all people. So God created marriage as exclusive. 1 Corinthians 7. 2, Paul says, each man is to have his own wife, and each woman is to have her own husband. That is to say that each marital relationship is to be exclusive. Now we know of course that throughout history and even in some places in the world today there would be the practice of uh polygamy, but that was not part of God's design. It was part of the fall and man sinning uh against God's design, as he did in virtually every area of his life. Yeah, Willie That's one thing that I've always wondered about. Um there was there's no no um prohibition in the law of polygons. But it's seeing that in the monopoly Polygamy was a predominant practice, um, but there was still some same thing on under those under the uh an Israel that practice polygamy. where did the practice of monogamy come in? I mean how I mean basically how how did why did some understand that uh monogamy was God's plan. We can see in scripture that polygamy, whenever there was polygamy, there was a whole bunch of craziness that happened in the earth. Yeah. But for the most part, both practiced monogamy, but there was some still Yeah, so the scripture doesn't define or or give clarity as to Um you know when did w when did God say I can no more polygamy? That's outside uh of my plan, other than the fact that he created marriage to be monogamous uh in the beginning, and then affirmed that standard not only through Christ uh during his life, but through the teaching of the Apostle Paul even here in First Corinthians chapter seven. You know, we'll mention the uh husband of one wife as as a requirement for church leadership. So if if a man had multiple wives, that disqualified him from being an elder in the church. From and that's from the beginning of of the church in Acts 2. So um it it seems to be that polygamy was, though outside of the design of God It was one of those cultural dynamics which every culture has practiced or allowed or not not allowed differently throughout time. that for reasons beyond my understanding, God did not expressly forbid. There there's, uh as you noted, not only do we see the the observation that whenever it's practiced there's always problems with it. We do have wisdom uh uh uh against it uh in terms of uh the care for one's wife Um but never an explicit uh statement like to Abraham or David or Solomon. uh or the the people of God in the Old Testament of you know thou shalt not have multiple wives. We don't have that. And you know I don't fully understand why that is the case. Um other than there seems to be enough evidence to s to see that it was n clearly not God's design and it was not something that God delighted in but it was something that God allowed and ultimately used for his purposes. Uh case in point, of course, is Jacob, Rachel, Leah, and the two uh maidwi uh maidservants, uh through whom God gave birth to the twelve tribes of Israel. So it's part of the effect of the curse that God used to accomplish his purposes. Um And you know, even though we see those examples, uh I think what we would also learn from history is polygamy was something that you had to be wealthy enough to practice Because then you have to provide for, you know, not only multiple wives, but then all of the children that come from uh from those marriages. So um Obviously those that we see, like Abraham and David and Solomon and whatnot, they were very wealthy individuals, and so they they could do that. But that's not to say that it was the norm for everybody in every place. So I'll probably stop talking there. Actually I think the only place the search is that public if it was uh against was actually for the case, but the case still practically Yeah, yeah, discouraged, yeah. Yeah, that's right. I was gonna say is this is it analogous to what we see with slavery where there isn't prohibition Right, just a regulation of it. Yeah, th that there's a number of things. So polygamy, slavery, uh which of course the slavery of that day was different, but this it still had the potential for great evil and and wickedness. And so God regulated it to care for the vulnerable. And so e even the with polygamy in the law of Moses there are laws that seek to protect um the wife that is less loved is uh how it's often put. Alan? I was gonna say could it be that the three of us, including from David, they said Yeah. Alright. When God used it, like you said, he uses the set of range the half plus six four plus. Yeah. But In my mind, he gave it since all the sin. All the ones have had multiple life, they sin. Mm-hmm. Yep, for sure. Yeah, sure. God you know says you know adultery. Well adultery is sexual Relationship outside of marriage. So one can make the argument if I'm married to five women uh I'm not gonna As long as I'm staying within those five women for sexual activity, I'm not adulterous. I that I'm not advocating that, I'm just saying that could be an argument that would be made. Yeah. Right, God seeks to protect the marital relationship for sure. I mean so legal meeting is basically because it's against God's heart. Yeah. Yeah. is one man, one w woman for life. That's God's design. Did I say another hand? Uh Daniel? Hand up earlier. Just about how the first instance of floyd me that we see is clearly not someone who wants to heavyweight with Lamex, the problem came in the case. It's rooted in creation, reiterated throughout Scripture, repeated by Jesus, representative of Christ and the church and reflective of the gospel. Very good. L let me uh w with that, let me just follow up with that on uh th God's regulation and design here. So marriage is intended to be exclusive. Uh it's intended to be permanent, right? What God has joined together, let no man separate. Uh Paul affirms the normalcy, the the design that uh w as long as one is married, uh they are not to Um they are bound to that spouse as long as that spouse is alive, but death ultimately ends a marriage, so marriage is not eternal as uh the Mormons would teach. But again, due to the hardness of heart, uh divorce does take place. It's a result of uh sin in this world. And Uh we'll get into this in the class with Pastor Allen, but there's a sense in which divorce is a mercy from God in many situations, where it it protects a vulnerable individual from the wickedness of their spouse. uh and it it prevents them from being stuck in a situation of just endless harm and um and vulnerability. So there's a whole lot more to say about divorce. We're not gonna get more into that today. Uh and then the purpose of marriage is to propagate the human race. Again, that's the normal design. That's not to say it happens in every situation because of the curse of sin on our bodies and all All the different reasons, you know, there are those who are not able to have children or choose not to have children because of maybe the purposes of serving the Lord that that uh that would m uh be more difficult, but the design is to propagate the human race, be fruit fruitful and multiply. And also, in terms of design, is to give us the picture of Christ and the church. And that's what we see in Ephesians. five that when Paul is giving instruction to husbands and wives and explaining what does it look like to live a spirit-filled, spirit-led life, he includes instructions to wives to submit to their husbands as to cr as the church is Mr. Christ. And husbands are to love their wives sacrificially as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. And then he quotes Genesis 2 24 and he says, This mystery is great, so Genesis 2 24 is A man shall lead his father and uh and mother and hold fast to his wife. And he says, This mystery is great, but I'm saying that it refers to Christ and the church. So Paul connects very clearly the relationship between husband and wife to the relationship between Christ and the church. And in that sense we see that though creation or rather uh cre no the creation of marriage happened long before the creation of the church happened Just like the sacrificial uh sacrificial system was created and instituted long before the coming of the Messiah Marriage is a shadow, it's a pointer to Christ's relationship with the church when it is practiced in its most faithful way. And so um that's th those are the reasons for which God instituted marriage. So he defines marriage, God regulates marriage, and he gives purpose uh to marriage. So that's a a brief overview uh on uh on that issue, which we'll get into a lot more detail uh next quarter. So that's what we covered today. Any final comments before we Wrap up. Run. Just a comment on a question. It's just how I meditate on the scripture and So going over on uh referring back to when uh uh the Lord puts uh Adam uh into a deep sleep and takes out his rib and then Adam makes his speech I possibly one of two things had to have happened. Either A, he allowed uh Adam to wake up and have him watch him make uh Eve And or the Lord had to communicate to Adam what actually happened for Adam to make that speech. Uh-huh. Yeah, that's true. Or there could be some other possibilities, but Sure. No, that's good. That's a good point. He's like, man, what's my slider? Oh. Well, Adam, let me tell you what I just did. Yeah, it's an interesting thought of how he might have Uh he watched uh the Lord do that. Very good. So let me just close with this. Uh again, I know that in this room there are many who have uh experience the curse of sin uh in your life in such a way that uh either you are not married now where you used to be or you've had a previous marriage And I think the the design of marriage is something for all of us to delight in and that we can encourage and support. And God is a redeeming God, right? In this world of sin and brokenness He takes that which is broken, whether it's bro broken because of us or because of another person or you know just the the realities of life And he redeems those situations for his glory. And we can commit ourselves wherever we stand or sit today to say, I want to support and promote and encourage that a kind of a relationship. In fact, let me give you this quick teaser. So in April, Lord willing, um we we are planning on having a marriage conference, the second weekend of April, which is the week after uh Resurrection Day And we're going to be promoting that to everybody, not just married couples, to singles, to those who might be widowed. Uh we we think that this is going to be a conference that will be a blessing to the entire church body because it will help all of us think biblically about marriage so that in whatever role we have, whatever relationships we have uh in our family dynamics, in the in the uh life of the church that we can both model, encourage, promote, speak well of uh marriage um and and be a church that delights in God's design here. So all right, with that, uh let me pray. Father, thank you for This time that we've had just to really quickly run through these uh principles, uh, and yet it's a reminder to us that you are a God who created with beauty and creativity and glory and uh for those of us who are uh married to a believing spouse today, though we are all sinners and it's it's our own sin that uh causes us to experience challenges. At the same time, uh you allow us to uh experience many blessings in marriage and Lord help each one of us, whatever our station in life is, to um be blessed by and to promote and encourage and model what your design is. We know this world has become so confused and distorted in its view And so help us to represent, whether it's by our actions, our example, or even just our words. to represent the beauty of your creation and ultimately the glory of Christ, who gave his life for his bride, the church. We thank you for these things. In Christ's name. Amen.