Okay, so we've come to the end. To the very end. The last this is the last part. And so uh some of you have been uh with me for the whole three quarters. We started in Genesis 1-1. Today we're gonna get to Genesis 50. And so this will be the last part. So today we're going to talk about Joseph's brothers returning to Canaan. So they've come down to Egypt. They're going to return to Canaan. And then they're going to turn around and come back down to Egypt again. Then we're going to talk about Joseph arresting his brother Benjamin. And then Joseph revealing himself to his brothers so they know who he is. And then Joseph's forgiveness of his brothers. And that will close out our study. So a quick review of what we did last week. So we're in the final tolerat, the final section of Genesis that goes from Genesis 37 to 50. Uh it's primarily focused on the life of Joseph and God's how God works in the life of Joseph. So uh to fix the uh uh uh the the time in in Joseph's life, um he's thirty years old when he interprets Pharaoh's dreams, and then there's seven years of plenty. Uh so he's 37. And then there's two years of famine before the brothers come down. So the brothers come down, Joseph is 30 uh 39. Um and We find out when they come down that Jacob is 130 at that time, and Jacob dies at 147. So that's 17 years later. And so 17 on top of 39 is 56. So the events that happen in chapter 50 happen when Joseph is 56. Okay, so last time we talked about uh uh uh primarily about Joseph interpreting these dreams. So uh there there have been Uh two years have passed since the cupbearer and the baker got out of prison. Uh then Pharaoh has a dream, um and he has two dreams, and uh Pharaoh sends for his magicians, his uh uh his kind of spiritual advisors uh and his wise men or his scientific advisors and asks, hey, what's this dream about? Uh they none of them can interpret it, but uh the cupbearer remembers that Joseph was able to interpret his dream, and so he tells Pharaoh about it, and Pharaoh um Brings Joseph up to the court and Joseph interprets the dreams, but he gives God the credit Uh the dreams are seven fat cows and s uh to two dreams, seven fat cows for seven good years, seven good ears of corn for seven good years. seven lean cows for seven years of famine, seven uh empty ears of corn for seven years of famine. Um and then not only does Joseph interpret the dreams, but he gives them a whole bunch of um wise public policy suggestions for how he can get ready for this famine. Um and Faro uh talks it over with his court advisors and they end up appointing Joseph to be the vizier, the prime minister, the second in command of uh of Egypt. Um So there is in existence a document that we've uh that uh archaeologists have found in a tomb in Egypt that dates to about this period. 1550 to 1307 BC. And the document has a list, a job description of the vizier, the Prime Minister of Egypt. And it includes Overseer of the Treasury, Chief Justice, Chief of Police, Minister of War, Secretary of the Interior, Secretary of Agriculture, along with others positions. So in other words, this guy was really running the country Uh that was the position uh that Joseph got. So uh and we talked last time about this, and we'll talk about it some more today, that the real central theme, the focus of this section of scripture, Genesis thirty-seven to fifty, is the providence of God. The fact that God is in control of all these events and When Joseph talks about these dreams to the Pharaoh, he makes it clear that the dreams themselves come from God, and the interpretation that Joseph is giving comes from God, that it's all from God. And Joseph makes that clear to this pagan audience. It's clear in Joseph's mind, and he makes it clear to the pagan audience around him. And then the brothers come down because of the famine, the brothers come down to buy grain in Egypt. Jacob sends them down. And they of course they bow down to Joseph. for the first of many, many, many times. As we as you read through Genesis um chapters forty two to fifty, over and over and over again the brothers are bowing down and groveling to Joseph. They don't know it's Joseph. But they are bowing down and grovling to Joseph, which is what the dream had said back in Genesis chapter thirty seven, the dream that got them so angry in the first place. He speaks harshly to them. He accuses them of being spies. They tell him about their family and the fact that they have a younger brother that didn't come down with them Joseph commands them to go back and bring that younger brother with them. And while the rest of them wait in prison Now he changes that up. He put he he originally throws them all in prison um but then he releases all but one. Um only one brother will need to stay until they bring uh Benjamin back. And so uh basically w where we left the story was uh people all the world have to go to Egypt uh because it's the only place that still has food uh two years into this massive famine because they're the only ones that prepared during the years of of plenty Um Jacob sends his sons down, he commands them to go down and buy grain, only he doesn't he keeps Benjamin back. And it's it's once again uh this favoritism that Jacob has to First of all, the wife Rachel, who's now dead, and to her two boys, Joseph and Benjamin. Um They get down to Egypt, they're face to face with Joseph. They bow down to the ground to him. Uh it's an obvious fulfillment of Joseph's dream. Uh they don't recognize Joseph. Uh he was seventeen when they last saw him. Now he's thirty-nine, at least thirty-nine. Um he's dressed as an Egyptian, uh which probably means clean shaven, instead of beards like uh like everybody does uh that's from Canaan. Um he has an Egyptian name that Pharaoh gave him, and he's speaking Egyptian. He's only speaking to them through an interpreter. Um and he keeps up the appearance by speaking harshly to them and charging them uh with being spots. So that's where we left the story last time. So any idea in terms of like Timeline when they say go back to uh and and get your brother like the trip that it takes to get back to where they were and then come back to eat trip like what's a round trip like yeah so it's um it's probably a couple days round trip um maybe like uh a hundred miles or 150 miles something like that it's so so some days um As uh as Bill pointed out before, you could actually make 50 miles in a day. You you could walk 50 miles in a day. Uh but they probably didn't. So it probably took several days to make this trip. Yeah, they probably weren't it well the this probably wasn't like a a marathon running kind of thing. They were just walking down there with their camels and and things like that. Uh so yeah, several days, maybe a week to to make the trip each each way, something like that. Uh d but we don't know for sure. So let's pick up the story. So if you'll turn to Genesis chapter 42, we're going to do the last part of Genesis chapter 42 about the brothers going back to Canaan. So um the the events that led to them going back to Canaan, then the journey back to Canaan, and then what happened when they talk to their father when they get back to Canaan. So Um first of all they so they they're down there in Egypt, they get thrown into prison, uh accused of being spies. Um and then they have a little conversation among themselves. So starting in verse 21. Then they said to one another Truly, we are guilty concerning our brother, because we saw the distress of his soul when he pleaded with us, yet we would not listen. Therefore, this distress has come upon us. So, what are they talking about? They're talking about Joseph. They threw him into that pit And they saw the distress on his face. They saw the distress on his face as they sold him into slavery. And how much this is twenty-three years later, this sin is still eating at them. The sin that they committed 23 years ago is still eating at their soul. Uh think about that. That's the first thing that comes to their mind when they are uh they end up suffering here. And then Ruben pipes up. Uh Ruben the one that actually wanted to save uh uh Joseph in the first place twenty-three years ago. Reuben answered them saying, Did I not tell you do not sin against the boy? And you would not listen. Now comes the reckoning for his blood They did not know, however, that Joseph understood, for there was an interpreter between them. So Joseph is there. He's hearing all this. He's hearing this little discussion because they're speaking to each other in Hebrew, and they think that nobody else understands Hebrew. But there's Joseph Right there, listening to this whole conversation. They did not know, however, that Joseph understood, for there was an interpreter between them. He turned away from them and wept. But when he returned to them and spoke to them, he took Simeon from them and bound him before their eyes. Then Joseph gave orders to fill their bags with grain and to restore every man's money in his sack and to give them provisions for the journey. And thus it was done for them. So they loaded their donkeys with their grain and departed from there. As one of them opened his sack to give his donkey fodder at the lodging place he saw his money. And behold, it was in the mouth of his sack. Then he said to his brothers, My money has been returned, and behold, it is even in my sack. And their hearts sank, and they turned trembling to one another, saying, What is this that God has done to us? And then skip down a little bit further into the story. Um they're talking to their father Jacob. And so in verse 36 Their father Jacob said to them, You have bereaved me of my children, Joseph is no more, Simeon is no more, and you would take Benjamin. All these things are against me But Jacob said, My son shall not go down with you, for his brother is dead, and he alone is left. So they've come back. They've told him that, hey, the the man in charge, the vizier, said we had to bring Benjamin back And Jacob says, no, that's not happening. I'm not sending Benjamin down there. I've already lost Joseph. I've already lost Simeon now. He's riding in prison in in Egypt. I'm not sending Benjamin down there he says. So uh the brothers discuss so what's happening here, just as an overview, the brothers discuss among themselves that this is the penalty for what they did to Joseph. And they're still feeling guilty, uh, for it because essentially they hid this sin, right? They told their s father Jacob a lie, they didn't confess it Um and they've been holding on to this live for twenty-two years, twenty-two, twenty-three years, and it's eating them up inside. Joseph overhears them, turns away, and weeps. They agree to Joseph's terms. Simeon is bound and put into prison. So originally they were all in prison. Then he lets them out and says only one has to stay in prison and it's Simeon. And the rest of them go back to Canaan. Um Joseph gives orders that they be their sacks be filled up with grain, but also that their money be put back. And he does this for a purpose. He does this to uh to mess with them essentially. Uh they load their donkeys with grain and depart and then at the first stopping point when the other when the first uh when one's opening up one of his bags to try to give uh food to his donkey, he sees that his money is still there. Uh then they all look at their sacks and see that their money's all back. uh they realize each one still has his money in it. Um Jacob, when they give the report, when they come back and they tell Jacob everything that happened, he's filled with sorrow over the news that now Simeon's Uh he's lost Simeon and he's very reluctant to send Benjamin with him. Uh the famine continues um and eventually they eat up all that grain that they brought back the first time. Um so uh let's take a little a little bit uh a look at a few of the things that are happening here. So first of all, it's been more than twenty years, twenty-two, twenty-three years, something like that Since the brothers sold Joseph into slavery, but they are still haunted by this sin. Um This is a an important lesson to learn from this passage of Scripture, that trying to hide your sin doesn't do you or me any good. Um it it it um it just makes things worse to try to hide sin and not not confess it. As they recall the incident, they remember the distress that Joseph had, and they compare it to the distress that they're experiencing now. Uh Ruben, who was the one that tried to thwart the plan. Remember, Ruben Ruben is the one that told that they originally were gonna kill him. Ruben said, no, let's not kill him. Let's just put him in this pit. And then Rubin's plan was then to come back later on and pull Joseph out of the pit. But Rubin went off for a while and in the meantime they sold him into slavery. But Rubin was the one that was trying to save Joseph Um and then notice that it's not Reuben that ends up being the one put in jail, it's Simeon, the secondborn. Um and that very well may have been because um uh Joseph heard them talking about these things and heard Reuben say that he I told you I was trying to save him and so he didn't keep Ruben in prison he kept Singh in prison instead. Of course Joseph could understand Hebrew, and they were speaking to each other in Hebrew, but he was using an interpreter and only speaking Egyptian in their presence, so they didn't know that he could understand. Uh he's overcome with emotion because he hears the remorse. He hears the fact that sin is r is really bothering them. Um he Joseph plays on their fears by putting their money back in their sacks along with the grain And the brothers are afraid that they're going to be accused of robbery. He's been accused of being spies. He he accused them three or four times of being spies. And now they fear they're going to be accused of stealing. So when the brothers arrive back in Canaan to their father's household, they explain what happened in Egypt, and and Joe Jacob is not happy. Um he's not happy that he's lost another son, and he's not happy that the condition for getting any more grain is going to be to send Benjamin down. He continues he continues to lose children. He's pointing out Joseph is dead or so he thinks. Simeon is a hostage in Egypt, and now the only way to get Simeon back or to get more grain is to send Benjamin Um and so we see here of course that Jacob still has a problem with favoritism. Uh he says in verse thirty eight My son, Benjamin, shall not go down with you for his brother is dead, and he alone is left. What do you mean he alone is left? You got eleven sons and you got a daughter at least, and but But no, this is the only one that matters, this this kid Benjamin. Um and he says this out loud to the rest of the kids. So um he he's willing to leave his son Simeon, first of all, in a foreign prison. Uh as they're eating down the grain. He's not uh he's not rushing to go down there and save Simeon. He'd rather uh he'd rather not risk Benjamin. He'd just rather leave Simeon down there. Uh and imagine how that made the rest of them feel. Uh so this is more of the dysfunctional family life that led to the amount animosity between the brothers in the first place. Still there. That kind of favoritism is obviously still there. So there's a term retributive i irony. It's when somebody is punished for their own sins. Uh it happens frequently in the Bible. Uh if you remember the story of Haman, um i it is in Esther, uh the story of Esther, Haman sets up a huge gallows that everybody can see to hang Mordecai. And it ends up being Haman that's hanged on that very gallows that he built. That's retributive irony. And the Bible has it over and over again In Psalm chapter 7, in Psalm 7, verse 15, we have, he has dug a pit and hollowed it out, and has fallen into the hole which he made. So this is a principle in Scripture, that your sins find you out and in ironic ways, in ways that, quite frankly, from the outside looking in, are humorous. Uh the fact that Haman builds a giant gallows and he gets hung on it. Uh that's kind of that's kind of funny uh if you're not Haman. Uh but we see this over and over again, retributive irony in the scriptures. Uh we see it in real life too. Richard Nixon, for example, he he was so uh he was so proud of his own presidency and so certain that his presidency was going to go down in the history books. that he had a recording system built into the white into the Oval Office to record all of his conversations for posterity, for the history books later on. And it was that very recording system that was used to um uh to prove that he uh the the the misdeeds that he had done in Watergate were actually recorded on those recording t the recording system that he himself had installed in the White House uh so that his presidency could r be recorded for history. That's retributive irony. It's funny if you're not Richard Nixon. So, and of course the only way uh the the point is that our sins will find us out, and the only remedy is forgiveness that comes through the person and work of of Christ Uh so continue with the story. So turn over to uh Genesis chapter 43. Uh we have a lot of ground to cover today. To get all the way to Genesis chapter 50 today. Um so Genesis 43. So now what the brothers are going to go back to Egypt. So they've gone to Egypt, they've returned to Canaan, and now they're going to go back to Egypt again. Starting in verse one, now the famine was severe in the land. So the famine's going on and on and on and on. And so two years went by, they went down to each got grain. Now they've eaten up all the grain and now they've got to go back again Now the famine was severe in the land, so it came about when they had finished eating the grain which they had brought from Egypt, that their father said to them, Go back, buy us a little food. Judah spoke to him, however, saying, The man, the vizier, uh solemnly warned us, you shall not see my face unless your brother, Benjamin, is with you. Then Judah continues, If you send our brother with us, we will go down and buy you food. But if you do not send him, we will not go down. For the man said to us, you will not see my face unless your brother is with you. Then there's uh ensues a kind of long conversation between uh Judah and Jacob. In verse 8, Judah said to his father Israel, Send the lad with me, and we will arise and go, that we may live and not die. We as well as you and our little ones. I myself will be surety for him. You may hold me responsible for him. If I do not bring him back to you and set him before you, then let me bear the blame before you forever. Continuing verse 11, then their father Israel, so he finally relents, then their father Israel said to them, If it must be so, then do this. Take some of the best products of the land in your bags and carry down to the man as a present a little balm and a little honey, aromatic gum and myrrh, pistachio nuts and almonds. Take double the money in your hand, and take back in your hand the money that was returned in the mouth of your sacks. Perhaps it was a mistake. Take your brother also, that's Benjamin, and arise and return to the man. And may God Almighty grant you compassion in the sight of the man, so that he will release to you your other brother, that's Simeon, who gets no name, and Benjamin. And as for me, if I am bereaved of my children, I am bereaved. So the men took this present, and they took double the money in their hand, and Benjamin Then they arose and went down to Egypt and stood before Joseph. When Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he said to his house steward, Bring the men into the house and slay an animal and make ready, for the men are to dine with me at noon. So the man did as Joseph said, and brought the men to Joseph's house. Now the men were afraid because they were brought to Joseph's house, and they said, It is because of the money that was returned in our sacks the first time that we are being brought in. That he may seek occasion against us and fall upon us and take us for slaves with our donkeys And then down to verse 26. When Joseph came home, they brought into the house to him the present which was in their hand and bowed to the ground before him again. Then he asked them about their welfare and said, Is your old father well of whom you spoke? Is he still alive? And they said, Your servant, our father, is well. He is still alive. They bowed down in homage once again. As he lifted his eyes and saw his brother Benjamin, his mother's son, he said, Is this your youngest brother of whom you spoke to me? And he said, May God be gracious to you, my son. Joseph hurried out, for he was deeply stirred over his brother, and he sought a place to weep, and he entered his chamber and wept there. Then he washed his face and came out, and he controlled himself and said, Serve the meal. Now they were seated before him, the firstborn according to his birthright, and the youngest according to his youth, and the men looked at one another in astonishment. He took portions to them from his own table, but Benjamin's portion was five times as much as any of theirs. So they feasted and drank freely with him. So, what's going on here? They've gone back down to Egypt and they've gotten a warm welcome from this vizier. Jacob is hesitant at first to send Benjamin. But Judah tells them that if Benjamin is harmed, he will take the blame. They take double the money. They also take these these gifts. And when they get down there, Joseph sees Benjamin and sees that they have done what he told them to do, brought their other brother, and he makes a big feast. Uh they fear that the feast is a ploy. by Joseph. He's accused him of being spies, now there's this issue of the money, and he's getting them to their his house so that he can take them as slaves. When it's time to dine, they bring out their present that they brought down. They bow down before him. Joseph makes some small talk through his interpreter, remember. So Joseph's only speaking uh Egyptian still, so it's through the interpreter. He asked about their father, he asked if this is their other brother that they talked about. Uh but he can't he can't hold it together. Joseph can't hold it together. He runs out uh because he's emotional at seeing his his younger brother Benjamin He controls himself and he comes back. And of course they're amazed that around the table he's got them all arranged by their actual agents. Because remember they were all born in a s in a short period of time All eleven of them, the first eleven down to Joseph, were all born in a thirteen year period. And so they're all close in age. There's not a big spread in age here. And yet, somehow, they're arranged perfectly in birth order around the table. So and and these Joseph is uh in his late thirties, which means the oldest of them is around fifty. And so there i it it is usually not easy to tell the difference between a fifty year old man and a forty nine year old man, a forty-eight year old man, a forty seven year old man, a forty six year old man That would be remarkable if you could just look at them and see their ages when they're so close together. So most likely yes, but as a baby, so um if you think about it, the uh Benjamin was born as they were coming down, originally coming down from Pad and Aram into Canaan and on their way down to Hebron, they eventually settled in Hebron. But he was born on the way. And it was after they were established in Hebron that all the events of Joseph being sent uh to Egypt were were happening. So Benjamin was definitely born, but he was most likely little, like a little child. His mom died in birth. And now uh twenty-two years have passed. And so Benjamin is at least twenty-two. A lot of the pictures and paintings you've seen he looks like he's like a five year old boy. That's definitely not the case. He's at least twenty-two. Um but the last time that it Joseph most likely did see him, but as a very small child, and now he's 22. So he wouldn't necessarily recognize the 22-year-old from the little baby that he had seen. Uh but he sees that they have another brother with them, a younger brother with them. Um Okay. Um So there's they're amazed. They're sees C didn't birth. So what are the some of the things that are going on here? So uh as as the scripture talks about, the food runs out. Jacob is delaying as long as he can, but now the food's running out. It's got to do something A crucial factor in the decision is a conversation between Jacob and his fourthborn son Judah, who is clearly starting to assume a leadership role. in the family. Now why is that? Why is the fourth born son? Alright, so if we look back through scripture we see something Something has happened, something bad has happened, really bad has happened with each of the first three. So Reuben is the firstborn, but he has committed a heinous crime against Jacob In Genesis chapter 35, we see that he slept with one of Jacob's wives, Bilha. So one of his father's wives, Reuben sleeps with. And and the scripture says in in Genesis 35-22 that his father knew about it. So his father finds out that his oldest son has slept with one of his wives. Um and so Reuben is definitely out of favor. That's the firstborn. Simeon the secondborn and Levi the thirdborn are definitely out of f favor because they slaughtered an entire city in Genesis chapter thirty-four, in the Dinah incident. And Jacob was very angry about that, them going in and slaughtering an entire city with first worth of people. So that's the first three sons. One of them slept with one of his wives and two of them made him uh made him really angry by slaughtering an entire city full of people. That's the first three And next is Judah. And so Judah steps up in the leadership role in the family. He seems to have learned and matured from the incident with the daughter-in-law of Tamar. So Judah's no saint himself. He's we we've seen him try to hire prostitutes and find out that the pr later on as a prostitute is his daughter in law that he slept with and had kids with now. Um But he seems to have learned from that incident and matured, and he's now stepping up into leadership in the family. The fourthborn son, Judah Uh he's quite forceful with his father about what they will do or not do. He says, if if Benjamin goes down we'll go and if he doesn't we won't go. He says to his father. That's pretty bold. Uh especially in those days with the way uh patriarchy was was established, that you didn't say no to your father when he gave you a command, but Judah does. He says, Nope, I'm not going Uh he's quite forceful. Uh and then Judah actually convinces Jacob to send the youngest son Benjamin and he gives his own personal surety that that it'll he'll be responsible for Benjamin. Um he'll look after him. Once Jacob relents, he comes up with a plan. Jacob comes up with a plan to give gifts to the Egyptian vizier. So don't go down there empty-handed, go down with some gifts. And he w the way Jacob puts it is some of the best products in the land. So some of the best things that they had, some things that are worthy of trade. Some of these items are things that are actually mentioned in Genesis 37 that the Ishmaelites were taking down to Egypt to trade with them. And so these were things that they didn't have in Egypt and so were valuable in Egypt. Um a little balm, a little honey, aromatic gum and myrrh, pistachio nuts and almonds. So Um they didn't have any grain, but they did have a few things, like pistachio nuts and almonds, that they could use for trade and as a gift in this case. um to make sure that they got on the good side of this Egyptian vizier He also tells the brothers to bring double money. So he's heard the story, hey, the money came back in our sacks. Well take down twice the money then. And is in case it was a mistake, say, hey, here's your money from before and here's new money. We're gonna shower money on you um to m just to make sure that there's no reason for this Egyptian vizier to snatch my son Benjamin. Essentially is what he's what he's doing here. Um and then he finishes that whole section uh by appealing to the Lord. saying, may God Almighty, El Shaddai, he uses El Shaddai here, God Almighty, grant you compassion in the sight of the man. the vizier, so that he will release to you your other brother, that's Simeon, and Benjamin Um that he'll he'll be happy with these gifts and things and and that the the Lord will cause the man to have compassion is what Jacob prays here. The brothers, including Benjamin, make the trip down to Egypt and once again appear before the vizier, who they still don't know as Joseph. Joseph sees that they have brought his brother Benjamin. They brought another brother, and he orders a big feast to be pre be prepared at his private residence. So this is not the audience hall, the place where he normally sees uh foreign visitors, this is they're being invited to his private residence. The location alarms the brothers, fills them with fear and dread. Th their imagination runs away with him. Why is he inviting us to his private residence instead of talking to us here in the audience hall? He's gotta have some sort of trick up his sleeve. He's probably gonna take us as slaves So that's immediately where their mind runs. Fear. Dread. He's going to take us as slaves. They once again, now this is a theme here, over and over and over again, the brothers are depicted in Scripture as bowing down and groveling before Joseph. Now, they still all this time don't know it's Joseph. But it is in accordance with the dream that Joseph had in Genesis chapter 37 that the brothers would bow down to him. And it's happening over and over and over again, from Genesis forty-one through Genesis fifty, they're over and over again bowing down to the ground in front of Joseph. In most of the cases they don't know it's Joseph, but later on they actually know it's Joseph and they still are bowing down to the ground in front of him. Uh so they bow down and they present their gifts. They brought all these gifts with them, hey here here you go, we're bowing down, we're giving you these gifts. Look how Look how much respect we have for you and please be nice to us. Joseph starts some small talk at the beginning of the meal. Um he asks the brothers about their father, who is of course also his father. So he's asking about his father. How's my dad doing? Um And then he starts a conversation with Benjamin. And remember, still through a translator. So he's still speaking Egypt Egyptian to a translator. The translator translates it to uh uh Hebrew to but it's a conversation with Benjamin and uh he starts out the conversation may God be gracious to you my son very tender language uh to this uh to Benjamin And uh and he can't hold it together. Uh he he he run he has to run out of the room. Uh so imagine how alarmed the brothers are now. He runs out of the room. Uh And uh so he's seeing Benjamin, he's he's finds out that it really is Benjamin, he's talking to him and he can't hold it together. He runs out of his dining room, so they're eating in this is his private rev residence So they're eating in his dining room and he runs back to his bedroom to weep, weep with joy that he's uh been reunited with Benjamin. But he doesn't want the brothers to see that. So it says that he composes himself, washes his face, and comes back out and continues to feast. So he wants to continue the charade for a little bit longer. Um the brothers are surprised by another thing that's happening here, that they are uh had they have been arranged, they've been given a signed seating around the table And it's in perfect birth order for all of them. Uh all eleven of them are put in perfect birth order around the table. And so they're shocked by that. Um and then we continue with the story. So uh if you'll if you'll move forward to Genesis chapter forty-four. Yes. Well, so i it's obvious that um i he's giving a little subtle clues that he is um giving preference to this one Man. The one young man. Five tim five times as much, yeah. For the this brother. Yeah. Yeah. That's absolutely um you know, it doesn't say explicitly in scripture, but I think that's a um a a a very uh likely um it's very likely from the the whole the whole story that joseph is testing them He wants to see if they grumble about Benjamin getting more. Because remember, Joseph was a favorite. Now Joseph surmises, suspects that now Benjamin is the favorite. When Joseph was the favorite, they hated him for it. Now he's testing to see did they hate Benjamin for being the favorite just like they hated me for being the favorite. So he piles up a giant five times the portion in the middle of a famine Right? It's the middle of a famine. So food is scarce. So everybody's really hungry. And here this one guy gets five times as much as everybody else. And so he's looking to see, are they going to grumble and complain about Benjamin getting what they don't get Yes. Ab absolutely. That's that's uh absolutely I think a uh a reasonable conclusion to draw from this this whole thing. Because the whole thing really is Joseph testing them He's testing to see if they're still the same people that threw him into that pit and sold him into slavery, or if they've changed. And this is one of the tests. Yeah. Good point. Uh yes. I think because he was a Hebrew, um and so the Egyptians didn't eat with Hebrews, so Jacob was a Hebrew. Uh Joseph was a Hebrew, so they didn't eat with him. Now it also it it also could be, I mean it could be both. It could be that he he had a high exalted position, so nobody would have been worthy to eat with him anyway May it could be the case. But the scripture does say that the Egyptians, as a general rule, didn't eat with Hebrews And I think it had to do with the fact that their profession was shepherding. I think we see that later on when they come down uh that they are they live separately because they're shepherds and they're touching animals and the Egyptians somehow think that makes them unclean and they don't want to be around 'em because they touch animals. Any other any others? So it's possible that the Egyptians who were um subordinate to Joseph honestly didn't like him and and and And if you will and and you know what I'm wondering, there was a prejudice toward him because uh I would have thought that's the thing. Yeah, so uh w we we don't we don't hear about it in the scriptures, but if we think about general human nature um And we think about the situation in Potiphar's household with um when Potiphar's wife wanted to uh um try to get the other servants on her side to tell this false story to Potiphar when he came back. One of the things she did was point out that this foreigner has been put over you. to the other servants because he had been put in charge of the whole household so the other servants were under him and he was a foreigner and she pointed that out to them and it seems to me from that story that That was a uh that was a matter of contention, a matter of discontentment for the other servants that this foreigner had been put over them. So even though even though Pharaoh had given them all the authority and they're definitely not gonna go against anything that Joseph said We can imagine resentment that this foreigner had been put in charge of been s put made second in command agents. were so horrible to increase them horrible. Yes, I think that's right. Yeah. Okay. So continuing the story. So Joseph has he has one more trick up his sleeve. One more test essentially And we hear about that in Genesis chapter 44. So starting in verse 1, Genesis 44 Then he commanded, this is Joseph, he commanded his house steward, so his chief servant, saying, Fill the men's sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put each man's money in the mouth of the sacks. So that he's going to do the same thing with giving the money back. Put my cup, the silver cup, in the mouth of the sack of the youngest, and his money for the grain. And he did as Joseph had told him. As soon as it was light, the men were sent away with their donkeys. They had just gone out of the city and were not far off when Joseph said to his house steward, Up, follow the men. And when you overtake them, say to them, Why have you repaid evil for good? So he overtook them and spoke these words to them. They said to him, Why does my lord speak with such words as these? Far be it from your servants to do such a thing. With whom and then they have this conversation about, hey, if you find them you can kill whoever has it. With whomever of your servants it is found, let him die, and we also will be my lord's slaves. So he said, now let it be also according to your words. He with whom it is found shall be my slave, and the rest of you shall be innocent. So changes it a little bit. I'm not gonna kill him, we're gonna make him a slave. Then they hurried. Each man lowered his sack to the ground and each man opened his sack. He searched, beginning with the oldest and ending with the youngest. So this this is the steward who put the cup in there, he knows where it is He starts with the oldest though to build the drama. He searched beginning with the oldest and ending with the youngest, and the cup was found in Benjamin's sack. Then they tore their clothes, and when each man loaded his donkey they returned to the city When Judah and his brothers came to Joseph's house, he was still there, and they fell to the ground before him again Verse 16, so Judah said, What can we say to my Lord? What can we speak? And how can we justify ourselves? God has found out the iniquity of your servants. Behold, we are my lord's slaves, both we and the one in whose possession the cup has been found. Verse 17, but he said, this is Joseph now, but he said, Far be it from me to do this. The man in whose possession the cup has been found, he shall be my slave. But as for you, go up in peace to your father Then Judah approached him and said, O my lord, may your servant please speak a word in my Lord's ears, and do not be angry with your servant, for you are equal to Pharaoh. Your servant, my father, said to us, You know that my wife bore me two sons, and the one went out from me, and I said, Surely he is torn to pieces, and I have not seen him since. If you take this one also from me, and harm befalls him, you will bring my grey hair down to Sheol and sorrow. Now therefore, please let your servant remain instead of the lad. a slave to my lord, and let the lad go up with his brothers. For how shall I go up to my father if the lad is not with me, for fear that I see the evil that would overtake my father So, uh Judah says, take me instead. Um Joseph, so what's happening here? Joseph's steward fills their sacks again with their with the grain and the money and in addition he puts Joseph's special cup, his special silver cup that everybody knows is Joseph's cup. He puts it in Benjamin's sack. Joseph sends his steward with his brothers to retrieve the cup, after his to retrieve the cup. So the same guy that planted the cup, he goes back to retrieve the cup, and he Joseph instructs him to accuse them of stealing it. Uh the so the steward's in on it. Uh the brothers deny stealing the cup and tell him that they can he can kill whoever stole the cup Because they're sure that they didn't steal the cup. They're absolutely certain they did not steal this cup, so they say, hey, kill whoever has it. And the rest of us will be slaves The steward of course discovers the cup in Benjamin's sack, where the steward put it. When the brothers see that the cup is in Benjamin's sack, they tear the clothes and return. They turn around and go back to Joseph And as with everything else in the Bible, there is a medieval painting. Um notice that uh, you know, they've they've depicted uh Benjamin here as like a five year old boy. He's not a five year old boy. And he and he looks suspiciously European there with blonde hair and No, I don't think so. Um but there and there's the little silver cup in the in the sack there. Uh but there's a painting. Um there's actually multiple paintings of that of that event. Um and so when they come to Joseph's house the they fall on the ground before him again. Uh they tell him they are guilty and they will all be Joseph's slaves. Joseph tells them, No, no, no, no, that wouldn't be fair. I'll just make Benjamin my slave Uh and allow the rest of you Google, all the rest of you go on back. I'll just keep Joe Benjamin for myself. Uh Judas steps up And tells Joseph that Benjamin is the youngest of two brothers. He goes through the whole story, the history of the family, and that he can't go back to his father without Benjamin. And so Judah volunteers to be a slave in Benjamin's place. So um I j so this is a final test, the last test. And uh just when the brothers think that everything is great, they've gone They've had this great meal. He's the the vizier's been kind to them. They're they're gonna they've got grain. They're coming back with both Simeon and Benjamin. Everything is perfect And then Joseph Fult pulls this final trick. And It involves Benjamin, so he orders the chief steward to set a trap for the brothers using a special silver cup that belonged to Joseph and to plant it on Benjamin Shortly after they start for Canaan, Joseph has this same chief steward chase them down and find the cup that the chief steward himself had planted. The chief steward does as Joseph tells him and finds the cup in Benjamin's stuff and accuses him of stealing it. Now the brothers are terrified because theft of the sacred cup will definitely bring severe punishment, slavery or death. And then when it's found to be among Benjamin's things, they tear their clothes in grief and despair. This is the worst thing that could ever happen. Everything's perfect, and now the worst possible thing has happened When the brothers are brought back to Joseph, they once again bow down and grovel before him. This happens over and over and over again in the description of events in Genesis 42 to 50. The brothers are constantly falling down on their faces and groveling in front of Joseph. This time, after he's been pleasant all through the uh the meal, this time he speaks harshly to them. Judah once again assumes leadership role, not Reuben, not Simeon, not Levi. The three older brothers, the three that are older than Judah, it's Judah that steps forward, assumes leadership role. And he was the one who would guarantee Benjamin's safety to his father Jacob. Now he acts on his promise by intervening with the angry vizier. So he interposes himself in front of the angry uh vizier of Egypt. uh who they still do not know as Joseph. They just know him as the second most powerful person in the universe um that has power of life and death over him Judah explains how much the youngest son Benjamin means to their aged father, and the great reluctance that Jacob had had in complying with the vizier's requirements to send him down. Finally, Judah offers to become a slave in Joseph's place. He straight up says, hey, take me, make me a slave, and let Benjamin go. Um there is an additional irony here in that Judah was actually the one who originally came up with the idea to sell Joseph into slavery. So remember, they all wanted to kill him. Uh Reuben said, no, no, no, throw him in the pit and while he was in the pit it was Judah who came up with the idea, hey we can make some coin here by selling Joseph into slavery. So that was it was Judah's idea to sell him into slavery. Additional irony that now it's it's Judah has come all the way around, now he's gonna offer himself in slavery to save one of his brothers. Um so uh first of all he's discerning and recognized that God uses retributive irony to punish sinners. He recognizes that this is because of sin. Judah is the one that says that. And one sins will normally find one out. God often works that way. If we look at the cross, Satan and his followers attempted to destroy the promised one by hanging him on a cross, but it's the very death of the Messiah on the cross that brings about the eternal defeat of Satan. Retributive irony. Satan meant the cross for evil, but God meant it for good. It was indeed a virtuous action on Judah's part to offer himself in his brother's place. Jesus said in John chapter 15, greater love has no one than this, that he lays down his life for his friends. And so Judah's doing that. He's willing to lay down his life for Benjamin. It is a noble deed to sacrifice oneself for one's brother or for a king, how much more so when the king sacrifices himself for the lowliest in the kingdom? And that's what King Jesus has done for So continue uh any questions before we just keep rolling with this story because we have very little time. I don't know the significance, but it was quite interesting I'm not sure. I think when uh Joseph uh Judah was telling Joseph, quoting his father the lie they told their father that oh he wants to keep this by animal. Not that his day admits that we sold him into slavery. Things he's still uh he's yeah so that's right. Um so they they yeah, they they're still telling the same story, uh because that's what Jacob actually still believes Alright, so now we come to the climax of this story. All the tests have been passed now. And in Genesis chapter 45, Joseph is ready to reveal himself. So turn to Genesis chapter 45. Starting in verse 1, then Joseph could not control himself before all those who stood by him, and he cried, have everyone go out for me. So He this he's back in the audience chamber and there are Egyptians everywhere, including a translator, um, and he t he says, everybody out. He tells the all the Egyptians in Egyptian everybody out. So there was no man with him when Joseph made himself known to his brothers. So it's just Joseph and the brothers now. He's told all the Egyptians to clear out. He wept so loudly that the Egyptians heard it. So they're out of the room, but they can hear the weeping of Joseph from the other room. Um so loudly the Egyptians heard it, and the household of Pharaoh heard of it. So this the servants hear this commotion. And they scurry off to tell Pharaoh's servants and Pharaoh, hey, there's some commotion going on at Joseph's house. Then Joseph said to his brothers, I am Joseph. Is my father still so now he's speaking Hebrew, obviously, because they don't understand Egyptian. So now he switched to Hebrew and he's talking to just the brothers alone in this room and he says, in Hebrew, I am Joseph. Is my father still alive? But his brothers could not answer him, for they were dismayed at his presence. So they're terrified. They're doubly terrified now that this is Joseph. Then Joseph said to his brothers, please come closer to me And they came closer. And he said, I am your brother Joseph, whom you sold into Egypt. Now do not be grieved or angry with yourselves, because you sold me here. For God sent me before you to preserve life. For the famine has been in the land these two years, and there are still five years in which there will be neither ploughing nor harvesting. God sent me before you to preserve for you a remnant in the earth and to keep you alive by a great deliverance. Now therefore it was not you who sent me here, but God And he has made me a father to Pharaoh, and lord of all his household, and ruler over all the land of Egypt. Hurry, go up to my father and say to him, Thus says your son Joseph, God has made me Lord of all Egypt. Come down to me, do not delay. You shall live in the land of Goshen, and you shall be near me, you and your children and your children's children, and your flocks, and your herds, and all that you have. There I will also provide for you, for there are still five years of famine to come, and you and your household and all that you have would be impoverished. Then he fell on his brother Benjamin's neck and wept, and Benjamin wept on his neck. He kissed all his brothers and wept on them, and afterward his brothers talked with him. Now when the news was heard in Pharaoh's house that Joseph's brothers had come, it pleased Pharaoh and his servants. Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, Say to your brothers, do this, load your beasts and go to the land of Canaan, and take your father and your house your households and come to me, and I will give you the best of the land of Egypt, and you will eat the fat of the land. So he sent his brothers away, and as they departed he said to them, Do not quarrel on the journey. So he knows his brothers, and he doesn't want them to quarrel on the journey. Then they went up from Egypt and came to the land of Canaan to their father Jacob. Then Israel said, It is enough. My son Joseph is still alive. I will go and see him before I die. So Joseph was the he so he sends everyone out. He sends all the Egyptians out. He weeps loudly, um, so loudly that they even though they're out of the room, they still hear him. Uh he explains that he is their brother whom they sold into slavery. So that they know for sure that it's really uh Joseph, because who besides Joseph would know? that they 'cause they had told this lie all this time. Nobody knew that they had sold him into slavery except Joseph himself. So that absolutely proves Yeah, this is really him. Um he reveals his identity. Of course there's a painting. Uh once again, it looks uh suspiciously European and and and Benjamin looks way too young Uh but we'll go and there's another one, recognition of Joseph by his brothers. Um so he tells them to go back for Jacob because the famine's gonna go five more years, he tells him. As bad as this f so this is like a A famine that nobody's ever seen because it's lasted two years and J Joseph says, hey, it's gonna be five more. So you gotta come down here where we have grain Uh uh uh and that he's gonna care for them. He's the most powerful, second most powerful person in Egypt and he has the authority now to take care of them, the power to take care of them Uh Pharaoh hears about it and he's happy. He's happy for Joseph to have his brothers back. Um and he he wants to help. Tells them he gives them all sorts of transportation so they can go up there and come back with their stuff Uh and he tells him and he and he uh Joseph has already told him he's gonna give him land and uh Pharaoh just kind of uh gives his stamp of approval on Joseph's plan to give them land. And they too they go back and tell Jacob and he's thrilled that his son Joseph is actually still alive and he's going to get to see him. So let's take a look at what's happening here. They've now passed the last test Uh that Joseph set up for them. Uh they are not the same selfish, hateful people they were when they sold them into slavery. Joseph sees that And in the Joseph could not keep up the act any longer. He orders the Egyptians out, obviously including Translator. He reveals himself to his brothers. Now he's obviously speaking Hebrew. The brothers are astonished, but they're astonished, they're also panic-stricken and terrified. Here's the second most powerful man on earth. He has the power of life of and and death over them. And it's revealed that it's their brother who they so terribly wronged. They feel so guilty about wronging. Here he is with absolute power over their lives. In verse four, Joseph confronts them with their sin. He says, Hey, you sold me into slavery in Egypt. He doesn't sugarcoat it. He he he comes right out and identifies their sin, but he immediately forgives them in verse five. He says, and he says it in a very tender way, do not be grieved. Or angry with yourselves. And now of course over these last several months, he has heard them, the fact that they are grieved over the sin that they've committed. He knows that they're suffering because of their sin. And he so that's why he says this. Do not be grieved or angry with yourselves, because you sold me here. For God sent me before you to preserve life. And he and he in this whole speech with them He over and over and over again, he acknowledges the providence of God that God has been in control of all these events in his life. Joseph has such a clear insight into the providence of God and such a firm understanding and faith in the providence of God that he's able to explain this to the very people that have wronged him so badly. And he gives all along the way, every single sentence, he gives God credit. It's quite remarkable. He's able to forgive his brothers because he understands that God's hand of providence has directed everything. even the misdeeds of his brothers. He says twice that God sent me before you, verse five and verse seven. Then he says, It was not you who sent me here, but God, in verse eight. So it's so crystal clear in Joseph's mind who is in charge. And it's not these brothers who are in charge. Even in their evil deeds, God is in charge. Then Joseph sends a message to his father Jacob to be carried by his brothers to invite Jacob to come down to Egypt. As the vizier, with authority over the entire kingdom, Joseph announces that the Hebrews may live in the land of Goshen, the eastern part of the Nile River Delta. Uh this would have been perfect pasture land for flocks. So remember Joseph traveled all around the whole land of Egypt when he was uh storing up grain, so he knows the country. And he has been a shepherd as a young man, and so he knows where the best land would be for flocks. And he plans to give them the very best land for flocks. And that's what this is And Pharaoh's happy for Joseph and adds his blessing to Joseph's plan to give them that particular land. And so how do we apply this? So this whole passage, actually from Genesis 37 to 50, is about the providence of God. And so we see here in this uh Joseph revealing himself to the brothers, um, after all that's been done to him by the brothers, he doesn't retaliate. Uh from a human perspective he has every right and reason to avenge what they have done to him. That's the natural human response. If somebody has wronged me And they f then later on fall into my power, then I take my vengeance. But that's not what Joseph does. He had lived as a slave or a prisoner for thirteen years, yet he responds to his brothers with compassion and forgiveness. He very thoroughly believes in the sovereignty of God, that God was working through all those painful events in his life Now, uh there's one more little piece of scripture we're going to read, um, and then we'll be done. Uh so if you'll turn to Genesis chapter 50. So we're going to skip over some things. So uh Jacob does come down and everybody in his household comes down. So Jacob and all of his sons and his grandsons end up down there in Egypt. It's a total of 70 people uh we find out later. 70 people. And Jacob goes in in front of Pharaoh and Pharaoh says, Man, you look old. How old are you? And Jacob says, I'm 130. So Jacob's 130 when they go down to Egypt. And then Jacob dies at the age of 147. So what's the difference between 147 and 130 higher math? 17 years. So the events in Genesis chapter 50 are 17 years later. So the things that we just saw in Genesis chapter 45 The things that we're going to read now in chapter 50 are 17 years later. And 17 years later, the brothers are still afraid that Joseph is going to take revenge. Watch this. So open up to Genesis chapter fifty and we'll start reading at verse fifteen. When Joseph's brothers saw that their father was dead, they said, What if Joseph bears a grudge against us? And pays us back in full for all the wrong which we did to him. So this is another seventeen years later. So It was twenty-two or twenty-three years. This is another seventeen. So it's forty years after the events of them selling Joseph into uh slavery. Forty years. Still, this sin is messing with them When Joseph's brother saw that their father was dead, they said, What if Joseph bears a grudge against us and pays us back in full for all the wrong which we did to him? So they sent a message to Joseph saying, Your father charged before he died, saying Thus you shall say to Joseph, Please forgive, I beg you, the transgression of your brothers and their sin, for they did you wrong. Now, did did Jacob say that? No, because because we actually have recorded in Scripture what Jacob said to E to them on his deathbed. And it wasn't this So they're making this up. And now please forgive the transgression of the servants of God of your father. And Joseph wept when they spoke to him. He wept because he sees that the sin this sin is still eating them alive. Forty years later Joseph wept when they spoke to him. Then his brothers also came and fell down before him. Again, again they're falling down, growling in front of Joseph. and said, Behold, we are your servants. But Joseph said to them, Do not be afraid. For am I in God's place As for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good in order to bring about this present result, to preserve many people alive. So therefore, do not be afraid. I will provide for you and your little ones. So he comforted them and spoke kindly to them. So Joseph has absolutely forgiven them, and he's absolutely seeing from a spiritual perspective that that it's God's providence that has worked all these events together for good And i he holds no animosity towards them, but they are still haunted and tormented by their sin. Uh but he's and he and and j and Joseph weeps over that, the fact that his brothers are still tormented over this sin. And he has long gotten over it. Long, long, long been over it Uh, but it still haunts them, the perpetrators of the sin. Yeah, I think that's right. So Satan keeps bringing this back up to the brothers. An event happens and Satan brings it back, hey, you did this terrible thing, what if Joseph's saying he's still angry. Um and Joseph has made it abundantly clear over and over again that he's not still angry, and yet they still keep being afraid that he will be angry. So the brothers are concerned that he holds a grudge. They once again say that they're servants. It's actually the word slave there. We're your slaves, they say to him, to Joseph. Um and he he once again tells them about the providence of God that this has all been this all happened in the providence of God. You meant it for evil. God meant it for good. It has worked out in accordance with God's perfect plan. Let it go. Don't be afraid. He tells him twice, don't be afraid. Um he reassures them that he's going to provide for them. He's going to provide for their children. And so the application here of this passage And this is the uh the culmination of a whole section of Scripture from 37 to 50 that's really about the providence of God. There's no doctrine so clearly taught in the Bible as the sovereignty of God over all of his creation. It's over and over and over and over again in the scriptures. He is represented as creator and his will is the cause of all things. He upholds all things with his almighty power. He rules as king in the most absolute sense of that word. He is in charge. And that's the real lesson of this passage of scripture from 37 to 50. And that passage from Genesis 50 is the clearest explanation of it right there at the end So, uh what have we learned today? We've we've learned um uh uh we've we've stepped through the the end of the story all the way to the point where Joseph forgives his brothers and he gives a this very clear and concise statement about the providence of God, his sovereignty over all events that happen to people, and even events that people mean for evil. So Joseph points out there in Genesis chapter 50, yes, you meant it for evil. You meant harm to me when you s threw me in a pit and sold me into slavery. But God meant it for good, and because God meant it for good and God is all powerful and sovereign over his creation, it worked out for good Because that's what God meant, and what God means, that's what happens. Um and so um that's really the lesson uh of our whole study there uh especially of this last section of scripture. Any questions? Two minutes to go. Any questions about anything from Genesis one one to fifty uh yes, go ahead. Is that God could have prevented the famine? Right. He's sovereign over the whole thing. But this is the bigger purpose of what he's doing, not just with Joseph and his immediate family with the whole nation of Israel for the next four hundred years. It's interesting that uh as he said I brought him here to preserve the family, but he could have intervened and Right, so so we don't understand why God makes events uh particular events the way he does, but um from the whole council of scripture we can see that God's First of all, he's omniscient and he's all powerful, and so the way that he does things is the perfect way to bring glory to his name the perfect way. So whatever it is, even a famine, that was the perfect way to bring glory to his name. That's absolutely the application to each one of our lives that when we can look at something like what happened to Joseph and see that God worked that out for his perfect perfect purposes that whatever it is that's happening to us, God can do so. Alright, let's close in prayer.