Uh we're in part four of this kind of survey, this high-level survey of Genesis 12 to 50. So we're doing uh what is that, thirty-nine chapters in uh in just thirteen weeks and so we have to go quickly And so this is part four of our study of the life of Abraham, and especially the study of how God worked in the life of Abraham. And we're going to be finished with Abraham at the end of this lesson and moving on to Isaac and then Jacob and then and then Joseph. But really we're focused on the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, not on Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. So, um what we're going to learn today. So we're going to look at three things in the life of Abraham, three events in the life of Abraham, and how God dealt with him in these three events. So the first one is the Lord appears to Abraham. He appears in bodily form to Abraham. And then we're going to talk about the long-awaited birth of Isaac. And then we're going to look at a fearful event in the life of Abraham that happened shortly after that, where Abraham is commanded by God to sacrifice Isaac, the son of promise. God tells him, okay, now that you've got this baby that you've waited for all these years, I want you to go kill him. Uh so that's what we're going to talk about today. So first a review of where we were last week. So last week basically we went through uh the events in Genesis 15, 16, and 17, and today we're gonna pick up from there. But So uh Ab Abram for he in uh in chapter fifteen God comes to Abram in a vision So today we're going to talk about God coming to Abraham in bodily form, but in uh chapter fifteen we talked about last week he comes in a vision. Uh he's promising not just uh there's a little subtlety to his promise in this vision that he's not just promising descendants in land, he's promising himself. Uh he says, I will be your shield, Abraham. But Abraham, of course, God keeps coming to Abraham and making the same promise. Chapter 12, he promised uh descendants and land. In chapter 13 he reiter reiterates the promise. And here in chapter 15 and also in chapter 17 He reiterates this promise to Abraham because Abraham, although he has faith, he has some doubts. He's struggling with doubt and fear. And so God reiterates his promise, comes in a vision, and tells him that he's gonna be, he's gonna have this son. And we have this incident where Abraham says, Well, I'll just adopt somebody from my household, and God says, No, that's not how it's going to work. You're going to have a son that comes from your own body. And of course he takes this and runs with it in a different direction. Um i in in um uh the incidents with Hagar and Ishmael. The Ishmael of course comes from his own body and God has to further explain, no, no, I mean you and Sarah. Um he and he gives Abraham in uh chapter fifteen he gives him an example. He tells him to go outside and look up at the stars and try to count the stars. And if you can count the stars, that's how many of your descendants are going to be So he's he's giving he's trying to encourage Abraham, trying to bolster his faith. And we get this great verse in chapter fifteen, fifteen six, that's It says that Abraham believed and it was credited to him as righteousness. And that verse is quoted by Paul in his letters three different times, twice in Romans and once in Galatians uh that Abraham believed that God would accomplish something that was humanly impossible. Um even though he's too old and Sarah's too old, uh they were old even when he very first made the promise And then they have to wait and wait and wait and wait and wait. But Abraham had faith. His life was characterized by faith in God, in spite of going through periods of doubt. So, uh and then God lays out a legal contract. We saw this, uh, the the contemporary version of a legal contract in those days. was to cut animals in pieces and walk between the pieces and make a promise and in the essence say, if I break this promise, let me be let my body be cut up like the bodies of these animals And in this incident, uh it's only God who walks between the pieces. Abraham doesn't walk between the pieces, and so therefore it's clear from the text that this is an unconditional covenant. It's not dependent on Abraham. Abraham doesn't walk doesn't fulfill he doesn't bind himself to this uh legal document. He doesn't walk between the pieces. Only God walks between the pieces and it's a torch and a smoking oven that goes through there that symbolizes God's presence. And then we move on to chapter 16 and uh Sarah knows about this promise that uh there's supposed to be a son and a descendant for Abraham and so she comes up with an idea. Let me see if I can help this process along. And uh she comes up with the idea of giving her servant to Abraham as a wife uh to have an heir. Um so at that point they'd been waiting about ten years. So if God had promised the son and then no son and then no son and then no son and then no son for ten years. A whole decade goes by where the promised son doesn't come And so Sarah comes up with this idea. And so they they do, they go they follow through this plan and they have uh this son Ishmael, uh, but this was not uh God's plan. They had taken things into their own hands. And we talked about last time the fact that this is uh in some ways a repeat of uh Adam's mistake in the garden, um or the kind of the mechanism by which uh Adam ended up uh sinning. Um He he kind of abdicated his responsibility. In the garden, Adam had heard what God said to do, and then his wife came to him with something different. And Adam went with what his wife said rather than what God said. So in Genesis 3. 17, God starts out his punishment of Adam by saying, Because you have listened to the voice of your wife. Well Uh is God saying you should never listen to the voice of your wife? Well, no, that's not what he's saying. He's saying listen to the voice of your lo y of your wife in contrast to what? Listening to the voice of the Lord, listening to God's word, listening to anybody else's word instead of God's word is a mistake. Because Adam listened to the word of somebody else, his wife in this case the only other person on the planet, um, then the uh then because now you have sin, because you have not listened to God, you've listened to somebody else. And so Abraham in a similar way had just been told by God. He had been promised by God, he'd had a vision from God, he'd had all these promises, but Uh and he had come up with his own scheme, remember, uh that he would adopt uh Eliezer, and God had said, no, that's not how it's gonna work. And now Sarah comes up with a different scheme And Abraham goes along with it. Okay. So Ishmael was born because they tried to take things into their own hands. And later in Galatians chapter 4, Paul uses this as an analogy. Uh it's definitely a analogy. Uh it says so right in the word. It's an allegory. It says allegory right in the word in Genesis chapter four. Uh that Ishmael is symbolic of Isaac and Ishmael are symbolic of examples of doctrine that um uh Ishmael represents legalism, uh the the law of Moses in Mount Sinai and Isaac represents the covenant of grace in gen in Galatians chapter four we looked at. Then we come to Genesis chapter 17 and God repeats his promises again, but he also adds something in Genesis chapter 17. He adds a sign of the covenant that he has with Abraham, and that's uh circumcision. So we we learn about circumcision in uh Genesis chapter 17. Abraham's 99 years old. He gets his name at this point changed from Abram to Abraham, father of many nations, and he gets this sign. of circumcision. And everybody's from then on, males at the age of eight are supposed to be circumcised. Um And we'll see that Isaac is circumcised on the eighth day. Abraham is circumcised when he's ninety-nine years old. Ishmael is circumcised when he's thirteen years old. So God had made this covenant before, and now some years later, about 13 years after the birth of Ishmael, the covenant's reiterated, but there's added this sign of circumcision. So that's what we learned last time, and that's up through Genesis chapter 17. And now we're going to pick it up and we're going to look at three different incidents from Chapters 18 to 22 really, uh, and we'll close up with our study of the life of Abraham. So if you'll open your Bibles to chapter 18, Genesis chapter 18, let's take a look at this appearance of God to Abraham. Genesis chapter 18 Starting in verse one. Now the Lord and that's Yahweh is used here in uh in this verse. Yahweh. Now Yahweh appeared to him by the oaks of Mamre while he was sitting at the tent door in the heat of the day. When he lifted up his eyes and looked, behold, three men were standing opposite him, and when he saw them, he ran from the tent door to meet them, and bowed himself to the earth And said, My Lord, if now I have found favor in your sight, please do not pass your servant by. Please let a little water be brought, and wash your feet, and rest yourselves under the tree. And I will bring a piece of bread that you may refresh yourselves, after that you may go on, since you have visited your servant And they said, So do, as you have said. So Abraham hurried into the tent to Sarah and said, Quickly, prepare three measures of fine flour, knead it, and make bread cakes. Abraham also ran to the herd and took a tender and choice calf and gave it to the servant, and he hurried to prepare it. He took curds and milk and the calf which he had prepared and placed it before them. And he was standing by them under the tree as they ate. Then they said to him, Where is Sarah your wife? And he said, There in the tent He said, I will surely return to you at this time next year, and behold, Sarah your wife will have a son. And Sarah was listening at the tent door, which was behind him Now Abraham and Sarah were old, advanced in age. Sarah was past childbearing. Sarah laughed to herself, saying, After I have become old, shall I have pleasure, my lord being old also? And the Lord said to Abraham, Why did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I indeed bear a child when I am so old? Is anything too difficult for the Lord? At the appointed time I will return to you, at this time next year, and Sarah will have a son. Sarah denied it, however, saying, I did not laugh, for she was afraid And he said, no, but you did laugh. So this incident here, these three men that come to visit Abraham Um these three visitors, one is identified as the Lord, Yahweh And the other two, when we get to Genesis chapter 19, are identified as angels, the two angels that destroy Sodom and Gomorrah. So these three men are the Lord and two angels. But they appear to Abraham and Sarah as men, and they eat a meal right in front of Abraham. So What would you think of this? Um I thought angels were spirits and um you know I they they should be ethereal and floating in the air. Uh but that's not how they appear, at least in this passage. They don't appear as uh wisps of smoke floating in the air with wings and harps and things. They appear as men, and so does Yahweh appear as a man to Abram. Um so Abram runs to meet them, bows down to them, offers to wash their feet and serve them. After he serves them bread and a calf and curds and milk, the visitors remind Abraham that Sarah will bear him a son. Listening to them, Sarah laughs to herself. The Lord confronts Sarah saying, is anything too hard for the Lord? And Sarah denies laughing because she's afraid. So this is kind of a an overview of what's happening here, and we're going to take a little bit closer look. So first a map to show where we are. So Abraham is now living in this area, central Canaan, near Mamre and Hebron. That's where he's living. He's living in the tent. And he's living there. Now later on we're going to see that he lives so he's living there in Genesis chapter 18. Later on in chapter 20, he's going to come down to Gerar. And then in chapter 21 and 22, he's going to be living near Beersheba. And then we're going to see he's going to make a trip with Isaac from Beersheba up to Mount Moriah in Jerusalem A three-day journey. So that's what the the events look like on the map. Chapter 18, Mamre and Hebron. Chapter 20, he's going to go over to Gerar. Chapter 21 and 22, he's living in Beersheba. And he's living in the tent. So uh the Lord appears to him. So he's the Lord's appeared in visions to him before. But uh as far as we can tell, this is the first time he appeared in bodily form to him, looking like a person. So um as a background, of course, Abraham is still a sojourner So not only has he been promised uh descendants, he's been promised land, and so far he doesn't have any of either. He doesn't have any of descendants and he doesn't have any land after all this time. He's a sojourner uh in a foreign land. He lives in a tent near Hebron with no possession of land. He's an alien, a stranger, in a foreign land. Verse 1 says it was the Lord, Yahweh. That's what it is in the Hebrew there, who appeared to Abraham, so there's no um ambiguity. Yahweh appeared to him and looking like a person So it's the Lord also who is identified as speaking several times in this chapter, in verse 13 in the passage we just read, but also later on in passages that we didn't get We didn't just read, but it's Yahweh who addresses him in in verses thirteen, twenty, twenty-six, and thirty-three in this chapter. And in verse 22, Yahweh, uh Abraham stands before the Lord is what the word says. So one of the three men has was God Almighty, taking on the appearance of a man. And we have a term for that. The fancy term for that is a theophany. Uh Theo. Theophany means the uh appearance of God. So um When Jesus appears in his pre-incarnate body in the Old Testament, we call it a Christophany. Whether God's appearance to Abraham in Mamre or Hebron was a Theophany or a Christophany, we don't know. Um there are other places in the the Old Testament that um most uh believe that uh most scholars believe are uh appearances of uh say most, I'll say many. Many scholars believe are uh Christophanes appearances of a pre incarnate Christ. Um most times when he's identified as the angel of the Lord. So as opposed to an angel, he's Referred to as the angel of the Lord, most believe that that is pre-incarnate Christ or Christophany. This one, a little less uh clear. whether it's a Theophany or a Christophany. But either way, it's Yahweh. It's the God, the Almighty Creator of the universe. who has appeared to Abraham looking like a person. So it seems clear that one of the visitors was God himself, and the other two were the angels that later visited Sodom and spoke to Lot. as we see in Genesis 19, 1, because we see that two of them go off and go down to Sodom at the very end of this narrative about this visit to Abraham. Yeah. Two of them go off to one of them disappears, and the other two go off to Sodom. And then the next thing we see is two angels appearing to Lot in Sodom. So, uh putting those things together, it looks like those three men were the Lord and two angels. Abraham's response to the appearance of the three men suggests that he instinctively knew somehow uh that it was the presence of the Lord because uh he rushes out to bow down to these three men. And so a typical response to visitors in the that culture in that time was to rise and wait for them to approach. But Abraham doesn't do that. He he runs out and bows down to the ground before them. And The fact that it's the Lord is this is all uh uh fits in, it all uh fits together because in other cases where it was just an angel who appeared to people When the person tried to worship the angel, the angels were appalled and immediately stopped them from bowing down and worshiping when it was just an angel. In this case that doesn't happen. Abraham bows down and they let him. And the reason they let him is because it's Yahweh there, not just angels. When it's just angels, the angels are very careful to make sure that Abraham don't worship them. Because they know that worship is due only to Yahweh. But in this case, Yahweh's there. So they let Abraham bow down and worship because it's the right thing to do. So as we've noticed, Abraham has he's had encounters with the Lord before and visions in particular, but Somehow he it seems that Abraham knew. He knew what was going on here. He ran out to bow down. Even before they had said anything, he runs out there to bow down uh to these people that are coming. They look like men, but somehow Abraham knew. Um so, and of course he had had these encounters with the Lord before, not in bodily form, but the Lord had come to him and talked to him in in visions uh most likely uh in in each of these cases. Uh in chapter twelve when God had first called him, in chapter thirteen when uh j right after he had parted ways with Lot In chapter 15, when God made a covenant with him, in chapter 17, when God restated the covenant, he had had these interactions with the Lord. And so somehow he recognized this was another interaction with the Lord. Okay, um notice if you if you will take a look at verses 9 and verse 10, and there's a shift. Uh in verse nine, it's a it's a plural there. It he the s the speaker is all three visitors. When they s would they say, where is Sarah your wife? And then it shifts to a single spokesman in verse 10. Uh and so that's pretty obviously the Lord then takes over as a spokesman for the three group. Because it's it says the Lord promises that he will return in a year. And when he does, Sarah will have a son. So it shifts from the three, they, plural, asking where Sarah is, to the single spokesman, and it's a the single spokesman is identified as the Lord making the promise then to Abraham that's that Sarah will the next year at this time next year will have a son. Now, uh this revelation we get uh we only hear Sarah's reaction, we don't get to hear Abraham's reaction at this time, uh, and Sarah is overhearing from some distance Some distance that's uh close enough that she can actually hear. She overhears the conversation from the entrance of the tent. So they're outside under the tree. She's kind of listening from the entrance of the tent. And she overhears. And the scripture says that she laughed to herself. So she didn't laugh out loud. She laughed to herself. But the Lord, of course, can detect her very thoughts. There's no way she's keeping secret this reaction from the Lord She finds it too hard to believe that a woman well past normal childbearing years could have a child. The Lord confronts her, interestingly enough. Um and she tries to deny it, uh, but to no avail. And notice in this confrontation with Sarah, the Lord gets a very important point out, probably within the hearing of both Abraham and Sarah. And of course, the Holy Spirit prompted Moses to include it in this account. So this is the Lord Himself asking this rhetorical question. Is anything too difficult for the Lord? So Sarah has had she's having some doubts. Abraham has had doubts. Sarah's having some doubts. And the Lord Himself asked this rhetorical question. Is anything too difficult for the Lord? He wants them to think about that. He wants us to think about that. That's why it's included here in this story. The Holy Spirit prompts Moses to put this in the story to record, you know, they they were probably there for a couple of hours. How long does it take to go find a lamb, slaughter a lamb, cook a lamb, have a meal? I mean this was not just a two one or two minute conversation, but the the parts that are recorded here are recorded for our good As Paul says in the New Testament, the things that are recorded there are recorded for our good. And so we get the Lord asking this rhetorical question, recorded here in the scriptures, is anything too difficult for the Lord. Now, um, I don't know about you but but I need to have that rhetorical question Asked of me, and I need to think about that sometimes. Is anything too difficult for the Lord? When I come across uh difficulties in my life Um this is a good question to ask, to ask yourself. Is anything too difficult for the Lord? Um and of course The answer is obvious, and so there's not even an answer given there. Of course, nothing is too difficult for the Lord, even a really old person having a baby So, uh and then at that point the Lord repeats his promise of a son in eater. He had just said it before, and now, after this little exchange with Sarah, he repeats it again. Just to make sure that they know he's really serious about it. This time next year, Sarah will have a son Okay. So uh and then the the next event uh that's recorded in the scriptures is uh the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah. Uh now we don't have time. I wish we had time. It's a very interesting thing to study, but uh we're gonna gloss over it because of time. So um God did destroy Sodom and Gomorrah. Um The only three people that survived were Lot and his two daughters. Lot has a very um he he ends up living in a cave, um, and having uh committing incest with his two daughters and And the sons are um the um uh two become two of the peoples that end up causing trouble for uh the nation of Israel. Um Anyway, so uh that event is uh fun to study, but we're gonna skip over it. So because of time. So um The next thing that happens in the life of Abraham and Sarah is the birth of Isaac. So a year passes. Before Genesis chapter 21. So Genesis chapter 19 is the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah. Genesis chapter 20, Abraham goes to Gerar and he repeats the same mistake that he made in Egypt. He he lies about who Sarah is. He he um he tells Abimelech, the king of of uh Gerar, that Sarah is his sister, just like he told the king of Egypt uh that Sarah was his history. He does it again. Causes trouble again. Causes trouble for him, for Sarah, for the people of the of the kingdom It's exactly the same as the thing in in Egypt. And it's a c another crisis of faith. It's another time where Abraham's faith um uh wanes and he he's he he gives into fear, uh doubt and fear. And then we come to chapter 21. And so it's a year later and Isaac is born. So the the child of promise is finally here. So uh turn forward in your Bible to Genesis chapter 21. So skipping over Sodom and Gomorrah, skipping over the sojourn in Gerar, we come to the birth of Isaac. So, Genesis chapter 21, starting in verse 1. Then the Lord took note of Sarah as he had said, and the Lord did for Sarah as he had promised. So Sarah conceived and bore a son to Abraham in his old age. At the appointed time of which God had spoken to him, Sarah called the name of his son who was born to him. Isaac. Then Abraham circumcised his son Isaac when he was eight days old as God had commanded him. Now Abraham was 100 years old when his son Isaac was born to him. Sarah said, God has made laughter for me. Everyone who hears will laugh with me. And she said, Who would have said to Abraham that Sarah would nurse children? Yet I have borne him a son in his old age. The child grew and was weaned, and Abraham made a great feast on the day that Isaac was weaned And so a couple of years pass in this passage. Because weaning is typically in those days was a pro m something like a couple of years till the child was two, maybe even three in some cases So a couple of years go by in these eight verses. Isaac's born and he grows up to be two or three years old and they have a big feast. Just in these eight verses. So we reach the climax to the cycle of events with Abraham. So it starts with Genesis chapter 12. God calls Abraham out of Ur of the Chaldees. He comes around to Haran in northern Syria, comes down into Canaan. God promises him that he'll have descendants. He'll be the father of a nation, he'll have land. Um and finally After twenty-five years, the very first part of the promise starts to come true. So he he was Um seventy-five when he went from Haran into Canaan, uh and now he's a hundred. So twenty five years. He has repeatedly received the promise of God that a son would be born to him and say, repeatedly, for twenty-five years. You're gonna have a son, you're gonna have a son, you're gonna have a son, you're gonna have a son, and no son, and no son, and no son for 25 years, and now it's happen Now he's had the sun All along the way, he's even dreamt up various earthly schemes to bring about God's promise, as if God needed his help. Abraham comes up with the the possibility of adopting Eliezer. Sarah and Abraham had this scheme to have a child by Hagar. Um but now God's promise to Abraham is fulfilled in the verse of Isaac through Sarah. So The thing that God had been promising all along finally comes to pass after a lot of bumps in the road for Abraham and Sarah. So it's been twenty-five years. Uh now i it's twenty-five years since he went from Haran to Canaan. It's even longer than that since he was called out of Ur of Chaldees. We we don't know exactly how many years it was from Ur to Haran and then a little bit of time in Haran before he went to Canaan, so some number of years before that But twenty-five years since he was called from Haran to Canaan and given the specific promises in in chapter twelve about uh descendants in land, so twenty-five years he waited for God's promises. Notice the phrases here, verse two and verse uh verse one and verse two. As he had said of which God had spoken. There's this emphasis, accentuating the authority of God's Word, that this was in accordance with God's word and the faithfulness of God's promises. So when we get to uh later on to the the the the clear statement of the gospel in 1 Corinthians chapter 15 Paul says that this is the gospel, that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the Scripture, that God raised them from the dead in accordance with the Scripture It's the same motif. It's the emphasis on the fact that God's word and God's promises are faithful And the language here in verses 1 and 2 make it really clear that that's the emphasis here as well on God and His Word and His promises. So Abraham named his son Isaac because God had commanded him to name his son Isaac. In Genesis chapter 17, verse verse 19, God had said, You will name your son Isaac. And so he gets the son is born and he names him Isaac. And because the name is of divine origin, God has already given him his name. Isaac never receives a name change like the other patriarchs do. The other patriarchs get a name from God late in life. Abram to Abraham, Jacob to Israel, as we'll see. But Isaac is given his name by God directly before he's even born. And so there's no reason to change it. So he doesn't get a name change because God gave him his name from the very beginning. So Isaac means laughter. And so when you're looking at this scripture in English, it doesn't jump off the page that Sarah's making all these kind of word plays. uh in there. Uh until you've realized that Isaac means laughter. And so if you realize that the name Isaac means laughter, then everything that Sarah says there in this passage makes sense So this is a dominant motif in the birth narrative that we've been getting over these chapters in chapter Genesis 17. Verse 17, Abraham had laughed when told that Sarah would bear a child in her old age. Then in chapter 18, Sarah laughs. At the thought of having a child in her old age. Now in Genesis 21, Sarah claims that everyone who hears of the unique birth will laugh with her And his name is Laughter and everybody will laugh with her that she's this wonderful thing has happened. So um it it w it didn't seem wonderful while they were waiting twenty-five years, but now that the promises rise Everything is great and Sarah can look back and she can make these kind of wordplays and jokes about her doubts and unbelief in the past, now that she has seen the fulfilling of God's promises. Now people will laugh with her. She says. So notice uh Abraham is a hundred and Sarah is ninety. And so One of the reasons, probably, that God waited so long was to make sure that it was really clear that this was a miracle. Uh that uh n 90-year-olds don't have kids. Um so when when uh when he first made the promises Sarah was 65. That's pretty old to have kids But then they wait another twenty-five years until she's ninety. Uh and that's really, really, really old, way past time when anybody would be thinking about having kids And at the very end of this passage, Abraham celebrates with a great feast. So evidently it was a thing uh in the ancient Near East to have a uh kind of a feast when a child was weaned because um a lot of a lot of kids didn't survive their early infant days. So in in our in our time it's much less common But even a couple of hundred years ago, in this country, in every country, there was a much higher mortality rate for early infant life. Uh lots and lots and lots and lots of babies died in their first two years of various things. And so if a baby survived that winning period, there was a big feast, a celebration that the baby had survived. uh the early child years. Uh and so that's what Abraham does here. Big feast when um Isaac is weaned two, three years old Yes, so uh it's easy for us to miss it because it only takes us a few minutes to read these chapters But just stop and think about waiting 25 years for somebody promises something to you and doesn't deliver for 25 years. What do you think about that person that promised? He promised you something and years go by and he doesn't fulfill his promise. What do you think about that person? He he's unreliable. He's promised something that he's not gonna deliver. Um you know, in human terms. When you when you look at it in human terms and and we're stuck in our human form and so we think of things in human terms and so if somebody promises you something and doesn't deliver for a year You know, y he dismissed that person. He's unreliable. He's not going to fulfill his promise that he made, let alone twenty-five years. So um It's easy to criticize Abraham and Sarah for having their doubts, but think about waiting for something that's been promised to you for 25 years. Pretty remarkable patience that Abraham still had faith. He had he struggled with doubts over the years, but he had faith in God's promise Um and so we're gonna talk about that. Um we're gonna talk about it um in a lot of different respects and But think about this. How many of us would bristle and lapse in our faith at God's promise if we were made to wait 25 years? But try to put yourself in Abraham's position. He's been promised something and it's just not happening. What kind of patience does it take to wait twenty-five years on the Lord? Um it's easy to say, wait on the Lord. But what if you're waiting for 25 years? That's a quarter of a century. That's a big chunk of a person's lifetime to wait on the Lord. Easy to say, hard to do, twenty-five years of waiting on the Lord. And so yes, I think it's a good thing to tr to try as best we can put ourselves into Abraham's position and think, would I have the patience? To wait 25 years on something that God promised me. So the other thing we need to see from this whole situation is God's timing is not our timing. He's the sovereign Lord of the universe, and therefore he is the one that sets dates and times. And he knows best. Even though um it's very difficult for us to uh it's easy for us to say we believe that. Um but it's very difficult to actually believe that, actively believe that that God knows best and that this this thing, the situation that's happening to me it it can't be the best. This this can't be the the best thing. The the loss loss of a job or loss of a loved one or it can't be the best thing. But God is sovereign and his way, his plan is the best way. And so he's the one that sets dates and times And we're called to be patient and wait on the Lord. And that's the exam- that's one of the examples we get from Abraham. He, in spite of his doubts, he has faith. In spite of doubts, he has faith. And we're called to to in the New Testament, that's this is given as an example of faith, to persevere in faith in spite of these these obstacles in spite of waiting for such a long time, in spite of doubts, to persevere in faith and wait on the Lord. Also imagine how Sarah fell. So you can put yourself in Abraham's shoes. You can also try to put yourself in Sarah's shoes. Imagine how she must have felt even at age 65 when this promises first came down Um when God first appeared to Abraham and promised the child, Sarah was 65. Imagine further how she must have felt when twenty-five years pass without pregnancy until she's ninety. That that these promises must have seemed empty to Sarah because if you think put yourself in her shoes, put yourself in her era, that uh and and the fact that she, from what we know, we don't know a whole lot about Sarah, but she definitely desired to have children, but she wasn't having them And she wasn't having them and she wasn't having them and she wasn't having any children all the all these times, all through her childbearing years, and then she gets older and she's out of her childbearing years and she hears this this uh this unbelievable promise that she's then gonna have children. And then it doesn't happen. And then it doesn't happen. And then it doesn't happen. For twenty-five years and now she's ninety Uh there's no way it's going to happen now. Now fast forward and imagine how Mary must have felt when an angel told her that she was already pregnant while she was a virgin. This is the total other end of the scale. Sarah is told she's going to have a child when she's really, really, really old, and it seems impossible. Mary's told that she's already pregnant and going to have a child even though she's a virgin. And that seems really impossible too. Uh in both cases, God's timing demonstrated beyond any doubt that both children were miracles of the Lord. In one case the the woman was much too old to have children. In the other case, the woman was a virgin and so couldn't possibly have children. In both cases, biologically, humanly, uh impossible for the for there to be children. And in both cases, God's timing demonstrates the miraculous nature of these two children. Okay, so uh now we come to the last incident in Abraham's life that we're going to take a look at. And we're going to spend some time on this incident because this is really a gut wrencher. Chapter 22. So chapter 22 From the last verse of chapter 21 to the first verse of chapter 22, at least a decade goes by. So the word that's used for Isaac as a boy Um Hebrew scholars say that that word means he's older than thirteen and younger than twenty-one. So he's past bar mitzvah age, that Hebrew word for lad or boy, but he's not yet 21, the age for military service. So he's a teenager. And so a bunch of time has warped between the end of chapter 21 and the beginning of chapter 22. And Isaac is now a teenager. So, uh if we turn to chapter 22, let's take a look at this scripture, because this is really unbelievable. Um this chapter of scripture is really packed. uh with meaning. So we need to take a close look at it. So chapter twenty two Starting in verse 1, now it came about after these things, so a bunch of time passed here, that God tested Abraham and said to him, Abraham And he said, Here I am. He said, Take now your son, your only son, whom you love, Isaac, and go to the land of Moriah. And offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I will tell you So Abraham rose early in the morning and saddled his donkey and took two of his young men with him and Isaac his son. And he split wood for the burnt offering, and arose and went to the place of which God had told him. On the third day Abraham raised his eyes and saw the place from a distance. Abraham said to the young man, Stay here with the donkey, and I and the lad will go over there, and we will worship and return to you. Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on Isaac, his son, and he took in his hand the fire and the knife. So the two of them walked on together. Isaac spoke to Abraham his father and said, My father. And he said, Here I am, my son. And he said, Behold the fire in the wood. But where is the lamb for the burnt offering? Abraham said, God will provide for himself the lamb for the burnt offering, my son. So the two of them walked on together. Then they came to the place of which God had told him, and Abraham built the altar there and arranged the wood. and bound his son Isaac and laid him on the altar on top of the wood. Abraham stretched out his hand and took the knife to slay his son. But the angel of the Lord called to him from heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham. And he said, Here I am. He said, Do not stretch out your hand against the lad, and do nothing to him. For now I know that you fear God, since you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me. Then Abraham raised his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him a ram caught in the thicket by his horns. And Abraham went and took the ram and offered him up for a burnt offering in the place of his son. Abraham called the name of that place, the Lord will provide. As it is said to this day, in the mount of the Lord it will be provided. Wow! That is an unusual story, an unusual request. An unusual command. It's not a request. It's a command. He doesn't say, well, you know, if you're up to it, Abraham, go sit. No, he commands him to go sacrifice his son. So what is going on here? How could a loving God do this? Tell the father to go kill his own son. How do we reconcile that? So let's do a quick overview and then we'll dive into some more detail. So God tests Abraham by commanding him to sacrifice Isaac on the top of a mountain in the land of Moriah. Abraham obeys. And he makes a three-day journey and he goes there with his servants, and then he leaves his servants at the bottom of the mountain, and he goes up with Isaac. Uh he lays the wood on Isaac. Uh he so Isaac carries the wood, Abraham carries the knife and the fire. Uh Isaac notices, hey, there's something missing here. We got wood, we got fire, but we where's the offering? Abraham says God will provide. When they reach the destination, he builds the altar, he binds Isaac, puts him on the wood, and gets ready to kill him. Um he's about to sacrifice and um i i the angel of the lord tells him to stop. And so um Just as a a side historical note here, um once upon a time the greatest artists thought that the greatest thing that they could paint was depictions of events from the Bible. That once upon a time that was what great artists did. And so there are many great paintings of events from the Bible, including this one. Laurent Delahere uh did one called Abraham Sacrificing Isaac. So He this this event here gets depicted in a in a painting. Now Rembrandt, one of the most famous painters of all time, uh also painted this event. Um and this painting is very interesting. It's um it's it's kind of uh stylized a little bit because you end up you get um there's Isaac and there's there's um Abraham with a knife and the angel reaches out and grabs his arm and the knife falls out of his hand Um so it's kind of a really dramatic depiction of the event. Uh that's Rembrandt. Rembrandt painted that. Um the greatest painters took the greatest subjects as the most important things to paint. And the greatest subjects were the events from the Bible. So Of course, Abraham notices that there's a ram caught in the thicket, and he calls the place the Lord will provide, Jehovah Jirah. The that God will provide. Um and then he of course he confirms his covenant with Abraham again. Uh we didn't didn't read that part, but he does after this. So That's a big overview. Let's take a look at some of the details that come out in this description in the time we have left. So uh imagine how shocked Abraham must have been. So he he's he's He's finally made it across the finish line. He's waited on the Lord. 25 years. He has this son. And then the son's growing up. The son survives his early childhood. He has a big feast Another ten years go by, the the boy's growing up, he's a teenager now, and one day, out of the blue, God appears to him and tells him to go kill his son. The very son whom God had promised for so many years, the one through whom Abraham was to produce a great nation, God tells him to go sacrifice them. How could God's promise come to pass if Isaac was to die so young? It doesn't make sense. Yet God's purposes are often bigger than we can understand. And there are occasions when he calls his people to do things that make no logical sense to our finite minds. At such times, we're called to imitate Abraham, to trust and obey. So Abraham has been through a lot with the Lord. over all these years. Twenty-five years and now another uh I don't know, he's maybe thirteen, fourteen, fifteen years old. So after the birth of Isaac now another, say, fifteen years has gone by. He's been through a lot with the Lord. And he's come to the point where Abraham has been, his faith has been molded by the Lord to the point where God tells him to do this And he immediately obeys. No question. He gets up early in the morning. So the scripture makes clear that this is a test of Abraham's faith. Now It doesn't it probably uh it was probably very difficult for Abraham to see it that way. Uh it's easy for us when we're reading it from thousands of years later to see, oh, okay, that's a test of Abraham's faith But what about when you're right in it? What about those of you who are fathers? What what if what if God told you to sacrifice your son? I have a son. That's very difficult to imagine. But Abraham has come to the point where his faith has been built up and encouraged by the trials that he's been through for twenty-five years waiting on the Lord and seeing that the Lord was faithful, that he trusts and obeys this outlandish command. of the Lord. So uh notice the strong acknowledgement in verse two. Take a look at verse two, the the kind of way that that God describes Isaac, your son, your only son whom you love. How God describes that. It's as though the Lord is letting Abraham know that he understood just how painful and costly this was. Indeed, God Himself would one day undergo the same kind of torture, and his son would actually go through with the sacrifice. And that's really the purpose that this is in the scriptures. is to to provide an analogy for what the Lord, what it costs the Lord to provide for redemption for our sins. Uh it's interesting, this is a a side note, uh that Sarah does not appear in this account at all. But remember that the main purpose for which the Holy Spirit prompted Moses to include this incident is to paint a picture of the eventual sacrifice of the Son of God. And there's a no analogy of Sarah in that uh that picture. The the the thing that he's pointing forward to It's God the Father and God sacrificing God the Son. There's no analogy to Sarah there. Um and so she's not included in the original event because there's just no analogy to her in in the event that this is pointing forward to. Okay, uh notice Abraham's response. He rose early in the morning and went to the place which God had told him. No delay. He he doesn't argue, he doesn't delay, he doesn't say, well Lord just think about that Um, you know, he he had remember this is we didn't go we didn't study this in detail, but this is the Abraham that kind of argued with God about destroying Sodom and Gomorrah. If there's forty there with you, if there's thirty here. He he he doesn't do anything like that when it's his own son who's going to be sacrificed because Abraham's faith has been built up over these decades of um of watching the Lord's faithfulness, of seeing the Lord's faithfulness. His faith has been built up to the point where God tells him to do something outrageous, and he gets up early in the morning and goes and does it No arguing, no delaying, he simply obeyed immediately. So God had commanded Abraham to travel to a distant mount, Mount Moriah, which is in Jerusalem. Which seems odd, since there were plenty of high places near Beersheba where he was living. There's lots of mountains there. Why did he not just tell him to hike up the mountain that was out the backside of his tent So, but God had a purpose. Every detail here is heavy with symbolism It was a three-day journey, providing a picture of the death and resurrection of Christ. A three-day journey. Remember, this whole thing is talking about the sacrifice of Christ. It's pointing forward It's a type of the sacrifice of Christ. So a three-day journey fits. God could have used the mountain right next to his tent. Instead he used the mountain a three-day jersey journey away. So it's three days. Also, Mount Moriah is exactly where Abraham's descendant Solomon would build the temple. Mount Moriah is where the temple was built. It's where it's the Temple Mount to this day that the Dome of the Rock uh mosque is there, built right on top of this site. uh to this day. Uh but that's where Solomon built the temple, 2 Chronicles 3. 1. So that's where God had Abraham go and built an altar for sacrifice right where what would become the center of the Old Testament sacrifice system. So God he engineered every single detail of this event A three-day journey right to where the temple was going to be built, right where the center of the sacrificial system would be. It's almost as if God knew what he was doing. Almost. Yeah. So yes, God has this whole thing, this whole this event is is just perfectly arranged by God to point forward. to point forward to the sacrifice of Christ on the cross. So um In verse 5, we see another demonstration of Abraham's faith as he says to the servants who made the trip with him to the bottom of the mountain: Stay here, we will worship and return to you. So he says that he and Isaac are going to come back down. He tells him, he has faith that that's going to happen. Abraham had absolute faith and confidence that God would fulfill his promise to make a great nation out of Isaac. Therefore, he knew that somehow he would return with his son. Yet he was also anticipating that he would have to put his son to death. Two things that seem completely contradictory. But we we get a glimpse into what Abraham was actually thinking in Hebrews chapter 11. So Hebrews chapter 11, 17 to 19 says, by faith Abraham, when he was tested, remember this is a test of his faith, offered Isaac, and he who had received the promises was offering up his only begotten son. It was he to whom it had been said, in Isaac, your descendants shall be called. So God had very specifically promised Abraham that his descendants would be through Isaac. And Abraham knew that. He knew that that was the promise of God. And so here in the New Testament, the Bible tells us that he, Abraham, considered that God is able to raise people even from the dead. From which he also received him, Isaac back as a type, as a type of the resurrection of Christ Um he received Isaac back, back from the dead. Of course he didn't actually die, but he was about to kill him, and he received him back as if from the dead, and the Bible says that this is a type of Christ's resurrection. So there's so much symbolism in here uh in this incident here But this gives us a glimpse into Abraham's thinking, why he could both believe that he was going to go up there and sacrifice his son and that he was going to come back down with his son. The Bible tells us that Abraham believed that God would raise Isaac from the dead. Even if Abraham actually went through and killed him, God would bring him back from the dead because Abraham had such rock steady faith by this point in God's promise that his descendants would be numbered through Isaac that he believed that even if he killed Isaac, God would raise him back from the dead and Isaac would have lots of kids. So that's what the Bible says was happening here in Abraham's mind. So notice a few more things. We only have a few minutes left. So notice that Isaac carried the wood, just as Christ carried the wood of the cross. More symbolism. Isaac carried the wood. Christ carried the wood of his cross. Every detail engineered by God to point forward to the sacrifice of Christ. Abraham carried the knife and the fire, two symbols of God's wrath. Jesus bore the full brunt of God's wrath on the cross, as opposed to Isaac, so there's differences, similarities and differences. As opposed to Isaac, who was spared the knife and the fire, the symbols of God's wrath. Jesus was not. Jesus got the full brunt of God's wrath on the cross. So imagine, if you will, once again, try to put yourself into Abraham's shoes as he's walking up that mountain. Uh imagine the emotions that had to surge through Abraham as he carried in his own hand the weapon that he was planning to use at God's command to kill his own son. And so this picture is supposed to provide us With a glimpse, a small portion, a small understanding of what it costs God, Father and Son, to pay for our sins. That's why this is in here. For us to get a glimpse to try to put ourselves into Abraham's shoes so that we can we can try to imagine how awful that must have been for him to climb up that mountain knowing that he'd been command and that he was gonna obey God's command to kill his own son. And then think about what it s this is symbolizing. This is symbolizing God's actual sacrifice of his son on the cross and how awful that must have been for both father and son. Um God the Father and God the Son, and to pay for our sins. So, uh Isaac, he asked about his father's plans only once. And then complied without further comment. He lets this 120-year-old guy strap him down onto, you know, this is a a teenager, and his father is You know, hit whatever Isaac's age is plus a hundred. So if Isaac's fifteen, his dad's a hundred and fifteen. Um do you think a hundred and fifteen year old man really could have If the 15-year-old didn't want to be tied down, that he would have been able to tie him down? I don't think so. Um So he asks father his father once about the plans, and then he complies without further comment Christ prayed, Father, if you are willing, remove this cup from me, yet not my will, but yours be done. Once he had prayed and asked, Christ simply obeyed and went to the cross. In verse 8, we have another manifestation of Abraham's faith when he says, God will provide for himself the Lamb. The presence of a sacrificial lamb, which served as a substitute for Isaac, typifies the substitutionary sacrifice of Christ, who died in the place of sinners who deserved to die. Once again, God orchestrated every single minute detail of this incident to provide a picture of the sacrifice of Christ. Abraham's faith and obedience in this instance is remarkable. He's gone through his faith has been tested and uh over these years, and it's been God has used this all the incidents of his life to shape and form and mold Abraham to the point where he's obedient, even in this case of offering up his son. Um even to the point where he stretched out his hand and took the knife to slay his son, is is what the Bible tells us here So Abraham demonstrated through his actions that his love and reverence for God superseded even his deepest human relationships. Um and so this is the the final lesson of Abraham's life is that Abraham's faith is to the point where His faith, his his love for God exceeds all his human loves for relationships. And so Um and Jesus says a similar thing during his uh earthly ministry. If anybody um doesn't hate his mother and father, uh then he's not uh he's not worthy to be my disciple. And and what Christ's point is that the love for him has to be above any of our human love for any of our human relationships. And Abraham demonstrates that here in this incident. So as a picture of Christ this looks forward to the fact that God would not withhold his only son in redeeming mankind from sin, uh God It stays Abraham's hand, but of course God actually went through with the sacrifice. Uh the ultimate truth that God is demonstrating is uh here and so the ultimate that's the ultimate picture that he's painting. The ultimate truth for us uh today is that no man can offer a sacrifice that will atone for his own sins. Never mind the sins for others. So uh it it would not have s saved anything if Isaac had been killed. I Isaac could not be sacrificed for people's sins. So God stopped it because there was no point. He goes through with it with Christ because then there's a point. The sacrifice of Christ actually does cover sins. Sacrifice of Isaac would not have done that God stops it. Sacrifice of Christ actually does cover sins, atone for sins, and he goes forward with it. Only Christ's perfect sacrifice could accomplish that, the final sacrifice God Himself provided for mankind. So Jesus gave himself as that sacrifice, dying on the cross in our place to pay the final price for our sins. And so at the end of this passage of Scripture in Genesis 22, 14, it says, the Lord will provide. And so that points forward to the Lord providing the Lamb, not just a lamb, but the Lamb, as the ultimate sacrifice for our sins. So One of the lessons for us then is that God sometimes calls us to costly obedience. Most likely he's not going to tell you to sacrifice your son. Because the whole purpose for that was to point forward to the cross. And that's already done. So he doesn't need an illustration of that in your life. Thank goodness. Um but he will s he he could sometimes call for an obedience that has a price And in 2 Corinthians chapter 4 we have Paul talking about this paying a price in this world where he says, for momentary light affliction is producing for us an eternal weight of glory. far beyond all comparison. Well we look not at the things which are seen, but the the things which are not seen, for the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal For we know that if the earthly tent, which is our house, is torn down, we have a building from God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. So, um I left uh twenty-five seconds for questions. Sorry about that. Um d does anybody have any w question or comment about anything we've studied from the life of Abraham. Yes. Yeah, so um There there's um there really aren't any new sins uh under the sun. I mean the the the kinds of things that people do uh to disobey God tend to repeat Um you know, our our disobedience comes in uh in these um these patterns. And we can see that in the Old Testament, that there's patterns of disobedience that repeat themselves. And the reason why they're recorded is for us to be aware. For us to have some awareness of what kinds of things people have always done to disobey God and to be on guard against those sort of things. And so that's why we get all these examples. uh in the Bible, th these exam even of people that are kind of the heroes of the faith. Uh, you know, you get somebody like David, the man after God's own heart, the person that's you know, he he's the he's the great king of Israel, he's the uh you know, it's Jesus will have the throne of David, all these sort of things, but then he commits adultery and murders a guy. Um, you know, pretty pretty awful sins um that he falls into. Um and and there's a warning there for us. No matter no matter where you are in your spiritual life, um you can be caught up in sin. And you know, with David, of course, we get the great example of his repentance, his repentance that's recorded in Psalm 51. Created me a clean heart, O Lord. Renew a steadfast spirit of me. Do not take from me your Holy Spirit. His repentance, his very sincere repentance. Now He didn't repent until after he got caught. Right? So he goes he goes a pretty long way. He he he has commits adultery, tries to cover it up by murdering the guy. And he he doesn't repent until after Nathan the prophet comes and confronts him over it. Then he repents. But still, it's a sincere repentance. But that's the story of a great man of God, murder and adultery. A great man of God. So Abraham likewise has these failures But we see at the end of his life that through all the his interactions with the Lord, his faith is unbelievably strong at the end here. By the end here. To obey God in an outrageous circumstance. Okay. Uh let me c let me close this with prayer.