And Eber also, Eber lived um almost uh most of Jacob's life. That's the language, evidently, that they spoke was Eber's language. He went to Gerar. But if you remember, the family kind of stopped in northern Syria in a place called Haran, and he sends his uh servant back up there to find a wife. So the servant has been with Abraham for many, many, many years, and he's seen Abraham interact with God, and the servant prays And the youngest Jacob, which means heel, because he's grasping the heel as he comes out. Uh he has a dream and we'll talk about that a stare way to heaven. The incident that we talked about last time with Isaac going to Gerar, that was Genesis chapter 26. uh the newsy tablets uh that demonstrate that birthrights were transferable by sale. And Genesis 27 comes back to Jacob and Esau. The birthright is tied to the inheritance and the promises of God that go with this lineage. He blessed him and said, See, the smell of my son is like the smell of a field which the Lord has blessed. For though the twins were not yet born and had not done anything good or bad, so that God's purpose according to his choice would stand, not because of works, but because of him who calls people. and when he first goes down to Egypt. the different the two countries that were fighting were using a different calendar. to to get his brother to sell him the birthright. So uh but first a review of last week. Uh we pointed out last time that Shem, who was born before the flood, so knew what it was like before the flood, knew what it was like to be on that ark for a year, knew what it was like to come off the ark into the post-flood world And Isaac and Jacob could have heard directly from great-great-great-great grandpappy Shem what it was like before the flood, what it was like during the flood, what it was like coming off the ark. And he marries both of those first cousins, Jacob Will. The same ones he'd given to Abraham. And so Abraham sends a servant. Uh and he takes this big uh load of gifts to be the bride price. That it be a girl that come out and give him water and water's camels. who has not forsaken his loving kindness and his truth toward my master. Uh, even when it's just twins and they're only w one's only a few minutes older than the other. And that's going to be important when we do our lesson today. It was said to her, the older will serve the younger, just as it is written, Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated The people of the promised, the Messiah is going to come from Jacob the second son, not Esau the first son. He he gets a taste of his own medicine with his Uncle Laban. uh chapter twelve famine that was the test for Abraham in chapter twenty-six the test for Isaac and at the end um Abraham failed his test of faith. And he tells them, I will bless you with these blessings. in the scripture. And uh Jacob says he's 130 at that point. He was thirty when he was standing in front of Pharaoh. That was when, so she was 90 when Isaac was born, so Isaac was 37. The usual way we look at that story, it seems like Isaac's about to die. That we have today, it's upcorrect. And so there are some issues like that when you go back and look at calendars. and go back. It was the was the youngest one that I found with with him being fifty seven. uh forgive or just let bygones be bygones. He kind of outwits uh his brother Esau. the younger. And Jacob was the one that Rebecca really favored. Uh the birthright was a very important matter in the ancient Near East. For example, if there were three children, then they would divide the inheritance into four parts. That's what he does. Describes him. uh Esau. Rebekah said to her son Jacob, Behold, I heard your father speak to your brother Esau, saying, Bring me some game and prepare a savory dish for me. Chapter 27 of the last two verses of chapter 26. And it says, and they made life bitter for Isaac and that happened to me. Yes, so Esau, the immoral and godless man, has married immoral and godless women from Canaan. uh supplying group. Ishmael way. Isaac appears still to favor him over Jacob. to steal the blessing by subterfuge. So maybe she kept it a secret, but that would seem like to me something she would probably share with her husband. What happens if I get caught? Uh he points out to Rebecca that Esau's Harry and he's smooth. She adds another layer to the plot where she brings the best garments, probably his ceremonial robes of Esau that would have smelled like him Uh the first thing Isaac asks is, Who are you? Uh in Genesis 25-23, God had promised Rebekah that the older son Esau would eventually serve the younger son Jacob, and it comes about. Uh so he's a lot of cooling off to do before his father dies. So anybody have any questions or comments about these events from the beginning of our look at the like of life of Jacob? Rebecca's father, uh says hey, it is not customary for our people to uh give the younger before older children. Oh I don't think I think it's wrong. Well one custom where Abraham was as a foreigner, there was a family custom, and then there was the custom in uh in the area of Haran. Through there there's uh he's got the red hair, uh Harry Harry Red com as he was born, it says he was hairy and red. Yeah. He was still alive. Uh and to see what it was like to have everybody speaking the same language and then everybody all of a sudden confused and not being able to hear and pe and people spreading out. uh the son of Abraham and Sarah, uh and then he remarried Rebekah and that was his cousin's daughter. And Rebecca is the daughter of Isaac's first cousin, and that's who he marries. uh later on. He prays and then she gets pregnant. these bit the fact that she has twins and a little bit about these these boys that she's gonna have. And God answers Isaac's prayer. Uh she doesn't understand what's happening to her, so she goes to the Lord. Get the inheritance and and be in charge of the family. Uh God has a different plan and he's not going by um man's he's not going to use man's structure. And Paul uses this as a teaching point in Romans chapter nine. uh that was that did not enter into God's calculation according to Romans chapter nine. And he f you know, it was a huge embarrassing failure. Now Isaac gets the same test. People ask many times that why if God knows what we're going to do, then why does He allow us to go through it, you know, like and so I think that's kind of like uh the man that uh God needs him to be to be the father of his people. We'll s so we'll see. these events to build up Jacob's faith and to sh actually to show him the flaws in his own character. Uh so Jacob, there's some so Isaac lives 180 years, Abraham 175, Jacob lives to be 147, and at the end of his life he he's uh kind of for when for how old Jacob was when he went to Laban. Um and then we we get some very specific gauges for Jacob at the end. He seems to be on his deathbed, he's blind and you know, he's feeble and all that kind of stuff. And he lives to be 180. Um I the Isaac goes on to live to be 180. If you read um if you read accounts of the wars between France and England in the 1500s, for example, um the French and the English used a different calendar and it was a different day What year was Abraham and Isaac and Jacob if we try to fix it to our calendar? It's uh it's not an exact science to to pin that down like that. Uh and he's got his scriptures for why he thinks that, that he thinks there was a seven years and a seven years and a six years and then there was another twenty years where he was looking after the flock. That was the that was the biggest age spread I could find um in timelines. Uh and so the Jacob's family, uh we'll get we won't get to the details of this today, but uh Jacob ends up marrying four wives. Um and he's afraid of something that uh this is another crisis of faith, where he doesn't trust God, he he's afraid. and rose and went on his way. be blessed by the Lord, protected by the Lord, would be uh become a great nation, and would bless all the other nations. And so anybody that's got more than one child knows that this is uh reality, that you you can have um I you know, I don't um There's no twins in my family, but I have been told by those who have twins and I remember growing up when I was in in the society of the day, um that was most likely what was um regarding his birthright. Uh E Esau was an outdoors kind of guy. uh is exactly what he does here. to put on something like this birthright, uh to fulfill an to an instant gratification of his of his of his current need, a a temporary My my stomach's empty, I gotta fill it, so who cares about you know what I'll get uh twenty, thirty, forty, fifty years from now? the the blessing that was supposed to go to the firstborn, uh Jacob steals it and it's Rebecca and Jacob together scheming up an idea of how to steal it. So he's old, but he's going to live many more years. And prepare a savory dish for me, such as I love, and bring it to me that I may eat, so that my soul may bless you before I die. that I may eat and bless you in the presence of the Lord before my death. So he went and got them and brought them to his mother, and his mother made savory food such as his father loved. Then he came to his father and said, My father, and he said, Here I am. And she put the skins of the young goats on his hands and on the smooth part of his neck. Be master of your brothers, and may your mother's sons bow down to you. So let's take a look at the uh so there's four people involved in this and all of them um all of them are flawed. So he asked Esau to hunt and prepare meat and bring it to him so that he can bless him. caused life to be bitter for Isaac and Rebecca still Isaac favors him and once they give him the blessing. uh Esau. Uh he's been told over and over and over again by God that it's through Isaac that your descendants are going to be numbered. w we come later on into Abraham's life and he has another wife, Keturah, and he has many more children, and he sends them away. Um and of course some of that, like the separate sending Ishmael away, is um is something that God tells him he should do uh to send for me. She came for the older shops for the younger right. to for his will to be accomplished, he still makes it yes, he still makes it work for good and we'll see that at the very end of the book of Genesis, Genesis fifty. Who who knows? This particular blessing was about who was going to serve who. Uh Rebecca should have gone and discussed what the Lord had said about these two boys, but no, she she comes up with a scheme instead. Yeah, so it's a family prayer thing about these kids. And she puts the skins of the goats that she just cooked on his arms and on his neck. Uh Isaac is fooled and he thinks it really is Esau. uh calls for God to bring forth creation's pr produce for his son, the dew of heaven, the fatness of earth, the abundance of grain and new wine. by sinful means, but it comes about. And she says, now therefore my son, obey my voice, arise, flee to Haran to my brother Laban, stay with him a few days. This is the last we ever see of Rebecca. uh fear and doubt in his mind. uh region maybe had different customs that uh they held to and therefore Abraham is because he's he's a foreigner as well. Uh and then we'll hear we'll we'll figure out or or we'll see that uh Esau bore a grudge about all this, uh which And so pretty much all the children of Tira, one way or another, were uh ancestors of Jesus. for his son Isaac. from Canaan uh to the northeast up into what is today the very northern part of Syria. God has led him to the person that he's supposed to bring to be his master's son's wife. Uh and he explains all this to Rebecca's relatives. And so uh we talked about some details of these of this story, um the fact that uh Abraham specific the servant has some doubts, but Abraham um tells the servant that God will be with you. So we see that that's not always the case. uh before he was finished speaking in his heart. when he marries Rebecca. And so Isaac knows about the promise that uh Abraham is supposed to have these descendants that are like the stars of the sky and and they're so definitely supposed to come through Isaac and he has no kids And now he's sixty. And the Bible uh makes a curious uh pronouncement that that Isaac's marriage to Rebecca brings comfort to Isaac after the death of his mother. And so it's been three years since his mother died. We have a kind of a similar theme that here is a there's been a promise by the Lord of all these descendants, and the one that's supposed to be the ancestor of all these descendants is not having any children Which one was going to be the ancestor of the Messiah and which one was not going to be the ancestor of the Messiah? 25 is an example to demonstrate the doctrine of election, God's election, the fact that it's God who decides. Rebecca's in danger and uh but the Lord rescues her. But they have struggles uh in in in in the midst of that. Um i at the so Abraham's last test is to sacrifice his son Isaac, and and God knows that Abraham's faith has been built up to where he's going to pass this test. Uh it's for his good, it's for his encouragement that he's that God takes him through this event, so Abraham sees that his faith has really gotten Right. Uh so the Lord takes him through various things to get him to train him up and get him uh to build up his faith to the point where he is He complains about it. Just like the famine that happened in Genesis chapter twelve, which was Abraham's test of faith. he steals this we'll see, he steals this birthright, uh he steals the blessing, um from Esau and then when when Laban does a similar thing to Jacob later on, uh Jacob doesn't like it at all. He he's standing before Pharaoh and Pharaoh asks him how old he is. Uh so yeah, his uh you know, his grandfather Abraham and his father Isaac lived longer than he did. Joseph is born. fled to Haran when he got married and when he had his kids. uh Laban. when he goes to to Laban, then that means that uh Isaac was between, say, a hundred and fifteen and a hundred and thirty five. uh after these events of of the blessing. uh and backs it up with scripture. But when Joseph is born. Uh no matter which timeline you go by, he lives for at least forty-five more years after after this. There were differences in the calendars that were used in different countries even all the way up through the, say, the fifteenth and sixteen hundreds. not say we know exactly what year that was. And uh Esau seems to at least have mellowed with age a little bit. But to say it's, you know, 2142 BC or whatever, um yeah, because we have different calendars being used in different places and in different times How Jacob and Esau uh interacted when Jacob returned with his family. And um and so the boys have gone but from you know, either in their fifties to their nineties or from their seventies to their nineties Not from Rachel, the one that was the preferred wife, but from the very f the first wife. Zu Billah and Zilfa as well. He has this reunion with Esau after all these decades have gone by. So their the lives of Jacob and in incidents in Jacob's life and e and Isaac's life are mingled a little bit because They're already adults because they were adults in Genesis chapter 25, so they're still adults in Genesis chapter 26. They may have been there also, but it doesn't say. When Jacob had cooked stew, Esau came in from the field and he was famished. For I am famished. And Jacob said, First swear to me. Another primary point of this account is given at the very end, the very end of this passage we just read, and that's the careless and indifferent attitude of Esau. you know, was favored and admired i as a characteristic for a man and perhaps even today is the the rugged outdoorsman hunter kind of guy. elementary school and junior high and high school there was a set of twins in my class were my classmates and boy were they different. where where there's a favorite. If there were four children, you would divide the inheritance into five parts, and the oldest would get forty percent, and the next three would get twenty and twenty and twenty. So that's how they did inheritance. uh need, he's willing to give away something that's very valuable in the long run. uh to deceive Isaac. that he called his older son Esau, older by a few minutes, and said to him, My son, and he said to him, Here I am. Isaac said, Behold now I am old, and I do not know the day of my death. Go now to the flock and bring me two choice young goats from there, that I may prepare them as a savory dish for your father, such as he loves. Then you shall bring it to your father, that he may eat, so that he may bless you before his death. Perhaps my father will feel me, then I will be as a deceiver in his sight, and I will bring upon myself a curse and not a blessing. I have done as you told me. So he said, Bring it to me, and I will eat of my son's game that I may bless you. Now may God give you the dew of the heaven and of the fatness of the earth, and an abundance of grain and new wine, may peoples serve you, and nations bow down to you. from the father to the eldest son. Uh there's no sugar coating it. He did not recognize him because his hands were hairy, like his brother Esau's hands. So Isaac he's grown old, he's physically blind. Yes, yeah. Right. somehow, some way be able to overlook the faults of their children, sometimes to the detriment of those children. Um and it seems to be something that um is difficult for Abraham to do, uh, because it seems like he does care for Ishmael. then sometimes that gets passed down and we see Isaac and Rebecca in this story of going to Gerar and lying about his wife being his sister. And so uh tha that can't be a a happenstance. And they remember that they have just been praying as a family about this because um the the Hebrew construct that when i when Isaac is praying about her having children, it's in front of her when Joseph's brothers are cowering and quaking in front of him, he says, You meant it for evil, God meant it for good. His faith has been molded by extreme circumstances. So this is a married couple that knows each other pretty well. Isaac can say, hey, the Lord said that the oldest was so when you're given this blessing, the Lord says that the older is going to serve the younger. Jacob comes up with a potential flaw in this plan. She elas his fear by appropriating any potential curse on herself. Uh so he's ready. He can't see, but he can hear. And so that he can touch and smell in. Um but at the end he eats the food and he blesses him. So no matter what people do, the thing that God said would happen has happened. But he's actually blessing the younger just like God said he would. Cursed be those who curse you and blessed be those who bless you. Um all kinds of sorts of problems for everybody involved. She there's there's no indication that she ever sees him again. She never sees any of her grandkids. Um and from his brother. Um revealed himself to Jacob and worked in the life of Jacob. And in fact the word Hebrew comes from descendants of Eber, the Eber Ooze. He marries Rebecca, Rebecca gives birth to Esau and Jacob. The death of Abraham comes right before, is recorded in the Bible right before these events. He's going to use his own, the counsel of his own will in this case. Abraham, if you remember, in Genesis chapter 12, there was a famine in Canaan, and Abraham goes down to Egypt, and the Bible specifically says it was a test of his faith. Um but God uses them anyway. to the point where he's really faithful and obedient to the Lord. He tells the the people of the town of Gerar that Rebecca's his sister, because he's afraid. Uh so this is the same kind of test and and in fact in the scripture in this chapter, chapter twenty-six, it actually refers back to it says there's a famine in the land And through your descendants all the nations of the earth will be blessed, which is the pointing forward to the Messiah. So and some of the timelines uh quite frankly don't fit that. when he's stealing the blessing. So and he is sixty when the boys are born, and so he lives, you know, till the boys are a hundred and twenty. Yeah, so good question. uh a different day of the week and a different day uh on the calendar depending on whose account you're reading. So that's his life. Now Isaac loved Esau because he had a taste for game, but Rebekah loved Jacob. Um and so in the thinking of the time, uh Esau was the firstborn and uh therefore had the birthright. Um those were the two main things for the birthright in the ancient Near East. Turn to Genesis chapter 27. 115 and may have been as much as 135. Um and also to wear his clothes and to put sheepskin on his arms and his neck and so that he can fool Isaac into blessing him instead. Um yeah. talked to him many times about this over the years and she just knew that Isaac was not gonna listen. And it's coming about, as we mentioned, by a sinful activity, by sinful activity of sinful people, God's will is still being done accomplish these purposes without their help. A few days he says. It ends up bringing about the purposes of God, but there are consequences for the people involved. is kind of understandable. We're just going to do a few events from from his, we're going to do an overview of his life and a few events from his life today. And so uh only a only very little in the scripture about Isaac. um kind of commonly known as the heroes of the faith, and they have struggles, they have doubts, they have lapses in their faith. Um and later he's uh the king of the of the town sees uh him uh caressing his wife and So just to put the chronology, I don't know, it is kind of small still. The Hebrew word used for lad going out into the field to get his mandrakes is for somebody who's older than thirteen. Sometime earlier, sometime when they were obviously younger than that, so maybe forty or so. But the ages are not in there. At least 45 more years. And he wants to hurry up and give the blessing to Esau because he thinks he's about to die. Um but the calendar that um the Gregorian calendar is kind of the the modern calendar, but there were um imagined uh response from Esau that's not there. to uh kind of wrangle the birthright from uh Esau. about these two boys. Um he disregards his he he despised his birthright. Uh Jacob was the peaceful man living in tents, uh the mama's boy, essentially. The Bible doesn't go into that aspect of it too much. And second, uh the right meant that when the father died, the firstborn would assume headship of the family. Um and so this was evidently this was a thing. Then his father Isaac said to him, Please come close and kiss me, my son. It's the it's the reason given for sending Jacob to get a wife, just like uh Abraham sent the servant to get Isaac a wife from away from there Yeah. She doesn't bring that up here in this incident and try to reason with Isaac. So they've been married at least, what is that, 70 years? So our sin cannot overcome God's will. son and his wife and his mother are buried in the cave of Makpila, which is here in near Hebron and Mamre. Um so he goes, he makes this trip and he takes ten camels loaded with stuff, booty, uh gold, gold and silver, uh that sort of thing. Uh he gives the gifts, he stays the night with her father's house. Um and so uh Rebecca goes with him back uh to to meet Isaac and they see each other. After he has failed his test of faith, God brings him encouragement. But there and so we know how old he was when he died, we know how old he was when he went down to Egypt, but it's a little bit more tricky to figure out how old he was when he Joseph was born when Jacob was about 90, 90 or 91. So he lives till his sons are 120. And uh I just want you to notice that um the the what I call the real wife, the first wife, Leah. And he said, Because the Lord your God caused it to happen to me. Um I I think we do see that continuing all the way to our our present day. And he um he he makes a vow that he's gonna kill uh his brother Jacob once his father dies. Same thing happened to Abraham. The Lord says, two nations are in your womb, and two peoples will be separated from your body, and one people will be stronger than the other, and the older shall serve the younger. And has, uh, let's see, he has 11 kids before Joseph. But it seems like there was a a lot of time there for him to cool off and not uh take revenge. That's where the priesthood comes from, Levi, and that's where the line of the Messiah, Judah, comes from. Um and then his name is changed to Israel. Esau said, Behold, I am about to die, so what of what use then is the birthright to me? Now, older and younger is kind of relative here. There's also a contrast between the two boys. And Esau demands food and Jacob sees an opportunity. encouraging and building up his faith through various uh tr trials and testings, but the fact is Jacob was a man of faith and Esau was an immoral and godless person. But his mother said to him, Your curse be on me, my son, only obey my voice, and go get them for me Then Rebekah took the best garments of Esau, her elder son, which were with her in the house, and put them on Jacob, her younger son. So Jacob came close to Isaac his father and he felt him and said, The voice is the voice of Jacob, but the hands are the hands of Esau. People serve you, nations bow down to you, masters of your uh be the master of your brothers, and your brothers' sons bow down to you. So here we are, back to this review of Isaac. So yes, so his twin brother Esau of course was the same age. He's got a lot more hype still left. Yes. So uh Jacob he kind of he comes a c he comes up with a plan and he makes the plan on the spur of the moment. Yes. Her plot includes Jacob bringing her two goats from the flock, preparing the savory food. So that's his uh the the people that are descended from him are the Edomites. But today we're in all the way back in the book of Genesis. taking the birthright from Esau. So that's very harsh. Yes, that's exactly right. And that seems to all occur before he goes back to Canaan from Haran. And it says, when the boys grew up, so they grew up to be adults, Esau became a skillful hunter, a man of the field, but Jacob was a peaceful man living in tents. There is a lesson for us as parents there, if we have more than one child, that that if you if you have this kind of dynamic in a family, it can cause trouble. Um so um let's go to one more incident uh and this is a much longer incident. So there's some of these sort of things that we uh that become uh generational in family. And uh the chronology there we talked about that. And so that was Isaac's life and where he lived and that sort of thing. He prays to God to uh help him fulfill his task, but he gives a very specific request in the prayer. At least forty five years, more like fifty or sixty years after this. And so I think when we're when we're talking about the years, the the absolute year, what year was Abraham born, for example, I think we need to be cautious and In Hebrews 12, Esau is actually described as an immoral and godless person. So Hebrews chapter eleven is this great faith hall of fame, and then Hebrews chapter twelve it says, And don't be like I Esau, the immoral and godless person. So that's the story of this scheme, this plot to steal the birthright. So Jacob does, he deceives Isaac into thinking he's Esau and receives the blessing. I mean Hebrews chapter twelve calls him an immoral and godless man, and yet he's still Isaac's favorite. Here Isaac sit gives that same promise to Jacob He reaches Haran and he prays to God that God please show me who this uh this wife should be. So we have to we have to speculate a little bit about the timeline in Jacob's life. Okay. Uh okay, so uh this overview of Jacob's life, uh he he trades Esau for the birthright, he steals the blessing, he flees from Esau. So, um Esau's reply is an expression of his careless and indifferent attitude. Rebekah was listening while Isaac spoke to his son Esau. And so, uh, but Rebecca finds out that he's made this vow he's gonna kill Jacob and she comes up with a plan to get Jacob out of town. So that's the whole family tree there, and quite a few of the family tree are ancestors of Jesus, or in the line that produces the Messiah. Uh there's as I said, there's many timelines. Leah and her maid Zilpa, Rachel and her maid Bilha, and having 12 boys and one girl that we know of. Uh Rebecca here's a conversation and her favorite is Jacob. So I so the Bible doesn't say, uh but I assume that some I mean that's a pretty big life event. So the distinction was not because of human merit or innate human goodness. Then we looked at one other incident in the life of Isaac, and he had a testing of his faith just like Abraham did. When Isaac and Rebecca are in Gerar, uh Jacob and Esau are already uh adults. He says, Hey, I've got this you want this tasty stew? Yeah, although we do see that Isaac definitely has compassion for Ishmael and he he he resists sending Ishmael away, but God comes to Abraham and says, Listen to Sarah and do send him away. We also notice that the servant gives all the credit and the blessing and the glory and the honor to God. He yeah, he's a he's a conniving kind of uh s squirrely kind of guy and um and it'll be interesting as we wat as we step through his life to see that he gets um So the theme is now set in motion. Now, is that thoroughly uncommon uh among parents to be blind to the faults of their children or to So, and then we talked about a little bit of the the uh genealogy and uh every everybody in red here is an ancestor of Jesus. So there have been a number of calendars that have been used over the years. Uh Jacob was certainly not sinless. Yes, good point. Because they've been married a long time now, remember? So um there's there's less said about Isaac than there is about Abraham or Jacob or Joseph. And then we see that uh Rebecca's not having children. So there has to be thirteen years at least between the time he gets married and the time Joseph is born. So the the Holy Spirit reveals to the author of Hebrews what was really in the heart of Esau, that he was an immoral and godless person. He prays after the the after his first prayer is answered, he prays again, Blessed be the Lord, the God of my master Abraham. He prayed on behalf of his wife. Um but uh his son Jacob is a little different. Now he's ready. And next we're gonna see in in Genesis chapter 27 that he schemes together with his mother, it's really his mother's plan here, Rebecca So Genesis chapter 27, starting at the beginning of this story. So Beersheba's in the hill country, uh Garar's in the coastal plain. And so and that comes up again here uh in at the end of this incident we're talking about um He's gotten married at forty, now he's sixty, and he still has no kids. So the Lord also returns the common practice. So Eksaw comes in from hunting, he's really hungry. Abraham's getting kind of old so he doesn't go himself. Um but it's pretty obvious if you look step back and look at the big picture that the Lord's allowing him to go through So we're going to look at uh in the remaining time we're going to look at uh two incidents really. Not hey, this is wrong, I'm gonna be lying to my father, but what if I get caught? Uh he outlived Abraham, lived well into the lives of Isaac and Jacob. We know how old Joseph was when he died. The Bible tells us that he was thirty-seven years old when his mother Sarah died. Get up, please, sit and eat of my game, that you may bless me. Yeah. Any others? And he he reiterates the promises. Um there's a couple of things that are that are that are kind of fixed. Uh there will be animosity between the two brothers and the peoples coming from them. And the birthright, of course, is tied to the promises of God because God has promised that the descendants of Abraham and the descendants of Isaac will So Genesis chapter 25, we saw the birthright. She doesn't go to she doesn't go to Isaac and and reason with him and say, hey, the Lord told me that the younger is going to serve the the older. So nobody's uh nobody's without fault in this situation here. Uh he has an incident where he lies about his wife and um and then he dies at the age of a hundred and eighty And so that's where Haran is, uh in what's called the Fertile Crescent, the the area between the Euphrates River and the Tigris River. Now it's happening to Isaac as well. So he's and and we're gonna see through this life of Jacob that boy he needs it. That's the point I want to make. And you like calendar or how are they looking at it? So Rebecca and Jacob were trying to help God along. He he's a terrified of his brother when he comes back even though he has no reason to be. I think well so there's both. That's how they did they divided up the inheritance, the property and the money. He goes in to see his father to execute the plan. Uh she's has a difficult pregnancy, so she prays to the Lord and she gets a prophecy from the Lord about So the plot of the Jacob Esau story was given earlier in Genesis 25-23. So yes, so these kind of things of course can be generational. Right. Yeah, so the timelines are interesting, but we don't get we don't get perfect detail to be able to really figure out to the year exactly how old everybody is during this time uh when he goes to Sea Lake. Bible doesn't say. Um so yes, so there was there's a the vast difference occupation, personality, and character between these two boys. So yeah, so he's he's not a he's not a good he he is he fits in the So there's not specific ages for that sort of thing. He has the sons in uh Haran. And and everybody knows that this one's the favorite of the father, this one's the favorite of the mother, uh of problems. Everybody in this everybody all four people in this in this the event are guilty. And he says, I'm Esau. Sometimes God takes some time to answer, but in this case, he didn't take any time He goes to Gerar and he lies about his wife Rebecca and says it's his sister. Thus Esau despised his birthright. God molds them. So at the very least, he lives at least 45 more years after the blessing event. Um and then he goes back to Canaan, has this time in Canaan and uh Even though he's blind and you know, he it kind of the the the d the They're very, very different. Um she never sees 'em. So last week we really focused on Isaac, uh but we talked at the beginning of where this fits in the whole uh chronology of the book of Genesis. Uh so he seems really old and and worn down, but he's going to live another half century. Therefore his name was called Edom, which means red. And we'll talk about where that led. So before he's finished making this silent prayer, God is already answering it and sending Rebecca. But it's God who decided which one of these boys was going to be uh the ancestor of his people and which one was not going to be the ancestor of his people. He he he lies about his wife Sarah, you know, she's in danger, and the Lord rescues Sarah, but Abraham fails his test I will multiply your descendants as the stars of heaven, and I will um your descendants will have this land, and your descendants um And from that we can back up a little bit. So Rebecca's deceiving her husband, Jacob's deceiving his father to steal the blessing. Yes. Uh seventy when he goes to Lavan, seventy seven when uh he's married and so starts having kids, and then ninety or ninety one when he has Joseph and that that allows Reuben to be thirteen. Sure. Um so uh he asks for the birthright. He can use his other senses. And so they dived in to give help and it caused all sorts of problems, as we'll see He gets married and he's finally comfort. They're only a few minutes apart. Uh but he was a man of faith, uh the one through whom the seed of the woman would come. And so uh when you think about the events that we're going to talk about today, um this event where Isaac's son is So uh if you'll open your Bibles to Genesis chapter 25. So he swore to him and sold his birthright to Jacob. That kind of behavior probably stands could be outplayed And so I I think the the the biblical story is is saying here that this is the last Rebecca ever sees of Jacob So all kinds of consequences to this thing. The Hebrew there indicates that he prayed not only on her behalf, but in front of her, before her, in her presence. So e i at the very youngest he was fifty-seven when he's stealing the blessing. Isaac asks Esau to go out and hunt so that he can eat savory dish. We know uh it's about two thousand BC. Because even through our sin, God's ways are going to be accomplished. So he can hear, hey, that voice sounds like Jacob, not Esau. Um okay. So the the prophecy that the Lord gave before they were born is now starting to be uh put into motion. Uh now it in the um And he's gone for decades. Uh I was just curious it mentioned that um he was uh he was the red was the the stew. She has a difficult pregnancy, and once again, she does the right thing. He also appears to be unable to see the true nature of his son Esau. He blesses Jacob who he thinks is Esau. So God used these sinful means misdeeds to further his purposes. Um he's not he's definitely not gonna kill him before his father dies. Whatever Eber's language was after the Tower of Babel, that's what that's Hebrew that came down to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Uh we won't get to that today, but uh next week or the week after we'll That's what God had said to Abraham in Genesis chapter 12. There's a little bit of it seems to be that there's there's a kind of a thread of redness And she gets an answer to her prayer with a prophecy from the Lord. So there's the first indication of conflict between the two brothers. Yeah. Right, right. But this is Genesis chapter twenty-five, right before that, right before Isaac goes to Gerar. So there's a famine. And he says that my years are much shorter and more miserable than my father's lives were Now it came about when Isaac was old and his eyes were too dim to see, so he's blind now. Um and so these events uh are not happening at the very end of his life. You could sell your birthright and so that's how that's why Jacob knew about. Um but not well enough for her to go to What if he feels me and catch what if he catches me? Lie. Uh Uncle Laban's a schemer, you know, out of the same mold as Jacob and and Jacob doesn't like it when somebody else does it to him. So married when when Isaac is forty and now he's at least a hundred and fifteen. If there's a curse, I'm going to take care of it, in other words He goes to a house and and they recognize that it's from God and send her along with him. It's a very specific request and God answers it really quickly The Lord has guided me in the way to the house of my master's brothers. And God reveals to Rebecca but that that's not going to be the case with these two boys. God builds up their faith by by bringing them through various trials. Um so the same battle was on a different day uh you know, depending on which who whose side you were reading about This has uh him leaving home at fifty seven and spending forty years in Haran So there's parental favoritism here. Uh the one with the right of the firstborn had preferential status in the family. And so one would think if the Lord came to her and said something about these kids that she would share that with her husband. And now he he's he's has doubts all throughout that account. He sends a servant to go back up to uh the place where the rest of Abraham's relatives still live. Good point. And so when we we talk about trying to fix the Um he marries first Leah, then Rachel, and then uh Rebecca over here, she tells Jacob to prepare meat, to go out and and kill one of the flock. And so her favorite son, because of this way that she's thing that she's done, she never sees him again. And so we talked about a couple of incidents in Isaac's life, and one was God choosing a wife for Isaac. Right after the f this failed test of faith, God comes to it to uh Isaac Uh this particular timeline says that he was seventy when he went to uh Laban. And in fact, it says in there that Isaac thinks he's about to die. So we're going to be s starting to s to focus on the like of life of Jacob and how God We know how old Joseph was when he got uh sent into slavery. I mean it it's there and it's revealed in the Bible and it causes problems. Uh we went an overview of Isaac's life that he Abraham did, Isaac did, yes. Um but so he's somewhere between fifty seven and seventy seven when he's so he's not a he's not a young boy when he is um How about if you sell me your birthright for it? Straight out lie to his to his father. He's blind, so he's going to use his other senses. This is not something that God needs, this is something that we need. 147 when he dies, 130 when he's standing before Pharaoh. I think for Caesar when we had the the weather calendar They're twins. And those that birthright is tied to all these promises from God. Uh and that's really sad. They're only a few minutes apart, and he had married two women. And so um the Jews had their own calendar, Jewish calendar, um, which was I think a twelve month, thirty day per month, three hundred and sixty-day calendar. Uh he's got a towering faith by the end of the book of Genesis. Uh, the firstborn was the one that was supposed to Yes. And the the the nature of the way the question is worded, Pharaoh is astonished by how old this guy is who's standing in front of him Uh the youngest one I saw was fifty seven. Uh and Joseph only lives to be 110. Um and then he's he goes to this loss of his son um Joseph. He doesn't outright steal it, he trades for it, uh He's concerned that he might get caught. It can't countervene God's will. Uh she tells him who she is, and the servant praises God because um He settles in Gerar, which is in the coastal plain. And I I looked up at least three or four different timelines and every one of them had a different age We'll see that as we go through his life. It's right there in the blessing. There's some issues like that to figure out how we fit the calendar we use today. And so um we're going to be spending several weeks on the life of Jacob. Um anyway, if you download the uh the notes you can see this a little bit closer up if you uh have it on your own computer screen in front of you. But when you see how what the time span was, I know that God is sovereign and he moved on Esau's heart not to harm Jacob Who are you, my son? And he brought it to him and he ate. The distinction was by the mercy of God. Isaac's married when he's forty, three years after Sarah dies. Three hundred sixty five days a year or So he came close and kissed him, and when he smelled the smell of his garments, Cursed be those who curse you, and blessed be those who bless you. We know how old uh Joseph was when he was in E Egypt and we know how old Jacob was. Uh yeah. It had to be that um i Isaac learned that from from Abraham that that that's what he did. Right? He's finally uh he's finally able to move on from the death of his mother um with his marriage to Rebecca. But Isaac does the right thing. And then we'll see later on that uh Rebecca's brother Laban has two girls, Leah and Rachel, and so they are Jacob's first cousins. The ancient Near East, primogeniture, the firstborn, was normally to receive the greater share of the inheritance and leadership in the family. And there are records of the sale of birthrights from outside the Bible. Um when he arrives up there, the servant gives a long prayer. We we hear a lot more about Jacob It's not it's not based on on actual reality. Then Isaac said to Jacob, Please come close that I may feel you, my son, whether you are really my son Esau or not. When Esau was forty, he took Judah a Hittite to be his wife, and uh and another Hittite to be his wife. And so she comes up with a scheme for her preferred son. Similar to how Abraham and Sarah were trying to help God along in his promises. So that could answer like I've heard in many people So he lives to be a hundred and eighty. And there's a contrast in occupation. And there is actually historical records from outside the Bible. God predetermines that the situation will be different for the children of Rebekah. So it actually explicitly refers back to that Now we're going backwards to Genesis chapter 25, and so um So when Esau went to the field to hunt for game to bring home, They've been married for seven decades. So twenty so he's forty, and then now Isaac's sixty, so twenty years have gone by and no children. And it says this, and not only this, but there was Rebecca also, when she had conceived twins by one man, our father Isaac And God chose that completely apart from whether one was going to be good and the other bad. But he doesn't he doesn't die then. But the Bible says he lives to be 180. He goes in with the food. Alright, so uh we've run out of time. And then we'll talk about Rebekah and Jacob working to deceive Isaac to take the blessing. Well, depending on whether Jacob was fifty seven or seventy-seven when he But in the ancient Near East that mattered. Jacob is doing what he does. But how old was Jacob when he went to Laban? Okay, the third part is a repeat of a portion of God's promise to Abraham from Genesis chapter 12. God appears to him and reiterates the promises. Uh we talked about where he lived. And so And we're going to talk more about the two boys today, of course, when we talk about the life of Jacob. Okay. Jacob would bring the food to Isaac and pretend to be Esau, thereby stealing the blessing. So Genesis chapter 27, starting with first one. So he blessed him and he said, Are you really my son Esau? Alright, let's uh close in prayer. She also gave the savory food and the bread which she had made to her son Jacob That he was favoring Esau and that was it So a testing of his faith which Isaac fails and so we see a repeated pattern that you've got people that are He says, okay, I'll give you some food, but first sell me your birthright for this food It's very difficult. Uh Jacob, he's separated from his mother and his father. His mind's always working. Apparently he attaches little importance to the rich promises of God through Abraham, Isaac, and descendants because Not not uh oh, I I'm gonna be lying to my dad, but what if he catches me? So once again we see this fear. Just like he brought Abraham encouragement after So that was the life of Isaac, and that's the only lesson we're going to do on Isaac, because there's very there's just not so much about Isaac. And then Genesis chapter 26 is Isaac and Rebekah going to Gerar. So sometime between fifty seven and seventy seven he goes up there. That's where the priesthood and the kingship come from. Continuing along. And the Bible doesn't say how and when Rebecca died, but Ten boys and Dinah the girl. Then he flees from Laban. And he we'll see that Jacob is really afraid of this meeting with Esau. Um and Uh so Paul by the Holy Spirit is using the events in Genesis chapter And if we wanted to bless So uh in spite of uh Esau's problematic marriages, as we just talked about to Canaanite women Uh the blessing contains three parts. So uh as I said, Isaac sixty, uh she has the twins, she names the oldest Esau or Edom Um as we'll see. But it all Esau can see is what I need right now. Jacob answered his mother Rebekah, Behold, Esau, my brother, is a hairy man, and I am a smooth man So this is shows you this is a little glimpse into the mind of Jacob here. It can't thwart his purposes. So there are consequences to this sin. Hebrews. He needs some some spiritual growth. It's in that kind of range He would be in charge of everybody else, his brothers, his brothers' kids, he'd be the head of the household, in charge So um yeah, I just wanted to show you one more. Uh good point Today we'll talk about Jacob And so we looked at uh a passage in the New Testament about this. Um uh And the Lord specifically said the older will serve Uh there's no there's no perfect person here. Uh one i if a family is dysfunctional in a certain way Not that it's going to be a scheme where he lies, but the fact that he might get caught And it turns out his father lives a long time after that And he, like his father and his uh He doesn't try to uh come up with some slick plan to to help God out. But Jacob said, First sell me your birthright. He also brought him wine and he drank. Notice he's Isaac is also focused on his own needs. Very clear parental favoritism. And the oldest would get two parts, 50%, and the next two would get 25% each. And so He claims to be Esau, an outright lie. Isaac thinks it's Esau that he's given this blessing to. Like um there has to be enough time between the time he's married Yes. So just in case he feels there or here, he'll feel hairy uh goat hair there And then we'll keep following the life of Jacob for a few weeks after this. The Lord said there will be conflict between the two brothers. And so So there's all these promises that are tied to this lineage, and Esau just doesn't seem to care Uh and that's how it worked out in this family. Exactly right. He had some significant flaws, uh including in this incident where he he schemes to uh uh to He's short-sighted and materialistic. Now then, please take your gear, your quiver and your bow, and go out to the field and hunt game for me. Jacob said to his father, I am Esau, your firstborn. So this is going to be the big event of the blessing, the official formal blessing So the book of Hebrews tells us that Esau is an immoral and godless man, and Isaac just cannot see that. Um and then Uh Isaac is suspicious. He was seventeen Yeah. It's surprising how Esau was so willing to uh So the priesthood and the king come from the first wife, Leah. Um and a little bit of the aftermath of the second incident. So it's interesting that um Uh, separates them, he sends them to the East, separates them from Isaac, and so yeah, there's definitely some favoritism there for Isaac and Now, this is exactly what God said would happen Even decades later, that the sin that he's committed is still causing That's where it comes from. The only ages we know is Isaac is forty when he marries, and he's sixty when the boys are born There's a contrast in personality and character between these two. Um you know, we we're left to speculate about about why that is. Um and then there's red stew that comes out here too. And Esau said to Jacob, please let me have a swallow of that red stuff there. He sees well let's see. Isaac said to his son, How is it that you have it so quickly, my son? And so people that were around, living at the time of Abraham It's right on the border between Syria and Turkey. Right. Then Jacob gave Esau bread and lentil stew, and he ate and drank. The firstborn got twice, double what everybody else got Um and so first we have this birthright and so Jacob kind of wheedles the birthright out of Even after, as you point out, he's he's married these Canaanite women that have Uh let me just leave a couple of minutes for for questions. He lived around Beersheba for most of his life, but he also lived for a while in Beer Lahiroi down in the south The oldest one I saw was seventy seven. So historians when they go back have to be really careful to reconstruct events because And what a small price to Now it came about when Isaac was old. We talked about this last time. Now therefore, my son, listen to me as I command you Uh but Are you really? So there was at least twenty years, maybe up to as much as up to forty years But there's no mention of where where Jacob and Esau were when Isaac and Rebekah went to Gerar. Um yeah, it's a remarkable attitude that Joseph has after he's been Um and he was around for the Tower of Babel, for example. And that's before And um He he lives for decades after this. So, uh one day Esau comes in from hunting, he's very hungry, he sells his birthright to Jacob for helping him stew. Even though we don't have to sin in order to Second is for Jacob to have prominence and preeminence over nations and over his brothers And so uh we talked about Isaac last time. He has an incident where he wrestles with God, and God touches his hip. Give me the stew. And so Isaac's old, he's blind, he can't see. So uh the last thing, uh we only have a few minutes. So that's exactly right. Okay. He only lived to be a hundred and forty seven. And also there's an incident in recorded in the Bible where Reuben is 13. So as I mentioned, Abraham 175, Sarah died when she was 127 That's how Hebrews chapter 12 He knows that it this is the Lord who has done this for him, and he doesn't try to take credit for himself. Whoever was the firstborn was the firstborn. That's why he he thought of the scheme and well he wasn't the first one to think of it. Yes, one Jew. So you see he he's he his his customs are probably different than what we did with He's in the tent. There were two main things. But because of the precautions of Jacob, uh Rebecca, and because of Jacob's lies Fear leads to doubt. Yeah. Uh they weren't they weren't they did not have the same personality And so And it was the exact same test, actually. And so the people that we're following, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, are descendants of Eber She goes to the Lord. Now the Lord had to spend a number of years um Isn't it really Esau And he c comes up with all these schemes for how he's gonna protect his kids from this First Isaac So yes, so Isaac's blind to the faults of Not not being able to confront the children about their misdeeds. And and and answering the prayer in very precise detail very, very quickly. So he calls him closer. She's 127 when she dies. Eleven kids. Jacob and Esau are already adults They're sinners, just like uh you and I. Um but we don't we don't know for sure from from the biblical narrative And as he's finished praying, there's Rebecca. He's he's afraid of shadows. He's cooking food. He's asked for food, he he's in a vulnerable position. Well Haran's father, or Haran uh sorry, um He has the same failure that his father Abraham had. There's one case where a guy sold his birthright for a sheep God comes and tells her something like that She's the prime motivator of the action, she comes up with a plan and goads Jacob into carrying out her plan. Isaac she sees Isaac from a distance, covers herself with a veil, they they get married The the sin that she's committed here and the sin that Jacob's committed, it it I think why does it say every tribe or every every every So Isaac and Bethuel are first cousins. Um And the line of the Messiah come from So the Bible tells us that it Isaac is forty years old And so This this calendar has Here's the birthright So Um and at the end they are men of faith. And so Esau was the one that that uh Isaac really favored One was a double portion of the inheritance. Uh the Bible, as it always does, shows people as they are. Although you're probably right, he's been Doubt leads to a crisis of faith. Joseph is the twelfth. And and we'll then we'll pick up at the end of his life where he ends up going down to Egypt. I I'm not so sure about that but Now how old was he? And that city, Haran, is still there. What I want. Didn't matter if it was by years or by minutes What if I get caught? So there was a twenty year span in how old he was when he went to She doesn't do that. Now it turns out that his father lives, as I mentioned, for another half century. This prophecy from the Lord, this revelation from the Lord to Rebekah. We're going to read through this whole passage a little bit long. He's praying for her. Now So Right before um They they didn't have faith that God could And he said, I am. And he's afraid of shadows because of what he's done in the past. I want, I want, I want, I want this stuff and go get it. So Now the Bible doesn't say She was ninety when he was born, so he's thirty-seven. Um That's not in there. So Yes. So red is a theme and so Edom is red and So at least 13 kids. Uh he asks and he thinks he's gonna die And so we can go back and see that That's what that's his concern Um so Esau bears a grudge She comes to the well. We can't tell exactly, but he was at least Maybe she had Well that's exactly what Abraham did Is that uh I always thought it was because he was This was a thing. She comes up with a scheme to lie to him That was Esau Let me take advantage of my brother. Um And so Um and he does the same same So So Abraham continued on to Canaan. He just goes directly to the Lord and prays. But it's real it's for Abraham's That's not So he he he You could sell your birthright and so And so Um he sends them there. But