So part nine, we're up to part nine in our study of uh the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and so we're talking about how God is working in the lives of these patriarchs. So before I get started, I just want to point out that we have a large contingent from the church that's in Israel right now. Um Pastor Gabe, for example, uh and a number of others that went with him are in the places that we're talking about in these classes. They're actually there this week um and getting a chance to see with their own eyes uh these places from scripture and uh and kind of uh a different way to study uh God's word is to actually go there and um and see the things with your own eyes. How many here have been to Israel? for. So a number of you have been before and there's a large group from the church that's there right now. I've been as well and uh but it's been a long time. I I was there in nineteen eighty four So it's been almost forty years since uh since I've been in Israel. Okay. We're going to talk about a couple of more things, a few final things from um the life of Jacob and how God deals with uh with this uh this man Jacob. We're gonna talk about the great escape, how he escapes from uh his uncle Laban um in Haran and makes his way back down to Canaan. We're gonna talk about the fact that Laban's not happy with the fact that Jacob has escaped and he chases him down. and confronts him. And then we're going to talk about a another confrontation that Jacob has with his brother Esau, the one that he ran away from all those years ago. He's going to meet up with him again. And we're going to see what happens there. All right, so first we'll take a look at what happened uh what we talked about last week, and so just as an over just as a framework, we're we're talking really in all of these lessons About the last uh five or six that we're we've done, with a two hundred and sixty year period at the very end of the book of Genesis. So Genesis covers actually about maybe two thousand five hundred years of history, something like that. But all of these chapters are focused on the last two hundred and sixty years of that time period, from the birth of Isaac To the death of Joseph. That's about a 260-year period. And so the timeline of Isaac's life is up here. and then Jacob's life here, and then Joseph's life here. And from the beginning of Isaac's life to the end of Joseph's about a 260-year period. So last time we talked about uh Jacob um his starting his family. Uh so he he marries Laban's daughters, his uncle's daughters, which are of course his first cousins. So Leah's the oldest and we get a description of weak eyes and Rachel's really beautiful and uh Jacob really wants to marry Rachel. So he offers to serve seven years. Laban agrees and uh then he asks he he w he services seven years uh kind of as a bride price and uh asks for his wife and then Laban pulls a fast one on him, uh switches the daughters and brings him Leah instead of Rachel, um and he gives this feeble excuse about uh well it's really supposed to be the older married first Uh and then he works another seven years for Rachel. Um and but he loves Rachel and he doesn't really love Leo. And so uh what we talked about last time as a uh as a little bit of a theme of this incident is the tables are turned. He was the deceiver, and now he gets deceived and he doesn't like it Uh God kind of arranges things so he gets to see what it's like to have somebody deceive him. And he doesn't like it. Um And so there's the subscription of the girls and then um he has to pay a bride price, so um there was a s uh similar it's uh an incident that in some ways was similar but in other ways was different when um Abraham sent a servant to get a a wife for his son Isaac, um But in that case, Abraham sent ten camel loads of treasure to be the bride price. In this case Uh Jacob doesn't have anything. He's got his staff, that's all. Uh so he has to work the for the bride price and he does that and he works for Rachel. Um But he doesn't get Rachel. Um he uh he he goes through this um what he thinks is seven years of work for this one particular daughter and he ends up um with the other one. So uh we talked about the fact that how did how how could this possibly have happened? How could it how could he have not noticed who who this person was and uh most likely she was veiled. That was a custom in those days. And also it was in the evening and also it was after the wedding feast where they may or may not have had adult beverages. Um and so for one reason or another he's deceived Um just and it's very similar to his deception of his father, him deceiving Isaac by pretending to be Esau. Well now this is Jacob getting deceived with Leah pretending to be Rachel. A lot of parallels that God has set up here to show Jacob what it feels like to be deceived like this and in a very important matter. Both of those were very important matters And he in one case he was deceiving, in this case he gets deceived, then he doesn't like it. Um he's angry, he goes to Laban, he says, What have you done to me? Um And Laban, of course, sees an opportunity to get seven more years of work out because he's got another bride price he can extract from Jacob because he he knows that Jacob still wants Rachel. And so he extracts seven more years um from Jacob and gives him Rachel. So he marries them both consecutively. Leah and Rachel in a week, in a week's time. He still has to work the seven more years, but he gets the wife right away. So he has two wives right away. And that of course that's something that the the the sh the law will later forbid. Leviticus 18, 18 says that a man is not allowed to wear marry sisters. Um so and then we get this story of the kid of of the the children how he has children so um The Lord blesses Leah first. He sees that she's unloved and uh she has four sons, Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah. Rachel's very jealous of her sister. There's a real kind of tension and animosity between the sisters all the way through. Um Rachel's angry because she can't have children. And she gives the maid and the maid has kids and then Leah gets angry because she's not having kids and she gives the other maid and so he ends up with four wives. The two sisters and their two maids. And we get a the description of the order of the children. So it goes through uh the birth of um altogether eleven boys and one girl in this uh in this story. Uh and the very last one of of that list is Joseph. Finally after the other three wives have been having kids uh she has kids. So the family ends up looking like this. Uh Leah and Rachel, the two sisters, plus the two maids, so four wives altogether. And uh it ends up being twelve boys, um, eleven in this story because Joseph is uh Benjamin is born later in the land of Canaan after they get back. After After the stuff we're going to talk about today, then after that, Joseph is born. And Rachel dies in childbirth with Benjamin. But notice we pointed out last time that Leah, the first wife, is the mother of both Levi, so the priestly line, and Judah, so the royal line. So it's Leah who's the mother of the priestly line and the royal line that leads to the Messiah. Let's see. So this is kind of a genealogy, the start of the genealogy of the nation of Israel, the twelve tribes. uh we're starting to see um that take shape in God's plan uh for how he's gonna bring about the Messiah, he's first gonna bring about a nation. He's already promised that to Abraham, he's promised it to Isaac, he promises it to Jacob as well, and now he's bringing it about. And we also pointed out that it's very clear from the passage who is in control of Who has children when. It's God. God is in control. Um there's there's no mention of God when Jake was making all these deals with uh Laban about um um working for the for the bride price and all these sort of things. But when it comes to these children, uh the ones that are going to bring about, they're going to fulfill the promises of of God, then it's clear from the scripture who's in charge, directly in charge of that whole thing. Yes. Jacob worth seven years for a Rachel and got later instead. And he agreed to work another seven years for Rachel, but he got her a week after that he married yes. Mm-hmm. Yes, that's the uh basically husband and wife. Not fourteen years, but you're Yes, that's correct. That's right. Yeah, that's right. So he he um yes, he had a wedding and what they called the wedding week with Leah, seven days, and then he right away married Rachel Yeah. Yep. Even though the bride price he still had to work off after that. But uh just a review of the You said uh a betrothal is uh effectively equal to a marriage, so they could be close marriage for fourteen years. It it's a it was a it's a different status. They had a different status. Betrothal was a a very formal thing in the ancient Near East compared to how we view it today Um you know, you could have you could be engaged and call it off and all these sort of that's that didn't happen though in those days. And so If if somebody was betrothed, they weren't considered single anymore. They're they're off the market. They're they're betrothed. And it was Not exactly married, but the the Bible does describe in a number of cases a betrothed person as that person's wife. And so uh Jacob uh when he comes to uh he's finishes his seven years and he goes to Laban he says give me my wife He doesn't say, give me my fiance. He says, give me my wife. And so that was kind of uh the terminology of the day, and it was a a radically different from how we view engagement in twenty-first century America. It was like it wasn't exactly married because you it wasn't it wasn't okay to sleep together, for example. That was not okay for people that were betrothed. Um but they were considered as already together, essentially, off the market Already see already already kind of uh a a couple or a couple in waiting, whatever however you want to put it. It's uh not exactly a wife, but definitely not like we think of somebody that's still single but engaged I I don't know I don't know if that's confusing, but it it's just uh it was a totally different thing in those days. It was like a formal contract, betrothal was. Um and y you didn't just back out of it. Okay. And so yes, that so that was the case. So Rachel was already promised to him for that whole seven years he was working the first seven years. So she was betrothed to him Um and so he was call saying, Hey, give me my wife at the end of that and then um he me it was Leah instead who sh showed up uh uh after the wedding feast and so he was married to her and then s he waited seven days which is the kind of the bridal period after the wedding and then immediately was married to Rachel. Um and then he worked seven more years for the bride price for the woman he was already married to Okay, so uh the names have meanings, of course, all of the scriptural names have meanings, and uh it's clear that Talia is um uh uh acknowledging God in in all of the names for her kids and especially the last uh one of these first four, this group of four boys at the beginning Judah, uh, she she's really kind of focusing on what her husband will think of her with the names for the first three. But with Judah IV, who will, of course, be the line that leads to the Messiah, she says, this time I will praise the Lord. Nothing about what her husband thinks of her. This time I'll just praise the Lord Um that's Judah, the the one that leads to the Messiah. Um and there's of course all this domestic strife between the the two girls and so uh we talked last time about i if you've if you grew up in a family with a sister, a sister and a sister, or if you've had kids, two girls, um, then you know that there can be some sibling rivalry between the girls and then just imagine thrown into a situation situation like this. Um yes, there was some tension between the two of them. Um so uh Rachel at one point demands that Jacob give her children Uh and uh Jacob rebukes her and but she comes up with this idea of giving the the maid and that that's so that's wife number three. And the maid has two sons, and then Leah is jealous because she's not having kids and and Rachel's maid is having kids and so she gives her maid and that's wife number four And she has two sons, Gad and Asher. And all through this, there's this strife between the two sisters And then after that, it's back to Leah, and she has two more sons and a daughter. And then finally, after the three other wives have been giving have been having children, finally Rachel has Joseph. And so so there we have we have this kind of fourteen year period of working uh for these two girls and he's starting to have kids. And um Jacob's ready to go home after this, back to the land of Canaan. Uh but Laban wants doesn't want to lose Jacob's service. He's been getting rich with uh Jacob watching his flocks And so they'd make another agreement. Uh Jacob is going to continue to work for Laban and his so before the first fourteen years his his wages were his two wives. He was he was working off a bride price. Now he's gonna work for part of the flock when he does eventually leave. Um and there there's this odd thing about speckled and striped and spotted and peeling uh of of saplings in front of uh water troughs and all this sort of thing. But The bottom line is it's the Lord who um increases Jacob's wealth. And what we actually see that in part of today's uh we won't really get too much into that part of it, but In uh in chapter 31, the part of chapter 31 we're going to do today, um when Jacob's talking to his wives out in the field, He reveals to them that that he saw all this in a vision, that God gave him a vision about speckled and spotted and striped, and that's why he he went with speckled and spotted and striped. It was God who did it. It's really clear So that brings us up to today. And so Jacob is still there, he's still working for Laban, and he's getting richer and richer, and Laban's getting poorer and poorer. And so if you'll turn to uh Genesis chapter 31, we're going to look through uh these incidents are all in chapter 31, 32, and 33. So starting in chapter 31. Now these uh the descriptions of these events are sometimes uh there's some kind of uh complications and details, and we don't have time to go through all of it. I wish we did. I I was just looking back through my notes from previously teaching a class in Genesis and I I did um uh the last time I taught it, uh I went through it in two and a half years two and a half years. And so the the lesson that we uh that we're doing today I did over a period of six weeks the last time I I I I thought it so this is six weeks of stuff pressed into one one week. Um so we're gonna skip some stuff. I and I apologize for that, because all of it's good I wish there was time to do all of it. Um so uh you're gonna notice that um I'm gonna be skipping some sections of this story. So, uh starting in verse one. Now Jacob heard the words of Laban's sons. So imagine Laban's sons, they see all their wealth going over to Jacob. So there goes my inheritance. Over to this clown Jacob. Now Jacob heard the words of Laban's son, saying, Jacob has taken away all that was our father's, and from what belonged to our father, he has made all his wealth. Jacob saw the attitude of Laban, and behold, it was not friendly toward him as formerly. Then the Lord said to Jacob, Return to the land of your fathers and to your relatives, and I will be with you. So Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah to his flock in the field, and said to them, I see your father's attitude, that it is not friendly toward me as formerly. But the God of my father has been with me. And skipping down to verse 11, then the angel of God said to me in the dream, Jacob, and I said, here I am. I am the God of Bethel, where you anointed a pillar, where you made a vow to me. Now arise, leave this land, and return to the land of your birth. So this is Jacob relating this to his wives, Rachel and Leah. Rachel and Leah said to him, in verse 14, Rachel and Leah said to him, Do we still have any portion or inheritance in our father's house? Are we not reckoned by him as foreigners? For he has sold us and has also entirely consumed our purchase price. Surely all the wealth which God has taken away from our Father belongs to us and our children. Now then, do whatever God has told has said to you. Then Jacob arose and put his children and his wives upon camels, and he drove away all his livestock. and all his property which he had gathered, his acquired livestock which he had gathered in Padenaram, to go to the land of Canaan to his father Isaac And then verse 20, and Jacob deceived Laban the Aramean by not telling him that he was fleeing. So he fled with all that he had, and he arose and crossed the Euphrates River and set his face toward the hill country of Gilead. And so he's running away He learns that Laban and his sons are angry and jealous of his wealth. And it's going to be dangerous for him to stay. The Lord tells Jacob, he comes to him in a dream and tells him, go home to Canaan. Um and so the next day Jacob leaves for Canaan w without telling Laban what he's doing. Uh before leaving, uh and we're not going to talk too much about this, this is one of the details of the story that's kind of interesting, but Uh I just we just don't have time to go through it, that Rachel steals the household idols on the way out. And so uh to put everything into uh geographical context, he's up there in Haran And that's east of the Euphrates River. And so he has to go west, cross the Euphrates River, and then go southwest down towards uh Canaan, and he's gonna go down first towards the hill country of Gilead, which is northeast of the Sea of Galilee. So This little dot right there, blue dot, is the Sea of Galilee Galilee. And this is the hill country of Gilead up here. And so that's where he's going to be coming down into in this story. So he runs away. Um so this is the final drama now between Jacob and Laban. Uh it's about to unfold. The last uh of uh his interactions with this his uncle uh Laban Uh he senses heightened tension and danger uh because he keeps getting richer and lab Laban keeps getting poorer and Laban's sons are not happy about that either. Um he makes plans with his wives to flee Pharaon and return to Canaan. Um and so notice that there's two senses involved here. He hears the words of Laban's sons and he sees the attitude. He sees uh the expression, the facial expression is literally what this is talking about of Lavan, and that it it's not friendly toward him anymore. Um he he sees and hears what's going on and it's not good And furthermore, the Lord tells Jacob to return to the land of your fathers. Verse 3 This is the first time that phrase is used, the land of your fathers. But it's used a lot after this. This is the first time. After this, this is a common expression, the land of your fathers. In Joshua, for example, when they're about to go in and take over the land, the Lord keeps referring to it as the land of your fathers. But this is the first example. To Canaan, he calls it the land of your fathers. And then also he makes a promise. He says, I will be with you. And so Jacob has been This whole time the Lord has been forming and molding Jacob's faith. And whenever Jacob's faith needs encouragement, the Lord has provided it. And this is another example. Jacob needs encouragement here. There's real danger from Laban and his sons, and so the Lord gives him the ultimate encouragement. He says, hey, go, and I will be with you. So after God's command to leave Haran, the first thing he does is he goes and talks it over with his wives. So he summons his wives to the field. And that's very interesting. He doesn't go they don't go to the house or any place else. They go he he has them go way out in the fields. Why? Well, that's a safe place out of the hearing of Laban and his and his sons. So he can discuss with them out in the fields without worry of being overheard because he's planning to run away. And so he then he lays out the situation to Rachel and Leah about the deteriorating relationship with their father, and he also talks about God's command to leave. And he's he seems to be he seems to be wanting to hear from Rachel and Leo what they think. Um but and Rachel and Leah are all in. Uh they charge their father Laban with treating them like foreigners and selling them and squandering the bride price. And so they they have They're all in. They're ready to go too. They believe that the wealth that Jacob has accumulated belongs to their new family, to them and their children. Um and so uh I think this is this is the best possible reaction that Jacob could possibly have gotten from Rachel and Leah. Yes, let's go. We we don't we're we're on your side Uh our our father has is not tre he's obviously not treating them well either. So his attitude towards Jacob has obviously changed. And now we see uh by inference that his attitude towards the two daughters has really changed too. Yes. Um no not directly, but they're kids. Um so and it's not clear exactly how that would work, but there a and and we'll see later on in the in the the next story that we that we look at that There's another technicality in there, in that while Jacob was, while Jacob's kids were born, Jacob was a servant to Laban. And there was a different rule for servants, kids that were born in a household. Those belonged to the master of the household. And and Laban actually we'll see later makes that claim to Jacob. He says, These kids are my kids. uh in things like who who's who's owed what i in this situation. Um and so Rachel and Leah thinks, hey this should be ours Uh Laban thinks, no, it's all mine. Uh and Jacob is he he he's Finally, finally, he's listening to what the Lord has to say and doing what the Lord tells him to do. Um So it's it's it's a very interesting, very complicated situation. Um and w and I'll s I'll show you, when we get to the next passage, I'll show you that Laban makes this counterclaim that, hey, this is all mine Uh and so there I think there's some kind of conflicting uh social norms that are going on here that uh that butt up against one another. Uh competing claims, if you will But in this case here, Rachel and Leah obviously think no, we should get we should get this stuff and we should go. Um and so they end up this whole uh interaction, uh Rachel and Leah end up saying, do whatever God has said to you. Which is the right thing the right thing to say. So this is uh the the husband and the wife talking things over and they come to the conclusion Hey, we should do what the what the Lord says. Now, what the Lord says in this instance m lines up with what Rachel and Leah want, so it's really easy to say do what the Lord says to do in those circumstances when it's also what we want. But it's still the right thing to do and the right thing to say. Uh so Jacob and his household sneak away and take everything they own. They take all the flocks that have uh supposedly been his wages over these last six years. Uh he takes his wives, the four wives and all the kids and he leaves without telling Jacob. He just kinda sneaks off from his place out in the field where he is. And as I said, he goes to the west first to get over the Euphrates River, and then he goes down to the southwest, the hill country of Gilead. Now, so here's the next part of the story. So continuing along the story in Genesis 31, Laban Um so he he finds out, but it takes three days because they've snuck away from way out in the field and it and it's uh it's kind of the shearing season and everybody's out in their their with their respective flocks and he doesn't find out for a while. Yes. So how long has it been so like fourteen years for the buttons right price and it's been sixty years of collapse? Yep. The sixty years we've been collecting his Yep. Yeah, so he's got a lot now. And we'll see when he meets up with Esau, he sends a a present of five hundred and fifty animals. Um and that doesn't seem to be that seems to be like a small portion of the flocks that he has. Five hundred and fifty animals. Um So, uh, so when continuing in in Genesis chapter 31, when it was told Laban on the third day that Jacob had fled, Then he took his kinsmen, so he got together his army, and pursued him a distance of seven days' journey, and overtook him in the hill country of Gilead. So Three days he didn't to to learn, seven days to catch them. So how many days had Jacob been moving? Ten days. So Jacob has been moving for ten days, and in a period of seven days, we could do a we could do a physics problem, a word problem. Uh how fast was they going? So um yeah he catches them in seven days because Jacob's going with gigantic flocks and with kids. And and Laban's just pursuing with his with his army. So he doesn't have to worry about the flocks and gathering. He's not going with flocks. He's just going with an army. And so he catches him Verse 24. God came to Laban the Aramean in a dream of the night and said to him, Be careful that you do not speak to Jacob, either good or bad. Laban caught up with Jacob. Now Jacob had pitched his tent in the hill country, and Laban with his kinsmen camped in the hill country of Gilead. Then Laban said to Jacob, What have you done by deceiving me and carrying away my daughters like captives of the sword? Why did you flee secretly and deceive me? And did not tell me so that I might have sent you away with joy and with songs, with timbrel and with lyre, and did not allow me to kiss my sons and my daughters. Now you have done foolishly Totally insincere. Totally insincere. Verse 31. Now then Jacob replied to Laban, because I was afraid, for I thought that you would take your daughters from me by force. And then down to skip down to verse 36. Then Jacob became angry and contended with Laban, and Jacob said to Laban, What is my transgression? What is my sin that you have hotly pursued me? These twenty years I have been with you, your ewes and your female goats have not miscarried, nor have I eaten the rams of your flocks. These twenty years I have been in your house I served you 14 years for your two daughters and six years for your flock, and you changed my wages ten times If the God of my father, the God of Abraham, and the fear of Isaac had not been for me, surely now you would have sent me away empty-handed. God has seen my affliction and the toil of my hands, so he rendered judgment last night. Continuing, verse 43. Then Laban replied to Jacob, The daughters are my daughters. And the children are my children, and the flocks are my flocks, and all that you see is mine. But what can I do this day to these my daughters or to their children whom they have borne? So now come, let us make a covenant, you and I, and let it be a witness between you and me. Then Jacob took a stone and set it up as a pillar. Jacob said to his kinsmen, gather stones. So they took stones and made a heap, and they ate there by the heap. Laban said, This heap is a witness between you and me this day, therefore it was named Mizpah. For he said, May the Lord watch between you and me when we are absent one from another. Early in the morning Laban arose and kissed his sons and his daughters and blessed them. Then Laban departed and returned to his place. So they s split. And it's interesting that Laban thinks everything's his. But he's been told in no uncertain terms by God to leave them alone. So here's what's going on. After Jacob has been gone for three days, Laban finds out that he's left and he tracks him down. It takes him seven days to track him down in the hill country of Gilead. uh northeast of the Sea of Galilee. He confronts Jacob about deceiving him. So these deceivers have gone back and forth. Jacob um He's been a deceiver in his life. Now he's been deceived by Laban. And now Laban is claiming Laban the deceiver, the the the this guy that's has been totally deceptive in all of his dealings with uh with Jacob switching the wives and um and evidently changing his wages. He he's been very deceptive. He's now the tables have been turned on him and he doesn't like it He's he's he doesn't really doesn't like being deceived. Um so he confronts Jacob. There's this issue of stealing the idols which we won't we won't really get into. Um he seems to be angry about that as well. Yes. So it's unclear, but He's afraid, yes. He he recognizes when God comes to him in a dream and he's afraid to counter what God tells him. God he's afraid of of God. Well, um I think he has se there probably we'll have to guess, but there's a couple of reasons. One, he has seen God repeatedly bless Jacob. He sees he saw that happen. He's seen it with the flocks. Um and he he realizes that this God is able to come to him in his dreams. So here here's a a powerful being that's able to come to him in his dreams. And that's my guess. That those between those two things he he has this healthy fear of of God. He's got these household idols too, yeah. Um and we don't hear anything else about it. We don't hear about the household idols before this, we don't and we don't get any description about what they are or what their function is. Um they're just valuable and he wants them back. So uh to me this whole thing just fits into the personality of of Lavan that he's really greedy and he wants stuff and this is more stuff and somebody's taking his stuff and he wants it back. Um so yeah, there's there's the stolen idols and he wants those back and he doesn't get 'em back because they're hidden. Um He searches for these idols. Rachel hides the idols, so he doesn't can't find them. And then Jacob, originally it's Laban's angry, and then Jacob becomes angry. And eventually they work out a covenant, an agreement between the two of them. Um and that agreement is they set up this pillar of stones and they say that, okay, uh Laban's going to go back up to the northeast. Uh Jacob's going to continue to the southwest, and this is kind of like a dividing area and Um Ja Laban won't come past these stones to harm Jacob and Jacob won't go past the stones to harm Laban And as with everything that's in the Bible, there are famous paintings of everything, including a landscape portrait of the parting of Jacob and Laban. Now the landscape portrait looks suspiciously like a European farmhouse. There's probably not a European farmhouse in uh in uh in ancient uh Syria, but uh yeah. It's kinda funny. Uh everybody puts everybody paints things like um the things that they know. Um and yeah, so there's a European farmhouse in the in the story of Jacob and Laban parting So uh let's take a look at this uh this scripture, just take a uh a a little bit uh closer look. When it's reported that Laban Fled, he immediately pursues. Um he's angry about this. He he thinks that's his stuff and he wants it back Uh Jacob has a three day head start, but Laban catches him because he doesn't have to he doesn't have flocks and he doesn't have kids with him, so he can go he can move much faster. And then right before he catches up, so it takes him a while to catch up, but the night before he catches up, God warns Laban in the dream to be careful how he treats Jacob. Um so uh God intervenes uh to make and so there's one other incident with uh Laban and um And God. So uh remember that when um when um The servant came for Rebecca that Laban was there and solved that whole incident too. Uh Lavin was Rebecca's brother. And he was right there to see all that and to have everybody in the whole household acknowledge that it was God that that did this this thing. So uh that's just one more incident with the the one true living God that Laban had when he was a younger man. Um okay. So continuing along, so God warns Laban in a dream to be careful how he uh treats Jacob. And so essentially God intervenes to make sure his plan of redemption through Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob remains intact and moving forward. So there's a potential for violence here, and God heads it off. He goes directly into uh into the dreams of Laban and warns him, hey, be careful, don't uh don't uh do anything with uh Jacob. Um so Laban of course feels that he's been wronged and he confronts Jacob. He says, What have you done by deceiving me and carrying away my daughters like captives of the sword? So He says, you hey, you've kidnapped my daughters, essentially. That's what he's claiming. That's what he's accusing Jacob of doing. You've kidnapped my my daughters Jacob counters by going through a litany of wrongs that Laban has committed against him. He goes back through the 20 years and says, Hey, you've done this, and you've done this, and you've done this, and you've done that Uh he walks through the 20-year relationship and points out that he, Jacob, has always kept his side of the bargain. Uh and it's always been Laban who has twisted things up and cheated first with the daughter and now with uh changing wages and um it's been Laban that's been on it. So j uh Jacob comes right back at him And then at the very end of that discussion, Jacob points out that God has seen his affliction. And the toil of my hands and has re rendered judgment. So he he says specifically rendered judgment last night. So what's he talking about there? He's talking about Laban's dream last night, the night before So Laban has obviously re revealed this dream that he had, and Jacob is saying, hey, that's God making his judgment between the two of us in this situation. That's what Jacob is saying here. God has made his judgment by coming to you in that dream last night uh and telling you what he told you. Um so it's the divine presence that restrains the hostility that otherwise would have occurred. So uh Laban came up with an army He he came up to use force to take back what he considered his. And the night before that was so remember this is a ten day process. Jacob leaves for three days seven days to get down there. The night before, the night before Laban was going to go anywhere there with his army and take back what he saw was his, the Lord intervened. And prevented the hostility that otherwise was probably going to happen. So that's God shielding Jacob from disaster. Um and so although uh he's clearly frustrated, Laban's frustrated because he still thinks all this stuff is his, but he realizes that God has told him otherwise. God has said, no, you can't go in there and take it And he realizes he can't overcome God. So we don't know what his relationship with the Lord was, but he knows enough not to directly disobey what God has just told him in in his dream. Um and so he enters a a covenant with Jacob. So if he can't have all this stuff, he w he wants to at least extract a promise that Jacob's not going to come up there and take more of his stuff. And so they have a this little covenant And early the next morning, Laban says his goodbyes and goes back home. And so there's a little application, there's a there's a commentary that I really like by a guy named John Currid. Uh it's called a study commentary in Genesis. Two volumes. There's a volume one that goes, I think, Genesis 1 to 24, and then volume two, twenty-five to fifty. But he does these little application things at the end of each of his little sections of commentary. And so his commentary at the end of this whole interaction between Laban and Jacob, multi-chapter interaction He says the story of Jacob Melaban is an honest if disturbing vignette of human history. So it's that it's typical of the Bible that the Bible shows people as they are, no uh sugarcoating there It's a story of greed and lies and feigned innocence. Um you know, Laban had no intention of sending Jacob off with kisses and liars and flutes and things like that. Um And so it's it's a story of a poisoned relationship that leads to threats of violence. Uh the la the relationship it's full of deception. Uh it's full of greed. It goes from bad to worse. And it really is an illustration of the human predicament in a sinful world. This is what happens. This is what we see People do bad things to one another in this sin-soaked world. It shows it's another illustration of the brokenness of creation and humanity. And it shows us that we have a need for um something to rescue us from this brokenness. And so um Currud quotes um uh another guy talking about um uh Talking about this idea of wicked heart. Uh I have a I have a wicked heart, uh somebody says to this man, Asahel uh Nettleton How did I come by this wicked heart? And so and then the man replies that that's not the right question. The right question is how do you get rid of that wicked heart? Not how did I get it, but how do I get rid of it You have a wicked heart which renders you entirely unfit for the kingdom of God, and you must have a new heart, or you cannot be saved. And so that's the fact for all humans. Uh all humans are truly broken like Jacob and Laban and Jesus is the answer. And so we see this played out in an Old Testament story that uh the brokenness, the fallenness of mankind, and the fact that we need salvation from outside of ourselves. So that's the the lesson from the whole interaction between Laban and Jacob. Now, one last story we're going to do today. One last story from the life of Jacob is his is his reunion with his brother Esau. And Remember how they separated. It was because Jacob had deceived and had lied to Isaac and stolen the blessing from Jacob, from Esau. And Esau had vowed to kill him, to kill Jacob. And so all this time, 20 years later, Jacob is terrified of meeting Esau. He's terrified. And so we see that and so we see the his preparation for meeting Esau and then what happens when he actually meets in chapter 32 and 33. So let's take a look at Genesis chapter 32 So beginning in verse 1, chapter 32, verse 1. Now as Jacob went on his way, the angels of God met him. Jacob said when he saw them, this is God's camp, so he named that place Maenaeam. Then Jacob sent messengers before him to his brother Esau in the land of Seir, the country of Edom. He also commanded them, saying, Thus you shall say to my lord Esau, Thus says your servant Jacob, I have sojourned with Laban and stayed until now I have oxen and donkeys and flocks and male and female servants, and I have sent to tell my Lord that I may find favor in your sight The messengers returned to Jacob, saying, We came to your brother Esau, and furthermore, he is coming to meet you, and 400 men with him. Then Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed, and he divided the people who were with him, and the flocks and the herds and the camels into two companies. For he said, if Esau comes to the one company and tax it, then the company which is left will escape Jacob said, O God of my father Abraham and God of my father Isaac, O Lord, who said to me, Return to your country and to your relatives, and I will prosper you I am unworthy of all the loving kindness, and of all the faithfulness which you have shown to your servant. For with my staff only I crossed this Jordan, and now I have become two companies Deliver me, I pray, from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau, for I fear him, that he will come and attack me and the mothers with the children. For you said, I will surely prosper you and make your descendants as the sand of the sea, which is too great to be numbered. And then in the beginning of verse chapter 33 Then Jacob lifted his eyes and looked, and behold Esau was coming, and four hundred men with him. So he divided the children among Leah and Rachel and the two maids. He put the maids and their children in the front And Leah and her children next, and Rachel and Joseph last. But he himself passed on ahead of them and bowed down to the ground seven times until he came near to his brother. Then Esau ran to meet him and embraced him and fell on his neck and kissed him and they wept. He lifted his eyes and saw the women and children and said, Who are these with you? So he said, the children whom God has graciously given your servant. And then verse 16, so Esau returned that day on his way to Seir. Jacob journeyed to Succath and built for himself a house and made booths for his livestock, therefore the place is named Succath, which means booths. So he uh in this story um he was in the hill country of Gilead and he continues to the south. Uh he comes to Maenaeum And he sees angels of God at Maenaeum. And then he goes over to Penuel. And that's where he wrestles with God. We don't have time to go through that story, but that's where he wrestles with a man who's really turns out not to be a man. And he goes to Sakath at the end of this story, and then later he crosses the Jordan River and goes over to Shechem. And then um as he comes from the north towards the south. Here is Edom or Seir, and that's where Esau lives. And Esau comes from the south to the north to meet him as Jacob's coming down from the north to the south. And they meet somewhere in the middle. So that's what's going on here. And so Jacob comes to a place where he meets angels of God. He calls the place May Naim, the encampment, the encampment of God. He sends messengers ahead of him down south to Edom to where he knows uh Esau's living, and they return from news that Esau's on his way from the south to the north with 400 men He divides his people, flocks, herds, into two companies, hoping that only half of his his his uh family and his stuff will be killed. Yeah. Where he initially in verse one it says, he came to a place and he meets the angels of God. Is there any place else in scripture that talks is there any place that talks about that other than that one. 'Cause to me, to meet the angels of God would be like you just anywhere else that it talks about that like so he had met the angels of God in Bethel on his way to Haran, the coming up and down the stairs. And he sees angels again as he's coming back from Haran. So I I think there's a parallel there. Yeah, well yeah. P it I it seems to be favoritism because he's been he's been he's had favoritism towards Rachel from the very beginning and it's pretty consistent all the way through. uh he throws the maids and their kids out as human shields in the front, right? And and then Rachel and Leah next and then or Leah and her kids next and then Rachel in the back. Rachel and Joseph in the back Um, it I think it seems pretty clear that he's got some it because it's it's not the first time he showed favoritism. It's not the last time either Uh he shows favoritism towards Joseph w once he's he's born, we'll see uh coming up in next week's lesson. So yeah, Jacob's he's got the favoritism issue. Um that's been there from the beginning and it's pretty clear from you know, the maze and her kids out there as the as the human shields is that's that's pretty sad I think. Um anyway, so yeah, he at first he divides them into two groups and hoping that only fifty percent of his his family and his stuff will be slaughtered. Um that's a pretty s that's a pretty stark uh thing that he's he's he's thinking about there. Um But the good news is that drives him to his knees. And the prayer is really good. I mean he says in the in the prayer, I'm not worthy of the loving kindness that you've shown me That's right, he's right. He gets it. You can see from this prayer, Jacob has finally gotten it. He prays to God for deliverance, which is the right place to go for deliverance. Uh not some scheme. He doesn't come up with a scheme. He he prays to God for deliverance. He spends the night praying to God and then he sends uh he starts sending um kind of uh gifts or presents to uh uh to Esau. As Esau approaches, Jacob places the maids and their children first, Leah with her children second, Rachel and Joseph last. But Esau runs to meet Jacob and embraces him. So he had nothing to fear. You know, uh i the he he was he was afraid of something that was in his own mind. Um afterward Esau leaves to wait for Jacob and Seer, but Jacob journeys to succumb. Uh so Uh there's still some deception here because he he he he clearly gives Esau the impression that he's gonna follow him down to to Seir, but he doesn't. He he and it's clear y Jacob has no intention of following him anywhere. Um but he doesn't come out and say that. He doesn't come out and say, Hey, God told me to go to the land of Canaan, so that's where I'm gonna go He he he makes all these excuses about the children are slow and I can't follow you fast and um y yeah, it's uh he still He he still there's the flesh is still there. Um and of course there's as with everything in in the Bible, there is a painting from the sixteen or seventeen hundreds. This is the reconciliation reconciliation of Jacob and Esau by Peter Paul Rubens. Um I think he's uh uh Belgian guy. Belgian or Dutch. So uh diving into this particular part of scripture. On his way to Haran 20 years earlier, Jacob had an encounter with angels, chapter 28. He saw that these messengers of God were coming from heaven down to earth where he was. And the whole point of that story was to give Jacob encouragement as he was fleeing for his life. Encouraged on his journey, knowing that he was protected by God's messengers. Now on his way back from Haran to Canaan, angels appear to him again. Probably for the same purpose. He's about to meet Esau and he needs hope and comfort. So he renames the place Maanam, the encampment of God. So he's finally put things right with Laban, and now he intends to be reconciled to his brother Esau. But he does so with fear and anxiety. He's afraid. He makes detailed preparations and installs safeguards. First he divides everything in two companies and then he sends messengers to Esau to let him know he's coming. In everything that follows, even though Jacob has the birthright and the blessing and God has chosen him, he places himself in a subordinate position in relation to Esau. So he humbles himself before Esau, even though technically Jacob has the blessing and he has the birthright and he has God's Um i i God has already told him that he's the the one through whom all these promises are going to come. He humbles himself before Esau anyway. The message Jacob sends to Esau starts with, thus says your servant Jacob, so he addresses Esau. And it it calls himself uh Esau's servant in the message that he sends down there, so very conciliatory and humble message he sends. And the only response is Jacob, uh Esau takes his four hundred fighting men, his army, and starts marching towards Jacob. So that's all Jacob sees. is I've sent a messenger to Esau and his response is to come after me with his army. That's how Jacob sees it. And then Jacob does the right thing. He calls on the Lord in prayer. And it's an excellent prayer. So look back through that prayer and and and Jacob's attitude towards the Lord is the right attitude. He uh first of all, he praised the Lord's words back to him. He says, this is what you've said to me Uh you this is the things that you've promised me. So praying the Lord's word, that's always good to pray the Lord's words to him He also has a humble attitude, the proper humble attitude before the Lord. I'm not worthy of your loving kindness. And then he calls on the Lord to rescue him. Now, uh the Lord has already rescued him by changing Esau's heart. So Esau's no longer murderously angry at Jacob. Jacob doesn't know that, but that's the fact. The Lord has changed Esau's heart. Uh but he does the right thing. Jacob does the right thing here. He calls on the Lord to be his uh rescuer. So he reminds God of his promises, not that God has re forgotten his promises, but he he prays uh back through the things that God has promised him. For example, you said, I will surely prosper you and make your descendants as the sand of the sea, which is too great to be numbered. So He's actually, so what's the purpose here? What's the real result here? Jacob's going through the promises that God has given him to essentially encourage himself. That's the result. is it provides the encouragement that um Jacob needs to go out um alone essentially eventually. He has his whole household arranged in a certain way, but Jacob goes out all by himself. to uh to Esau and his four hundred man army all by himself goes out there. Uh because after he's done this prayer and he's thought through God's promises to him he he knows he's gonna be okay. He knows it's okay to walk out there as one guy in front of an army of four hundred, um, even though he's afraid. So uh he decides to send gifts to Esau, and uh provision of tribute from someone of lower status to someone of higher rank was common in the ancient uh near East. But n normally it wasn't a gigantic present like five hundred and fifty animals because the lower ranked person wouldn't be expected to send this huge gift to to uh a superior. It was usually a small gift, but Jacobson's a huge gift. Yes. Before you get too far in, the previous line, the first point you were making that even though Jacob had the birthright and the blessing and Uh you were saying humbling them so but let's not forget that Jacob wronged Esau by stealing the birds, right? So that should be a reminder to us that When we're the person that is doing the wrong thing for forgiveness, we should be humbling ourselves because we're the ones that was the the evildoer. Yeah. And notice that this uh the sin that Jacob committed, lying to his father Isaac, stealing the blessing, has haunted him for twenty years. It's affected Jacob, the sin that he committed, uh in ways that are that trouble his soul for 20 years. And so the Lord's finally a arranged circumstances so that uh Jacob and Esau can can meet and you know we don't have a record of exactly what they said to each other, but uh there's a reconciliation there and twenty years worth of you know guilt and and everything that's built up in Jacob is finally released. But that sin that he's committed has weighed on him for for twenty years. Yeah. So it appears so. So yeah, E Esau said I he has plenty. So Uh we didn't there's no time to go through the entire thing, but when when this whole huge gift comes, Jacob says, Well, uh, you know, the Lord has blessed me, and Esau says, Well, the Lord's blessed me too. I have plenty, I don't need all this stuff. Uh so the the huge gesture, the huge gift that he sends uh kind of reflects the magnitude of Jacob's fear uh at meeting Esau. Um and so Jacob does not immediately f does not follow immediately behind the gifts. He takes additional precautionary measures, he divides up the wives and children into the three groups and in in order of how he values then. Um you know, just imagine the family dynamics here when when you see that Me me and my kids are the human shields out in front. I I just yeah, I I I feel for the maids and their kids that there was an obvious hierarchy Oh. Um so but E cell's response is is totally different from the the what Jacob's fear had driven him to imagine what Esau's re uh reaction would be. Esau's reaction is a hundred and eighty degrees out from that. He embraces him, he falls on his necks and kisses him, they weep together. It's a wonderful reunion of brothers. And that's not what Jacob had had pictured in his mind as he in the days before this. And it shows that Jacob's apprehensions and precautions have all been unnecessary. He didn't need to do that. He didn't need to put himself through uh all this uh torture of mind, body, and soul uh prior to meeting with Esau. And so one more application from the study commentary by Currid, he points out that it's clear that at this point of the story, Jacob's a believer. That prayer that he makes is the prayer of somebody who has real faith in the Lord. And he's in a covenant with the Holy One of Israel. Uh yet at times Jacob reverts to his old ways of craftiness and deceit. And so at the very end of this story, um You know, he he really gives Esau the impression that he's going to follow along behind him as Esau goes back down to the land of Edom and Jacob has no intention of doing it. He he he's he breaks west Um and he go he gives all kinds of excuses about um you know, he's gonna be slow, so why don't you go ahead of me, he tells Esau. And Esau says, Well let me leave some of these men here to guard you on your way And he said, No, no, I don't really need that 'cause he doesn't want uh he he still doesn't he still doesn't trust. Um And he's still d actually deceiving Esau about what his plans are. Um and so he's still got that in him. Um So uh what Current points out is that we have to be certain that we don't mix up these two theological concepts of justification and sanctification. So I don't know if we've talked about that too much in this class, but uh but justification is a judicial act of God. Um He declares on the basis of the righteousness of Christ that all claims of the law are satisfied with justification respect to the sinner. In other words, the substitutionary atonement of on the cross that Jesus has paid for our sins and we're justified before a holy God. And that's a one-time deal. Um and uh when you um come to faith in Christ um that you are you you're you go from guilty before God to righteous before God because of the finished work of Christ on the cross. And that's justification Uh but there's another thing, sanctification. And that uh is on the other hand is an ongoing gradual process. And that's what we see in the life of Jacob here It occurs in the life of a believer after he or she is justified. The Westminster Confession of Faith says this sanctification is throughout the whole man, yet imperfect in this life. So you never become perfectly sanctified. in this life. In other words, you can't become sinless in this life. And that's what we see in the person of Jacob. Elements of corruption remain. Elements of the flesh remain. He still has fears. He still uh pulls this l at the very end of this passage he pulls this little deception on Esau. He's he kinda gives him the impression he's gonna follow and then he breaks to the West. Instead. Yet through the power of the Holy Spirit, Jacob is overcoming. He's growing in grace. He's a totally different man than he was when he's stealing that blessing. You can really see that from the prayer, and we see that from the whole arc of Jacob's life. He's God is using circumstances of his life to sanctify him, to conform him to the likeness of Christ. um to make him progressively uh holy and righteous, but not perfectly, never perfectly in this life. Okay, so uh we talked about this great escape, the fact that he ran away from Laban kind of deceptively that Laban pursued him and there was a confrontation between Laban and Jacob, but in the end they made a covenant and they they parted ways. And then we have the incident of Jacob reconciling with Esau after twenty years. So that he's had this heavy burden and he has this great fear, but in reality God has already changed the heart of Esau. towards Jacob and the reunion is a is a good one we see at the end. Alright, so we have uh five minutes left. were questions. Yes, do you know. That could be. So uh yeah we skipped that story b so that story um between the mayonnaise seeing the angels and going to see um Uh E confronting Esau, Jacob wrestles with a man, um, who turns out to be the angel of the Lord really. Um And the the angel does two things. He dislocates the socket of his hip and Jacob limps for the rest of his life. And he also changes his name from Jacob to Israel And that's confirmed it later on in chapter 35. But it happens in chapter 32 that he has this uh wrestling with God. Um and It's um it's unknown whether that was that played a a role in uh Esau's attitude, but it seems like Esau's attitude really had changed Before he actually met um Jacob and Saul is it. It could be. It could be part of it. Yes. You said you cut down a lot of the material. for this class. I did. Is the unabridged version available on sermon audio under your name in different churches? No, I no I I've never recorded it before. Um well when when people's names are changed in the Bible in this instance um Jacob to Israel, do they tell people that, if you know what I'm saying? Like Is it just that God now calls him Israel in in all of his meetings with him, if you will, or does he tell people My guess is yes, they use that new name. And so um Abram went from Abram to Abraham, Sarai went from Sarai to Sarah, uh Isaac was named by God before he was born, uh so his name never changes, but Jacob gets his name changed from Jacob to Israel. Um my my guess is that um they go by the n name, the the new name. Um but it the scripture's not totally clear on that. So I'm just guessing. That was my kind of follow-up question. I had a question I had in mind before with Abraham Abraham's name for came from Abraham Mm. Everything that happened after the fact that Abraham's name is reported as Abraham. Yep. Jacob, that's not the case. Jacob, you know, even after that moment of change Yeah, so uh the New Testament always calls Abraham Abraham, never Abram. The New Testament calls Jacob both. Israel. There's quotes, there's there's New Testament passages that call him Israel, and there are New Testament passages that call him Jacob. So I don't know what to take of that. Uh maybe he continued to use both after that. I don't know. Yeah. Yeah, I think the meaning is yes. Um and so there could be a little bit of confusion um when you're referring to Israel. Later on, like in the New Testament, what are you talking about? Are you talking about the country or are you talking about the person? So there could be some confusion there, and that could be why Sometimes they refer to the New Testament refers to them to Jacob to make sure that you that you know they're talking about the person and not the nation. That that's my guess All right, one more. Yes. Yep. Chapter 35 has a more a f uh kind of a a broader treatment of the change of name. Uh it's mentioned first in third chapter 32, but there's a more full treatment of it in chapter 35. Alright, we've come to the end of our time, and we'll be moving on to the life of Joseph next time. Alright, let's uh let's close in prayer