If you'll uh if you'll bow with me, let's go to the Lord. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day that you have made. In spite of the cold, we thank you for the opportunity we have to gather as the body of Christ and worship you. We thank you for your word, Father. We thank you for this opportunity we have to study your word. We pray, Lord, that you would open our hearts and minds through your Holy Spirit so that we could truly understand what you're trying to teach us from your word today. We thank you for revealing yourself who you are, all the attributes of your divinity. We thank you for revealing your great plan of redemption across all the pages of Scripture from Genesis to Revelation. We thank you for your wonderful loving kindness demonstrated most importantly for us in Christ, in his um his birth as a as a little baby boy, his sinless life, his Death on the cross for our sins, his resurrection, his ascension into heaven, so that he sits at your right hand today. We thank you that we have such a great high priest that intercedes on our behalf. We thank you for the opportunities that we have to approach you in prayer. What a great privilege this is, Lord. And we thank you for the opportunities that you give us to participate in the in the the advance of the gospel. That when we have opportunities with our Friends and family members and co-workers and neighbors, we pray that through your Holy Spirit you would give us the words to say so that we could give an account for the hope that is in us. The hope of eternal life in Christ Jesus. And it's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. Alright, so we're on part 10. Believe it or not, so only uh three more weeks to go. And today we're going to be talking about evidences for the flood. Uh before that I just want to uh it's uh February's uh Black History Month Um and I just want to go through some biographies of some African Americans who accomplished marvelous things in spite of slavery. So I'm going to t talk to you about two people that at least that spent at least part of their lives in slavery. The first one is Phyllis Wheatley. Uh how many know uh the story of Phyllis Wheatley? Probably heard it from me before. Uh Phyllis Wheatley was uh born in around seventeen fifty three She was the first African American author of a published book of poetry. She was born in Gambia in West Africa. She was stolen from her parents at age seven and enslaved and brought to America. Uh Boston Taylor John Wheatley purchased her as a personal servant for his wife Susanna. Phyllis displayed ready intelligence, learned English quickly, and soon began reading and writing poetry. Uh the Wheatleys were members of one of the most famous churches in America, the Old South Meeting House in Boston. And Phyllis they went to church with the family. Uh she was saved and baptized at the age of eighteen. Uh she received renown she achieved renown it with the publication of her poetry first in England Uh it was called Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and Moral, and that was in 1773, when she was about twenty years old. She was examined by eighteen of the most respectable characters in Boston to prove that she, a black woman, really wrote these poems. No American publisher would publish her. Only with the help of evangelical philanthropist Selena Countess of Huntington who is a fascinating character in and of herself. The Countess of Huntingdon was a personal friend of George Whitfield uh John and Charles Wesley and Isaac Watts. They were all contemporaries and she was a very close friend of all of those people. And she took up the uh she took a personal interest in Phyllis Wheatley and had her poems published in England. Um and then as a result of her obvious gifts, her orders eventually gave her freedom. Now of course you shouldn't have to have obvious gifts to have freedom, uh, but she was Given freedom, so here's an example of one of her poems in that book. Twas Mercy Brought Me From My Pagan Land taught my benighted soul to understand that there's a God, that there's a Savior too, once I redemption neither sought nor knew. So uh and she was twenty years old when she when they she published these uh these poems. She didn't live very long. Uh she didn't live very long. Many people didn't live to great ages in those days. So that's one The other is Frederick Douglass. Anybody familiar with Frederick Douglass? Frederick Douglass was born actually close to here in Maryland on the Eastern Shore. Um he was an American abolitionist preacher, orator, writer, and statesman. After escaping from slavery in Maryland, he became a national leader of the abolitionist movement in Massachusetts and New York. He became famous for his oratory and incisive anti-slavery writings. Accordingly, he was described by abolitionists in his time as a living counterexample to slaveholders' arguments that slaves lack the intellectual capacity to function as independent American citizens. Likewise, northerners at the time found it hard to believe that such a great orator had once been a slave. Few Americans accomplished as much in their lifetimes as Frederick Douglass. In his 77 years on Earth, Douglass, who died in 1895, escaped slavery, won his freedom, published several newspapers, became a licensed preacher advised presidents and became one of the most well-known speakers of his time. If you haven't read his autobiography, I highly recommend it. It's called Life and Times of Frederick Douglass. And in his autobiography, he gives an account of his salvation. And so here's in his words, here's the account of his salvation. I was not more than 13 years old when in my loneliness and destitution I longed for someone to whom I could go as to a father and protector. The preaching of a white Methodist minister named Hansen was the means of causing me to feel that in God I had such a friend He thought that all men, great and small, bond and free, were sinners in the sight of God, that they were by nature rebels against his government, that they must repent of their sins and be reconciled to God through Christ. I cannot say that I had a very distinct notion of what was required of me, but one thing I did know well, I was wretched and had no means of making myself otherwise. I consulted a good old colored man named Charles Lawson, and in tones of holy affection he told me to pray and to cast all my care upon God. This I sought to do, and though for weeks I was a poor, broken hearted mourner, travelling through doubts and fears, I finally found my burden lightened and my heart relieved. I loved all mankind, slaveholders not accepted. though I abhorred slavery more than ever. I saw the world in a new light, and my great concern was to have everybody converted. My desire to learn increased, and especially did I want a thorough acquaintance with the contents of the Bible. That's his in his words in his autobiography, uh, how he came to Christ. And this is a true authentic conversion story. You can tell from every word of that So a remarkable man, uh, Frederick Douglass. All right. Uh what we're going to learn today, uh, we're going to talk about evidences for the flood, how the flood is a warning about God's coming judgment when Jesus returns. The Grand Canyon stands as a monument to the flood, and there's plenty of evidence for the flood all around us. So uh first we'll we'll do a little review of what uh Pastor Gabe went through last time. So last time we talked about the preparation from the flood, uh Genesis six, into the first few verses of Genesis seven, how Uh uh God told Noah about the flood and told him how to prepare. So we learned that people were so wicked that God destroyed it decided to destroy all living things. Noah found favor in the sight of the Lord, and God commanded Noah to build an ark to protect Noah, his family, and representative animals. He also gave him description of how to build it, what kind of wood to build it out of, what the dimensions were to be, 300 cubits, so 450 feet long, so a really big boat Um 450 feet long, 75 feet wide, and 45 feet high. An enormous, enormous ship. Um he's he says that he's going to destroy everything with a flood, and everything on the earth is going to perish. And then uh except the the people that the people and uh animals on the ark, that's eight people, seven of every clean animal, two of every unclean, seven of every bird And enough food to feed all the people and the animals. Excuse me. Quick question on the the number of clean animals, is that for like sacrifice purposes or Well, um I think probably yes. I think that's probably what it was for, although the scripture doesn't tell us exactly, but I think that's probably it. Uh for sacrifice both uh before and after, right? Because once they get out, then if you only have two of an animal And you come right out and sacrifice those two, well then that's the end of the population, right? Um and so uh they needed to be able to sacrifice animals of the clean type after they got off the arc as well. Yeah. Yeah, when we get to uh Genesis chapter nine, we're gonna we're gonna be talking about that. Um yes. Um Might think about the question. But do we know if NOAA was sort of a killing animals? Because obviously for most right now the law they won't explain all about Right. Well so so the e the the simple answer is we we don't know. The scripture doesn't tell us. But it w the scripture does tell us that it wasn't Noah who gathered the animals, it was God who gathered the animals. So so God did in fact know which animals he was going to say were clean in the future. So Uh so God brought seven of particular animals and the scripture tells us those are the clean ones, but it's a good observation that Noah wouldn't necessarily have known at that point. You forgot how we count the seven. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Uh we talked about the uh The uh sons of God in the Nephilim, um, a particular subset of fallen angels or demons, did something so egregious and so offensive that God kept them in eternal bonds and We have additional scripture that talk about that in 2 Peter chapter 2 and in Jude as well. God resolves to blot out all of mankind because of extreme wickedness, and we'll see that he does in fact blot out all all mankind except for the eight on the ark. Uh and because man was given dominion over creation in Genesis chapter one, j God's judgment falls not only on man, but on the things that he has dominion over creatures and the whole earth, really. And there was, of course, one exception to the wickedness of man. Noah was a righteous man. Noah found favor in the eyes of the Lord. The Hebrew word that's translated favor here can also be translated grace. So you can read that as Noah found grace from God, favor or grace. And Hebrews 11 tells us it was by faith that Noah, being warned by God, prepared this ark. God makes clear that the ark is something that He does. It's not a natural event. He doesn't say there's this natural disaster coming up. Noah, get ready for it. He says specifically, I am going to destroy the earth with a flood. So it's an act of God, not a natural thing. And there's a special word in Hebrew for Noah's flood, Mabul. It's not used for any other kind of flood. There's other Hebrew words for flood that we see. And it's not Mabul. Mabul's only for Noah's flood. It's different. God gives Noah these instructions uh about what animals he's gonna bring and how to build the ark. Um and then God brings the animals um and God reveals his purpose to keep them alive. We talked about the importance of the flood, the testimony of the Apostle Peter in 2 Peter 3. uh when he talks about scoffers coming and saying that everything's always gone as it uh along as it has since the the beginning and peter points out that that's not so that there have been these two events one is the creation And the second one is the flood that are God's direct intervention into uh the natural order uh that things are not always going on as they did and and he's and he's talking about i in that passage he's talking about the second coming that's the um that's the context Uh they say, Where is this coming? When when Jesus said he's coming back and it doesn't look like he's coming back. And and they say and everything just keeps going on and Peter said, Well no, no, no, remember there was a big flood where God directly, spectacularly intervened um in the working of his creation. And Jesus did the same thing Jesus, when talking about his second coming, uh said that no one knows the hour, not the angels, only the Father And then he says, as it was in the days of Noah, that's how it will be when the when I come back. So the flood is important. It's an important warning. It's an important uh parallel to Jesus' second coming. There's a good book. I recommend it. If you want to look at the it's called Nozark of Feasibility Study. It's by a friend of mine, John Woodmore. That's actually not his real name. That's a pen name. The guy that wrote that book Uh but it's an excellent kind of engineer's uh account of how uh everything could have been done in the ark, how eight people could have done all the work, how the animals all could fit, uh how they could uh do waste removal. He's got all this in the book uh of how the how it could have w worked from a engineering and scientific standpoint. Uh we also talked a little bit last time about the extreme stability of the Ark, uh naval ark and architects have examined these dimensions and they're as good as you can get. You can't make better dimensions for stability than these dimensions. We even with a supercomputer, you can't you can't design dimensions of a boat with better stability than this. Um Then it's three decks. And so there's a little outline of a person, the size of a person compared to the size of the three decks. It's 45 feet high, so each one would have been 15 feet So lots of room. 450 feet long, 45 feet high, 75 feet wide, lots and lots and lots and lots of room in that arc. Alright. Any questions about what we did last time? before we launch into the new stuff. Alright, let's launch into the new stuff. Alright, so uh why should we believe that there was actually a flood? Is there any evidence out there outside of the Bible? um that there was this uh giant flood. Um so uh one thing that we do have is we have um Uh flood legends. There are legends that there was a big flood in cultures all over the world. Thousands of flood legends all over the world. Um and they have many of the elements of the Genesis account. So here's a chart. Uh flood legends from uh Ancient Assyria and Babylon, from Persia, from Asia Minor, Greece, Egypt, Italy, Lithuania, Russia, China, India from the Cree people in Canada, from the Cherokee people in the U. S. , from the Papago people in Mexico, from the Aztecs in Mexico, from Peru, from the Leeward Islands, from the Fiji Islands, and from Hawaii So all the way around the globe, there are legends of a big flood, and they have certain elements like man in transgression, divine destruction, a favored family, and art provided Destruction by water, humans saved, animals saved, universal destruction, landing on a mountain, birds sent out, survivors worship, divine favor saved All these elements of the biblical story are in these floods legends to one extent or another. Some of them have more, the ones that are closest to the Middle East have the are the closest to the biblical account. And as you get farther away, the elements are more and more tr um uh kind of perverted um uh or corrupted. So there's flood legends and flood traditions from these cultures all around the world, remarkably similar to the biblical account. And so why would this be? Well, all the people present at the Tower of Babel knew the true story of the flood. It had only been a few generations before there were li the the eight people that got off the ark were all still alive. as far as we know, according to their ages, at the time of the Tower of Babel. So everybody knew the true story of the flood at the time of the Tower of Babel. And then what happened? Dispersion of the people. So we had uh the flood was passed down. So we had then God confused the languages and scattered people So it makes sense that the story of the flood would be passed down in all those languages and cultures, but without the Holy Spirit's supernatural preservation for them, all of those flood legends changed either a little bit or a lot as they were transm translated, transferred down through the generations. Only the true story in Genesis has been perfectly preserved So that's why we have flood legends, and it makes sense that we have flood legends, and it makes sense that they're corrupted a little bit by the account from Genesis 1 to 11 of the Tower of Babel, the confusion of languages and the scattering of peoples. Alright, let's take a look at facts about the flood. Where do we get facts about the flood? From the Bible, that's the only place we can actually get facts about the flood. Um we can get evidence for the flood from other places, evidence that's suggestive that's that that's compatible with the flood. But the only place we can get facts, things that are actual facts, eyewitness account of the flood, is from the scriptures. All right, so what does the scripture say? I'll give you a a few um uh Pastor Gabe's gonna go through this uh more verse by verse next week, but I'll just give you some highlights. Starting in chap it's in chapter seven and chapter eight of your Bible, some highlights. Chapter seven, verse eleven, all the springs of the great deep burst forth And the floodgates of the heaven were opened, and rain fell on the earth forty days and forty nights. So we have water coming up from the ground, the the uh breaking of the uh the great fountain the great deep uh springs of the great deep bursting forth And we also have rain, lots of rain for 40 days, 40 nights. As the water increased, they lifted the ark high above the earth. So this enormous vessel, 450 feet feet long and forty-five feet wa uh forty-five feet high, seventy-five feet wide, huge ocean-going vessel is lifted off the earth by the flood. It takes a big flood to lift a gigantic ocean-going vessel off the ground. And it says it was lifted high above the earth. The waters rose and increased greatly on the earth, and the ark floated on the surface of the water. All the high mountains under the entire heavens were covered. Notice the language. All the high mountains under the entire heavens. It's It's kind of uh absolute language like that throughout the whole account of the flood. All and entire and all, you'll see all over and over and over again All the high mountains under the entire heavens were covered. The waters rose and covered the mountains to a depth of more than fifteen cubits. Cubits about eighteen inches, so It's about twenty-three feet. So the highest mountains are covered twenty-three feet high. And so that's water around the whole globe to do that. You can't have water that goes over the top of the highest mountain without also covering everything else. Right? That's how gravity works. Every living thing that moved on land perished. Every living thing. Birds. Could could a local flood kill all the birds on earth? No, the birds will just fly away, right? The you can't you can't have a local flood that kills all the birds. Right? The birds just f would just fly away to somewhere else if there's a local flood. Uh the birds, livestock, wild animals, all the creatures that swarm over the earth and all mankind, everything on dry land that had the breath of life in its nostrils died. Everything every living thing on the face of the earth was wiped out. Only Noah was left and those with him on the ark. The Bible's really, really clear. It's almost like it's going out of its way to make sure we understand that this is a flood that covered the whole world and killed everything. Almost like that. Verse 24, the waters flooded the earth for 150 days. So 150 days it was covering the whole earth. That's the prevailing um what's called the prevailing stage of the flood, and then there's the receding phase. It took seven months for the water to run off So five months, the water's covering the whole earth, seven months it takes for it to run off into the current ocean basins. Chapter 8. Now the springs of the deep and the floodgates of the heaven had been closed and the rain had stopped falling from the sky, the water receded steadily from the earth. So water floods up over the whole earth, it's there for five months, and then it starts to recede. And so what appears first when If the water is covering the whole earth and it starts to recede, what's going to happen first? Mountaintops are going to start to pop up. But when mountaintops are popped up, there's still lots of water. hundreds, maybe thousands of feet over the s things the land that was that's at sea level. And so it takes a long, long, long, long time for that water to go down to the point where the things that are at sea level are dry. And so the mountains can be dry for a long time before the stuff at sea level is dry. And so that's what it takes seven months to do all that. On the seventeenth day of the seventh month, the ark came to rest on the mountains of Ararat. So what happens is the It was originally it was 23 feet covering the highest mountain. Now it's gone down, gone, gone down, gone down, and now the ark bumps into a mountaintop. It doesn't mean that the mountaintop's actually visible, but it's actually boun bumped into a mountaintop that's under the water still. And then later the waters continue to recede until the tenth month, and on the first day of the tenth month, the tops of the mountains are now visible. So the ark bumps into an underwater mountain. The water keeps going down, keeps going down, keeps going down, and then you can start seeing the tops of the mountains. By the first day of the first month of Noah's 601st year, the water dried up from the earth. Noah then removed the covering from the ark and saw that the surface of the ground was dry. That's the surface up in the mountains is dry. The water's still going down for a long time after that. the waters came up in from the fountains that before the flood. I assume that it just created like a a cavern down below if that's where the water receipts to so uh good question. So uh the water for the flood is now in the oceans. So I mean it's still on the planet. The water couldn't go anywhere off the planet, so it's gotta still be on the planet And so all the water that was necessary to flood is now in the oceans. And so if if you took the earth and made it into a sphere into a perfect sphere, like brought the oceans up and the mountains down, made it a perfect sphere, you would have water around the entire sphere a mile deep. That's how much water there is in the current oceans, enough to make a mile of water around the whole globe. Because the oceans are really deep. Compared to how high the mountains are, the oceans are really deep. So the water went into the ocean basins. Now how did it go into the ocean basins? Um the ocean floor is much more dense rock than the continents. Much more dense. And so what happens when you have a variation in density between one thing and another? What sinks and what rises? The thing that's more dense sinks. The thing that's less dense rises. And so the ocean basins, all of which were are young and made of what's called large igneous provinces, huge amounts of igneous rock. That's what the ocean basins are made of. Those things sunk and at the same time the continents rose. And so what happens if you got one place where the rock is sinking Another place where the the rock is rising and the whole thing's covered with water, where will the water go? It will go to where the the thing is sinking. which is the current ocean bases and it will run off the places that are rising, which is the current continents. Water runs off, water runs off, the the the ocean basins sink, the continents rise, water runs off, water runs off, water runs off. And in the final state, all the water is in those ocean basins and it's not on the continents. Yes. Uh Somario. Yeah. Yeah, so good question. So how how can there be mountains? What are the mountains made of? Well we're we're gonna get to that here in a second. We're gonna do some hardcore geology in a ma in a minute. But quite a bit quite a bit of the earth's surface is made of what's called sedimentary rock. And that's sediments that come out of the water And so sediments came out of the water thousands of feet deep. Thousands of feet of sedimentary rock are all over the earth. And so that's that's little particles that came out of water Uh and it came out during the flood to make those thousands of feet of what's what's now continental rock. Now there's also crystalline basement rock, and we'll talk about that too. They are. Yeah, we're gonna talk about that too. Alright, we're gonna get to our geology lesson here in a minute. All of the waters from the flood are now the ocean. Yep. But that's salt water. Rain coming down is not salt Yeah, so uh so we have processes that bring salt into the oceans, right? So bring minerals into the ocean. Um that's how the water becomes salty. And so in the process of running off the continents That water was not just H2O. There was lots of minerals that were dissolved in that water as as a process. Yeah. And so and how well so how do you get fresh water? You get fresh water because uh the evaporation cycle. So what what evaporates up into the air is just the H2O and the minerals are left behind And then when it falls as rain, it's just H2O, it's not salt water when it falls because of the hydrologic cycle. Okay, good question. Um yeah he is. All right Uh so let me continue. So the flood lasted 370 days. Um 150 days of pre prevailing and 220 days of falling off. Five months of prevailing, seven months of receding And we know that because there's precise language in there. It was the 17th day of the second month of Noah's 600th year when it started. It was the 27th day of the second month of his 601st day When he came out it's a year in ten days, using twelve thirty day months, which I think is how they did it back then. Uh it looks something like this on a calendar. Uh Noah's 600th year to 601st year. Uh the Bible gives us the the the date of certain events so we can map out the the flood going uh a little over a year, ten days past a year Um and of course he went on seven days before the flood started, so he was on the arc 377 days, uh 17 days, a year plus seventeen days, because he was on the arc seven days before the flood started Um and then you can put the the timeline of when the doves went out, uh the Raven and the Doves Uh when he's when he saw the when you first saw the when the ark rested, when he first started seeing mountains, when the surface of the ground was dry when he removed the cover and came off. Um and all that occurs in the six 1656 year after creation, according to the timeline of the genealogies in Genesis five. So the flood starts in year 1656 after creation. It ends in year 1657 after creation. So it's not a local flood because a local flood would look like that. Uh if it was the water was above the high mountains and it was still local, it would have to look like that. Uh so let's take a look at the Grand Canyon. So um Richard brought up the Grand Canyon. Um If there was a big flood, what would we expect to see? Uh we would expect to see billions of dead things buried in rock layers laid down by water all over the earth And in fact that's what we see. We see billions of dead things buried in rock layers laid down by water all over the earth. So in the and particularly we can see it in the Grand Canyon. If we look at the Grand Canyon through a biblical lens So this is my trip to the Grand Canyon. Um this is that's me. Uh that's my father who has since passed away Um we did this in June 2011, uh ten days through the the Whitewater Raptor through the Grand Canyon, 200 miles. Uh every every evening we just pull off to the side of the river and slept under the stars. It was awesome This man right here was 88 years old in June 2011 and he landed on the beaches of Normandy on D-Day. And and when he was twenty one years old, and this was we had the 67th anniversary of D-Day during the trip. So June 6th was during the trip. And he was very emotional On June 6th of 2011, the 67th anniversary of him landing on the beaches of Normandy. That's his 85-year-old wife who was on the trip with us. Uh this kid was eight And so we had from eight to eighty-eight on the trip. Um awesome trip. Uh I highly recommend it. This uh this man right here is Uh Tom Vale, he's the one that led the trip. Uh he's written a couple of books about the Grand Canyon, one of which is gonna be in our bookstore when it opens. I saw it on the list uh that I got uh of re r resources that are gonna be available. Uh so a book by my friend Tom Vale is gonna be available about the Grand Canyon. So this was a great trip. I did it in June t two thousand eleven. When did you go, Richard? Uh only uh April last year. Okay. Did you go with the same group? Uh no. Kenya Mistress? I took a uh took a Bible tour. Ah okay. Uh uh he was a retired state trooper. Okay. Uh Th that's the that's the rafts that we went on. We went on rafts like that all the way through the Colorado River down to the Grand Canyon. Okay. Yeah, yeah. Yep. Yeah. Uh yeah, so awesome trip. Um So uh Grand Canyon is a monument to the terrible judgment of God in the flood. He judged the world and killed millions of people, uh ex everybody except eight. Um So uh how do we gain knowledge about the past? Um talk let's talk about that for a second. What is science? Scientia having knowledge from the present part of participle ski ray to know Uh theology was once known as the queen of the sciences, the queen of the knowledges. That's what it was referred to as. Over the last 200 years or so, the word science has come to mean a method of knowing, a way of discovering the truth Uh method utilized to organize efforts to formulate explanations of nature always subject to modification, correction, and systematic observation. Today, many secular humanists believe in a philosophy called naturalism or scientism, and that's that the scientific method or observation through the senses is the only way to gain knowledge. Uh it's self-refuting if you analyze it logically. So uh the statement that the scientific method is the only way to gain knowledge, how do you know that? Did you did you did you do a science experiment to determine that? No, right? So it's uh self-refuting. Uh the Bible is not a science textbook, and I say thank goodness for that. Uh I used to be the uh associate chair of the physics department at the Naval Academy and we we had to choose new textbooks all the time 'cause they constantly were finding errors in the old textbooks. The Bible gives us propositional truth based on events that happened in real space-time history and their eyewitness accounts because the Holy Spirit was there for all of it. All scientific observation is done in the present. Full stop. Unless you have a time machine. Your scientific observation is always done in the present. You can't go back in time and do a scientific observation. Operational science is applying present observations to draw conclusions about the present. Historical science is applying present observations filtered through philosophical assumptions to make guesses about the past. Obviously, there's not even the potential for conflict between the Bible and operational science. Only historical science, where poor assumptions can lead to poor guesses, can be set up against the truths of the Bible. So what about the Bible and science today? The most controversial examples of clash between secular humanists conducting historical science and Christians conducting historical science is the area of origins. Claims from the historical science of evolutionary biology to invalidate the biblical creation account, and claims from the historical science of geology to invalidate the biblical account of Noah's flood. So, worldview matters. So scientist A is an evolutionist, scientist B is a creationist. They both look at the same facts, the same data. They look at the Grand Canyon, for example. Scientist Day from a uniformitarian worldview, an evolutionist worldview. He looks at the Grand Canyon, he sees millions and billions of years, no flood, particle at a time, deposition in the canyon cut by uh slowly by the river Scientist B looks at the exact same data in the Grand Canyon, and he sees supernatural creation, thousands of years, a global flood, rapid deposition by a flood, and the canyon cut catastrophically. They look at the same facts and come to radically different conclusions because of their worldview, because of the grid through which they look at the world. Look at the same facts, come to different conclusions. That's how historical science works. Worldviews matter in historical science. So let's do a geology lesson. So Um in uh geology when you look at rocks there are three basic kinds of rocks. There's sedimentary rocks, there's igneous rocks, and there's metamorphic rocks. Sedimentary rocks are basically three types, limestone, sandstone, and shale. Uh igneous rocks, there's a couple different kinds. There's intrusive igneous rocks like granite. That's uh magma that comes up but never uh meets the air. It magma that comes up into the Earth's crust but cools under the ground. There's also extrusive igneous rocks. That's ones that fly out of a volcano and touch the air. That's basalt and pumice and obsidian. And then metamorphic rock is a pre-existing kind of rock that's then placed under pressure and temperature and transforms or metamorphoses into something different. If you squeeze it under temperature and pressure, limestone becomes marble. If you squeeze it under pressure and temperature, sandstone becomes quartzite. If you squeeze it under temperature and pressure, shale becomes slate. Um if it's fundamentally transformed. So Um you have when you look at the Grand Canyon, there's two possible explanations for the observations we see in the Grand Canyon. It's a little bit of water over a long time or an enormous amount of water over a short time. That's the two ways you can look at the Grand Canyon. There are three major parts of the canyon. There's the upper horizontal layers, then there's uh parallel strata that are tilted, and then there's a crystalline basement rock. uh igneous rocks um and metamorphic rock also. So uh when you look at the Grand Canyon, those horizontal rocks are at the top, and then you have the tilted layers where you have an unconformity. Uh and as you go down the canyon there uh the horizontal rocks are right on top of the basement rocks and there's what's called the grade unconformity and the secular sciences say there's a billion years missing there between the bottom layer of the horizontal rocks and the the basement rocks and they sit right on one another and you can go put your hand on it in many places in the canyon. This thing they call the Great Unform where there's a billion years missing It just sat there for a billion years and nothing happened. Um i it it really does uh beggar belief. Uh yeah, it really does. Um And then there's the tilted layers, which you can see in the upper parts of the Colorado River. And as you go down through the the the river down lower, those layers you can no longer see So there's different layers in the canyon. You can see them all throughout the canyon, the horizontal layers, and then the uh the grade unconformity and then the basement rocks, uh the crystalline basement rocks right below it. Uh and you can see those exposed lower down in the canyon. Uh higher up in the canyon you can't see the cli crystalline basement rocks. So if there was a big flood, what would we expect to see? There's another picture of so this that's my dad right there looking like the Frido Bandito and and that's uh that's me. Um Yeah, so that's us going down the the Colorado River through the Grand Canyon. Um so uh what would we expect to see? We would expect to see fossilized sea creatures at high above sea level due to ocean waters having flooded the continent at one time. We would expect to see evidence of rapid burial of plants and animals. We would expect to see rapidly deposited sediment layers of uh spread across vast areas. Uh we would expect to see sediment transported long distances because it was running off on the continent size scale uh the the at the end of the flood Uh rapid or no erosion between strata. So strata laid down without erosion. So they don't they didn't just sit there and wind got a chance to erode them. They were all deposited one after the other really quickly if there was a big flood Many strata laid down in rapid succession if there was a big flood. So we actually see fossils of sea creatures high above sea level. uh all over the world. Um they're found in uh haphazardly preserved in limestone beds, uh crinoids, for example, are found in uh in and they look all jumbled up like some of them are t look like they're torn apart. Um so they look like they were catastrophically deposited Uh they're also they're found in limestone all throughout the uh the Grand Canyon. Um and also i including the um Uh the kibab limestone. So the kaibab limestone is the top layer of the Grand Canyon. It's where the rim is. The rim of the Grand Canyon is the is the top of the kibab limestone, that formation That thing is between 7,000 and 8,000 feet above sea level. So it's really high, 7,000, 8,000 feet above sea level. And there are and it's filled with marine fossils of marine creatures. So how did ocean creatures get seven and eight thousand feet above sea level? W well the ocean had to be above that at some point in order for sea creatures to be deposited 7,000 and 8,000 feet above sea level. Um not only that, but mountains all over the world have these sea creature deposits, including the Himalayas. Uh the 20,000 foot high Himalaya mountains have sea creatures all the way at the top um deposited there. So the oceans had to be above all of those mountains. So they must have been deposited when they were ocean water. uh with lime sediment was uh was above the the northern Arizona area. Um there's enormous numbers of marine fossils in the Redwall limestone, uh a a layer a little bit below that all different creatures, um s kinds of sea creatures. So Pastor, this this is God leaving no doubt. God leaving no doubt. Yeah. No doubt. Yeah. So Then we have other places, other things like rapid burial of plants and animals. And there are hundreds of thousands of marine creatures buried with Amphibians, spiders, scorpions, millipedes, insects, and reptiles in a fossil graveyard in Montceau-le-Mine, France. So how do we have what kind of an environment allows sea creatures and all these land creatures to live in exactly the same place? It it doesn't it doesn't work unless you have a flood that buried both marine creatures and land creatures at the same time. Why are they to they're together in the same layer? marine creatures and all these different kinds of land creatures and different, really different kinds of land creatures. There's a number of these fossil graveyards around the world. Near Chicago, the Maison Creek deposit It has ferns, insects, scorpions, tetrapods, buried with jellyfish, mollusks, crustaceans, and fish. Another one is the Green River Formation in Wyoming. You have alligators, fish, birds, turtles, mammals, mollusks, crustaceans, insects, and palm leaves all buried together. So sea creatures, land creatures. all buried together. So these these fossil graveyards are found all around the world where you have all these creatures that don't belong together. They don't come from the same environment, but they're all buried together in the same place, in the same layer of rock. And we find these all over the all over the world So uh billions of straight-celled chambered nautiloids in the seven-foot thick wall of the Red Vall limestone. And that fossil graveyard stretches for 180 miles across northern Arizona and Nevada. And covering an area of 10,500 square miles of all these sea creatures buried in these rock layers. They're different sizes, there's young, old. And to form such a vast fossil graveyard required 24 cubic miles of lime, sand, and silt. So if you take the seven-foot thick and you take 10,500 square miles of it and you do the calculation, it's 24 cubic miles of sediment. to be able to make that layer. And that requires that kind of the thick soupy slurry more than it has to be moving to be able to uh catastrophically bury those things. And so that's a this is a huge event to be able to do that. You you can't do this a particle at a time to make that. So they can't see because their worldview doesn't allow them to see. It it's the same thing with uh everything about scripture. I uh the uh the mind that hasn't been regenerated by the Holy Spirit can read all these marvelous scriptures and not get it. It's the same thing with with scientific observations. A a blinded eye just can't see because of their the worldview. There is evidence of rapid deposition across uh uh vast areas. Uh there are coal beds in the east and woodwest of the U. S. that are the exact same coal beds in Britain and Europe The exact same plants, all the exact same plants make those coal coal beds. And they stretch halfway around the world. They actually go to the Donuts Basin in uh southern Russia, north of the Caspian Sea, the exact same coal scene. You can follow it from the US. to the UK and all the way to Russia, the same coal scene. In the southern hemisphere, the same coal beds are found in Australia, Antarctica uh in South Africa and South America. You can follow the same coal seam all the way across the southern hemisphere, but it's totally different plants than the the coal seams in the northern hemisphere But it's the same coal seam. Lowest sedimentary layers in the Grand Canyon are the Tapete sandstone, so redwall limestone at the top. to Pete Sandstone all the way at the bottom, uh the the last of the uh sedimentary rocks in the Grand Canyon. Uh it's called the Sauk Mega Sea sequence. And at the bottom of that are huge boulders. So there's these layers of sandstone, and embedded in these layers of sandstone are huge boulders, like the size of houses. um that had to have been moved along with these layers of sandstone. So what moved a boulder the size of a house along with these uh all these the rapid deposition of sand. That's a big bunch of running water to move a boulder the size of a house. and moved it across the entire United States. The Coconina sandstone is an average six thickness of 315 feet. and covers an area of 200,000 square miles. There are crossbeds, remnants of sand waves produced by the water currents that deposited these, and it's 10,000 cubic miles of sand. And all of the um sand waves all go in the same direction. Across an entire continent Here's what it looks like on a map of the United States, the Coconut Sandstone and the Chapiza Sandstone to the lower levels of the Grand Canyon. Those sequences you can follow across all of the United States. It's a continuous sequence. You can see it in the Grand Canyon because the canyon has carved through and you can look at it. But it actually goes across the entire United States. Um and it's hundreds of thousands of cubic miles of sand. And they have little ripples. So we've done uh scientists have done measurements. They've done a half a million measurements of paleocurrents from 15,600 locations. across m uh North America and they are all going from north and east to south and west. All of them. So what would cause something that's a continent wide current? I mean you ha you have to have this enormous amount of water all running in the same direction. Um and in the in the secular story you have to keep that up for millions of years. It doesn't really fit. So the the Navajo sandstones from Southern Utah and the Zion National Park The sand itself comes from 1,250 miles away in the Appalachians of Pennsylvania. Been able to examine the zircons that make up the individual grains of sand. and do tests with uh uranium to discover where they came from and they came from the Appalachians. The sand that we see in northern Arizona and southern Utah comes from Pennsylvania. So it was transported across the entire continent to get there. And it was transported in the order of hundreds of thousands of cubic miles of it. across the whole continent. 10,000 cubic miles of sand in the Coconino sandstone. Sand grains are pure quartz, contrast to underlying Hermit formation of siltstone and shale There's remnants of sea waves that all point in the same direction. You've got the Supai group sandstone, the Hermit Foundation and the R Redwell limestone with the waves as well, all pointing in the same direction. You've also got rapid or no erosion between strata. And how do we know that? Fossil bearing layers. Um if they took hundreds of millions of years to accumulate, we would expect to find weathering and erosion between the layers. In other words, the layers wouldn't be perfectly straight if you laid down a layer and then it was subject to wind and erosion for some time before the next layer came down, you would never get straight layers. The wind would cause erosion and you would get pitting in these layers. You would not get perfectly straight layers if they sat there for some amount of time exposed to uh weather. Uh but that's not what we see in a Grand Canyon. We see perfectly straight these perfectly straight layers, that's not what would happen if they just sat there for millions of years. If they were laid down rapidly by the global flood in one year, then you wouldn't expect erosion between the layers We would expect flat smooth layers and we see flat smooth layers. Many strata laid down in rapid succession. So These fossiliferous layers, in some cases, there are fossils that uh that are across many layers There are actually some cases with trees that are fossilized trees that are across thousands of layers Uh and so that would mean that the tree would have to stay there and not decompose for hundreds of thousands of years while these layers were put down across it just doesn't Makes sense. Um so uh the the other thing um is uh in many places around the world, including at the Grand Canyon, we see uh folded layers So we see rock layers that are perfectly straight layers, but then there's been some pressure applied to them, so they're now warped, and so they go like this. They go like this. They're all still perfectly the layers are still perfect, but they they don't go horizontally. They're kind of like a sine wave. Um rock won't do that. If if rock has hardened and you put pressure on it, what happens? It cracks. It won't fold. Wha what's the only way for it to fold like that? It was still wet. So all those layers had to be still wet when the pressure was applied to it to make it go into a sine wave like that. If if it was laid down over a million years, the all these layers would be hardened And when you put pressure on them, they would crack. They wouldn't fold. Anyway, so uh but we see evidence of that throughout the uh the Grand Canyon and other places around the world too. The Alps are famous for this. There's many places in the Alps with sedimentary lo rock with many layers that are that extremely folded. Like folded like this. Um you can see an example here of it in the Grand Canyon. I don't know if you can see the people. So the people are right here, the tiny dots right there. Uh so it's like hundreds of feet of of these layers are fold it like that. That that doesn't happen it can happen with hardened rock. Uh it's ex it's evidence that these strata were laid down in rapid succession and not over millions of years. When solid or hard rock is bent or folded, it fractures and breaks because it's brittle. It'll only brand when it's soft and pliable. Uh so and and so the the secular story is that this is four hundred and forty million years worth. And so it would have to stay wet for four hundred and forty million years uh to be able to bend like that. Uh we also have some evidence more recent um from Mount St. Helens. Um and so there are canyons that were carved in Mount St. Helens. So From eyewitness reports, photographs, and monitoring equipment, it is known that the whole deposition formed in just three hours. So this these layers, every one of those layers was laid down in three hours And and we have eyewitness evidence that that was all laid down in three hours. And so look at it compared to the Grand Canyon. Of course it's a much smaller scale. But it's the it looks the same. It's the same mechanism. Um that Mount St. Helens laid all that down in three hours on June twelfth, nineteen eighty, and the flood laid all that down in less than a year. Uh this canyon was carved in one day, uh nineteen March nineteen eighty two. A flood went down through and cut through all those layers that Mount St. Helens did Mounted St. Helens put all the layers down in three hours in nineteen eighty, and then a flood came along and carved this canyon in one day in nineteen eighty-two Yeah, so you can make you can make many, many, many layers really quick. We've seen it in we've in modern times. And you can carve a canyon really quick. like in one day. We've seen that in modern times as well. So how did the Grand Canyon itself form? First you have the Great Denudation. And when you c when you look at the geology of the Grand Canyon, there's actually um there's actually Thousands of feet of rock missing above the rim of the Grand Canyon. There's a formation called the Grand Staircase that you can see that's near the Grand Canyon, which is steps going up above the rim of the Grand Canyon. And so and if you look at it from a uh If you look at it from space or you look at it from an aerial view like thirty-five thousand feet, you can see that the Grand Canyon is just a little tiny thing in the midst of a a m much huger area that has been eroded above the Grand Canyon, above where the Grand Canyon starts. There's fourteen thousand square miles of sedimentary rock that's been stripped off above the rim of the Grand Canyon. That happened during the f when the massive flood was flowing off the uh the North American continent. And then eventually it got down to channelized floods, small channels like the size of the Grand Canyon. So huge flood, uh the whole size of the North American continent And then it eventually got down to just a small trickle like the size of the Grand Canyon. Um and that's what we call the Great Erosion, once the floodwaters had significantly subsided The flow became channelized in the late stages and its runoff from the continent and carved the Grand Canyon Alright. So Colossus 2. 8, see to it that no one takes you captive through philosophy and empty deception according to the tradition of man, according to the elementary pre-pro principles of the world rather than according to Christ. Alright, so evidence for the flood. The flood's a warning. And the Bible specifically ties it to a warning about the coming of the Son of Man, the second coming. Um and the fact that Satan has obfuscated and obscured the flood is his attempt to distract people from the fact that Jesus is coming again. That's what Satan's doing with discrediting the flood account in Genesis. That's what he's up to with that. However, there's plenty of evidence for the flood all around us. And that is the Ark in Kentucky that answers in Genesis built to the biblical specifications. That's the size. You can see people, cars and people walking underneath it. That's the size that the Bible says the Arkansas. was and you can go see it. I've been there a few times. I recommend it. Uh if you get a chance, put it on your bucket list, drive out to Kentucky and see this arc. It was built by Amish Carpenters. They they they trucked in a hu uh they brought in this huge number of Amish carpenters and they they built that thing. Alright, any questions? Yes, Sidling Hill, yep. It is. Excellent point. So uh everybody familiar with Sidling Hill? Hur heard of that Sidling Hill? So there's a and you can stop. There's like a pull-off there and you can go uh there's a There's like an observation point up there uh that you can go to and you can look you can see the f where the flood laid down these uh these layers uh at siding hill. Yes, Harlan. And it was really the question as I was that really difficult to try I nephew answered the phone and he was so tired he was just shocked and not really bought. They were on the upwind side but he didn't get like anybody on the downwind side and that's the one. Yeah, all the ash and yeah. Yeah. Ron. Uh I took the class previously and you used to bring out your your library of answers in Genesis. I did, yeah. One of one of the things that I I had that uh you didn't bring up because you didn't get into this Or maybe you haven't got into it yet, was the carbon dating and this one was m the basically scientists refusing to carbon date coal because oh there can't be any carbon fourteen in there. What carbon fourteen in there? Yeah, I I uh the point he's making up is that um when you do carbon fourteen dating, carbon fourteen is one of the isotopes of carbon, carbon twelve is a common one, carbon fourteen is a is a rare uh radioactive isotope of carbon. So it's relatively few of the uh the atoms of a particular sample will be carbon-14, but there's a known amount of it in everything, carbon-14 And then it decays at a known rate, about five thousand two hundred years half-life. So half of it disappears in fifty two hundred year years. If um the standard rule of thumb is in ten half-lifes it's all gone. So if you cut something in half, and it's it's already started with uh relatively few of them, but if you cut it in half ten times, there's none of it left So there shouldn't be any carbon fourteen in anything that's that's more than uh f uh 5200 52,000 years. So if it's older than 52,000 years, it shouldn't have any carbon 14 in it. And the standard story is that coal takes 220 million years to form That when you press plants together to make coal, it takes 220 million years. That's the standard story. And so 220 million years is way more than 52,000. So there can't possibly be any carbon-14 left in a coal sample. And so no secular scientist would even think to test coal for carbon fourteen because there can't be any in there. And so the Institute for Creation Research took coal samples from all over the world and sent them to a lab to be tested. And the lab at first said, well, there's no point in testing. There can't be any carbon-14 in there. And ICR said, we're going to pay you, just test it. And and there was carbon fourteen in every sample. All over the world. And so every bit of coal all over the world is less than fifty thousand years old. Um yeah. They did the same thing with diamonds too, because diamonds are supposed to take more than a billion years to form. And there's carbon fourteen in diamonds too. So they formed in less than fifty-two thousand years too. Good okay, good point. Uh we're way past time. Let me uh Let me close in prayer, and if you have more questions, you can come up. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for the opportunity to study your word, and we thank you that when we do scientific uh research and we look at the actual facts, they're always compatible with your word and it gives us great encouragement. uh to see that. Although we don't need proof. We know that your word is true because it's your word. But it's nice to have confirmation. And we see that over and over again when we look at archaeology, when we look at geology, when we look at your world, we know that it's your world and you've told us the truth in your word about it. Uh we thank you, Lord, now for the chance we have to do corporate worship. Uh we pray that uh the things that we say and the things that we do and the thoughts of our minds As we worship you, are acceptable in your sight and bring glory to your name. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.