The assignment this week was read chapters twenty-three, which is the last chapter, and then the epilogue, which is a a short little summarization. But um I guess with the time I have, I'll just uh kinda go into some of the thoughts I had. Um seemed like he was talking about you know the uh the uh I guess I'll ask it this way. Um who here when they were young were the were taught the uh Westminster shorter catechism? Any Presbyterians here? Nobody. Wow. I thought I was the only But you're familiar with what is the chief end of man? Okay. I I didn't hear that until I was in my early twenties. And uh you know, when you first hear it, you think, uh, okay. So it goes, what is the chief end of man? Man's chief end is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. And if you're familiar with John Piper Um, that's a big thing for him, you know, with this whole desiring God concept, the Christian hedonism as he calls it. So the first half to glorify God But he's real big on enjoy him forever. And uh it occurred to me, you know, when it comes to glorifying God, um I you know, I I I think that was the uh you know, if somebody'd asked me as a thirteen year old What do you think the most important thing for man is? It certainly wouldn't be glorify God. You know, that that would be way down the list. It would be, oh, you know, make a good living Maybe treat people nice, you know, don't step on the the dog's tail, you know. Things just kinda go through life and uh don't make any waves and uh you know, but as you become a believer And you start understanding, you know, that what ultimately our life should be is one that's glorifying to God. We just uh finished with the Olympics and I don't know if anybody else was struck by this But, you know, when the person wins the four hundred meter, you know, thing and they go through them with the microphone, there's the odd person that wants to give all the glory to God. You know, it always amazes me when somebody just gives credit to God and that's it. There's there's nothing else mixed in there. But oh my goodness, you know, the opposite you know, i they talked to the gymnast. I'm so proud of myself. I did such a good job. I mean was anybody else struck? I just have never heard such a thing with this Olympics that they're just giving glory first and foremost to themselves And it's like and why is it that we're immediately turned off by that? It's because, you know, we have that in in ourselves to some extent, maybe not to touch I mean you know, you just want a gold medal, yeah, it's a pretty amazing feat. But you know, what about your parents? What about your coach? You know, and ultimately the creator that gave you these these talents and abilities. And um, you know, so I uh I think that's I think it's our human nature to think of God last, you know, and um so just wanted uh I that's one of the things that's talked about in chapter twenty-three, the idea of giving glory to God and um So uh what are some ways that we glorify God? It's in living an obedient life, I think, is is our best way of bringing glory to God is is in our obedience. And uh I was thinking, you know, and talk specifically, there's places in in uh scripture that speak specifically about giving God glory, but I think sometimes it's it's kind of bare just under the surface And I was thinking of um Mark fifteen, thirty-nine. There was a centurion who observed Jesus as he was being crucified. And it says Mark 1539, you saw the way he breathed his last, which I thought was really interesting. And it says, truly, this so that Witnessing Jesus dying on the cross and the way that he died caused him to say, truly this man was the Son of God. And what I was going to say about that is That was the ultimate act of obedience. You know, this is something that God asked Jesus to do. He didn't have any interest in doing it, and yet He fulfilled everything that the Father asked him to do perfectly and ultimately on the cross. And somehow the centurion observing that It caused him to give glory to God. And uh in a negative way, I think of um Achan who uh w he was tempted by the gold. and stole it and when he's confronted, what is he told? He says, Give glory to God. You basically confess your sin. It's not gonna change the end result, but you need to do something that gives glory to God and that is, you know, admit what you've done. And uh, you know, so It's interesting. There's all kinds of ways that we can bring glory to God and and I think it's bound up in this idea in our obedience. So um And then I was thinking uh in the book it it referenced 1 Peter 212, keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable, so that when they seek against you as evildoers, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation. I was thinking, you know, as you interact with people at work or your neighbors or your family, a lot of times if you're living a consistent Christian life, they A lot of times it's very frustrating to them. You know, family members will say, oh, you should have seen them when they were ten years old, or or whatever. And these things are true. You know, God is about changing our lives You know, what we were at ten, what we were at when w you know, after after salvation, a lot of times they look at it and they say, Well, that's hypocritical because you should have heard what they called me when they were, you know, twelve years old or whatever And all we can do when somebody confronts us with, this is the way you were, and now you're you're hypocritical because you're pretending to be something different, I think it should fill us with humility and say You're you're exactly right. You know, I did things I I tried to apologize for these things, but you know, i i i what's what what is in my past is in my past And you know, God is changing me. And when they see the consistency in your life, they see the desire to pursue godliness, I think there's a measure of respect that they have because they see maybe God has changed you and um so but a lot of times that's the last thing they'll tell you. But um I was thinking uh what this verse in First Peter talks about, um, that in in the way that they um that people they're trying to speak against you as evildoers. I was thinking of Daniel, you know, that he was very countercultural. He uh you know, i it was driving people crazy, but you know, the thing is, where could where was the chink in his armor? They couldn't find one. And ultimately they used his faithfulness in prayer as a way to get to him. You know, they had these laws changed such that they knew every day he's in there praying And it's easy to observe this if you really, you know, want to go in and check it out. And and that was the thing that he used to get him thrown into the to Lion's Den. So Um so be a Daniel, I guess is that the old song. In any case. Um so What else? Uh oh, um 1 Peter 4, 10 and 11. Um so it says each of us has received a gift. Use it to serve one another as good stewards of God's very grace. Whoever speaks as one who speaks the oracles of God, whoever serves as one who serves by the strength that God supplies in order that in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to him belong glory and dominion forever and ever, amen. So um one of the things as we study um Corinthians, we discover that Paul was was very frustrated with the Corinthians and their use of the spiritual gifts that they were given. And he goes through a great deal of uh effort to explain to them that these are gifts that God has given to you and these are gifts that are uh are varied, you know, different people have different gifts, teaching, serving, mercy These are things that God has given you, not so that you can impress everybody with your eloquence or you know impress somebody with the amount of work that you're doing around the church, but they are there for the common good, for the for the good of the church in general and um and that that's their purpose. And ultimately, if all if the church is is working as it should and everybody's doing their part, using their gifts that ultimately will bring glory to God. So um so uh I think one of the things in the chapter kind of gets hearken back to this idea of um the uh mercy of God. Um let's see if I can find it here. According to the purpose of his will. No, that isn't the verse. Um Ah, here it is. It says um Ephesians 2, 6 and 7. He raised us up with him and seated us with him in heavenly places in Christ Jesus, so that in the coming age he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace. in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. I liked how he was just talking about the idea of of the the uh Grace that he's given us is immeasurable. It's just not something that can be quantified. And this whole idea of kindness is is is we talked a few weeks back about um Addressing the uh the mercy of God, so let's see. Yep. Good. There's in my mind tension here between what you j the things that you were teaching And the stuff that's being talked about right here and the author is pulling of Ephesians 2. 7. Mm-hmm. Because, you know, Peter says God in your conduct. Mm-hmm. And here in Ephesians two seven, God's being glorified by his mercy. Mm-hmm. And that's in his grace for giving us for our bad conduct. Mm. And the that's in the implication, right? But it's when we have good conduct, we don't need grace or mercy. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Uh and so the author almost seems to say but doesn't. Mm-hmm. Since so that graze me about we know what Paul has to say about that. Sure. But but where do we how do we how do we hold the ideas that that Peter says and and the other apostles where they say walk in obedience to glorify God. And God is glorified in His grace and mercy. Where is that, where do these things synergize? hold together. Uh because we got we got both truths in scripture. And we know who wrote scripture. Right. They both have to be true. Yep. And there's some aspects where we we know God is glorified when He shows us grace and mercy. We know that we're called to give God glory in our obedience, and we know that we are not to sin all the more so that God can be glorified. Wh where how do those things hold together? Hard question, I know. Yeah. um created in Christ Jesus act for the works which God prepared for him. Everyone wanted him. Um so that is it's interesting. Glorify God it's like so it's all God himself is uh what's the better thing. Yeah. Okay. Yeah that's that's important because our our salvation is all full of grace. And God shows his love to us. And then what you just pointed out, Bassi, is that our good works that glorify God. Glorify God not because necessarily we're being being good, but because God caused the good in us. That's I think what I heard you just say. And I I fall into the trap of thinking, God glorified when I obey. But what you're pointing out is something deeper and richer in that is God's glorified when I obey because He caused my obedience. Yeah. Yeah, that's powerful. But but what about when I don't obey? So there seems to be something though about repentance for that. Like if We're not contenting. This is like we don't have tense diversity in that situation. Not that he you know, not that we make him unpersible, but repentance is like an important part of bringing that mood in Yeah. I'm talking myself. Because I mean, what you just said in that is and and I I don't know if I completely agree with this, that God withholds his mercy until we repent. And that then ties God's mercy to our works. Yeah, I I know. I I went the next piece where you said that. And I I'm not really arguing with the idea that our repentance does have relationship with God's mercy. I think that you're right about that. But I don't want to be repentists. I want to be gracists. Right? Um He's inventing words. I know. And they start to do that. Yep. Yep. Um doesn't a lot of it come back down to that relationship. You know, I mean as a parent. If your child is being rebellious or disobedient, it doesn't less it Maybe you'll like for that at the moment. But he likes you at this moment in time, but um it's but there's a break in that relationship. Yep. There it is. Well I guess um all I wanted to say as far as the epilogue, I thought it was neat, you know, is like the saying, you don't want to get the wrong idea, you know, when you're downcast heavy laden and burdened, we're told to come, you know, and it's just this invitation, you know, it's something that we can receive and and we're given the reason why, because he's gentle and lowly. So that should attract us when we're in our greatest point of need, when we when we need God's mercy, when we need his forgiveness. So, um that's kinda how he wraps it up. So and I wasn't planning for that, but that was a really good segue. That The epilogue is really powerful. And the author does a very brief way of writing things together. And the whole concept between behind God being gentle and lowly I just want to say it again. because it's so important is to draw near to Christ. Yep. Um to to not be like Adam and Eve who did in the bushes when I I think when when God drew near Yeah. But to be humble before God and say, God, I'm well I'm want to draw near, but I've got this thing that makes me want to stay away. Yeah. Think about what the right answer would have been for had him and eve it would have been to say, God, I am so ashamed that I ate the fruit that you told me not to. You were right. You know, God, I said I said that thing about my friend. I gossiped about my friend. And now I feel terrible about that. You were so right. And I I just want to come back to you and draw near and to remember that God is It's in mercy. And and his kindness is is abundant. The the one point that he made that I felt like tied the last chapter with the first chapter is the idea of the word kindness here. Am I right about this? Kindness is the same word that's used in the word uh is yogis. Huh. Yeah. I think so. And and it basically puts book ends on the whole the whole book. Where it started and where it ends. Bill comes back to that. Steve as you brought. Yep, alright. Sorry that's a good discussion. So we pray. Father, we're thankful for this day, we're thankful for this book and these conversations. Just pray that we would look for opportunities to um to share things that that are ongoing in our life with respect to things we've learned in this this book. And just thankful for um Doug's organization of the class and just pray that we have days that would be honoring to you. And pray all things your name. Amen.