Well good morning everyone. Um so I'm I'm Steve for I think probably everybody here knows me. Um Doug has graciously asked me to assist in in leading, so we're gonna be kind of splitting the the lessons down the middle so you'll have me for the next two weeks. You can uh post any Yelp reviews you like if there's you know any any concerns. Just kidding. Um let me open this in prayer. Father we're thankful for this day. Thankful for this topic. Just pray that it would grip our hearts. Just things that we can learn about Christ that maybe we didn't know. We can share with each other. things that you're doing in our lives that um that will change the way that we think about you, the way we think about Christ, and and uh give us the opportunity to share the things that we learn with others And just pray for the message this morning. I'm just thankful for Pastor Gabe. And just pray we'd have attentive hearts and just pray all these things in your name. Amen. Okay. So as I mentioned, team tea team teaching was dubbed. Um he's gentle, I'm lowly. Um the uh first question we always ask every week, has everyone read their chapters, chapters three and four this week? Let's see some hands. Oh, you guys are doing. I think Doug's inspired uh some uh discipline in you all. This is very good. So um okay, well with that I will Oh yes, that goes reminding me. Now um I uh I posted this morning a uh helpful um audio uh It's basically a podcast that I listened to um Joel Beaky and uh he uh was doing Um a message that largely is referenced in this chapter. Thomas Goodwin has written a book on the heart of Christ. And Joel Beakey is a little over an hour but well worth listening to. And uh he had to confuse me though because he referenced the hymn that perhaps even better um uh fit with what we're teaching today. So I'm going to give you all the opportunity to choose which one uh you would like to do. And uh the two choices are Our great Savior, number 89, or Man of Sorrows. And uh the Man of Sorrows was the one that he referenced. But does anybody have a preference? I don't see how many for our great savior. Maybe maybe you don't know him well enough. That's the title, um I bet you know the the hymn though. It's it's an unfamiliar to me it was kinda I I was thinking, I think that's the one I'm looking for and And sure enough, number 89 is is the one option. And the other one is Man of SARS 175. I imagine most of you all know that tune. I hope. So if uh if nobody has any preference, I'll let Doug um do the be the tiebreaker. That's right. Why don't we do that? Okay. So one seventy-five. If there's any harmony, Doug, we'll be writing your name down. We can use you in the choir. Um 175, Ty Bready Stan. We will sing that. Oh that's interesting. And this in the it's uh the title is How will You What a Savior, but as you see it starts right in Man of SARS. I'll begin. Men of sorrows, what a name for the Son of God who came Bruin to me claim all the same Bearing shame and stopping brood in my place, condemned he stood Seal my heart with his blood. Hallelujah. What a save. Guilty, vile, and helpless we Spotless Lamb of God was he So I told me can it be Hallelujah what I save your Lived it up was he to die, it is feeling what his crying Now in heaven exalted high Hallelujah was When he comes our glorious king, all his ransom home to bring Now in the stone will sing Hallelujah what a sandy. Okay, good singing and breaking a have a seat. You know what's cool about that song? What's that? All four the four four first verses are all kind of like downers. And and then halfway through the verse, there's a thought. Right? Yeah. Ruined sinners to reclaim or sealed my pardon with this blood or full atonement can it be? Which I think is really ridiculously powerful. And that's the place, that's the thought that leads to hallelujah with a savior. And it just like, bam, launches off the top of that. Yeah. So I will uh confess I am a I I love hymns and I usually when I have the opportunity to lead in a hymn I like to do all the verses because I think sometimes if you skip verses you're missing part of the flow of thought And as Doug referenced, you know, that the this song kind of builds as you work your way through. And it has a lot of theology in it too, which is good. I think a lot of times people think, oh hymns are stuffy, they're this, they're that But people put a lot of thought into, you know, a lot of the songs you hear these days, they call them seven, eleven uh songs. They're seven verses eleven times. So uh in any case, um but yeah, definitely love hymns. So let's see. Alright. So the uh for week three, um, and in particular uh I'd say chapter three, um the theme verse is Hebrews 12. 2 Looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God So that one really relates to chapter three. So, uh here's some questions for you. Um What are some things that make Jesus happy? That's kind of a you know a general question. I don't know if he has any thoughts. Um I I'd appreciate, you know, if you have any thoughts or questions, please interrupt. I I think it will go a lot better if we have interaction. Yes. Yep. For sure. Yep. That's that's something that that that would um please Jesus talks about When people repent of of their sin, the angels in heaven rejoice. And I think that's just a it's a common thing for sure to to think about. Anything else Learning the Father's will. That's right. Yeah. And and you see a lot of times in Jesus, you know, in his interaction with the Father, you know, he basically says, I always do your will. And you know, right up to the end where there's the crucifixion where he recognizes the pain is going to be involved in the crucifixion, he's like, if there's any other way, please, but but not my will, but thine done. So Definitely that's that's something that that was yeah. Right. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Very good. Okay, it's wrong. Yeah. Yes. Yeah Yeah, there's the verse, how good and how uh there's that passage that talks about when brothers dwell in unity. I can't remember the second word, but um in any case, kind of that idea Okay. Yep. Running down on Aaron's beard and all that. Yep. Very good. Faith? Well on this earth. Yes. And I think that uh the haspect Aaron or not. And Abram, I believe God counted to him. I think Abraham is one of these characters You know, it says, you know, that God saw Abraham's faith and it was counted, it's kind of an accounting term, it was counted to him as righteousness. And yet do we see um throughout Abraham's life, was he, you know, the pillar of consistency? Do we see uh any cases where Abraham kind of slipped up. Anybody have any examples of that? This is my sister. Yeah, yeah, this is my sister. When he came on upon Abimelech, he was more concerned about saving his own skin than the protection of his wife And uh, you know, it was a technicality, you know, hemp sister, whatever, but didn't make it right for sure. But um and yet that's the in and the totality of of God looking at Abraham, he saw This is somebody who had a faith that was was pleasing to me and dumb. So um so I found uh I think we c covered these, but these uh so I've taken Doug taught this class back in twenty twenty two, was it? Or twenty twenty one. Uh-huh. Okay, it was one of those two. Um I have the benefit of his notes, he had uh some different ways that we can make Jesus happy, following his commands, I think was mentioned, obedience. Loving others, having faith, repentance, humility. I think that's one of the ones that uh I think a lot of times, you know, you're kind of raised, particularly you know, as men, you know, it's like You should be proud of everything you do. And yet, you know, the the idea of this this uh this book, You're gentle and lowly You know, is that something that we always w want to aspire? You know, boy that that Steve, he's very lowly. You know, it's it's something I think as Christians should be said of you And yet, you know, it's not anything that we've always put at a as a high value, you know, to say, you know, I I need to be humble, I need to, you know, to show humility toward others And yet I think that's something that that shows Christian virtue when you do. Um and when the Father reveals truths to children and uh So he gave all these as a list, and he said, by the way, all these things do make Jesus happy, but the the one thing that we uh that we want to recognize is in Hebrews 4, 14 to 16, I'll read that passage. Hebrews four, fourteen to sixteen. Since we then have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast to our confession, for we do not have a high priest who's unable to sympathize with us, with our weakness. But one who is in every respect but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin Let us then, with confidence, draw near to the throne of grace that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. So kinda nested in the middle of those three verses in verse fifteen it says we have a great high priest. We have a high priest who we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weakness, but one who in every respect Uh I'm missing it here. It's it has about the joy. I'm I I thought that was in verse fifteen. I guess I'll just proceed. Um last week so we we learned about the heart of Christ. In Matthew 11, 28 to 30, it says, I am gentle and lowly in heart. This week we're going to see two things, the joy of Christ and some of the details of him being the great high priest. So one of the things I always found kind of paradoxical about um Matthew eleven, uh twenty-eight to thirty, is he says, you know, come to me, all you who are gentle I'm sorry, come come to me all you who are weary and heavy laden. And so y I I look at that and I think, yeah, I feel that way sometimes. You know, I'm getting an imitation here when I'm weary and when it when I'm heavy laden I'm invited to come to Christ. And then he immediately says, you know, take my yoke. It's like, oh great, you know, here I am. I'm weary. I'm heavy laden You're gonna put a yoke on me? And yet that's exactly, you know, w the way I I kind of focused, but I have to admit, I completely missed Where Jesus said, For I am gently. The reason that all this works is, I am gentle and lowly. And A lot of times, you know, we see in Scripture, I think one of the greatest things about Scripture is it reveals things about God's heart. You know, particularly, I mean, obviously in the New Testament You see conversations Jesus has with the Father, those things are just golden. I mean you you there's no question You you hear Jesus talking to the Father and you know everything he's saying is true. You know, a lot of times you hear somebody say something and it's like, well there's an element of truth to that, but everything about that conversation is true. We see uh We're talking about the the high priest there's in John seventeen the the high priestly prayer. Again, a a window into, you know, God's heart. Um things that are important to him, why Jesus came, what he came to do, how he sees all of us. And um I think that's uh that's something that definitely warrants more study. So Um so chapter three is on the the happiness of Christ, and as we talked about some different things that make Jesus happy. And I think that the verse I was looking for talks about for the joy set before him, he endured the cross. And so But it uh kind of the in that that statement is for the joy. So there was something about when Jesus came to earth, he knew his mission, he knew ultimately he was going to die on the cross And that brought him joy. And I think that's uh that was certainly lost on me, I don't know about about about any of the rest of you, but But um I think that's one of the things I'll I'm looking forward to in terms of restudying this this book and and this topic. So um before I start into the the chapter though, um the Puritans I think their group They kinda get a bad rap. I heard somebody say, you know, the average Puritan, their concern was that somewhere in the world somebody's having a good time And I think that's that's how they're perceived. And yet if y as you study the Puritans you realize that's not the way they are w at all. They weren't that way at all. And uh The one Puritan that this this chapter refers to is Thomas Goodwin. But could I ask, what are some other names of some familiar Puritans that maybe you all know Does anybody have any uh any uh Puritans maybe that that your favorite or or somebody that maybe these people will be familiar and you didn't realize they were Puritans. But anybody have any? John Owen, actually a friend of of Thomas Goodwin. Yes. And uh that that's a good one Any el any others? Jonathan Edwards, yes. He uh I I I remember once we did an immense ministry, we did first of the year, we did his resolutions, and uh you know you see, you know, he des desired to have a very disciplined life. It wasn't so you know, it was just, you know, to to grow closer to God. He he was res re resolved you know, all these different resolutions. So that's that's what I think of when I think of Jonathan Edwards. Anybody else? How about uh how about the guy that that wrote uh Pilgrim's Progress? Who was that? John. John Bunyan. Yeah, he's he's He's a a life worth studying. Okay. And and Paul. Uh Paul Bunyan, yes. Um so um Jonathan Edwards, yep, Jonathan Owen John Owen, John Bunyan. And there was another name that I probably talked over. Was that d a different name? Were you saying something here? Matthew Henry. What was it? Matthew Henry. Matthew Henry, he's on my list as well. What's he well known for? His commentary. It's uh available for free if you ever want a really good uh he tends to be a bit verbose perhaps, but uh you know a lot of great insights. So yeah, Matthew Henry is one And any others? Thomas Watson. Thomas Watson. Yep. Yeah, I think it was important that we got some other names in there or you think all the Puritans were named John or Jonathan. So um that's that's uh that's good Okay, so uh but the one that we're studying today, he uh he's lesser known I think. Um I I mean I don't know if anybody here before this, you read this chapter, maybe was even at all familiar with Thomas Goodwin. But um we learned things about him. There's this uh this bit that we can't from uh Wikipedia um says he was born the fifth of October, sixteen hundred, and uh He died in sixteen eighties. He lived to be eighty years old. Known as the Elder, he was an English Puritan, theologian and preacher, and an important leader of religious independence. He served as chaplain to Oliver Cromwell and was uh um imposed by Parliament as president of Magdalen College, Oxford in sixteen fifty, Christopher Hill places Goodwin as the main in the mainstream of Puritan thought One of the things as I was reading when you go to the Shepherd's Conference, a lot of times, especially years ago, they would always send you home with so many books you'd have to have them shipped home. And there's one it's called Meet to Puritans also by Joel Beaky. And uh that's a great book in the sense that It tells you about the person, but it also kind of gives you a very uh accurate description of their life, you know, kind of different things that they went through. And uh I read the the uh the section on Thomas Goodwin that says that he uh when he got started off um he was trying to be an impressive preacher. You know, he was uh trying to, you know, develop his oratorical skills and um at some point in his life he had um what he described as a conversion experience and from that point on he kind of shifted and decided, you know, and s when he preached he was just going to preach the text and not try to impress anybody. And so he went through around age twenty, went through a pretty good transformation in the in that respect. And um so and I think they were talking about uh in his life he wrote um in his writings eight million words And it's like that was without you know word processor or anything of that nature. And at some point um there was some great fire that destroyed his library. But um So that was that was uh I'm sure very hard for him to take, but in any case, um he's um he's an interesting character. For sure. So and and the book that he wrote, it's um we just kind of shorten you know, the Puritans were n well known for There are titles that were lengthy and a lot of times you'd have subtitles and it just kind of goes on for a paragraph and a half. Um so uh He we know his book that we're referring to in this chapter as The Heart of Christ. And uh I had posted a link on the Hope Book group if you have any kind of ebook reader, it will be able to be read for free Um so definitely avail yourself of that. I had mentioned um also in a post, uh monergism. com So uh a lot of times you come upon a word like that and you think, well what does that mean? And um you can just kind of take it apart. You know, mono is single or or one and the ERG part is that there's there's one that's working and so people in the reform world they believe when you become a Christian There's only one person involved in that work. And and you won't come to Christ unless God works on your heart and allows that to happen. So that's kind of what that kind of technical word means. If you haven't visited that site, all kinds of stuff there available for free, and you can just download or or uh stream or whatever you want, you know, to your heart's delight. Um so here's how Thomas Goodwin answered the question, what gives Christ joy or true happiness? It says Christ's own joy. comfort, happiness, and glory are increased and enlarged by showing grace and mercy in pardoning, relieving, and comforting his members here on earth. Okay. So that is uh certainly perhaps a different way of thinking. I mean, you know, when we came up with our list, you know, just the idea that when we think what gri gives Jesus the greatest joy is showing grace and mercy and when we come to him with our sins, pardoning us and um and giving us comfort, th all those things. Here it is. Hebrews twelve two. It says for the joy that was set before him. And what was set before him? It was the cross. So it gave Jesus joy to endure the cross on our behalf. So from chapter three, there's the illustration of the compassionate doctor. To recap, this doctor travels deep into the jungle to treat a primitive tribe afflicted with a contagious disease He has correctly diagnosed their condition and has the cure, and as he offers the remedy that they need, his offer is refused They want to take care of the problem themselves, to heal their own he to be healed on their own terms, but finally a few agree to the undergrad of treatment. And this is a quote from the book. What does a doctor feel? He feels joy. His joy increases to the degree that the sick come to him for the help and healing. It's the whole reason he came So with us and so with Christ, He does not get flustered and frustrated when we come to Him for fresh forgiveness, for renewed pardon. with the stress and need and emptiness. That's the whole point. It's what he came to heal. So h um how much more if the diseased person are not strangers, but his own family. It would give him even that much more joy. And um these were from uh Doug's original notes. Friends, we are part of God's family part of his bride and portions of his body. Those who are in Christ's who are in Christ are not strangers to him And he had this quote from Charles Spurgeon, the joy that was set before Jesus was principally the joy of saving you and me I know it was the joy of fulfilling his father's will, of sitting down on his father's throne, of being made perfect through suffering, but I still know that this is the grand, great motive of the Savior's suffering the joy of saving us. Okay. So um just thought I'd throw in a couple questions. If um I I don't know if everybody's had this experience. When you're sharing your faith with someone You kind of give them the news of the gospel. This is something that you can freely receive and there's no expectation on you. It's a it's a free gift. And they hear all these things, but they think, you know, I should really kind of clean my act up, you know, and it's just a reflex. I was I was raised Roman Catholic And if somebody can't come to meet with the gospel, which they ultimately did, but um I think a normal Catholic reaction is Yeah, I haven't been to church as much as I used to go. You know, I um i I I I I'm missing some of the the high holy days. I haven't been to communion, whatever it is, and And I need to kind of clean my act up, you know. And and we think of ourselves that way. We think, okay, this person's coming to me, they're sharing their faith. I recognize in my life that I need a lot of work on my holiness, so what am I gonna do? I'm going to go kind of get myself more presentable. Before I before I can ever think about approaching God, I kinda gotta clean my act up a little bit. And, you know, can you imagine, you know, the Jesus is is hanging on the cross, the thief is right next to him. You know, if that guy had thought that way, you know, he was moments from death And, you know, he just in desperation cries out, you know, remember me when you come in into paradise. And he had no time to clean up his act before he was going to be going. He just recognized it was an offer given. you know, completely you know, he he had no moments to you know do any good works to try to improve his image. But um in any case You know, that's that's a great picture of how salvation is offered to any of us. We have nothing that we can do to um improve our standing with God. It's just something that we can receive. Um, so I guess my question is, has anybody ever felt that impulse? You know, that you know maybe you go through a senior season of your life where you feel like you've been straying from God, that that you are um you know, I guess falling off the scriptural dis uh spiritual disciplines and that somehow before God will receive you back you gotta kind of you know, kind of polish up your your discipline or something along those lines. Anyone have any thoughts and maybe any any experience where you can kind of share about you know that where that's been the case in your life No. Well I think we kinda you know, just like the particle sun, you know, we think we were gonna go back and, you know, you know, try to make amends. But I r I really like that What he's talking about in this passage and what you were talking about, you know, he doesn't get flustered and and frustrated when we come to him for fresh forgiveness and pardon. That's that's very comforting, you know, knowing that he's not like say it again. You know Peter's saying how many times I have to forgive, seven times, you know, seven times? No, seven times. You know, it he doesn't weary in the way that we think. He's willing. He wants us you know, he wants that right relationship. And I just think that that's refreshing to to think about that. For sure. I really like your example too. You know, the prodigal son, I mean these are just all, you know, th they're not real people, but Jesus is trying to make a point And yeah, how often do we do that? We go, okay, I'm gonna go to God now, I'm gonna tell him, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do this and the father sees him Just throws his arms, yeah. And it's like his whole speech is ruined, you know, because he received them back, you know, with love and joy and I obviously I think that's a picture of God, you know, that that that's how He is with us. And so often we feel that way. Oh, I've been down there eating with the pigs, you know, and you know, obviously I gotta get myself cleaned up and And uh and the uh you know, the father runs and and froze his arms around. So ready to take a picture in that two, the sun kinda pushes his dad away a little bit. And the dad's like, uh-uh, not even here. Yeah. Yes. Sure. Sure. Sure. Yeah, and I think it's also a picture of, you know, if we remember back to when we we became a believer, maybe we were in a position where we just came to the absolute end of ourself. We recognized Okay, you know, I know this person's been telling me I can receive this gift of salvation, but I I got nowhere else to turn. And you just kind of come to that point where you say, you know Remember me when you come into your kingdom kind of thing. So Steve, come on. Yeah. He was getting saved. Yeah. For the very first time. Yeah. What about somebody who's living their life and then they just like rebel against God like you were talking before about maybe I I missed my quiet time. Yeah. Yeah, this is a good point. Oh, I got plenty of time to get my life right with God and and then you know something hits them, whether it's a truck or a disease or or or whatever, and uh, you know, people at funerals a lot of times it's a very tender moment and you can tell them This could be any of us. You know, this person two months ago, they were perfectly healthy and and then they got this diagnosis, or perhaps healthy as they they perceived they had no knowledge of what was coming and yet you know we have to call people to repentance and say today is the day of salvation because nobody th tomorrow is not guaranteed. So any other thoughts? Okay. You know, can I poke that a little bit? Sure. Let's just hypothetically pick a name. I don't know. Somebody who was saved when they were a child or when they were young and then maybe they go to life they they get hooked on drugs. It can happen. And uh they struggle with that to the point that they even go out and buy a firearm when they're still on drugs. Yeah. Um I don't know if it happens And and then they get convicted doing that sort of thing. You think Jesus would even still die and welcome them? I sure do. Yeah. Do we have any picture that would be a good thing? Well, I think of um I think of you know the times that he's talking to the Pharisees and this person comes to them and they're just lavishing him with love. And he uses that moment to say, okay, this woman here, you know, she was forgiven much. And I mean that's their assessment. They were like, which one do you think would love them? Well I guess the one that was forgiven more And even in their self-righteousness they recognize that to be the case. Yes, Joe. Sure. I'm sorry, can you remind me of your name? I asked it earlier. What is it again? What is it? Joe. Joe. Thank you. Go ahead. Yeah. I think so. I'll just say that that is a uh a passage that a lot of people have disagreements uh about in terms of you know what state he was in, but in any case I think that's one message that nobody disagrees about. Thanks. You remind me of King David too, when you say it. Yeah. Yeah, there's there's all kinds of uh and and as Doug mentioned, David, a man described as a man after God's heart. We can see at a moment, you know, I mean that was the assessment of his life. He was a man after God's heart, and yet fell into adultery, fell into planning somebody's murder, and it's like yet you see You know, the moment that Nathan came to him, I mean he as the king is hearing the words, you are the man. And, you know, he's like, You're right. I mean that's that's exactly That is exactly a great illustration of me right now. And it was at that point that that he recognized and and accepted the the penalty for for that sin. So if you just look at the possibility, cause you know Well Peter denied for the one uh very critical time. And yet Christopher and didn't say, Well, Peter, yes I forgive you, but you can't believe it. Possibly. Yeah. Yeah. And we would look at Peter and we'd say, Yeah, he just qualified himself. It's interesting, um You know, Peter kind of goes from the height of you know making the statement that Jesus says, Oh, uh you know, flesh and blood, didn't this reveal this to you? And So Peter's feeling pretty good about himself and then a minute later he says something, you know, Well that'll never happen to you and he's like, Get behind me, Satan. It's like that's kind of like a mountaintop to the the the the pit of the abyss, you know. Uh So um and yet, you know, the uh uh I've heard s um sermons on comparing Peter's denials with Jesus Judas' betrayal, you know, that they had so many similarities, they were both disciples. And yet what Jesus says to him, you know, when he's feeling the the weight of, I did betray you, Jesus, I said I never would, but I did. And He says, when you turn again, those words must have given him tremendous hope that I'm gonna turn again. Oh this is great, you know, and um so good another good example, thanks. Um when the with the always comes. So he was sure he was incre because when you think about it, Peter had you doubt about it all like that maybe he just wouldn't want to say he's not included as well. Yeah. Yeah. And that only struck out in the all things. Yeah. That's really good. Thanks, Crystal. Appreciate it. Yeah, Joe. Yeah, I think a lot of times people look at you know the process of church discipline as being mean or judgmental, and yet when you recognize that's it's done in love, you know, with the notion of we're gonna restore this person to their relationship, then it then becomes clear that it's That's done in a loving way, much like when parents discipline their children and it should be done in love. So saw a hand over here. Yes, Harry? So I wanted to quote this on the book that's uh just helps me on like a speech I think it's uh still chapter. He just doesn't draw on his head right now. So I don't what we throw the uh those lower we see that you draw because that we have that's great. That was a perfect transition. I was gonna ask if there were any other uh significant underlinings in chapter three that anybody would want to share? I had one uh just to kinda unless uh people are looking for theirs, um I found one that says, When you come to Christ for mercy and love and help, in your anguish and perplexity and sinfulness, you are going with the flow of his deepest wishes Not against them. I thought that was that was helpful. Yes, Jan. Mm-hmm. I also hear that announcement ahead. Yeah. That's very good. Yep, sure. The last line of chapter, of course. Yeah. Very good. Yep. Somewhat of what we talked about earlier. Sure. I noticed later on that you can put it the other way around. back surveillance. And the author follows that up with but is this biblical? You know, our heart, our inclination is like a reflection before I'll come back yet again. Mostly when when I blow it, I need help. Yeah. And I think uh maybe implied in all that is when somebody sins against you I think a lot of times when we realize how God treats us when we come to for forgiveness, it makes us more forgiving. And uh I think that's yeah, it yeah. It's it as Todd says it should. And uh shame on us if it's we uh you know kinda like the person, Oh wait a minute, you sinned against me last week like this. You know, I I gotta think about this for a while. Yeah, just recognizing how unlike Christ that is. Very good. Um see. So Hebrews four sixteen, let us draw Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace that we may see mercy and find grace and help of time of need. So this speaks how we should approach Christ with confidence. So what should give us confidence in how we approach this throne of grace? I guess because it is a throne of grace, but yes, yeah. Right. Yep. Yeah. I think uh a lot of times we used to do uh evangelism explosion, we'd go knocking on doors and And one of the questions you ask is, you know, if God were to ask you, why should I let you into my heaven what would you say to them? And then of course you get all the the list of things they think that would commend them to God. And you know, we we ki you know that that's just a natural thing, you know, particularly before you become a believer, it's like Well, you know, I I did this, I did that, and yet, you know, there's nothing that commends us to God. But what you're hoping you hear from a believer in any case is I haven't there's no reason why God should let me into his heaven, except for, you know, I I received the sacrifice that was paid by his son. And that's the only reason that I would be, you know, able to get into heaven is just on the righteousness of Christ. So and that's what gives us confidence when you recognize He has paid all the penalty for all the sins that we have done and will ever do, and therefore we can approach uh the the throne of grace with confidence. So it's it's because of what he's done, his sacrifice for us. And and um so I I wrote in the notes here. Last week Doug made reference to a stanza from my it's my favorite hymn, and can it be So as bold I approach to the eternal throne and claim the crown through Christ my own. So this verse speaks of how we're clothed in the righteousness of Christ. And on that basis, we can boldly approach the throne. The crown we can claim are those that are the reward of those who persevere to the end. And then in Revelation, then Revelation class, 410, the elders, the twenty-four elders wore crowns that they threw in an act of worship at Jesus' feet. So and then this idea of drawing near, I think a lot of times um I always like R. C. Sprohl, he's you know, kind of well known for his book on the holiness of God. And it's just this idea that I mean you see it in scripture, anytime anybody encounters an angel You know, they recognize who Jesus is. Often what's what's their reaction is like, get away from me. I'm you know, you're you're holy, I'm not. You know, it's just this recognized recognizing You know, I I I don't like being around you because I don't feel holy. And yet what are we encouraged to do? To draw an ear And we just recognize, you know, when I'm when I'm in the midst of sin, the best thing I can do is go to God. You know, but what's our our normal reaction is I can't. I'm just I'm t I'm too filthy in any case. You know, you just it's a um it's a normal reaction and yet we're encouraged to draw an ear. And regardless particularly, you know, when we're in sin, we're we're told to come, you know, confess the sin and then be restored. So let's see. Oh, and of course, you know my my favorite example, you know, when we have this inclination to hide You know, Adam and Eve, right at the creation, they enjoyed wonderful fellowship with the Father, and yet the moment they sinned, what was their first reaction? It was to hide, you know, it's like Adam, where are you? It's like, why are you hiding? And um so that's that's a a uh a a g you know, an a probably the original example of our normal inclination when we feel that we are in sin as opposed to we're o we're encouraged to draw near to find grace and particularly when we need it, when we when we have this help in uh we need help in our time of need. So chapter four, yes. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You learn so much about, you know, just human nature. You know, I mean God goes to Adam and he wants to restore him and he's like This woman you gave me, she gave me this fruit. And she's like, Well, the serpent, he did this, you know, it's this blame shifting that's just so, you know, built into our nature, and yet, you know, that's that's um It's nothing original when we do it, you know, it's just it's kind of part of our standard equipment. So You know the says So there's two things that put side by side. One is to draw ourselves and to draw near and th and it's really cool that God had Jay do that for us because it takes humility when caught in a sin to come and confess. To own and to agree with God that what we do wrong and that we're the ones that are following. He's no That's okay. Yeah, and I think a lot of times in in our relationships, you know, when you know you're at odds with someone And we like to keep score. We're like, well, when they say they're sorry, then I'll say I'm sorry. And and it's like it's just so ridiculous. You know, again, getting back to how much we've been forgiven, whether you feel like this person sinned more than you You sinned. And if you go to them, you know, how often if somebody in humility without, you know, saying, Well, you sinned more than me or whatever, you know, you just go to them and you own your part of it. You know. the other person's very likely to say, Well, you know, I did things that were even worse, you know, and you can restore that relationship and and it's important to do that earlier rather than just to let things go. So and I think that's that's something to think about. And we are Christ already made it open for us to draw near him. Yep. I was thinking about what Joel was doing with Adam and Eve, I you know the idea, you know, Adam where are you was looking for him and advising a safe Yeah. And I you know, I like I thought this was insightful in the in the book when he's talking about Uh on page 49 says, Well what about our sin? Should we encourage that Jesus can't be in Solid Solidity Solidarity? Thank you. with us in uh in the in the most piercing of pains and the guilt and shame of sin, you know, because Jesus never sinned, so but he makes the point. Because he can, he knows this, it says he therefore knows the strength of better than any of us could fall prey, even stumble. But he resists it, so he knows the power of shim better than we do. And and identify with them. Very good. So let's look at um chapter four, able to sympathize. I think I might have accidentally read the the verse that goes with that chapter, talking about the high priests We do not have a high priest who's unable to sympathize with our weakness, but one who has in every respect been tempted as we are yet without sin. That's kind of the key part, uh, verse fifteen. So I'll ask, um, as I mentioned, I was raised Roman Catholic, and of course in in the in that belief system they have very obvious priests. They you know, not sure where they feel, you know, that there's a a basis for having priests in this day and age, but in any case Um who can tell me uh what what is the uh high priest in in Israel and you know kind of what what what are some of their roles? What do they do? Or what did they do? Yeah, Harry. Yeah. Yeah, pretty much all the priests were were involved in making sacrifices. Um so priests were uh the Levitical class and uh or uh tribe and uh Yeah, they made regular sacrifices. Uh the high priest in particular, there was a day of the year that they had a pretty big role. What was that day? That's right. Yom Kippur. Yep, they still celebrate that these days. Um what what happened on the Day of Atonement for the high priest? Well the the high priest would enter the holy place handed the holy of holy place. that the lines are failed. Yeah. Which where no one could go. That's right. At um at any time. But you could go in there with uh blood uh the site and then he would put some of the blood up on the altar. Yeah. Altar. That would be accepted for the such flight for the sins of all the people that go out. And not come back to the importance. Yeah. I've told that uh one of the things that they would do on the high priest they would put bells on his clothing. So people would listen and if they heard the bell stop tinkling then they realized that the high priest had been struck dead for some transgression, some you know, doing something he shouldn't have been doing because it was very very carefully prescribed his role as something else. Yeah, yeah. would know how to present the cycle so that they would do it correctly. Yeah. on the organic set. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, in fact you see an ATAB in a Bahu says that they offered strange fire And uh that just simply means it was something that was out of what was prescribed. So they were kind of trying to do their own thing, you know, with respect to the role that they had and what happened to them. Does anybody remember? They they were struck dead. Yeah, and uh and yeah that was a pretty uh clear indication of this is what your role is, these are the boundary markers of what you should be doing, and you know. And God's holiness, you know, he's very very uh very serious about how he should be approached. And yet in this passage it says as believers We can come with confidence or we can come boldly and it's on the basis of of we're our standing in Christ. So Um that's uh and and here it talks about a high priest, so Jesus is uh what you'll see in Hebrews as you go through it is what the big message as you're going through is Jesus is better. He's Jesus is better than the high priest. Jesus is better than Moses. Jesus is better than angels. And that's kind of how Hebrews proceeds, you know, and and it it says not just that he's better, but here's why he's better. And uh one of the things as we get to chapter four, it says that Jesus As a high priest, he's better in two respects. One is he um he's able to sympathize with our weaknesses And um I I think there's an another case where they say he's better, but this is the big thing that we're we're studying today. He's able to sympathize with our weaknesses. In the sense that you when you had the earthly high priest, he would go in, what did he have to do before he could go into the Holy of Holies? Was it just something he could wake up on that day and go marching in there and what kind of things would he have to do? Offer sacrifices for himself? Ritual cleansing, um had the wearing the the correct uh robe and all that sort of thing. So it was uh it was not something that you approached the holy of holies, you know, lightly, you know, you didn't go in there just with your mind on something else. You were very much focused on your work that day. So Um so let's see. So it says that he's able to sympathize, I think is what was said was the idea that he faced every temptation that that we could And we know that, you know, if you're going through a particular particularly difficult time or you're facing a a particularly difficult temptation We can know that Jesus faced even stronger temptations. And by his Holy Spirit, he gives us the ability to overcome sin. Um and that we recognize, you know, his sacrifice was perfect because he lived a sinless life. And um so let's Another thing that the the um uh the high priest offered is this notion that he was a mediator. And um so that's maybe a word that we don't use every day. It's w what what is the what I guess what would the definition of mediator be? Does anybody have a good definition? Somebody is mediating something for you, they are they're simply bringing the parties together. That's right. Yep. So the the priest would represent and that's really what they were as a representative of somebody we could go to and then they could take our sacrifices and our offerings to God and and yet there was something that happened during the crucifixion that was uh That was pretty pretty amazing. Um, what am I thinking of? Burton Temple was born into. Born into The interesting thing I heard recently they said it was torn top to bottom and that the curtain itself was three feet thick. Not an easy thing to tear. So uh but what did that represent, that that curtain That's right. Yep. That we now have open access to God through through faith in Christ. So um Pretty significant, I g I think if you spent your whole life you know being concerned about you know how do I approach God and yet through faith in Christ we're just told to draw near to come boldly with confidence. Um so and uh as I keep referencing um my upbringing in the Catholic Church, they talk about you know Mary being a mediatrix which is a uh kind of a female meat mediator or a co redemptrix. Um, these are just inventions that they came up with to give her a lot more well Almost they say it's not worship, but I I don't know how else you can describe it. Um and we're s we see in First Timothy two five It says, for there is one God and one mediator also between God and men, the man, Christ Jesus. So that should have settled it right there. Jesus is said to be the great high priest, that he alone can stand between us and the Father and help us in our time of need. So the premise of Thomas Goodwin's book The Heart of Christ is that even though Christ is now in heaven, he is just as open and tender in his embrace of sinners and sufferers as he ever was on earth. So uh this is typical of Puritans when they would write books. This is the title of that book. The Heart of Christ in Heaven Towards Sinners on Earth, or a treatise demonstrating the gracious disposition and tender affection of Christ in his human nature now in glory unto his members under all sorts of infirmities, either of sin or misery. I think they got extra points for a word count, probably. Um I I i the the the book actually has a picture of of that that title and um I think the the second half of that is a subtitle but um and from our book here's a quote the way Puritans would write books is to take a single Bible verse Wring it dry for all the heart-affecting theology they could find, and two or three hundred pages later, send their findings to a publisher. Thomas Goodwin's The Heart of Christ is no different And the verse being wrung dry is Hebrews four fifteen, for we do not have a priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who has been tempted in all things as we are yet without sin. So as we've seen, Jesus is a unique priest in that he has no sin of his own. He can sympathize with as as he knows what it is to be tempted as we all are in his human nature. Okay, so for the coming week um we need to be reading uh chapters five and six and underline things if you would that are important in that. And um hopefully I wouldn't be out of line in asking Doug to share something he shared during our prayer time, perhaps uh an answer to prayer. Feel okay sharing that or um I posted to my dad's in the hospital Uh he's still in the hospital. Um he had salvation third stack. He didn't have very many words. He said some things was hard to understand as contact I don't know what other signs of be able to hospital down. I think I know a lot of people but I take it down. Yeah. Thirty-five? Yep. Congratulations. Halfway done. Very good. Anyone else have any anything we can be preparing for or rejoicing in? Well, I will uh I'll go ahead and close this in prayer. Father, we are thankful for this message, thankful for the things we learned just in terms of your disposition toward us when we sin, that you desire to um to restore us as we come and and confess those things and yet we recognize just what was done um to procure our salvation, just something that we can receive and um and have access to you to ha to come boldly and just pray that we would desire Um as we as we do sin to um confess those things quickly, to um to uh have a close walk with you and just thankful for the encouragements from this book and just as we've had discussion to uh to do that. Just uh also thankful for for as Doug shared, um possibly the work you're doing in his dad's heart Just uh just I know a lot of people have been praying for for his parents for many years and um just rejoice uh in uh what perhaps might be someone who has been resistant resistant to you, finally um bending their knee and uh receiving salvation and we do hope that's true and we're just thankful For Doug and Diane, just thankful for their um anniversary coming up that they can celebrate the marriage that you've given them in thirty five years. Um just uh just pray as we go um to the worship this morning that we would go with hearts attentive to your word. Just thankful again for this time you've given us to uh To share fellowship over these topics and pray all these things in your name, Amen