Alright, cool. So the song Rock of Ages um is uh one of these songs that the the author was picturing Christ and uh the rock out in the wilderness. There was a rock that poured water from it. Um He had an opportunity to go hide in a rock and was picturing that same rock. And there's a number of really cool metaphors. in this song about hiding in that same rock that uh that water came out of that is compared to Christ being the rock But the uh there's a number of things here that uh the author says, well look, there's a lot of things we could try for our salvation. We could try tears, but no, that's not true. Christ is the only one who can save us. There's nothing that we can bring. We just cling to the cross of Jesus. That's what's in here. That that we uh we have nothing to do but to look to Christ for cr uh grace We are foul, it says, and we gotta run to the fountain that will cleanse us from our stains. And it's Christ who's the rock that we get to hide in. And uh that's kind of fits into the idea of what it is that we wanted to look at today. Um Today we're um uh talking about Christ um Being merciful and gracious. In fact, specifically we're looking at the Old Testament to see how God the Father reflects that same attitude towards us. Merciful and gracious. Raise your hand if you had a chance to read these two chapters as fast as you. Hey, that's better. Keep it up, guys. Uh and I want to encourage everybody to continue to read. There's two um specific passages. The first one that uh we're gonna look at comes from Isaiah 55 verse 8. And I just wanted to ask um God in the Old Testament. God in the Old Testament, how as you picture God in the Old Testament, how does that impact your life today? Just got in the old man. He is the same, yes. That's a true statement, yes. See? Yeah, yeah, very good. Jen? Magnificent, but it also progression of God's wanting to have a relationship with us. Everything He did is have a relationship with Yeah, okay, cool. Here's a here's another question, changed subject slightly. Um what do you think when you hear Somebody say or when you say it, God's ways are not our ways. Yes? I feel like something that might first pop in your mind is like, oh he did something in a way that I Right, absolutely. And and that's fair, right? Because God's declaring, My ways are not your ways. And so any other thoughts? Yes. That one usually gives me hope because I'm usually in a desperate situation when I think of that one. I don't know what to do. I'm I'm beyond my mental capacity of What's going on? Okay, God's got it. His ways are not my ways. Yeah, God's providence is uh weird and uh we're gonna figure this thing out, right? Because I don't have to worry about it. God's got this one and we'll pray and we'll put it in his hands. I'm sure he's put me here for his reason. Yes. Um and um where folks want God to think like we do. You know, what why why why would God do this? Why would God do that So that that phrase makes you think of that because um we're not God and he doesn't think the way he thinks. He created everything that that is. You know, I did not. So um yeah, his ways is definitely not um Yeah. Can you guys close that door? Absolutely. You know, let's just say, I don't know, something bad happens and uh I've always grown up when something bad happens Uh and I know that God's sovereignly in control. This is the thing that I would be like, oh well God's ways are not my ways. I know he's in control and I know he's got a good purpose for whatever is going on, whatever's happening Both the author and John Calvin say that's not the right way to interpret that passage. So if you've gone around your life carrying that verse, that thinking that that's what that's about, the author says no. So strap your seatbelt on if you haven't had a chance to read the chapter. And let's dive into this and take a look at it. Um last week we started looking at the the heart of God in the Old Testament. We're continuing to do it this week. And just because and and let's pause just for a minute and let's seek God on this. Heavenly Father, um I know that your ways are not my ways, because your word asserts that that's true. And I pray, Heavenly Father, that you'd help us to understand your intent when you said that. To understand it rightly, to see your words in their context in the way that you intended to say them. I thank you, Heavenly Father, that you've given us Your word in English so that we don't have to learn some foreign language and foreign concepts and foreign ideas uh I'm sorry, in foreign ways to to understand what you have to say, but really smart people have done a really good job of translating the Bible to us And I thank you, God, that we can read it in our language. I pray, Heavenly Father, that as we interact around these thoughts and these ideas today, that you would help us to understand who you are more rightly. That you would incline our hearts, that we would push past the Things that veil our eyes and the inclinations that our heart has to think the natural ways. And I pray, Heavenly Father, that we would think godly ways after you Because you are kind and loving. It's your testimony that you are abounding in loving kindness, that you are slow to anger. And I pray, Heavenly Father, that we would truly understand More deeply, that you would give us the ability to truly understand more deeply the love that you have for us as you explain it to us Not based on our inclination, our gut feel, or anything, but what your word tells us is true. And we would trust that And that the truth of that would sink down in deep into our hearts. Help me, Heavenly Father, and us to communicate well. We need your help this day, God, as we talk through these amazing truths about who you are. Amen. Um you know we are made in the image of God. There's an aspect of God that we share. Anyone tell me some examples of things that we share, aspects or nature that we share with God? Yes. Creativity? Creativity, yeah, fantastic. What else? Yes. Relationship. Relationship. Fantastic. With one another, God has a relationship inside the Trinity. Yes. Yes. Love for justice. Oh yeah. Yeah, love for justice. And God is just, yes. Oh yes, emotions. Fantastic. These are all really good examples. God loves and so do we. God expresses God is is infinitely wisdom w wise and we have a some knowledge of wisdom and and things like that. It's Oftentimes though, when we strive to perceive who God is, it's like standing on a mountain trying to look through a hazy day to another mountain range off in the distance. There's I can sense that there's a a there's something there. I can see the outline of it. I can understand because what God has revealed is truth But I don't see the grandeur of that until the clouds get white wiped away and then you can actually see the immensity of what's there, the majesty, the glory, the beauty of what's there. And as we study God's word The clouds of our perception of who God is start to clear away. As we grow in sanctification, because That also happens because our sin nature and the fall veils who God is from us. It clouds our vision and our understanding of who God is. And so we we naturally see God our ourselves in God And as we see ourselves in God, what we start to do is we start to abscribe our selfishness to God. We start to ascribe our impatience to God. We start to ascribe to Him things that we have inside of us that we struggle with or that we enjoy, right? uh that we start to think, well, if I'm like that, then God's like that too. We either do it subtly, not even thinking it through, or we do it actively. I would never do that. Therefore God. I or I've heard people say this before. I could never worship a god that Let's open our Bibles up to Sa uh to Isaiah fifty-five. I think Isaiah is one of my favorite books in the Old Testament. But it's not my favorite light by a lot because I got a lot of favorites. Um It says, starting with verse 1, but really where I want you to start to pay attention, but this is so glorious, I want to read the whole thing. Um where I really want you to start paying attention is when we get to verse 6 through 9. Okay But verse one, come everyone who thirsts. Come to the waters, and he who has no money, come, buy, and ease. Come by wine and milk without money and without price. Why do you spend your money for that which is not bread, and your labor for that which does not satisfy? Listen diligent to me and eat what is good and delight yourselves in rich food. Incline your ear and come to me here that your soul may live. And I will make with you an everlasting covenant, my steadfast, sure love for David. Behold! I made him a witness to the peoples, a leader, a commander for the peoples. Behold, you shall call a nation that you do not know And a nation that did not know you shall run to you because of the Lord your God and of the Holy One of Israel, for he has glorified you Seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts Let him return to the Lord that he may have compassion on him and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, declares the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, Soar my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. For as the rain and the snow come down from heaven, they do not return there, but water the earth, making it bring forth and sprout, giving seed to the sower and bread to the eater, so shall my word be that goes out of my mouth, it shall not return to me empty, but it shall accomplish that which I purpose and shall succeed the thing for which I sent it. For you shall go out in joy and be led forth in peace. The mountains and hills before you shall break forth in singing, and all the trees of the field shall clap their hands. I'll stop there. But I like to keep reading. And so Here, right in the midst of this verse, this passage, we have this concept, this idea of God's ways not being our ways. But look at what it is in this passage. If we just look at verses six to nine, what is the command, or maybe I should say what are the commands in this passage? Seek the Lord. Seek the Lord. Alright. What's another command that's in the passage? Forsake your way. Mm-hmm. Anything else? Call upon. Right. What else Return to the Lord, yeah. That's all I thought that was there. I'm gonna assert to us that seek the Lord and call upon him are parallel commands. It's the same thing saying it's two different ways. So the command is to seek the Lord We'll just double them up. Repent. And then there's a follow-on command that says return to the Lord. Which also sounds to me like seeking the Lord So God's desire here, God's desire Is for the people of Israel and by extension us who are drafted in. What is the command for us? How do we act out this command? What's an example of doing this? Obeying his statutes. Obeying his statutes? Okay. That's potentially a derivative of that. Why do you say though, let me make sure I understand you correctly, why do you say obeying his statutes is the same as seeking the Um whatever I think of the statutes and the commandments have given out this trip to look at them as a terrorism rather than the reflection of his character or anything seeing the Lord being the statue type. Drawing Okay. Alright. Statutes of God reflect his character, so seeking God And obeying. Yeah. I gotcha. Alright, cool. Yes, yes. Yes. Great. I I mean going back to last week's um message, you know, the the great commandment that they were Testing Jesus, you know, he said to love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, and mind and strength. And and that's it, and everything derives from that uh being faithful and obedient and desiring his word you know, fellowshipping with him. So it all flows out of that. So that's seeking that, doing that. Loving him. Yeah. Loving him. That's that's the thing. The last part that you said and and I understand obedience and and loving God are tied together But when I think of seeking the Lord, I think of my affections. I'm thinking, and Joel, that was tied in with what you said as well. I appreciate that. That Seeking the Lord is something that I don't think can be done without relationship with God. Drawing near to God means spending time with God. Spending time listening to what His Word has to say and understanding His precepts. Absolutely. And and a returning and a repenting. Repenting is forsaking those sins, and I think that it's an interesting thought that sins are the things that we tend to hide. And would be the primary thing that keeps me from drawing near to the Lord. And you see this clearly reflected in the garden. The very first thing that Adam and Eve did after they sinned. was they went and hid. Because all of a sudden they knew that they were naked. And when we sin, we also recognize Who we are, we're exposed before God in ways that we don't want to be exposed. It is a barrier to drawing near And so repenting, repenting and forsaking those things removes that barrier And the humble repentance allows us to draw near to God. So not only is it loving God and spending time with God, but drawing near or seeking God I think is tied in also with a spirit of humility that says, God, I know that I have been wrong, and I agree with you, and I would like to draw near to you again. In fact, it's just a few chapters before this that God Acknowledging the sin of the people of Israel has the prophet write down, All of us like sheep have gone astray. That's in Isaiah 53. And so in verse 7, what does God say his response is going to be to the command? We're exegeting this together, by the way. What does God say his response is to those people who seek the Lord, call upon him, repent, and return to the Lord? Yes. Mm. That sounds stingy to me. No. Abundantly means, you know, you you show up to dinner and somebody not only pays the bill, but they tip the bill too You know what I mean by tip the bill. 100% tip. Yeah, so that's how you can blind it. But then even more so. In this case, you think about it like this Picture a lot of money in your head for one quick second. Maybe it's five thousand dollars. Maybe it's I don't know, more than that It's teeny compared to God's abundance. And in this case, the abundance of the Lord is pardon. How often, when we come to the Lord, do we recognize the abundant pardon of God that's available to us? That that we don't have to go through some kind of Heroic act to get God's favor. That it's been done already, and God's own testimony is those who seek me. He will have compassion on them and abundantly pardon The story of the prodigal son. Right, the son comes back, he's he's If you follow the story, basically he said, God, hey Dad, I want my inheritance, which is basically saying, I wish you were dead and I could have my money now And then he went and threw it away. And he had nothing. And he came back to his desk. After completely insulting and and doing everything wrong towards his dad. And his dad sees him far off And he runs to him. He he runs to him and his son has his speech prepared, right? And he can't even get his speech out. He's like, Dad, I and he's like, Shh. Hey, kill the That's abundantly part of him. The sun deserved to be able to get his speech out, but the sun should have been in the dirt get you know for uh a long time to get that kind of pardon. He deserved to grovel for a little while. The dad should have had his opportunity to say, I told you so. When you took that money, when you made me, when all these things happened Let's ask another question. Have you ever had a child that drives your crease? No. I know enough about the people in this room. And the answer is yes. But your heart inclines toward them. They make you nuts. And you need some space because otherwise some, you know, you're gonna get into arguments and stuff like that But you can't wait to see them. When you see them, you miss them, your heart's towards them You want them to seek you. You want them to to ring the phone. Hey, I was hoping that you could tell me something. You you would go crazy and nuts for them to go, I'm sorry that And I agree with you that you are right And and you would be thrilled to abundantly pardon your child. You are not God. And you know a small piece of who that is because you Made in the image of who God is. God says, I will abundantly pardon. I will have compassion. And the compassion of God Extends from his love. And you know what Paul says? His love is so deep and so wide that we can't understand it apart from him enabling us and even then it's unfathomable love. Yes. So the the more we talk about it, the more I feel like we collectively as believers, not just the folk in this room, but just mobile people. Specifically in America. I don't think we get the whole concept of the problem. context of what what that is and who God is and what we said earlier about loving God with a lot of heart and mind and soul. I don't think we can get that And I I think we don't get it because we don't really because God is an intellectual entity for us. And He's saying, I don't want to be an intellectual entity, I want to have a relationship And my personal observation is that most of us do not have that relationship that he's talking about, or even on track for that relationship Because we are just looking at we we're still legalistic in our minds. Do this, don't do that. And that's not who God is. That's that's just an outflow from you know that that' relationship. Well here's something that I need you to do to keep that right relationship with me, etcetera. But he wants a relationship. And a relationship is an emotional thing as well as you know something that we do. Um when you first I'll speak for the guys, when you first seem to see that woman that you you think you want to marry, you're just crazy. It's an emotion And although you have to intellectually make a decision, it's emotionally you're all in it. At least until you say that to So and but I think we miss that with God. He wants he wants Doug to be intimate with him. He wants Ricardo to be intimate with him. And I I just think that we miss it. And so even though we intellectually talk about it, I think we still miss it. And and everybody does But there are some who have come close to getting that. You know that David came close to it, because he said, as a deer pants for water, so my soul longs. for the Lord. That's emotion. That's passion. In fact, that approaches what God is saying is the response to the command that's written here. Draw near to me. Seek the Lord. Call upon me. That's what God's talking about. You know, we think a lot of times, well, I I gotta pay back something before I can. And I think a lot of times that's because that's how we treat other people. And that's how we are. And we're reflecting us in the God unjustly. Anyway, I think that's something to repent from. And the good news is God already told us what He's going to do when we repent. Abundantly pardon. He will have compassion on us. You know, we're a lot like little children to God My sons y grandsons sorry my grandsons yesterday got their first crabs. And there's a picture I can show it to you afterwards. I would love to show it. They're they both have unopened crabs. They're sitting there red with old bay on them and stuff like that. And all they have is their hands up like this with mallets My grandson said, I smashed a crab today. Polverized it. And that's cute. But if I do that in a a seafood place, you ought to be like Doug, what's going on? That's not how you're supposed to eat a crab, right? God looks at us like the little kids. I think it's sometimes he's like, you're being so cute, but you're wrong. Come here. Come here. I have compassion for you. I have pardon for you. Let my spirit help you. Let my spirit help you. To counsel you and to guide you. That's why I put him. inside of you. And God will abundantly pardon. He wraps his arms around us. Why does God abundantly pardon? Yes God abundantly pardons because his ways are not our ways. Look at look at this, look at the amazing what he says. For he will abundantly pardon, for that's the uh that's the quad, there's a word there that attaches it back, for My thoughts are not your thoughts, nor are your ways my ways. It goes both directions, right? Your thoughts are not my thoughts. My ways are not your ways. Says the Lord, for as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways And my thoughts and your thoughts. I don't know what the people of Israel thought about the height of the heavens. But I know the truth about the heights of the heavens because they got telescopes to look at it. And I know God understands the height of the heavens. What that's saying is the Andromeda Galaxy is not close enough to describe how much higher God's ways are than my ways. He is literally light years more loving, more forgiving, more compassionate. than I am. If you want to test this out, just take this as a homework assignment this week. Be slow to anger. That was my homework time last week and the week before. Yeah, just go ahead and keep trying it. We'll take notes together. See how many minutes you last. When somebody steps on your toe. Yeah. Stay off the roads, don't associate with people. And then you hurt your back and you all of a sudden are no longer long suffering, right? Blah blah blah. Yeah. My ways are not your ways, says the Lord. It's like a wise adult saying it to a three-year-old who's crying because The bug died that he stepped on. Or his Lego got broken. And he could just put it right back together again. Yes, I see some parents of Lego children in the room. Um and And I can't play with the toy right now because my sibling has it. Um That's why God abundantly pardons. We live in a land of reciprocity. Does that make sense? There's a there's a I got a score sheet, I've got a mental score sheet in my head. It's always I it's always towards my favor. Um that's just the truth of all of us. I know you well enough. It's always a little bit skewed towards my favor, and I always want to be ahead a little bit. That's where I am. So long as I'm ahead a little bit, the score is balanced That's not the way God is. Anyway, um by the way, God's infinite and owns everything. And fairness, our fairness often favors ourselves. God doesn't feel like and this is me my understanding is that God doesn't feel like fairness has to be balanced towards himself because he's God. And so he's ready to pass these things by and bring bring us all back together towards himself. Draw near to me, he says. Come here. Um Calvin wrote, talking about Isaiah, but the prophet's meaning I think is different, talking about this statement, God's ways are not my ways, right? And and more correctly explained according to my judgment by other commentators who think that he draws this distinction between God's disposition and man's dismiss disposition. Men are want to judge and measure God from themselves. For their hearts are moved by angry passions and are very difficult to be appeased, and therefore they think they cannot be reconciled to God when they have once offended him, but the Lord shows that he is far from resembling men. What Calvin is saying is that look at We're slow to respond when somebody draws near to us. You have offended me and we have not settled this debt yet. And that's not how God is. You draw near to God and Scott's like, let's cool, let's go. We're right back here. We'll forget about it. I know that thing happened. We all know that thing happened, but let's restore our relationship now. Let's restore our relationship. That's who God is. The author has some really powerful and creative words in this chapter. Our lethargic apprehensions of the uproarious joy of divine pardoning lower the ceiling. on whom we perceive God to be, but they do not limit who God in fact is. Does this match your perception of who God is Does this what is the this? Thanks. This concept right here of God being abundant And compassionate and quick to draw us towards Himself, does that match your concept of who God is? If not A, I say repent. Because that's doesn't unmatch what God's Word reveals himself to me. But even in that, don't don't don't repent like, oh woe is me, I don't get God. You know what I mean? It's like that, okay, we're just gonna turn from that thought. I'm going to try it with all my strength to set that thought of who God is aside and try to embrace who God reveals himself to be. There's a uh really cool parallel passage here to his ways are higher than our ways. Can I can I uh please kind of a general question anybody. What are the steps to repentance? And what are the steps to building a better relationship with God? Not his part, but our part I w I was kinda I've kind of been thinking about this of ultimately parting pardon and his ways are not our ways and and I think where we see that is And when we bring up to mind our sins either before salvation or when we stumbled after salvation, you know We we pray and ask forgiveness for those, but we still bring them to mind, you know, and we'll pray again, you know, forgive me. And so we and we've heard that phrase, forgive and forget. Well, we tend not to do that, you know, and but we're told that as far as the east is from the west is how far he pardons us, you know. He He separates us and when he looks at us through Christ, he no longer sees that sin. And that's amazing. That's that's where his ways are not our ways. You know, we still call the mind past sins Like I said, but but he will even though he's God and he's omniscient and all knowing, you know, yet he chooses as he looks through at us through Christ that he no longer sees that sin staying on us. He sees us through Christ, you know, that spotless lamb. And that that's that's pretty amazing. That's like in his ways are not our ways, you know. And and you know, in glory, those things will will be removed and, you know, we'll no longer call those to mind. We'll we'll have that complete Yeah. That partly I think answers your question. How do we ask the question again. How do we repent? Yeah, what what are the steps? what are the steps to repentance what are what are the steps to building a relationship you know restores a relationship with God again not His side of it, our side of it. Yeah. Yeah. And and I would even add to that, how do we now retrain our guts to think rightly of who God is Because I think that that information, deep down inside of us, will inform and direct that. And that me, that's my thought. What else do you guys think? Yeah. Um because what I what I heard Not not the words, but what I heard or saw was that he's reflecting on on God easily But he's thinking about these things. And I I think that's part of the answer because he's he's like, hey, I I want to connect with you, so I'm I'm thinking about who you are and what that means to me me and he's not just reading the reading the words. And and so even though he didn't say that, that's what I gathered from what he said. just it's just that because it it to me it was B it's I'm reflecting on you. And I I think that's part of it. I mean that's that's for for for for me that's how I continuing to build that relationship with the is the reflection to the thinking, the you know of applying this start this starting here, this is starting here in nature. Yeah, I think so too. That concept of saying, hey, wow, this is something price paid for also Which I think feathers in with what you were talking about. Um and and to to know, oh, this was really terrible. This was the wrong thing, that was embarrassing, or whatever. Christ paid for that too. Joel. Um for me to add to what Greg McCarthy are saying, uh I'm making a point to make sure my repentance is consummated with joy. In the sense that I'm very convicted of the fact that I think that it's the single act that gives God the greatest magnitude and glory. In the sense that exactly as Chris said You're acknowledging this wide cast between man and God. And you're like, who can possibly save me again? Here's Jesus Christ. I mean imagine the amount of glory and the testimony that you're just Giving out necessary repentance. I mean there are powers and principalities in all the creation looking at the repentance. They're like, What's going on here? Ultimately that transmates joy. Yeah. And that joy is a step of faith. Yeah, yes. Um, there's a book I read called Spiritual Disciplines and I think that helped me kind of um just give some practical ways to do this. So for example, one of them practicing the presence of God Just remembering that God goes with you. Things like journaling, if you want to put it into just real practical instead of just out there, pretend You know, that kind of thing. There are books out there that really pinpoint and you don't do there's no way you can do all of them and it's not a list of rules, but it's just some ways that help oh yeah, this really stands with me this is how I you know, journaling is my thing or whatever it is. Um some practical tips on how to do it. And it does it keeps your mind just continually focused. You know, they say God is right here next to me and talk Whatever that kind of thing, just remembering that helps. I I I know someone, um he's a tax and eat your But he always he always shared. But his journal is so um personal um with God and with everyone else. And so you you can see his his dialogue with God. Because that's that's what he's journaling about. It's not like God got up and six flowers today. Right, exactly. If they if the six flowers the experience that he had knowing that God created that flower that So it's really this connectivity put on so many different levels. I think our relationship is strengthened through practice. Practice Let's talk about what I mean by that. If anybody players ever play any sports or even played at sports, I should say say. Or anything that requires let's play say playing an instrument. Or something that requires a little bit of muscle memory. When you're at it You start to get sharper and sharper, even video games by the way. You get sharper and sharper and sharper as you play it. And some things now you start to do without having to think about it And if you step away, even if you step away from the gym, let's say, and then some period of time later you come back to it, you are a clutch compared to what you were before And I think our relationship with God can be the same sort of thing. If we are practicing at a relationship, this is true with people as well. If I'm practicing at a relationship and building a relationship with people There are things that just start to become natural. There are things that we will laugh about together quickly without having to explain it. There are things that we'll enjoy together and we'll perceive together. without having to work through that thing. And I think that there is a this this stuff with God starts to come together in our minds As we're about the daily I'm just hanging out with God. I'm just there Your word today, God, is is my sustenance is another way of thinking And I think that that also builds what you're talking about because it it informs and it deepens and strengthens our relationship with who God is. Any other thoughts? Yes. I would just say like was that question? A really good question. And I thought that was always an amazing answer. For me it would just be very easy Whether it would just be knowing who God is, not from people's opinions or anything like that, just simply what people like God says about himself and seeing when God describes what he's done and he he's amazing but when he talks about it, if someone else is like to speak how God speaks out himself, he would think arrogant, very prior, but when God does it He just speaks the honest truth of who he is, merciful when he speaks Moses, I am exceedingly merciful. Yeah, exactly. It's not like I'm Arogant. And when you read what it's specifically not people's opinions on how God is, when you actually read on how God is from him himself, from his word. Um long story short, like if you look at the book of Ephesians. Two two halves, first three chapters, last three chapters. First three chapters is all about who God is, what he's done for us, everything like that Then the last three chapters are why we do what we do, how we should live for him, but it's important that Paul started with what God has done for us first, just to kind of answer the question of like how can I like repent from feeling how God is from my personal ways to believe in what He says. It's a rather simple what I mean not very complex but to answer simply believe in what he says about himself, nothing of what anyone else says, just purely what he says about himself. Yeah, absolutely. Turn to Psalm 103. Steve, I'm afraid we're not going to cover much of chapter eighteen, so you can pick that up next week and cover the other two chapters that you have on top of that. You have to do two songs next week also I uh um two three song hundred and three. The reason why I want to go to Psalm 103 is because this is the one passage where it talks about as high as the heavens are above the earth Which is a direct tie-in to what we just saw in Isaiah 55. Look at Psalm 103 starts and ends with Bless the Lord, O my soul. And then gives gazillions of reasons for us to do that. That's the encapsulation of Psalm hundred and three. But if you look down, uh well let's look at it, right? He let's not forget all God's benefits, who forgives your iniquity, which is kind of like what we've been talking about, abundantly pardoned. He has compassion He heals your diseases, which I think is tied into our disease of sin. Who redeems your life from the pit, who crowned you his steadfast love and mercy Who satisfies you with goods that your youth is renewed like the Eagles. Not the Philadelphia Eagles. Um But look at all these things that God does. Look at how amazing and kind and compassionate our Lord is And we can camp out on this, Ricardo. This kind of gets back also to the question that you were asking. How do I do that? Memorize passages like this and contemplate and meditate on who God is. The Lord works righteousness and justice for all who are oppressed. He made known his ways to Moses, his acts to the people of Israel. Wait, when did God do that? He's going to explain it to us. The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. Anybody recognize that? We just talked about that last week, didn't we? Isaiah, I'm sorry, here in Psalm 103, David's pointing back to what God said about himself when he revealed his glory to Moses. It's right here. Merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. He will not always chide and worldly keep his anger forever. He does not deal with us according to our sins. nor repay us according to our iniquities. For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his steadfast love toward those who fear him. As far as the East is from the West, so far does he remove our transgression from us. As a father shows compassion to his children, so the Lord shows compassion to those who fear him. Anybody want to understand? Just read that and picture how much God forgives us. How compassionate God is. The abundance of God's loving kindness that he would take our sins and go, nope, gone. And he does not repay us according to our iniquities. That is a gracious, loving, heavenly Father who is slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. Oh God, help us to see. Open my eyes. And that's another thing. Earnestly praying that God would help us to see who He is. And that it would impact our lives so that we would grow in sanctification and treat other people the way God would treat us. Oh to grow in sanctification. It puts a different target on what sanctification means. Growing to be like God in that sense. Let's turn the page and I'm going to spend just a few minutes talking about um Let's see how far down this I can scratch. Because the next chapter in the book um oh any thoughts or questions The next chapter of the book is from Jeremiah. Jeremiah thirty-one. And In case you haven't had a chance to read it recently, I recommend reading Jeremiah 30 all the way through 31. What you see there is probably one of the most treasured passages and describes and explains a new covenant. And it's echoed again, and it's that God would take the people of Israel In fact, if you look at the context of of Jeremiah, he spends the first twenty-nine chapters saying, Losers! He does he he's like I I I told you repent come back to me come back to me you sinned again and again and again 29 chapters, and it gets to chapter 30, and God says, But I'm going to be gentle to you. I'm going to be kind to you. I'm going to make you return to me. And the verse that the author wants to draw us to Oh we got time. Turn to Jeremiah 30. Let's not hurry through this. It is a rich treasure. Let's see who God is Here's the people of Israel. Right? Verse 12. For thus says the Lord, your hurt is incurable, and your wound is grievous. There is none to uphold your cause, no medicine for your wound, no healing for you. All your lovers have forgotten you. They care nothing for you. That's the people of Israel. And then he goes down on if we jump forward a little bit Verse 18. Thus says the Lord Behold, I will restore the tent fortunes of the tents of Jacob, and have compassion on his dwellings. The city shall be rebuilt on its mound, and the place, the palace, shall stand where it used to be. Out of them shall come songs of thanksgiving. What do they oh verse twenty-two? And you shall be my people, and I will be your God. Behold, the storm of the Lord, the wrath has gone forth, a whirling tempest, it will burst upon the head of the wicked. The fierce anger of the Lord will not turn back until he has executed and accomplished the intentions of his mind. In the latter days you will understand this. Go forward to 31. At that time declares the Lord, I will be the God of all the clans of Israel, and they shall be my people. Thus says the Lord, the people who survived the sword found grace in the wilderness when Israel sought for rest. The Lord appeared to him from far away. I have loved you with an everlasting love. Therefore I have continued my faithfulness to you. God had wounded Israel, but had not forgotten his love for Israel or his promise. And the author describes it like this. It i if God has a setting, a trigger His default trigger is towards compassion and loving kindness. You have to God, and we talked about this the last time, God's default is loving kindness. But God's justice will demand that it is Just it punishes. But if you look down here, I'm uh I'm gonna try to discipline myself Because I I this I love this chapter. If you if you jump down you look at verse twenty Is Ephraim my dear son? Ephraim, by the way, is the one tribe that represents Israel. Is Ephraim my dear son? Is he my darling child? These are rhetorical questions. The answer is yes. For as often as I speak against him, I do remember him still. Therefore my heart yearns for him. I will surely have mercy on him, declares the Lord. You know, I asked the question before, do you have a child that drives you crazy? And you might complain about that child of people. You might grumble a little bit. You might think, ah, they make me nuts. But the fact is, what's here? That child is still your dear son. And we might speak against that child, but they're on our hearts all the time. And again I say, how much more God. How much more God that his heart inclines towards the people That make him crazy. This chapter says is titled Yearning Bowels in the book. Anybody remember why it's called yearning bowels? Yes? Your heart is more accurate, like bells. Your innards core. Yeah. Yes. And God here is using anthropomorphism to describe how deeply compassionate he is towards Ephraim. And those who are in Christ are already made right in Christ. And if I can extrapolate from that, that God's vows yearn for Ephraim, think about the comforting place that we are in. The security that Christ places us in. Think about when God sees us, He sees us with the imputed righteousness of Christ. And then he yearns for his son and his adoptive children. And wants us to draw near to him. And that's why in Jeremiah he says, They shall be my people, and I will be their God, because God causes the people of Israel. I think this is a future national, national thing that's going to happen is that God's going to cause the people of Israel, generally speaking, to become a people that seeks after God, truly seeks after God. I don't think we see that now I think Christ dying on the cross and putting his Holy Spirit inside believers is that same thing. To make us a people for God. I think we can go about the process of ignoring our relationship with God and it can grow cold. But the intent here with God is that we would be his people and that he would be our God. I say set aside the things that keep you busy. If you're too busy, evaluate that. There is a stewardship that we're all entrusted with. It's called 24 hours And it's important for us to make sure that we're doing the things that are important. If you remember uh Mary and Martha Martha was busy. And Jesus said, Martha, you're doing busy stuff. But Mary chose what's best. That's perfect. It's important for us to choose what's better. To be about the business of building into our hearts this relationship with God that He has brought us to. Uh and and to repent from the idea that uh that we sometimes ascribe to who God is, but that we that we truly do be in the business of ascribing glory to God. All right, so I've talked a lot. Any questions or thoughts at this point? I wanna um I wanna call us all To spend time reading this coming week, chapters 19 and 20 in the book. Also for homework this week, I want to encourage us all to tell somebody else. About the heart of God this week. I think that'll also help encourage our hearts. Because if you can explain it to somebody else, you've already explained it to yourself. So look for an opportunity this week to say to somebody, can I tell you what I know now about God's heart towards me? Um class is quiet today. I don't know if people are a little on the tired side uh or if I talk too much to get you guys engaged. Um but I know that uh Sometimes these are these can be uh challenging things to think through. So spend some time thinking about these things. And and and considering them. Don't let the busyness of this life distract you from the joy of your maker. Let's close a prayer. Heavenly Father, um, I trust that uh you and your word is sufficient for the I pray Heavenly Father that you would help us to think rightly about who you are, to correct our thoughts about you. To remember, Heavenly Father, that there is nothing that will separate us from your love. It doesn't matter if things are strong. Or tall or deep. There's nothing that can separate us from your love. Thank you, Heavenly Father, that you have a desire for us to be your people For you to be our God. I pray, Heavenly Father, that you would strengthen our hearts, that you would open our eyes more clearly, that we would see you. Not from far away, but we would see you close. That we would understand your heart and that our hearts would hunger and thirst after you. I pray, Heavenly Father, that people wouldn't have to teach us who you are, that we would already know. I pray God that you would grow us in sanctification because we're in your light already I pray, Heavenly Father, that you would help us to be able to say rightly who you are and what you will do based on your revelation. And dear Lord, I thank you for the time that we've had together today. I pray that you would help us to understand truly what your heart is, how your inclination is, and where it goes. In your name we pray. Amen. Alright guys, don't forget the homework this week. Um and I will see you next week. Steve will be teaching next week. And then uh we're we're getting close to the end Of this class.