So I picked a hymn that that has a theme. You all may have detected. It's on the Trinity. And uh as Doug mentioned, I think it's just the way it kind of happened that I I uh I I get grew this week Um the Trinity, I remember years ago um Pastor Leek was going on vacation and he asked me to uh cover for him And uh he said, You'll be teaching on the Trinity. I was like, Ah, that's easy. And uh I remember Kirk's uh one of Kirk's daughters looking at me like, Are you crazy? you know. And uh it is a difficult topic Um, you know, it's just one of those things you can imagine, you know, just trying to put it all together in your head, you know, um And right out of the gate, it's the Lord your God is one And so you think of God as being one and yet you see hence in the Old Testament with the angel of the word, that's a uh what's what's called a a Christophany where you have a um uh citing of someone who's more than an angel, we believe that he was that that that character was pre incarnate Christ. And yet um there's also, you know, right there in creation, you see all all the members of the Trinity, you know, the uh the the the sphere of the Lord, you know, brooding above the water and um it's um It it certainly we get a lot more clear, crystal clear revelation about the Trinity in the New Testament, but um it's something that it it can be mysterious. And um one thing I would say about the Trinity as well, you know, if any of you took the time to watch the uh the video clip that I sent out, um it's It's pretty clear any time we try to explain the Trinity in ways that the human mind can understand, we get lost pretty quickly. You know, the uh the the one that people often like to say You know, you have water. You know, it it can be when it gets really cold it turns to ice. Or when you boil it it turns to steam. Or when you drink a glass of its liquid. And yet it's all water What's the problem with that? It's that it can never really be all those things at at once. And a lot of times when we try to explain something as mysterious as the Trinity, we get into heresy pretty quickly. So But before I get into my notes, if um there was there anything in particular about the chapter on the Holy Spirit and the Father that you found particularly interesting? So that was, see if I got my numbers right. Was that chapter 13 and 14? But in any case, anybody have anything that they'd like to share that they found helpful? Yes. Um there's a real practical nugget in there for me who um I have three kids going off to college again this year. Yep. And that's difficult for me because Um, you know, it's hard as a mom to let to see your kids go and especially kill them in Cal uh California. But the whole um the piece about where he was saying that the Holy Spirit But when G when Jesus left the earth there was sorrow in with his disciples. But he said I have to leave in order for the uh comforter to come. That was his plan And I have that comforter. And I just wonder how many times I don't rely on or I don't I mean or him. I I don't think so much about the Holy Spirit as I do maybe Right. Myself or Jesus or God. Sure. Sure. Oh that's really good. Anybody else? Well I on the chapter on the the Father, um There's a sin. It says theirs, so you know, the the the Father and the Lord and the Spirit. There theirs is the heart of redeeming love, not compromising justice and wrath, but with satisfying justice. Mm-hmm. I thought that was an interesting way of putting you know, justice and wrath as as a chapter quote where we were thinking of the Father, you know, wearing out his his wrath, the Son on the cross as he wore our sin. But beautifully satisfying I like that picture of its you know it's it's in his mercy that he satisfied his wrath. I I think the other thing as you're mentioning, Greg, just in terms of the father, I think a lot of times we do think, you know, of when we sin, there's a sin debt that has to be dealt with. And it has you know, there's this wrath that the Father has against sin, you know, if if someone doesn't you know, have the um the Um I guess they haven't become believers and had the penalty for their sin atone for, or as we learn the Greek word, propitiated, satisfied that God's wrath will be poured out on them. And what and yet what happened on the cross, the Father's wrath was poured out on the Son And, you know, you see that tension as Jesus is approaching the cross. He he doesn't want to go through it in his humanity. It's the last thing he wants, but he knows it has to be done. And what you see is Jesus says, I always do the will of the Father. Whatever it is that he wants me to do, that's what I'm going to do. And so you see, again, as we talked about last week and really this whole book we've talked so far about the sun, we learned a lot about the sun, you know, that He has in his humanity he has feelings about, you know, this is a very difficult thing. I don't want to go through this, but not my will, but what your will will be done That that's um oh, so then I guess before I get off the point, um I think it's one of those things as you mentioned in the book, a lot of times we think of The father, he's angry, he has this wrath, and his son kinda comes along and he goes, Oh, you know, father, you know, I I died for them. I You know, but you you sense that that God, the Father, is just got this wrath that has to be satisfied, but you don't think of it as it was all part of his plan, you know, to to provide salvation for us. It was all part of his plan to provide, you know, salvation for all of us and lo he loves us in very much the same way that that Jesus does. And so I think that's what the his helpfulness it kind of gives us And then decide this is perhaps something that we may never have thought of or maybe we thought incorrectly things about God. So but um starting off with the spirit Um I I I'd say in in general the in the Trinity it's important to think of you know we think of the Trinity as being one being, God, but in three persons Okay, so that's a lot a lot of times when you talk to people about the Trinity they say, well that's that's a contradiction. You know, you can't have one God and then three gods. And it's like, well I never said there were three gods You know, but but again, you know we try to wrap our minds around it, you know, it it it becomes very difficult. But one thing you'll notice within the Trinity is there's this hierarchy of submission. As I mentioned, Jesus said I always do what the father has asked me to do. I, you know, always obey him. And and you kinda get the impression that perhaps there's this maybe hierarchy of greatness. You know, the Father's the greatest and the Son and then somewhere down the road is is the Holy Spirit. But what we learn is this is not true, this is they're all coequal members of of the Godhead, and yet there is this submission that's that's voluntary, you know, the the Sun always does with the Father. Yes. The Holy Spirit is always promoting Jesus and the Father. It's just something that that is is mysterious and yet it's it's what's taught in Scripture. So But first we'll talk about the chapter on the Holy Spirit. There's a lot of things that are misunderstood about the Spirit. uh I'd say right out of the gate, the um the idea that he is a person. A lot of times people have the temptation to refer to the spirit in terms of You know, the spirit, it blessed me, it did this, it and it's like, why are you using the word it? And uh you know, I think a lot of times people have that misunderstanding, the idea that that he is a person. He and how do how do we know that? How do we know that the the Holy Spirit is a person? What what would be one one scripture that that might be a a a good way to explain that? Yes. Yes, that was one I had in mind as well. You can't grieve a force or you can't grieve, you know, some energy. You know, it's he's he has personal characteristics And we'll learn uh a a bit about his ministries and you'll see, yeah, absolutely, you know, he is uh a uh a person of the of the Trinity. Um let's see. And a lot of times, you know, you uh you might see as you're driving down the road, you know, a church And it's you know, the Holy Spirit tabernacle of the Blessed Spirit, you know, uh but you know, I mean like seems like they're they're really uh focusing on the on the Holy Spirit. Um, okay, that was an alarm. I but I'm actually flying tomorrow and my sister-in-law is gonna try to check me in so we don't wind up in the in the uh cargo hold Um but uh she tells me she can, I'll just need to take a minute to check in. So that's what that alarm was. Hopefully I didn't it it looks like I'm snoozing, so let's not do that. Otherwise it'll be going off in so many minutes. In any case, so um let's see. Steve Yes sir. One of the quotes I really liked in that first chapter, which I think fits with what you were talking about, is the the very end of the chapter. Rick says the Spirit's role in summary is to turn our postcard aprehens, which I always thought that word there should be Appreciation but whatever. Drink in hand, join the actual experience. The spirit does this decisively once and for all. every generation, but he does it ten thousand ten thousand times thereafter, as we continue through sin, folly, or boredom, to drift from the felt felt experience of his heart. And I I think that gets into what you were talking about inside the Trinity, kind of purpose and role and stuff like that. That this the Holy Spirit exists to It shows Christ. Mm-hmm. And his his role in there is you said glorify both Christ and And I think that that's just a real you can see a postcard of Yosemite or you can actually go there and climb the rocks that are out there. Very good. Appreciate that. Um yeah, I I think the uh the the verse that that um the author has picked out, you know, in terms of I will ask the father and he will give you another helper. There's a a little bit of help in the uh the Greek well first of all, um I I I I I like to listen to R. C. Sprohl and he says he always likes to trick his seminarians by by asking them who the who the Paraclete is. You know, the the the uh the the word means you know, someone who's called alongside to help, the helper, the comforter, who do we immediately think of? We think of the spirit. And yet the first paraclete that we see, um, just in terms of the chronology, is is Jesus himself. In in in uh first John to one, as we learn uh from from Pastor Mike, um the word advocate is is that word, paracles. And um so uh that's uh you know it's it it it's uh it's helpful to see, you know, when Jesus says that I'm going to be leaving you, and yet There's another helper. That word helper is advocate. Same word that's translated advocate elsewhere, but it's the idea that he's one who's going to come alongside and help And can you imagine as a disciple following Jesus three years and he says, I'm going to be leaving? And it's good for you that I'm leaving. And they're probably going, Oh no, it's not. You know, but but and and can you imagine, you know, just how they felt. It's like you're the guy that we've been following. We were hoping you were going to set up the kingdom And here you're saying you're leaving and it's good for us? You know, that uh that must have come as quite a shock. And yet what does he tell us about the the Holy Spirit there? He says I'm going to be sending another, that's an interesting word, just that word alone, alas, it means another of the same kind. It's not just, I'm going to send this other guy. I'm going to send somebody who's just like me. And he's gonna come and he's going to help you. And so that's another interesting thought. I'd like to hear what you all think about this. In the Old Testament we see the Holy Spirit came upon you know Saul uh uh I'm thinking of Samson, you know, the You see somebody who to suddenly the spirit came upon him and he did all these unbelievable things. Or you see, you know, it talks about the spirit coming upon somebody mightily Um so what's different between the Old Testament and the New Testament in terms of how the Spirit interacted with people? Yes. In the Old Testament the Holy Spirit came upon them at certain time when the new test for the Holy Spirit permanently look at five of us. That's right. That's right. Yep. Um so I may mention at some point My uh my parents were Pentecostal, well we were raised Catholic and then they became Pentecostal and uh it's kind of an odd journey. But in any case at some point my dad said to me you know, that I didn't have the Holy Spirit. You know, it's like I made a a profession of faith. I told him I was a believer, I was going to, you know, something, you know, non-denominational but probably closest to Baptist And he told me I didn't have the Holy Spirit. And I pointed them to the verse that says, If you don't have the Holy Spirit, you're none of his. The Holy Spirit comes and lives in us. And um so let's talk briefly about some of the uh the ministries of the Holy Spirit that we read in this chapter. Um so we see that he's involved in regenerating us. We see that in John 3. We see that he's involved in convicting us of sin. When you do something that is simple. You you know, y it's not just suddenly you recognize, oh, I've done something wrong. You just feel this heaviness of the the the wrongness of what you've done and hopefully we take that to you know, making correction, whether it's asking forgiveness or reconciliation. Um but that's another thing that he does for us. He empowers us with gifts. I'll just talk very briefly because this could go on for quite a while. But what um what would you say as far as spiritual gifts? Um give me some examples. What are some examples of spiritual gifts? Yep. Do you mean more of the uh outward ones such as like uh well I I'll I'll say one that's a change in my life, like forgiveness. Like before I was terrible at forgiving, but afterwards he's given me that change Okay. I'm wondering if maybe you're talking about um something more alone like the fruits of the spirit, which is another another great thing, but I'm more talking about where the gifts of the Holy Spirit are named, whether somebody has a give a couple examples, gift of teaching, the gift of administration. Those are things it's kind of mysterious, you know, it's like is sometimes people, you know, even from you know a four-year-old, they're out there and they're running their uh lemonade stand, they got a you know spreadsheet, you know, talking about profits and losses Oh, they clearly they are gonna be an administrator if they ever become a believer. You know, perhaps, you know, it it it's a bit of a mystery and yet, you know, a lot of times when somebody becomes a believer, you see they have this this new ability and maybe it's something never had before, or maybe it fits in right in with their personality, but but the the uh the gifts are given for what purpose? Let me ask it that way Absolutely. That's right. We are given gifts, not so that we, you know, like if you have the gift of teaching so that you get up to oh wow, that guy's amazing. He really uh can turn a phrase. You know, it's it's not that at all. It is for, as you say, edification. And in a lot of ways Paul talks about the gifts and he's saying the the gifts that are behind the scenes, the gifts that, you know, the serving, the you know, the the mercy gifts are are more necessary, you know, because they help us all in terms of mutual edification, the word that you use, building each other up. And so it's something that is used perhaps in the in the course of your ministry. So that's that's something that that the Holy Spirit um will do for us. And it's a it's a one time thing. You know, a lot of times you feel like, Oh, I wish I had this gift or or that gift, and yet God knows what what gifts we need and that that will fit with our personality and helps the church all work together um so that that um Good. All all are are edified, so. Um let's see. He he testifies in our hearts that we are God's children. He leads us, he makes us fruitful, as I mentioned, fruits of the Spirit found in Galatians 5. He grants and nurtures in us resurrection life. Enables us to kill sin. He intercedes for us when we don't know what to pray. A lot of times when people try to convince you that you uh you know that that tongues over today it talks about the spirit groaning and they go, oh that's what that is and it's like but yeah this the spirit that's interceding and groaning and and all these sorts of things He guides us into truth, transforms us into the image of Christ. And he says he'd like to add one more to the lessons from the chapter. He says the Spirit causes us to actually feel Christ's heart for us. So, let's see. Okay, so uh from that chapter, John 14, 16 to 17, I will ask the Father, and he will give you another helper as I mentioned, another of the same kind, to be with you forever. Even the spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it does it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be with you. Okay, so let's see. Trying to figure out what I've already I've talked about a lot of things and trying to figure out what's I haven't covered yet. So Okay, this was uh This is from the uh Thomas Goodwin book on the heart of Christ. It says the Spirit makes the heart of Christ real to us, not just heard, but seen. Not just seen but felt, not just felt, but enjoyed. If the Spirit takes what we n what we read in the Bible and believe on paper about Jesus' heart and moves it from theory to reality, from doctrine to experience It is one thing as a child to be told that your father loves you. You believe him. You take him at his word, but it is another thing. Unutterably more real, to be swept up into his embrace, to feel his warmth, to hear his beating heart within his chest, to instantly know the protective grip of his arms. It's one thing to hear he loves you. It's another thing to feel his love. This is the glorious work of the Spirit. So let's see. Yeah, I feel like I covered all these things. So we will move on to Chapter fourteen, the Father of Mercies. I always think about, you know, the disciples following Jesus around. And every once in a while one of them works up the courage to ask a question. In this case, poor Philip, you know, he uh he thinks he's got a really good question sight Show us the Father And uh and Jesus just you know, just can't believe he uttered that question And and yet, you know, in a lot of ways I feel like Philip. You know, it's kinda like, well, I'll just say when it comes to the father, I I used to work with this guy who Um he was a strand of Pran Pentecostal, which is my parents, but they they um were they they described himself as holiness or oneness. Anybody ever heard of any of those things Okay, in that particular denomination, they do not believe that there's a Trinity They believe that that Jesus they they describe themselves as Jesus only. They believe that Jesus is the Father, Jesus is the Holy Spirit. It's just all one. And I pointed out, as I mentioned last week, the passage where Jesus says, No one knows the day or hour of my return. Even I don't know. It's like he'd never seen that before. He could not believe that was in the Bible. And uh like, oh I found a good verse. But uh in any case, um but in a lot of ways You know, they go to passages like that. It's like, if you've seen me, you've seen the Father. And was Jesus speaking in literal terms at that point? I think, you know, a lot of times you just kinda have to read between the lines or, you know, kind of as he qualifies it at the end. And um It's uh you know, I I would have thought also, you know, the idea where Jesus is being baptized and there's his voice coming from heaven, that would have been an indication that he wasn't, you know doing some kind of ventriloquism or something. Um but uh anyway. But the interesting thing about that is said the early church councils, they had a lot of discussion about these kind of things, and they a lot of times would get these heresies going and they would have to address them. A lot of times that's why they would they would have called the church councils to discuss you know some of these heresies that were cropping up And they would make very clear and definitive statements. This is true, this is not true. And um so you see And a lot of times we get kind of dazzled by the words, you know, in the Nicene Creed or Chalcedonian definition, all these big words, but it was important enough to them to say, this is true and this is not true. And a lot of times that would settle it. And then time would go by and it would start to crop up again. And um if you've ever uh this is very pretty common, at least in my neighborhood You get a a knock at the door or ring of the doorbell, you go there and and you're looking at them going, I'm batten they're Jehovah's Witnesses. And more often than not they are and uh you know, they start telling you about how this this wonderful kingdom coming. And a lot of times it's like I I would like to you know convey truth to them and I know the our biggest issue, you know, we might agree about this and that, you know, moral issues, things of that nature, but I always kind of direct them to How do you view Christ? Do you do you do you believe that he is God? And they're like, no. You know, they believe he's Michael the Archangel. You know, and a lot of times, you know, they're trying to wing you over to the idea that what we believe isn't really that much different. It's like, well, at the foundation, at the root, it's completely different And we need to talk about that before essentially you're wasting too much of my time. You know, you can go torture my other neighbors. But one day uh Lois and I were talking to a a couple and The lady was like, Oh, you believe in that Trinity? And uh, you know, and and she was just making fun of the whole concept of the Trinity. And I felt like say because we live on a street with an enormous Catholic church, as like, yeah, try this, you know, concept with any of my neighbors, you know, and you may trick 'em into thinking, you know, we all believe similar things, but Yeah. Anyway, um but they believe Jesus is a creative being. They believe the very similar I mean as far as the Holy Spirit, they believe he's some kind of force And not not a personality. And um so yeah, a lot of times what what people believe about the Trinity is It i it it can be an issue. That's why it's called a heresy. It can be an issue which would define whether they are true believers or not. And um Yeah, sometimes people when they first become a believer they're confused about a number of things, but when you take the scripture and you show it to 'em, you know, if they are true believers, they'll be like, Oh, I was wrong about that, you know. But uh people that you know it it that's their whole thing, you know, is is you know, their their doctrines are so far off that it's kind of built into what they believe. Okay. Anybody have any uh fun experience with Jehovah's Witnesses or ever had them come to your door? Yeah, I actually have a you know some couple of young Mormon ladies actually approach me. So it's what it is. Yep. And you mentioned Mormons. That's another one I we had a c a co worker that we were working with and it's like He didn't know that I knew a lot of what they believed and was able to interact. And they just kinda act like, well, you know, clearly what I believe is true and then you try to support it with scripture and You know, it's kinda like, oh, okay. But you don't run in in the at least in my experience, you don't run into quite as many Mormons out here as you do Jehovah's Witnesses. Um at least the ones that come to ring um ring my doorbell so uh so so how do you respond to the first NSC? Okay. Um Jesus is on another. Jesus is his God. God knows all things, present and future. How come he doesn't know future? Yeah, that's when it gets a bit mysterious. I always love when memory comes to classy. It's a great question. Um So we talked about this event last week. Um it's the idea of Jesus being one hundred percent human And one hundred percent God. It wasn't like a blend of those two. It was both at the same time. And um Well we what we would say is in Jesus' human nature, he didn't want to go to the to the cross. In Jesus' human nature he didn't know for a time he gave up all his divine, you know, knowledge. I he he often displayed omniscience though, didn't he? You know, a lot of times he would talk about you know Nathaniel being under the tree and and it was clear to people that how did he know that? And yet he didn't have the full didn't seem like he had the full access to all his omniscience. And in this particular case there's a an indication that that that knowledge in his humanity he didn't have access to, but obviously he's still in his humanity at the right hand of the Father and does know the day of his return. at the time, you know, his point. And it's kind of funny. You would think if somebody saw that, they wouldn't be trying to get out their calculator and figure out, I think his day of his return is going to be on this day. You know, it it should have settled that you would think. But Some people they just can't help themselves. So yes, the car. Yeah. Um when people ask me questions like like that, anything from from the bio business. First of all, they're trying to point out a reason not not to believe. Right. That's the first thing. So I I I'm not gonna fall for it for that. Um so probably the most direct route is the simple I don't have a clue about Jesus being God. I cannot explain it to anybody Right. So I don't try to explain it because it's just gonna come off sounding goofy. So I just take them to the Bible. I I don't even use the word Trinity for instance because as far as I know Trinity is not in the Bible. I just take them to the Bible. Here Jesus Jesus said if you see me, you see the Father. You take them to verses like this. like that and then you decide for yourself what you think that means. Because honestly, I mean like like you said earlier, you you try to start finding earthly ways to explain the So I know I can I don't understand it. Right. But I'm not trying to understand it either. I know who I worship and I know what Jesus said. I just go with that. So that's what I will share with people. I would in the in that case I would take this directly to Scope Share. Yep. And and leave it with them. Um because if if they're trying to if they're trying to find God, then they're open. Yep. If they're not, then they've got the defenses up and they're going to come up with question after question, sure. She she she s she kinda wants to know the God is real, but she keeps going back to her objections, you know. And and Sometimes you say, Well you're God and it's not my God anymore. But it's because she's still defensive, she really doesn't want to to believe that he's a child her. So I my answer is I I just Right? Yeah, and I think I think the level of humility, you know, that hopefully we exhibit is sometimes we have to have to say, I don't know. I I know that this passage says And what that shows is, first of all, the humility to say, I don't know everything. Secondly, you're pointing in the passage it shows them that's what my authority is. You know, it's like I I didn't come up with this, believe me. If I was trying to think of, you know, something I wouldn't have thought of a Trinity and yet, you know, the Bible insisted And you know, not in the actual word Trinity, it's just a way that a very good way of explaining what we think is taught in Scripture. Um so very good. Oh book. No, I was just gonna say I don't know your name, but uh Harry. No Anakin. Oh Adam. Okay. So she mentioned about the Um the difference between the Old Testament and the New Testament, the Holy Spirit. There's actually a Bible verse that that tells us that very thing, John fourteen, seventeen, even the spirit of truth who the world can be Because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you current current tense and present tense and will be in you future tense. So there's there's a change that takes place. He's with them, and but in the future he will be in them. And kinda, you know, you think of Psalm fifty-one, David's praying, you know, take not your spirit from me. No, and that's not a prayer that we have to pray because he is in us and believe us. Yeah, very good and it's helpful. Thanks, Greg. Um so I should have uh as we transition to chapter fourteen on the father, I should have asked whether any aspects from that chapter that you all found particularly helpful. Let's see if I can Let me make my way over there. It's titled Father of Mercies. Oh, and then uh uh the it starts off with a quote I enjoyed when uh Pastor Gabe was teaching um in in prior months where it says, What comes into our minds when we think about God is the most important thing about us I I think that's i it's so interesting. You know, it's the idea that you know, what when we come to a correct understanding of God it it it changes us and um you know it's it's the most important thing you can think about. That's why, you know, some people like Oh you know you study theology, you learn all these big words, and yet when we study these things, whether it's from you know big theology book or you know from the Bible, we're training our mind to think correct things about God You know that that fits in with what Philip says too, because when Philip asked the question, I think it's fair to say that it was obvious that Philip wasn't thinking Jesus when he said show us the Father. And you know, here he's been hanging out with him for a couple of years and and he wants to see the Father. And Jesus' answer to him is Don't you know me? Um the stuff I say is not stuff I said on my own industry. I said all the things that the father told me. So it it's interesting from the standpoint of I just picture Jesus as being, you know, five ten, kind of normal looking dude. Um And and you might not go like, oh look, there's a halo. And so when Philip said show us the father he was picturing, I don't know, I would guess like evils Hmm. And that as a teaser for next week. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that was an interesting thought as well. You know, it just talks about, you know, there's other passages that predict the coming of Christ. that he doesn't really have anything about his appearance that it's gonna be like, oh wow, it's him, you know, or something like that. You know, probably is pretty average looking and uh And yet what does people often remark on they were like, Here's a guy who's teaching with authority. You know, it's like I mean a lot of times people kinda get up and they recite something, it's like, oh it's very nice, but you know, it's like he it's like that it had this internal authority as he taught But we to a small extent too, if what Jesus said showed people the Father, if we're speaking God's words like Jesus did, we're showing other people I mean not to not to make ourselves like with God, but the activities that Jesus did that showed the Father are the same kind of active activities or more people. Why do people never have a need to ask that question personal shows? So you're kinda wondering what Dolph was thinking? Yeah. I mean this is this is Jesus. It is I think at some level uh he figured this person that I'm working with all this while is more than just person He he does things that nobody else does. Nobody else. He obviously can trust it. So why did he feel the test? Show us well in the context there in John fourteen, Jesus So why did he think he wanted to survive the sun so it's just saying? No, I I think it's because we're material. We look at material, we really don't look beyond and see the spiritual. I mean even Moses has to see God. Well he saw some Chicano glory in the tail of it, but what did he get? He says um had working in his attributes. We have the that's a it's I think we even with God but I think we need to do that with people. You need to look beyond. Um you know we see the surface thing, but you know, we really get to know 'em, you know, people and people Yeah, and and we forget that, you know. I I would take away the phasab, what do you do, where you work, blah blah blah. You know, but you know, when you get down to the the feelings, the wants, desires, the emotion Oh that's that's that's the thing that we're not seeing. I think that's that's that's something that I can really relate to. Um I I'm not saying the fact that we asked us to uh uh just thinking to myself at some at some point we we we comprehend the oxygen faith. But this often a few minutes ago we're talking about uh routine uh the spirit is with you and will be in you and um so many times we relate a lot of things that the level So the the the that that means we want to concrete what it is that we're thinking about is is often there. I mean I don't know about you guys. When the Bible says that Holy Spirit involves me, I've happened to ask myself, okay how? Um how how is it different? So that question I think at least it's my mind is is not out of left seat. It's it's a question that I think I can relate to what he asked me. And and that Jesus was was helping need to see that you you don't you will you will not be able to apprehend God just because you see something entity. That's why I mean why sir is it's Paul, right? a fundamental output of our faith. That this Christianity we are talking about is a Alpama and Antha with Christ. Okay, can we uh see that you know this very uh civil was one of the fourth disciples, didn't it? And and then with Jesus Christ, for all so long. At the day end of Jesus' ministry, they can see the Jesus Jesus show us. You know that the way most of people we call Christians today live their lives. And that's why Christianity not making effect as ought to in why because those that are oppressing their Christian So that through that question, Jesus can come out This while you have been with me, you are still asking with the father. Haven't you known that whosoever seeks me? And that clears in mind. And that's what should be our own as We are patient also that who is this Jesus and for you? And until then, do you know do you know Jesus in Christ in the uh uh uh somewhere in the uh both of you and Professor Philip. He called the disciples. Now you are my disciples. We have been together so long. Who do you say I am? Yeah. And you know many questions I mean that arose. The only and not the feature that brings the real question out is that you are The Christ. And he now says, and now this Holy Spirit that is crossing and come here. He says, this is your question. I mean this your answer. It's not from flesh and love. That's right. Have I done what and have I believed it. So that I think uh that is a very important and especially aspect of our system like that. The trend and following was lying about Yeah. As they've often said, uh Peter was the uh disciple with the foot-shaped mouth and um he uh if there was ever a thought that was in his mind, it's usually going to be expressed The uh there's an interesting study um John MacArthur did on the Master's Men. It's it's kind of like a uh a study into what we know from Scripture about the different disciples And of course we know the most it was kinda like there was three groups of of four or you know, maybe four groups of three But uh you know, some disciples you hear from a lot and uh there's some disciples we only hear from once or twice. So it would be in that in that camp. But um you bring up when Peter speaks up when he says, Who do men say that I am? Who do you say that I am? He gives a correct answer and is commended for his answer. But what's interesting, you know, he goes on to talk about here's what's coming up soon, you know, that he's going to suffer and die. And then Peter decides to take it upon himself to say, Oh, this will never happen to you, Lord. You know, this and And uh he goes from the pinnacle, you know, he good you know, g good answer to get behind me Satan. You know, it just uh it's quite a uh a change of of position there, you know, to uh it because to get something so right and then to get something so wrong and uh and yet you know we see that was those were the people that Jesus chose to be with him all the all the time that he was on earth. So those those people are us. Yeah. Yeah um you know I I'm I'm reminded of you know Jesus compares us to sheep Mm-hmm. You know, so I I doubt seriously that that Jesus expected the most intellectual questions from the people he was around even though sometimes he responded in a surprise way but at the same time he probably expected because he knows who we are and we're no different today. Which is why we have to come together because we're so dumb. We need to be reminded, week after week, what we're supposed to do, you know, how we're supposed to respond to one another, how we're supposed to be loving. we we if we were smart, we could just disperse and just go, you know, spread it to up the the whole the whole world. But we're just not that smart. And I I count myself in in there. I'm I'm not smart in that way. I need to be reminded And and that's why he established the church. So we're gonna come up with dumb questions all the time. But for Jesus really there is no dumb questions he'll answer Yeah. Yep, yes, right. So sometimes it's just all about landing feeds, mm-hmm, opening the door, some chests, no pressure. Want you to leave it. It's just I had some before I moved here, um we used to get a lot of warming And this the man was very gentle and had a lot he wanted to tell me I was like, Well where do you go to church? Thank you. And so I got this church and what we And by the time we were done, accept it an extra Bible guide. And you know hopefully within the church in the state was open and we think that they get trained too. I guess this is gonna catch them up, but I just the words button just to crazy or something. I didn't get real deep or anything, but just Yeah, I think what what you're saying I think is is helpful the idea of planting seeds is take opportunities as we have them. I mean a lot of times You know, we might feel, oh, I should say such and such and say, Well, why don't you? And when you're talking to someone, I think the best thing you can do is to ask questions You know, a lot of times, you know, people they think they need to take their Bible and they need to you know start spitting out a bunch of verses. But when you ask somebody a question you're showing you're interested in them and what they think and um you know a lot of times Their answer this will give you kind of an opportunity to say, okay, well you said this, but you know, maybe we can talk about something that you just told me, you know, so that's very good. Um before I have my head closed. Who's does that change license? What can I do? What are my limits and proveres in the church of Christ so forth? Thanks for sharing that. Sure. Um so there were um so uh from this chapter. In the notes there's um just a few verses says the father and son were united in purpose from eternity past in terms of the um they understood, you know, what was going to happen. They planned out the whole plan of salvation and they w that was both their intent to to provide salvation. If we look at Ephesians 1, 3, and 4, it says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing. in the heavenly places, even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him in love. And second Corinthians one three lets us know that God is the Father of mercies. So that's that's kind of a uh built in description, you know, the uh uh a lot of times in the Old Testament uh the Psalms talks about God's loving kindness and you know it's just it's just built into you know that he yes he has a wrathful response to sin And yet he is merciful and um you know so that that's why salvation was provided James five eleven. We count those blessed who endured. You have heard of the endurance of Job and have seen the outcome of the Lord's dealings, that the Lord is full of compassion and is merciful. Let's see. So last week, oh this was uh this was also I thought helpful. Last week we talked about Jesus' emotion and his humanity. His compassion for us is described in the Greek word splunkniso. If I don't get the pronunciation right, but please please forgive that. Um So the word splunknizo is often rendered as to have compassion, but the word denotes more than just passing pity. It refers to a depth of feeling in which your feelings and longings churn within you. The noun form of this verb means most literally one's guts or intention intestines. So it's uh it's more than just kind of uh, oh I feel bad about this. It it's something that that goes to your very inner being. So the heart of the Father and the Son are the same. John 5. 19, Jesus says, Truly, truly I say to you, the Son can do nothing of his own accord. But only what he sees the Father doing. For whatever the Father does, that the Son does likewise. Okay, let's see. Hebrews 1:3, he is the radiance of the glory of God, and the exact imprint of his nature is speaking of Christ. And he upholds the universe by the word of his power. After making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on High. So I feel like I'm finishing it up early today. Does anybody have any other thoughts about this or or perhaps any questions? I w I would then just just kinda think you're backing off what everyone's saying, like witnessing and everything. A lot of times like I uh kinda like what they were saying, you were kinda saying they have objections, like your neighbor, just bring up objections that really don't relate to the truth. I've found like they'll do a lot of intellectual smoke screens where they'll be like, Why do you use the Bible say that? I'm not saying this rudely. I don't know if intellect you know the intellectual arguments are the real reason they're rejecting it. It's they've Again, not being rude, they believe that we're birthed from apes, some of them. So it's not like is this really an intellectual thing? Or is this more like a conscious thing? And I usually always find it to be more conscious-based. So I want to actually discuss it or go into the gospel with them. You figure out it's usually more of that conscience based than it is so much intellectual. Not saying of course we don't need apologetics, we absolutely do. But you definitely get to the root of the cause of sinners. We sinned against God and just the simplicity of the gospel. Not leaving all the complexities of the Trinity in this. Those are all important to answer, but most importantly that conscience. Why are you rejecting God? Why are you going against it? That stress like especially my winter saying when I got been saying it. I feel like we waste sometimes time by being like no we don't come age from The problem is in they're not going against you because it interacts. It's usually Not all the time, but usually more conscious, at least what I found out. And I would say I would argue what the Bible says is what they're usually going against the darkness, doesn't want to see the light And it's not because of the eight thing so much. Yeah. Yeah, I think a lot of times when you're asked questions, you think to yourself, where is this coming from? Exactly. Yeah, is this is this a genuine objection or is this just a I'm gonna keep throwing questions at you and I I don't think you have the answer. Oh, I guess you answered that one, but I got another one here for you. It just keeps coming out. But um one thing I I would say in terms of the Father, you know, Jesus, he uh he had his most stern interactions with the Pharisees. You know, these were the uh the spiritual elite You know, we see uh Nicodemus comes who was a member of the Pharisees, and yet, you know, it's clear he has genuine questions for Jesus and he he comes to him secretly. But generally speaking, the Pharisees were trying to trap him and you know they were perceived by the general populace as the spiritual elite, you know, these people, they really know their Bible. Which they certainly knew the Bible, but their intent was to trap him, to trip him up, and what did he say to them in terms of You know, he's he's kind of drawing a distinction between his father and their father. And what did he who who did he say was their father? Right. That probably wasn't the most sensitive thing he does, but but it was accurate. Yeah, and then so you think, you know, getting back to last week with the whole emotional thing, it's kinda like that was he just holding it to him straight. You know, he was like What motivates you? Your father is not the same as my father, and yeah, hard to hear, I'm sure, but um but it needed to be said. So yes, Henry? So um I I think of uh Many of the comments that I've heard here are are really true that a lot of time questions are going to be some significant they don't really want to send this Right. And that is true. And I will have to I will also say that in my own experience, uh when I approach people who are not believable in the gospel, their questions have been rather, you know, trivial if you will. They're not really uh you know seriously. The more serious questions that I've heard are amongst believers, people who actually already believe. In fact, in my own experience, I've had more questions after I became a believer than when I was another believe. So the problem then so in my mind there is often the tension that okay um I don't want to spend all of my mental energies constantly I can't answer all of the Bible does not speak directly. However, the Bible also tells us that We we that we should sanctify Christ in our heart, always being ready to make a defense uh to anyone that asks for us about the whole body within us, which does mean uh being as equipped as possible, yeah. So that when those questions do come up, if they're genuine, you you might have an answer Uh it is true that there will be tons of questions that we will never have answered. And trusting God to do what only he can do is This is the best thing to do. And again, they may not. Um I I think that it's important to think about how our hearts what what the impact of these chapters should be on our lives. the how do we want to think or live based on the things that they usually brought to the And I think that otherwise we don't wanna we don't wanna be like folks that look in a mirror and forget what we look like. Um and when I think back to the the thing you talked today about the spirit bits and how And And and it gets back to the whole place where the quote started that you from Tozer, which is knowing who God is is important. And so it's important for us to hold tightly on to what God reveals to us is who he is and and to shed the ideas that our our flesh brings to us the wrong ideas about who God is. And knowing these things about God is to be like Christ in image. So if God is tender and lowly, if God is is merciful, the Father of mercies and compassionate, and is one who brings Comfort, then we also in everything that we do need to not only lean into him but then strive to reflect that back to other people around us. around us and to be loving in a way that is beyond what we've ever thought of before. Uh to be patient with people in ways that we've never been before Um and and to do that based on the strength that God supplies. Um and and It's something that me personally I look at and I set kind of like these daily goals to do something and by the end of the day I look back and I go, Yeah, it looks like about five minutes after I set that goal I was on to the next thing And then pick up and keep going the next day to strive to do those things better. Um, you know, yesterday yeah, anyway, that's it. Uh that was that was definitely a good mention, you know, I just uh I think it's important to, you know, from what we learned from these chapters, you know, as you're saying, you know, that the father and and the spirit is is called an another helper, another another one who's called aside to to help us. And you know Jesus was reassuring his disciples that as he was leaving, it's like I'm not leaving you here alone. I'm sending another comforter another helper and um to recognize that and then to recognize that that the father, you know, that he um desires for us to come to him, you know, when we're at our lowest, when we when we need, you know, mercy, which is what he provides. And um to think of him in that way, you know, to I think of um My favorite M M can it be as the passage, Bold I approach the eternal throne. Um so that tells us is it because we're you know, in a high standing that we can boldly approach? No. It's it's you know when we are at our lowest, he graciously offers us that access and we should with that knowledge, because of what he's done, boldly approach C Alright, well I'm going to close this in prayer. Father, we are thankful for this time of discussion. Thankful for your word. Thankful for this book that's given us um some time to discuss some very important things, hopefully things that reinforce or or or perhaps are new to us. And we're thankful for this day of worship you've given us. Thankful for Pastor Mike as he brings the word to us. Just pray we would look for opportunities to be an encouragement to each other. And we pray all these things your name. Amen.