Okay, get a copy of the book, come to class on time, and pray for the class. The author is trying to help us to understand that this is a class about Christ and teaches each week based on some passage of scripture and along some of the lines of the wisdom from Puritan uh writers in the past. Uh the book that we're going over is called Gentle and Lowly. It's by Dane Ortland. Get yourself a digital copy or a hard copy. It's your pick and your preference. We will be doing two chapters a week. Alright, so let's go on. We will be ending the class. My goal, I'm sorry, our goal will be to end the class promptly at 10. 45. Yeah, promptly. And it's easy. At some point we're going to be like, let's pray and close. And the goal has been each week to allow ourselves to have opportunity to share prayer requests. There's a lot of material. Um and if you guys want oh oh this is a relatively small class. If there's something, a question or something that you really want us to go through, we can do that. So if there's an aspect of this book or this class or something that you're like, I just didn't get that. Can we spend some more time doing that? And we will uh we'll tailor the class as needed. Um I've already said this, uh I I didn't read this, but this is what the introduction says This is a book written for the discouraged, the frustrated, the weary, the disenchanted, the cynical, the empty, those running on fumes, those whose Christian lives feel like constantly running up a descending escalator. Those of us who God who find ourselves thinking, how could I mess up that bad again? It's for that increasing suspicion that God's patience with us is wearing thin For those of us who know God loves us, but suspect we have deeply disappointed him, who have told others of the love of Christ, yet wonder if, as for us, he harbors mild resentment. Who wonder if we have shipwrecked our lives beyond what can be repaired, who are convinced we permanently diminished our usefulness to the Lord, who have been swept off our feet by perplexing pain and are wondering how we can keep living under such numbing darkness. Who look at our lives and know how to interpret the data only by concluding that God is fundamentally stingy. Yes, I substituted stingy for the word parsim parsimonious. Um and I'm repeating myself. Uh in the beginning the dedication there's a quote there from Mr. Light. It says Father like he tends and spares us, well our feeble frame he knows, in his hand he gently bears us, rescues us from all our foes. And that rhymes because it's from a hymn. Mr. Light was a is it was a hymn writer. Um so we're gonna be in this book, we're gonna be focusing on on Christ and who he is, but we're gonna be focusing in on his gentleness His love, his kindness towards us who are his elect. And one of the things I just want to mention as we start, as we think about and we deal with the attributes of God Um let me stop. Raise your hand if you can name an attribute of God. Yes? Patrice? All knowing. Okay, yes. Omnipotent, yes? Holy. God is holy, yes? Holy. Yes. God's sovereign. Oh your hand's halfway up. Yes, Jen. Yes. Remind me your name again. Sharnay. Sharnay. Sharnae? Okay, Sharnae, thank you. Yes? Yes, Larry? Okay, now as you think about the attributes of God, we can focus in on any one of these attributes. We can think of God as being holy and merciful. uh all knowing and stuff like that. And we can think, well, God's this way and God's that way and God this way and God is loving and stuff like that And that's kind of how we are, because some days I'm kind of loving, and other days I'm not so loving, right? And then I'm uh I I might be a little bit smarter, I might have a little more wisdom some days. And And stuff like that. There's there's uh there's a fancy word called incommunicable attributes of God where we can kind of reflect God But in this aspect, we don't reflect God. He has all of these attributes all the time. Because this gets into the concept of his perfection. And when you think about God being all-knowing and holy, he's both of those things perfectly and 100%. When we talk about God being loving, he's perfectly 100% loving and 100% just And so all of those attributes are going on all at the same time. And it's something that a little bit boggles our mind because it's easy for us to think, oh, I know what it means to be loving. And we tend to put us in our picture of who God is. And we lose sight of the fact that this is a mind-blowing, infinite, homongously loving. God and all the other attributes all the time. So as we focus in here on God's love and tenderness towards us. We can't lose track of those other things. He exists in all those other things all the time But we can't think about 'em at all the time. So it's that when we do this class, we're going to be thinking about God's tenderness and love, not to the exclusion of those things. We will make reference to his justice at the same time. We'll we'll make reference to these other things. But the focus that we're going to have in this class for us is going to be on his love and tenderness. And I just want to kind of put that in in as as an aside at the start as we think about And as we go through this book, the author is going to focus in, and we are as well, we're going to focus in on these attributes around here. Uh not to diminish the others and all the excellencies of who God is. But we in our flesh tend to be rule followers. Do you remember the rich young ruler? He came to Jesus and he said, What must I do to inherit eternal life? What must I do? Give me a list. I'll go, I'll do that list. If I have to count all the rocks on this beach, I'll count all the rocks on this beach, and I will inherit inherit eternal life. Yay, right? I I think in some ways he was like, yes, give me a heroic task. But that's not who God is. And that's not the way he acts. And it's also not possible. And so God, being a loving and tender and kind Heavenly Father Sorry, I'm starting to talk about the Trinity here. Um says to us, Come here, I'm gonna take care of you. And we're gonna be thinking about that, not the rules. Okay. Uh homework for this week. If you don't have a copy of the book, get a copy of the book. Read the introduction in chapters one and two. Look for one or two ideas that you want to hold on to from these chapters. Take some time to pray about that this week. Chapter one really forms a framework for the whole book as we get into um Matthew eleven. Uh I want to jump real quick To John chapter seven. Can you open your Bibles to John chapter seven? If you look down at verse thirty seven It says, Now in the last day, the great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried out, saying If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink. He who believes in me, as the Scripture said, from his innermost being, will flow rivers of living water. Uh you think about what Pastor Gabe just taught about John chapter four and his interaction with the woman at the well and where he says, I have water that you don't know about. I have life where he proclaims himself to her as seeing Christ. And then intersect with this right here, this verse, I feel like, takes some of the things that Gabe was teaching about in chapter 4 of John And the ideas that we have in Matthew and some of the things that we're going to be looking at this quarter. And we see here the invitation, if anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink. And this is something that I think we're going to see this quarter as we go through this text, as we go through these scriptures, is that God is inviting us to come to him. You see this, I think this concept is throughout Scripture. When you think about that Scripture from the start to the finish, God makes a garden and puts Adam and then brings Eve into that garden and says, here. And they walk together. They interacted together. They fellowship together under the one rule, which is to not eat from that tree And the one rule brought separation, and you see that separation built into the tabernacle and built into the temple, all the way up until the day when Christ died on a cross, and that separation is removed. But you see it in the prophets. You see it in the interaction that God has, right? God comes to Abram and he says, I'm going to give you descendants, I'm going to give you a land, I'm going to give you a blessing. He believes and God counts it to him as righteous. And from that moment, Abraham is on this journey to start a nation that's going to draw near and be a light to the nations. To draw near to God. So much so that when Moses comes along, God says to him, Here's a temple, here's a tabernacle, build me one of those, and I'll be in your midst. Here's your sacrifices, I'm going to be your God. And you will be my people. And so there there comes to this place where we can we, people in general, can again start to draw near to God. And there's just a few rules And immediately people rebel against those rules. And God's like, I'm Moses, I'm going to start over with you, right? And Moses intercedes on behalf of the people And we see God, and we'll talk about this later, but we see God return. And then they get to the land, right? And and they get into the land and God leads them across the Jordan River And this first generation serves the Lord and they rebel again. And they rebel and then along comes David. And God says, here's a man after my heart. And you got, when you see that statement, you see somebody who is dedicated to drawing near to God. with all his faults, dedicated to drawing near to God, and God says that's where my king and my priest is going to be to come from. And then the prophets come and again and again the prophets tell the people of Israel, return to me. Return to me. Return to me. And God's like, okay, you read the book of Jeremiah and he says, I'm going to give you a heart of flesh. It's almost like God says, We have a problem here. I'm going to take your heart of stone. I'm going to give you a heart of flesh. And you will be my people, and I will be your God. And nobody's ever going to have to teach somebody again to know the Lord because they will all And so the prophets again say, come back to God, come back to God, come back to God. And Christ comes. And He is the image. And He's there. And again we reject But God still then has a purpose to draw people back to himself. He's sitting above this and seeing all of this going on, knowing who he has elected, who he's chosen Who will be his? And in his kindness and in his tenderness, he takes rebels and stiff-necked people and makes them his And opens the way to draw near to God. And in fact, one of my favorite passages in the book of James is where James says, humble yourselves. Draw near to God and see what happens. Doug's paraphrase. I hope that's that's a a start and a taste of what we're about to go through as we go through this class