We are in chapters one and two of the book, and we're just talking through some of the things uh in the book that we thought were remarkable, and we recognize that it was remarkable that the author points out that this book and especially this verse in Matthew 11, 28 to 30, lets us know about the heart of Christ. And we were just now looking at and speaking to The fact that the yoke that God has for us to take on is light and that burden is easy So the question then that we asked is why? Why is the yoke of Jesus light? He made it. How did Jesus make it for us? He was a carpenter. But I think we're talking about a metaphorical yoke here, not a physical yoke. That's right. Yes. We all he made it for us that we can accomplish his work, his will, his good pleasure. Who who does Jesus invite to carry his yoke? I'm sorry? No, no, literally what does it say there? I think you're right, by the way. But literally, what does it say In the verse, yes. Everyone who is labor and heavy laden. So I gotta ask a question. Um and this is a Yeah, yes. By the way, your answer is right. That was a good summary. To say sinners is a right thing. Because now let's ask the question why Why do we say that as sinners? Let's go back to Genesis chapter 3. Let's remember the curse. What did God curse Adam with? Hard toilet what we're doing. Hard toil. I'd even use the word labor because it fits this passage. Hard labor. Yeah. And that's what that's part of the curse. And the curse came because of sin. And has anybody ever told you that sin is a burden? Jesus invites those who are weary and heavy laden and burdened. In fact, in Hebrews chapter 11, God says, I want you to run. I want you to run it away, fixing your eyes on Jesus, setting aside the sin that easily entangles, which is also kind of a burden This kind of concept and metaphor then kind of holds together. And so now if we think about that, why is the burr the yoke that Jesus made, why is that yoke light? Sure. I yes, I see where you're going. Wouldn't the yoke from God be death? And not from God. Yes. Yes. That's the consequence of our sin. Yes. So I think this is very yoke. Not Yes. Now let's think about it. Are these present tense verbs in here or are they future tense verbs? Which says take my yoke upon you. Yeah, I believe that's true. And we'd have to go back to the Greek and find out if that actually is written in present tense. But the translations we have use present tense verbs. And so you're right that the eventual The eventual consequence of our sin, our burden, is death. Absolutely right. But there's a present tense connotation here in these when we think about it. So the burden here, we've kind of asserted the burden is our sin now. But there's a yoke that Jesus yes. Oh yes please. I think I think you're on a really close So what you kind of said if I summarize it is that because Jesus died on the cross, he's lifted our burden He's taken that burden. He's paid for it. And so what he's now saying is, I got a different yoke for you to wear. Anybody ever read Pilgrim's Progress? You know that picture where his burden falls off? And I think that that's exactly what John Bunyan was speaking to when he said he looked to the cross and his burden fell off And so, and and why what is the command in this passage? Look down at the passage. There's actually three commands. What's the first command in this passage? Passage. A call on somebody who has not raised their hand yet. Or you can put your hand up. Yes, Patrice. Come. Yes. It's not the whole thing. Come. Yes, come to me, all who are who labor and are heavy laden Come to me. That's an invitation. And in fact, I would submit to you that that's an invitation based on what we just talked about, that Jesus is kind of like hiding a little bit, this invitation towards salvation Is it more than an imitation? Is it a command? I think so, yes. When you see this, and and yeah, yeah, there's kind of there's different kinds of commands, right? Uh there's a command where I could say to my son who's about to run out into the street, stop! And I expect him to do what he's doing. There's kind of an invitation command too, right? I'd be like, I I I would like you to stop You know, when my grandson starts hitting me on the head with a pillow, I'd be like, I'd like you to stop now. Um So it's still a command, but it's more of an invitation. Um but Jesus, for those who are his It is an effectual command. Look back in the passage real quick. Look at it in this context. If you look back up from verse um That's not that loud. You don't have to take that child out of here. That's cute. Unless it bothers the ladies around you or your husband. You can say Yeah. If you look at it in its context, do you have a book yet? Have you purchased one? What? It's like you weren't here last Sunday. There's one behind you. That's yours for keepsies. All right. In Matthew eleven, twenty to twenty I'm sorry, eleven, twenty down to twenty-four, Jesus says then he began to denounce the cities where most of his mighty works had been done because they did not repent. That's important. They did not repent Woe to you, Corzin, because woe to you that say that for if the mighty works done in you had been done in tyranside, and they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes. But I tell you, it will be more bearable on the day of judgment for Tyre and Sidon than for you. And you, Capernaum, will you be exalted to heaven? You will be brought down to Hades For if the mighty works done in you had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day. But I tell you that it will be more tolerable on the day of judgment. for the land of Sodom than for you. At that time Jesus declared, I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and understanding and revealed them to little children. Yes, Father, for such was your gracious will. All things have been handed over to me by my Father, and no one knows us The Son, except the Father, and no one knows the Father except the Son, and anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal him. Come to me, all who labor I'm heavy laden. What Jesus is saying here in the context is Corzim that Sada And Capernaum, they saw Christ at work, doing miracles, preaching, God Himself, standing among them, preaching, and they refused to repent. And what Christ says here is, I praise you, God, because you are sovereign in who repents and who does not. And he says, I thank you, God, that you bring little children. And little children, I'm just going to say, is logically tied to those who are weary and heavy laden and respond to the call to come to Christ. And they receive a yoke that is light and a burden that is easy. And this is important too, and this is a concept that stretches throughout Scripture. You will find rest for your souls. I might be able to go, okay, this is a burden. Maybe my I can have a good day today. I'm gonna have some self-care going on. It's and I don't want to criticize self-care like that. I might have you know, I might be able to to have a good moment at the gym and I'll feel good, my endorphins will make me feel better and stuff, but this is way Deeper than that. This is finding rest for your souls. This is like what we know from John chapter 4, where Jesus goes to the woman at the well and says, I have living water. And it will bubble up from inside you. That's what Christ is talking about here. So when we come to this passage, what we're seeing here is God's heart Towards those who are his, and his heart towards those who are his is gentle, is lowly or humble, depending on what translation you have. Is kind. So much so, and this is teasing the rest of this book out, when we sin, God inclines more towards us because he has the remedy today For our sin. We'd talk about that more later. Yes? I just want to ask a clever question. So Oh, by the way, this is an interactive class, so clarifying questions, I can talk for a long time, but clarifying questions and stuff like that are really important and good. Thank you for bringing that up. Go ahead. Sure. Okay, so We're talking about if you talk about the woman as a well, I'm gonna give you living water. That's the one time you're gonna be saved, you your life, your soul will be changed. But here we're talking about God's children who keep coming, right? Keep learning, keep giving Is that right? Or is it a one-time thing? Is this something that we I'm burdened today because the weight of my wayward child is on my mind. So I'm coming to Christ Do you know what I'm saying? So is it a one-hand thing or is it a keep coming? Is it only for is it he says it to non Christians for them to get saved, but then to us to keep Coming back or what you know. Are you familiar with Romans chapter five? Let's turn to Romans chapter five. This is actually a little bit of a spoiler. So Well we'll explain it to you right now and then we'll come back and explain it again, which is actually a good teaching technique. Maybe it will help us to remember it. Okay. Let me let me just read the chunk of back passage and then I'll do a real quick summary because I think it gets into some of what you're asking. Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, by the way, that'd be a one-time kind of thing, right? We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. We're in a position of peace. We used to not be. And that was before we came to Him. That was before we took this different yoke on Through him we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand. And we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. Not only that, but we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance, and endurance produces character, and character produces hope, and hope does not put us to shame. Because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given us. For, and here's where I want us to start paying attention again, right? For while we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly. For scarcely will a person will for one will scarcely die for a righteous person, though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die. But God shows his love for us. In that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Sins. Therefore, we have now been justified. That's where we started, right? Justification. By his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God You got saved when you were his enemies, which is what he's about to say. You were like dead, dead, dead in your trespasses and sins. And God said, You know what? I choose you. Come to me He justifies you. Well now you've been justified. When when you come to God, you have the robes of Christ on you. Picture this, Jacob and Esau, right? The only thing that would have gotten him a blessing is if he smelled like his favorite son. We have to come to God in the fragrance of Christ. And that happens when we're justified. And now that we come to God in the fragrance of Christ, He's not going to cast us out. Our sins have been covered, they've been paid. And he goes on to say, Much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. For if while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son Much more, now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by his life. More than that We also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation. We were enemies and we're not anymore. And we'll talk about this some more later. Remember where we started off? The love of God is bigger than we can understand. So the short answer is it's covered. If you came to God and you trusted him for your salvation, You're secure. You smell like Christ. You are his. And Romans 8 talks about that as well. And it puts together a list of things that brings us from justification all the way to glorification. And there's no break in between. Anyway, thank you for the question. Clarifying question. We've kind of been dancing around the notes today I hope you guys see that. I want to go back to the initial question I asked. What did you like about chapters one and two that maybe you underlined? Yeah. In fact we're gonna have a whole chapter a little bit later on that we're gonna talk about the bowels of Christ. Um because of that very reason. Yeah. Down in his in his heart, which we think of in his heart, but they would think in the deepest part of themselves, which would be like down, down in your pelvis Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. Although to defend those people, I can get flutters in my heart Whatever, I'm just being nitpicky. That's only when Diane's around though. Go ahead. Yeah, you know, uh it gives you chills to think that all the things that we take for granted that are a result of the fall. in this world. And and how when Christ came into this world, he walked around and a lot of that stuff he just interrupted. Yeah. I think that um yeah that was that's Christ's heart, the author says the things about our heart is the thing that drives our kind of our purpose. And we think about it like this. Me personally, I'm an engineer. I'm kind of driven to be stupid efficient. Thanks for laughing. Some people know what that's like. It's like living with a CPA, I imagine. But I don't know. I don't live with a CPA. Um And, you know, because there's a compulsion there's a compulsion when you see something that's not quite right to try to fix it. And sometimes it might drive my wife crazy. Um And there's wisdom in thinking your battles, but anyway, um the author here is pointing out to us That gentle and lowly is the heart of Christ. To borrow that same picture, that compulsion that I feel inside to try to fix something and make it better, right? is kind of like analogous, and I gotta say kind of like analogous, and this is gonna be something that we have in this class a lot, where we start trying to picture who God is and we use anthropomorphisms to describe God and in some ways those things are gonna break down in some places because we gotta be careful. We don't wanna we don't want to artificially constrain God in our illustrations and our pictures. Right? And our anthropomorphism is just trying to help us understand God in the things that we see. maybe in people and stuff like that. So we talk about God's heart. We talk about how God tends to be. And last time I kind of said, let's remember, God's infinite. God's transcendent And he's a hundred percent who he is all the time. Which means a hundred percent just, a hundred percent holy, a hundred percent loving. And by a hundred percent, I mean infinite. All the time. In all the ways. But there's an aspect that we're going to kind of wrestle and tease at this quarter, where we try to go, okay, yeah, but When we read scripture here and when God describes himself, it seems like what's going on in his description is Yeah, he's got justice and he'll correct and and stuff like that, but it seems like his inclination, God's natural tendencies, is toward being gentle to be loving. And the author qualifies that towards those who are his. And that's why it's important to look at Matthew 11 in its context, because you see right there in Christ, you see, whoa do you best say that If you remain unrepentant, you got a worse future than Sodom. That should wake them up and give them a serious stop to think. It should make them go, whoa, what are you talking about, Jesus? Worse than Sodom? Are you you really think Sodom would have repented? That's what Christ said. There would not have been fire from heaven if Jesus had shown up. That leads us into some deeper questions about the sovereignty of God and his election and stuff like that. We're not going to go there now We're just going to assert it. We're going to assert that in God's election there are those whom He is gentle and lowly towards. His elect. And those people will be effectually called by Christ. And God will treat them gently Tenderly. With loving kindness. And so the author points out, now I gotta stop real quick because I just asserted some big theology topics. Anybody want to interact or question or talk about those for a minute? 2K if you want to. I don't know if I'll have the answer. But let's roll that. You can talk to me later if you want to. In fact, the author uses Proverbs 423 to help us to see and understand what the Scriptures say when they talk about the heart Keep your heart with all diligence vigilance, for from it flow the springs of life. That's where that's where kind of our essence comes from. It's who we are. It's in in many respects, I think it's The author here is talking about and scripture is saying it's it's our character. And so when we talk about the heart of Christ being gentle and lowly, we're excuse me, speaking about the character of Christ. And when he says gentle, you can think of that as being meek or humble. It's The author says Jesus is not trigger-happy, not harsh, or reactionary, or easily exasperated. He's the most understanding person in the universe. The posture most natural to him is not a pointed finger, but open arms And one of the things that we're going to keep coming back to as we go through this class is our love, when we try to think about the love of God, And we use our love as a comparison, we have gone the wrong way. We will make God less than he is. And if we hold too hard onto that, people call that idolatry if we hold on to it too hard. But if we if we see it and we we're like, okay, I'm ready to learn something new about who God is. When I learn something new about who God is, and I'm like, oh, I was wrong. I'm going to change that. I'm going to relax and I'm going to understand humbly. I want to know who God is rightly And I'm learning, I'm growing. It's okay. Let me talk to Sarah first. I'll come back to the idolatry question. I think that's what you're reacting to, right? Yeah. Go ahead, Sarah. Um He heard the party in the prison thing. Well you know you know that you weren't a pretty senior and we all weren't pretty serious and time We got a car thinking called have video and like because Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. What Sarah just said is oftentimes we feel like we have to fix things, but it's more appropriate sometimes to reflect Christ and just give somebody a hug Just be open arms with them. And I think in we uh we're in a church that wants to be doctrinally sound in a lot of ways and somebody might in their confusion or their emotions, they might say something that's a little technically wrong, and we might get focused on that technicality and start to fix that. But the thing that we need to address first is that person's broken heart And we need to pull them towards ourselves. Like God does. You know, He welcomes sinners, tax collectors, and all that kind of stuff. And Yeah. Takes time. Idolatry, let's react to that for a minute. Because when we think about let me let me give you a chance to talk first. Go ahead. Well when you said the open hold on too tight. Is it The comparing our heart to God's or the God's heart? When I was saying that, I wanted to let's be careful what I was trying to say We when people do idolatry, when people are committing idolatry, what they're doing is they are creating an image of God and they're worshiping that image. They're holding on to that image. Here's your God, a golden calf. Maybe. But it also could be, in my mind, I'm saying, God can't be one way, because that's my conception of who God is I can say that God can't be mean and and judge people, and I'm gonna hold fast onto that idea who God is. What I've done I haven't carved anything out of right. Well what I've done is I've created an image of what I think God is, regardless of what I see in Scripture. Right? And I've said, no, no, this is what God has to be And there's an aspect of that that is idolatry, because I have created an image of God, and I'm holding firmly onto that, and I'm refusing to see what Scripture says about who God is. So, if I have a shallow understanding of God's love, and I base God's love based on my understanding of how I love people, and I say, well, that's made must be how God loves people too And contrary to what I see is in Scripture, I hold on to that idea, then I'm that's an aspect I mean it's not like the it's not like it's uh it's in that vein of idolatry, that's what I was trying to say. Thanks for asking. I I needed to clarify that a little bit. We tend to be a little bit more trigger happy. We tend to be a little bit more harsh and a little less patient with people. And that's not how God is. God is patient and kind. My prayer in this class is that we grow in our understanding of who God is. That just like Paul said, we see the love of God in ways and in depths. that we've not seen before. We look together in the scripture and the what smart Puritan and other guys have written and we try to understand it better and we go like, oh And the end result, oh, this is a spoiler too. The end result is praise and adoration and worship. And our hearts move to incline to be more like God, as we see it. Anyway, that's who God is. He's gentle, but he's also lowly And in the notes, there's a string of verses that we don't have time to go into right now. You can take a look at it, or if you're not ready to look at it, you can write down real fast. Ready? Matthew 21, 5, Psalm 45, 4, Isaiah 42. It's in the notes. Look at it in the notes. Post on the whole book. Um, Jesus emptied himself and became a man. That is a picture right there of being lowly and being humble. I mean there's no greater picture of Somebody who would be humble and lowly, to be at the throne room of God, to be God Himself, the second part of the Trinity, and say, you know what? I'm going to put on human flesh for the rest of eternity. We'll talk about that in the couple chapters. I'm going to come down to earth and I'm going to wade around with all the foolishness of the people here. Somebody said, I can't remember who said it recently, that there are a few things that God marveled at, and one of it was our lack of faith. But Christ is comes down here and he hangs out with sinners. I'll say it like this, for the stinky people. Right? The people that needed a doctor. And he gave them the medicine that they needed. I was in the hospital yesterday with my dad. And the medicine he needed was a feeding tube. And let's just say he didn't like that. And he said, get it out. I had to say to him, Dad, I know the medicine that you need and the doctor's telling you what you need is staying in. Because before when he was in his right mind he told us to do heroic things to keep him healthy. And we said, we're gonna follow your instructions. from before. And we're going to give you the medicine that you need. Now the medicine that God gives us is a gentle and lowly heart towards us, a yoke that is easy. But uh scripture does say that and we read it here in Romans chapter five, right? That he puts us in the difficult situations to grow us, to mature us, to strengthen us And even to see and know the sufferings of Christ and to share in those sufferings, I don't think that's what Jesus is talking about when he says, my burden is light. He's not saying your life is going to be easy. He's saying your burden is light because I've lifted your sins from you I've given you a Holy Spirit. And as we're going to see, the amazing, multicolored glory of God displayed in Christ's love. Not only did he come and become a man, he humbled himself and bore our sins. He took the insults and the beatings and all that stuff that we talk about on Good Friday a lot. He's humble in that when we're being faithless, he remains faithful. That's okay. It happens to me too. He is, he invites burdened people to come to him and rest. And he's saying it to the people who are, as we already said, burdened and heavy laden, have a sin problem, and need to go to the sin doctor. And the author says here, his heart of gentle embrace is never outmatched by our sins and foibles and insecurities and doubts and anxieties and failures. For lowly gentleness is not one way Jesus occasionally acts towards others. Gentleness is who he is. It's his heart. Have you ever been in a situation where you think, oh, that was a terrible sin. Oh, I said I said with a high hand. What I mean by that is I knew what was right, and I went and did it anyway in the presence of God. Basically, I said, God, right now I need you to toss in the hand. I don't want to hear your Holy Spirit. I don't want to know what your word says. I'm going to go and do this thing anyway. And you do it and you find yourself in a mess. Do you sometimes think that God is doing this? I knew he'd get back into that mess again. I knew you would go into it again. I knew it. You just sit there now because you're gonna have to you're gonna have to wallow in the mess you have made And I need you to really know at this time that God's going to be like, that was the last straw. That was it, he's done too much. Just go. I'm done with you. Maybe in a week or two. We can talk then. But don't talk to me now. Do you think that's the way God is sometimes? That's not what Scripture says. That's not what Scripture says. Scripture says, and the author is pointing this out to this, his heart is gentle embrace, is never outmatched by our sins. Have you ever thought about the prodigal son as you? And he comes over the hill and his dad sees him a long way off, and his dad runs to him. and grabs him and celebrates his return. There is no, you gotta go work out in the field and pay back what you've got from me. There's none of that. The son is ready to say, I'll I'll just be one of your hired hands. Just just let me work out in your field. I'm hungry. He says, no, let's have a party. Let's make our minds bigger about who God is Um tell me if this is not appropriate or if you're already gonna cover it in your upcoming test, but it's okay if we say it twice. I was thinking about the rich young ruler becomes the G and says, what must I do to inherit eternal life? And you know, teaches like what are the commandments, starts to lift them off. And in this young ruler's mind, yeah, I've kept all these things since my youth. And Jesus knowing his heart says there's one thing you lack his rich. And he's like solid possessions given the force. This is what it told him. And the guy was kind of like I can't do that. But I think a lot of times we draw comfort with the idea, it's like, I'm on a system where you can tell me what to do. You know, I I I can give me something I I know I can do it, I'm gonna really kinda bear down and you know I I I can achieve this. And you know, God looks at us and says, Okay, you know, I I'm I'm gonna go right to your heart and say this is this is the one thing to your Not what he willing willing to do, but what I think is neat about that is what would I have said? I would have said, Yeah, you you self righteous person, yeah, we kept all these things, you know. Well what does it say? Jesus says that he felt a love for us. Yeah. And that's just how different Jesus' heart is from ours, you know, just recognizing, you know, he sees somebody who's self-righteous, who's you know, thinking he can achieve eternal life through his own merit and felt love for him I just thought that was like full of things. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. And and a lot of time and there are people Who don't really feel like they need a doctor. And Jesus spoke to the Pharisees because of that. And he said, Hey, I've come to the sick. I've come to the people who know that they need to have a doctor, who are ready to come to me Those are the people that I've come to talk to. Those who are humble and ready to repent. They know their sins. And he says to them, hey, I just want to ask you a question. Do you think this woman who came in here who has washed my feet with her tears loves me more or you? Can you imagine in somebody's house saying that? Her sins, they've been forgiven. They were great. And so she loves more. Yeah. And that that's a picture of who Christ is, right? Here's Christ You what's your picture? I mean if you just pictured an anthropomorphic picture of who Christ is, I think of Like the picture in Isaiah 6, where he's he's seated high and lofty, and there's a rainbow, and he's like the train of his robe fills the heavens And the angels are around and holy, holy, holy, and the foundations shake at their praise, right? And the smoke is filling the temple. That's who God is, right? That's what he's going on. And how can that image marry up with this image of gentle and lowly? How is God both of those things at the same time? In some ways, I think we've teased that out just a little bit already. Is that towards those who are his? He's a loving father. Towards those who are sinning or unrepentant, they're in their own judgment at that point. The smoke of God's wrath is filling the temple. You know what happens in that picture? The angel comes and brings, Isaiah says, woe to me. I am a man of unclean lips. And I live among the people of unclean lips. And I think he was thinking about his parents. That's just Doug. I think that's what he's thinking Because we all inherit sin. They bring the coal from the altar of heaven and put it on his lips. He saw his sin. He needs a cure. God brings him the cure, and then he's suitable for going out and taking getting the work. As God's. Just like we are. When Christ removes our burden, we are suitable. We're ready to get out there and work. He has put his Holy Spirit inside of us. Ah, getting out of myself again. Let's stay focused on today's lesson. There'll be other Sundays to talk about some of these other things which I can't wait to get to Yeah, God is high and lofty, but think about a king. Think about a king on his robe seated on a throne who's got a daughter. A young daughter and she comes toddling up to that throne. That king's gonna step off his throne, get down on his knee, and hold his daughter close. Don't you know? Christ makes us children of God We can approach. There's a hymn that says, Bold, I approach the eternal throne. That's why the author of that hymn can write that. God invites us. Not only does he say, Come to me, all who labor at heavy laden, but throughout Scripture, and we talked about this last week, God says, Come to me. He's not going to cringe. He's going to pull us close. And he's going to draw us near to him. We'll talk about some of that when we get into Hebrews chapter four in the future. What does Jesus let me just stop and change that text here a little bit? When you think about the things that Jesus did as he walked As he walked around this earth, I'm going to just assert that there were compassionate things that Jesus did. Can anybody think about some of those compassionate things that Jesus did as he was here on this earth? Yes? He fed the crowds of people. In fact, that passage there, one of those two feedings, says, I felt compassion on him, and he went to the disciples and he said, Feed these people. Yeah. It says he felt compassion. Yeah. Well said yes. Yeah. Yeah. Yes. He healed the leper. Absolutely. Not only did he heal the leper, but he reached out and touched the leper and healed the leper. What talk about gentle, talk about humble Talk about reaching out for stinky things, right? Ew. That's what I do. I'm like, oh. That person too I'm being real. I'm sorry. My love is not as deep as Christ. What else did Christ do? Yes, sir. What do you mean by feeding his sheep? Well here uh as you Peter Oh he told Peter to feed his sheep, yes. Yes, absolutely. Yeah, he denied quite three times. Yeah, it was quite three machine. Yeah, there's two layers to what you're talking about there, right? One is that he's telling Peter, take care of my sheep, my lambs. But the other thing that's going on there is he's restoring Peter after Peter denied him three times Right. Wow. Wow. Talk about tender compassion. I mean see that we were as a very They fail. I do have that. Yeah, if somebody failed when I asked them to do something I'd probably lose trust in them. I'd find somebody else. I'd be like, Well, they dropped the ball before. Do I wanna give them the ball again? Yeah. You ever been on a team playing basketball or something like that? You pass somebody and it goes right through their hands, bam, and the other team gets it and they get a fast pass, they score, you know, and stuff like that. You're like, Ooh, do I wanna give them a ball again? They can't catch it. They got thumbs? I don't know. Yeah. Yeah. And but God, in his tenderness, gives the ball back to Peter. Wow. Yes. Yes. He raised the dead? He raised the dead. Yes. God's one who heals and raises the dead. Wow, we could talk about that for a while, couldn't we? What else did Christ do as he walked around on this earth? He's asked and he held the children and didn't have to rush all the time wherever he was Yeah, yeah, his disciples were like, get out of here, kids, and he said, No, let the children come to me. Wow, that's pretty yeah, the and That's a reflection of children back in the day, I believe, were not people that were supposed to be sitting around with the adults. They're kind of foolish, but God's saying, no, I want the weak, I want the foolish, I want the humble. Yeah. Where? Yeah, it's his teaching. Christ explained to people the truths of heaven. Wow. Yes. Okay, that's good. Are there other things? And remember what we sang. The love of God is greater far And in fact John in the end of his gospel said, if I try to write down all the things that God did, I'd I'd run out of paper. I'd run out of paper. He said that in the last last bit of his go uh gospel. And so uh you know, that's Christ as he's walking around on the earth. We bring that up because not only does Jesus claimed that he is gentle and lowly, but he actually acted that way. He said, This is my heart. And you know we can we can be sufficient with that, because God knows himself and he and he speaks the truth. But then as an example we can see again and again the gospels bear out. That that's what Christ did when he was on the earth. And we just talked about some of the highlights. Do we tend to think about God? As tender or as aloof. Yes. I just thought it was interesting in the chapter about uh how in the Mosaic Law when a clean person had something unclean they became But when Jesus touched the lepers, you know, instead of being hungry, he cleansed them. Yeah. Cleansing the heel. Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah, very good example. I'm glad you brought that up. And in the economy of that, I mean we could talk about that also for a little while, but it's just God And and that's a picture for what God did to us. Remember what I said a little bit ago is that we need a sin doctor We need somebody, you know if you got cancer you go to the oncologist. If you're pregnant, you go to the OB, right? We got a sin problem. So we gotta go to the sin doctor. And the only one who has a cure for sin is Christ. There's healing and nobody else. What a glorious thing to think about. Um I want to leave you with a last thought. I want this class to be a little bit, no, I want this class to be a lot about grace. Because that that's the example we have in Christ. But every now and then I want us to stop and go, okay, that is the standard. Let's remember the standard. And in some ways I've hinted at this. The example of Christ reaching out to lepers Loving the children is an example for us to imitate. And there's two aspects to that I want to say. I I could sit here and I go Shame you all into obedience, you'll pull up your socks and you go out there and you go find somebody who's ugly and you're gonna love them. And you'll be like, check, I did it. I can stop loving ugly people now But what I'm saying is different. What I'm saying is spend time looking at who Christ is. Spend time thinking about how he loves you as the ugly person and try to be more like Christ. Try to incline your heart. Pray about it. Pray about a real heart change inside of us to love people like Christ does Because now what I'm saying is I'm not saying go out there and be obedient. I'm saying learn from Christ. And start imitating our Savior. That's more about living under the grace of God and seeking His Holy Spirit to conform me into His image. And then seeing what naturally comes out as he works inside of me. Draw near to God And learn from him. That's what he says in Matthew 11, right? He says, Come to me. That's the first commandment. Look back at it. Matthew 11, if you still have it there, right Come to me, that's the first command. Take my yoke upon you, that's the second command. The third command is, and learn from me Think about it like that. I gotta draw near to God and I gotta learn who he is, so I'm gonna be his disciple. Which means I'm gonna sit underneath him, see what he does, and try to say the things. And do the things and act the same way that my mentor does. So the homework for this week. Yes, there's going to be homework assigned in my class. I'm sorry, our class. There's going to be a homework assigned in our class every week and we will be asking you about it. Don't run away now. No, no, no, no. It's read chapters three and chapter four. Do the same thing. Underline the important stuff Hold on to a couple of things because we can frame our discussion and shape the class based on what you saw and are impressed by what you read in these scriptures And the important thing about doing it like that is we're speaking to our own hearts. We're interacting here and it's not just a lecture. So hold on to one or two things, these ideas, lessons from the chapter, and take time this week to pray about the stuff we talked about. Take time to think about this and think about your own heart. Hold the mirror of Christ up to yourself, right? God's scripture. And ask yourself, how am I not like this? How am I like this? God, how do you want to transform me? into your likeness. Pray about those things. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word and its truth. I thank you God for the opportunity for us to be together this morning. I thank you, God, that you and your kindness have superintended over the minutes that we have had together. And we trust you, God, that your word will do its work in our lives. Because you promise to. Help us to understand and to see the duty that we have and the grace that we can rely on. Help us, Heavenly Father, to understand what it means to live in the duty that your word prescribes, but to have a burden that is light at the same time. And grow us, dear Lord, cause us to grow more in your likeness, we pray. Amen