And and they're making excuses and advocating for themselves. Can you give me an example, an earthly worldly example, of somebody who's an intercessor? You think that like a lawyer who in a trial would be on your side? When we think of an umpire, an umpire is just like calling the shots. We're going to recognize that you deserve judgment, but you're going to ask for mercy for these reasons. But what propitiate and this is a technicality, right? There's an aspect of we are we want to walk in the Spirit and grow in sanctification daily. And we rest in the Spirit of God, all of a sudden we see that we can start taking steps against sin because what are we doing at that point? Have you ever been in that time in your marriage or with your siblings or with somebody that you love and they catch you and they go, aha! He would get tired, he would get hungry. How many of you have experienced a time when you spend time in God's Word or in prayer and you're like, that was rich? and with all your soul and with all your mind. They chase me. God, I thank you so much for your word and for your kindness. So we're going over chapters nine and ten in the book of Gentle and Lowly today. Um is not biased but is trying to get both parties to agree. I'm going to ask this side of the room. Because that his heart is just core. And says, God, these things that I did before, those were wrong. uh something R. You can stomach the Greek, there's different tenses, and this case is like literally the syntax sometimes. So it's not a chore to obey. There's going to be birth, there's going to be disappointment. and reassuring ourselves that that he loves us, loves us, and comes to us unconditionally, granted that we've we've been saying and uh but we gotta keep remembering and as on one hand as as keep loving people and and there's gonna be sin Thanks for drawing our attention to that right off the bat. Decline is correct, but that's on. His sin, period, and makes us guilty. Uh there are sins that uh would require a greater and some sins that even require a more immediate punishment. Put them to death. Proverbs talks about that. Uh Jesus says that the judgment for the cities that he personally witnessed to would be worse on them than the judgment of Sodom and Gomorrah. And the chapter talks about this. Between two parties, an advocate doesn't simply stand in between the two parties but steps over and joins the one party as he approaches the other. So the the one is kind of mediating between the two parts, the other is taking your side. I if you thought of the Venn diagram of Christ as both our intercessor and Christ as our advocate, these are not necessarily distinct roles. So I don't think Jesus is this is Doug hypothesizing. So related. um is helping you to to desire to do the Lord's will and to honor and glorify God. And so that's God the Son interceding on behalf of Israel the nation toward God the Father, which I think also is a representation of And my folks said, Let's talk to the lawyer and the lawyer was like, Well, here's the deal, Doug. And Christ our advocate stands before the Father and says, I know, Father, Doug doesn't deserve mercy, but I'd like him to have mercy. I'd like him to have mercy. that he endured as a result of that. You know, he sinned and Nathan called him out and he went before God and he said, God, against you I have sinned. And it's worthwhile just for a minute stopping it and enjoying that. And so this was already said, but it's worthwhile resaying. Starting at verse 8, if we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. So he says, My little children, I'm writing these things to you so that you may not sin. propiciation is. But he he raised these things so that you may not sin. That would be such a heavy burden for us to bear. But he didn't stop that. And we struggle with temptations. to figure out the truth in it. I mean love? Yeah, and there was that chapter that talked about he he can sympathize with our weaknesses because he was tempted in every way as we are. It's safe to talk about dietary temptation, right? And you wallow in your cookie eating for a long time and you're like, Oh God, I I need to repent of my cookie eating. To carry us through this temptation. And repentance is an as is turning away from our sin. one another. I can't help myself, which is not true. that's continual. that are out there. In a way that you'd rather not confess, in a way that you're terribly ashamed of, please remember that you have an advocate. And may put us in a better position between us and God. And he wants us to take it on us because he is gentle and lowly. In Matthew, Matthew 11, 29, that Christ has a yoke for us that is easy and a burden that is light. And his heart yearns towards us. Hebrews 4:15, he is able to sympathize with us because he has been tempted in every way as we are and without sin. Because if we are, we will not be cast out. Because Ephraim is mine. And it's based on a passage that um that was taught to children back in the 1700s. Toward those are who are his. And I looked at I I read that and I was just like, he taught that to children? I I don't know about you, I don't always think about things this way. I would say when we have a distorted view of heaven. It will steal my understanding of what's most important. We're about to have some of the most exciting thing happen. I say I don't completely agree with it because I am drawn towards a mighty waterfall to go and see it and stuff like that. Things are good. Here in John, 1 John 5, it says, Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born of God. This is kind of the tie-in, right? What were you going to say, Amy, before I interrupted you? serve one another. And for the love that you have for us, God help us to fight against our flesh, to see you better, and to truly grow in love with you as our Heavenly Father. To understand better what it means to have to be in the family of God, to be adopted by your son, to be uh by you, to have Christ as our advocate And our intercessor to rest in knowing who we are in Christ as your chosen people. 'Cause it doesn't matter what demographic you're in. clear whatever and say, how has Christ loved you today? Um, the very first thing they did when they sinned was to advocate for themselves. then in the eyes of the of God and the citizens. to that concept that feels right to us. Difference what is the chief difference between an intercessor and an advocate? the word mediator when you were describing it. Um fire? And just for consistent or completeness sake, what's a worldly earthly picture of an advocate then? Presenting case for one side. But but when Christ is our intercessor, is he just up there like sin? Or whoever, right? I I mean it it seems like, you know, in um you know, we don't always know how to do the Lord's will or what his will is and it's it's praying, you know. Um, I think that I think it's sweet to think about Christ not just interceding on our behalf because we've got ourselves in a bad situation, but also interceding on our behalf because of blessings. And did some bad things while I was delivering to him uh uh short. And so uh I had to go to sport and even say what we did and everything. Not not just some high school guy. I know Doug deserves this, but maybe we can this time he has learned his lesson and he looks like he is he is very repentant and so maybe he doesn't need to have But as Hebrews chapter 12 says, the Father will still discipline us for our sins. There have been times when I was growing up when my mom would advocate on my bus my behalf for discipline as well. What we know is already the proper judgment for fill in the blank whatever he has done. Um my youngers had a lot of complicated medical issues and I spent years and hours thousands of phones on the phone and advocating for hearing with stuff to intercede on our behalf and then to advocate for us as well. Um and he's going to be teaching on the the verse that we're talking about right now. I'm writing this to you so you will not sin. And that's not the testimony of Scripture. I'm going to repent. Um I also talked about um my question likes you said um I know it's a like transfer program and you know, then basically we we aren't we aren't you know following God. And rather than try to justify or hide the ugliness of that, I come before my Heavenly Father and I go, that was your word is right and true. in accordance with what you say and if you wrong. And and y you know, when you read in the book of Galatians, Paul talks about walking by the Spirit and you'll not give in to the deeds of the flesh. Uh again, that walking by the Spirit is a way of life. Because it's a phonetic uh language, Greek is, and if you learn the Greek alphabet, there are lots of Greek words that you can sound out mostly right, not always, just like English Hebrews chapter twelve says that Christ went to the cross for the joy set before him. For forty days. As we saw last week in the book of Hosea, our sins evoke God's heart. On our behalf, pleading our case. Piece of knowledge. I I make a joke of it now. This is critically important for us to understand. And that's part of the reason why I wanted to stop at the start of this chapter and remind us of the things that we have seen of the heart of Christ. Did you want to have something you you you wanted to add? of having our hearts inclined towards God when we truly understand who He is. says is true, good for you. We we think that the to do list is more important than our to time with Godna list. Our attention is drawn towards those things that are beautiful. And the temptation is behind me, and I pass that temptation. But for him, for their sakes, died and was raised. Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. That we love the children of God when we love God and obey his commandments. And the reason why I think that it is not burdensome to obey or to love God is as I spend time looking to Jesus. You ever think about this? And I stand before him, knowing what he has done on my behalf, my heart will be inclined toward him. Let me ask you maybe a different way. And say, can we go walk together? But maintaining an expectation that we're gonna be sick, we're gonna be there's gonna be a harm, there's gonna be a um maybe a hurt as we try to lot of people away from us. So what did you learn about Jesus today? Uh we don't have to advocate for ourselves. I don't know if this has been set up. Not only has Christ taken care of that sin, but Christ advocates on our behalf Makes us guilty. They saw Jesus, the Son of God. Any sin makes us guilty, but some sin is worse than others. Or have reconcili Yeah, some kind of reconciliation. And they are then an advocate on behalf of. Anybody here not know what I mean by Venn diagram? I s sort of think uh as an intercessor, as someone you know you're feeding for the Lord's will, you're seeking to honor and glorify him. that the scriptures will be open to us to understand, to desire, to to to grow in that nation. Christ interceding on behalf of his elect. Fantastic. high school why turned left when I shouldn't have turned left and I just turned left right in front of traffic and there was an accident. But what he said was, and he said, I'm going to stand out there on your behalf, and we're going to throw yourself on the mercy of the court And he took from me, kinda what was said, he took from me the burden of having to represent myself. You know, we do our best. He is the perfect advocate. It's probably worthwhile to get a running start at this and go back to just chapter one. We are a liar. So everybody he talks to in the church is a little child to him. Because he just said we all sinned and we all have forgiveness. If anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. For our sins, and not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. Boasted. satisfaction for that wrath, which feels like payment. with God. Be satisfied in that for a little bit. I have to depend on God. And and didn't sin. And and it fits in with kind of what I was saying before because confession puts me in a position of hum humility before God Yeah, I I'm with you Steve. As Christ solves our sin problem, there is joy. He was the perfect man, but he is man and he knows and understands what it's like to be man And Christ stood fast. And we saw that we are saved to the uttermost, uttermost, because of Christ's intercession. knowledge and we stick it up on this this compartment over there and then we put this over there. I don't know who he taught it to, and I don't know their stories that followed. And that's a powerful thing because there are exceptions, but I children love their mommy and daddy more than anyone. that sometimes our hearts are not drawn towards God. change and get overrun with what's going on and what people say about us and all the things and the truth is right there, but we just don't go after it because we're just Yeah, I can just go get this thing done and I can get to that thing later. Yeah, we live in a sinful flesh. That also applies to all the other things that were said. Or, I'll say it like this, having a desire to truly remember to seek the beauty of God. In fact, Jesus said to the disciples in John chapter 4, I have food that you don't know about. As we really rest in it and enjoy what God has done on our behalf, the peace that we have, the confidence that we have before Him, that That will continue to draw me towards God. I think we're missing out. In the arms of a mighty waterfall. Count all things as rubbish, in order that he may gain Christ and be found in him, not having a righteousness of his own, but that which comes through faith in Jesus Christ. Because how many of you all, like I was thinking, is like the Ten Commandments are hard. And God's commands become not burdensome. The next statement to me for many years rocked my world and his commandments are not burdensome As I know and understand my identity, as I know and understand what Christ has done and what my sin causes me to do. Brush your teeth and then go drink some orange juice. And love like Christ loves. And you know, I there are clumps of people that sometimes after church you see and sometimes I just want to walk right into the middle of that clump and just put my arms around everybody and say, guys, I don't know what I would say Spend time praying about that this week. Make it so that I understand better what it means. Salvation and care and love for us make me more loving like you. Prosecu persecuted in the early church. Walk by the Spirit and not by the flesh. So you're in jeopardy of a greater judgment. Um jesting aside, yeah, an umpire is a great um kind of a uh thought about somebody who's sitting in the middle and deciding what is right and true. Um I think of a real estate agent. that it is he's constantly doing. And now I'm doing that for my aging parents. If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. And you've got this side versus this side that everybody's doing their best, including the judge who gives the final call. He says, you know, I was tempted in that situation, this guy was telling me he never sins anymore, never ever. But that's the truth of scripture. If if they put him in my lap, I get about ten seconds. That we are allowed to love more than God, and then goes on to say, the beauty of Christ, when we truly see it, the beauty of Christ will draw our hearts to Him. And the world is just I'm just busy and going about my way and I have to fight to spend time in the Word and I don't do it. This is more important. Of loving the brethren, of having that patience, that patience that will go through the trial and we're out on the other side of it. I am hanging out and resting underneath the palm trees, drinking coconut milk. Right now the the verses kind of escape me, but there are places in Scripture and I need to go get them for you to support what I'm saying person on this side, you probably need to come more to the center and this more has been more offended more and stuff like that. Mm-hmm. Has there ever been a time that you can think of when somebody stood as your advocate? But if we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. But we're like that little kid, we still don't wanna we wanna not confess this. that our advocate who stands in solidarity with us is also the perfect man, not simply that he is the perfect man in one sense. Last thing I want to say just before we move on to the second part of this, um is I I just want to put stomp this a little bit. Please remember to stop yourself and go, that was a wrong reaction, first of all, and what you said is right. That was wonderful. He counted all things. I think at those moments our spirits can be uplifted because of our intercessor. Amazing truth to hang on to, and I praise you, Heavenly Father, for your complete And I I you know I look around our church and I look in my life at the people that probably most need to be loved He explained the pro saying. What would be an example in this world of an advocate? Lawyer can be, yeah. Yeah. And the court granted me mercy. I I think that I'm not sure I can confess this sin to God. I think we mentioned in our small group about like if there is anyone who knows the depth and the height of temptations, Krauska's winning us even further And you know, it's that's where it helps to get the smart people to tell you, okay, what he means by if we sin is as a part of the pattern of our life something have an advocate. Now, now that we've been adopted, now that we've been made clean, he will in no eyes cast us out. Is more important or critical than this. We and all these things kind of can work together to fight against us setting a priority. The beauty of God draws us to God. The power and majesty of God is not necessarily what draws us towards him. um always first, loving first, being you know, putting others first, sacrificing ourselves. Jesus Christ advocates again when he entered? That's an aspect of that. role. Yeah. For yourself. We we're kind of at the midpoint in this class, right? For the love of Christ controls us because we have concluded this, that one has died for all, therefore all have died, and he died for all, that those who might those who live might no longer live for themselves. Yes. Maybe it means you know we when you see the example of how Christ lived his life, he spent time with sinners. He sees that the nations are at peace, and then he turns to the Father and says, How long? Oh, that's a very good question. I went through all those things because I want us not to just be thinking about each week as a little tiny compartmented I used to think all sin is just if you buy or wait, say it again? Okay, marriage counselor. See. And that can help you to start to see and understand some of these things. Love God. So last question, I'm going to end with this. Yes. Yeah. Because what we're doing with repentance is we're navigating the future. C. Yeah, in fact, if you see the we talked about this briefly last week. Yes. We we can't do that. So I appreciate that because I have for many, many years thought propitiation is payment. So once you confer to academic rights to something almost have to work a password put up and autocall and user stuff and easy also want PTSD But you know, all things as rubbish compared to knowing Christ. To be told that, hey, you do understand that you have a loving Heavenly Father and a a Jesus who intercedes and advocates on your behalf. I'm on to the next thing. But anyway, you don't have to know all the Greek to be able to know the answer. Yeah, and at that point, and and I'm gonna extend from what you say and if I re misrepresent you, that's please forgive me. And I think that's a hard balance. Other sins is not. So that you don't have to go all the way to become a Greek scholar. Whereas an advocate seems like it's more dealing with harding or forgiving transgression, you know, dealing with the sin aspect, it seemed like an intercessor But enjoy that for a minute. Sproul said he ran is one of these people that believes that you can reach reach a level of perfection. And we put this compartment here and that's up on a show-up. Yeah we will. Think about what that is and do that for homework. I think as Christ is our intercessor, he's spending a lot of time as our advocate So you didn't have to represent yourself. I just want to see if I can do five more minutes. And so that's why God can command, you must love me more than your father and mother. It's like um loving your spouse, like to massage them and make them so you spend time with them is not burdensome because you have a heart for them. There's got to be one or two ideas that you have from these two chapters or from the chapters that we covered. Yes. Which means that we can draw near to God. We maybe next time we'll take one and a half step, right? And it's neat that the same author basically handles both situations. Yeah. Obey, yes, sure. I'll go to the next quarter now. So someone just paying the sign, like let's say someone gets like their $1,000 plus dollars in C and tickets, someone can rightfully come in to their place and pay their sign for them and they are legally right to go. Oh now I'm advocating. He says, I write these things so that you will not sin, but we have an advocate with the Father when we do sin. I'm going to rely on your grace. So um I I think it's interesting, you know, when you just read, you know, John, there's parts where he basically says, if we sin I cannot imagine the temptation to turn rocks into bread at that point. And then John says, oh, and by the way, his commandments are not burdensome. When a brother offends us, we can cover that with love and we can overlook it. We've been talking about this loving God thing, right? What does the chapter say? All this is from God who through Christ reconciled us to Himself and gave us the ministry of reconciling. God always intercedes with things like commit great sins. Figuring out the problem and coming alongside him, defending, you know, answering the doctor's questions and his questions. Can somebody on this side of the room give me a definition of propitiation? But the fact that God knows the truth, Jesus knows the truth, all of that has been clear that yet He still does this for us. Leniency, please. It is satisfaction. Uh and if anybody is interested in studying Greek, start with the alphabet. I said, You want me to make him cry? He's your defense lawyer, or he's the prosecutor on behalf of the state, right, or whoever, right, is now taking is standing on one side The truth is not in us. And when those things happen, Christ is on our behalf advocating for us. Whoever loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me, and whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. Why is it that we don't pursue God? And there is a satisfaction of walking in the Spirit How? Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, well if you're like me, Chris is busy as my advocate. And God will discipline us. Why? We get tempted with the first step and we're like, ooh, this is hard. And we can take that same concept and extend it to us and say, how can God God will say how can I cast out those who are mine? That vacation. Or or to see the person who's just over there, you know, after church they're not talking to anybody, they're just Uh but there are also passages that talk about uh judgments being worse for some versus the other. What's another? Stood up in front of the court and said, Court, you know, he we know that he was guilty, shouldn't have done what he did, but we we'd like to see mercy on him. That's a really good guess. That what John's talking about there is a way and a pattern of life. That's a new habit for many of us to try to put into our lives. We've talked a lot in this chapter, in this book. So it is an interesting thing. However, there are worse sins than others. Excuse me. Yes you are. I just, and you find something that's a really cool truth, maybe you have not seen before, and you can't wait to tell somebody about it. And in fact, even in our sin, his heart yearns for us, and the author says, yearns more, because we have a greater need at that point. Okay. We are commanded by a loving Heavenly Father who knows what's best for us, to do what's best for us. Some sins are judged by a retainment of what was taken, let's say. Mm-hmm. So and and what I like about that is he wasn't advocating on my behalf to bend any rules, try to get away with or skirt anything that I was responsible for. They praised God that they were worthy of sharing in the sufferings of Christ. That was a critical importance. John could have, the Holy Spirit could have said, John, stop there. He knows what it's like to be tempted during those times. Consider these concepts all at the same time, not individually. Everything okay? There are days when you are lonely and it is sweet to have somebody come alongside and to put their arm around you, either metaphor. And I think we're in a mode in our minds where I'm going to have to fight this battle and grow myself in sanctification. And as soon as we go, Oh I got this God, don't worry, let me go And we start eating cookies again. And um in some degree, to some degree There are things that you can do to me that I can I can overlook, but there are things that you do to me that I will have a very hard time overlooking. And he has the perfect reason and the perfect justification to advocate on our behalf What that means is today when you sin in a way that you want to hide Well said thank you. Do you still want to say it? And so I thought you'd jump right back into that. I answered these things saying, these things are not that bad, which is not true. And we saw in John 6. He intercedes, but advocates when we do when we sin knowing. Mm-hmm. What the author says is if he stopped at that point, I rate these things so that you may not sin And in fact that's where we're going with the next chapter. We do have a role. And it's true. A lack of faith that we truly don't understand God's goodness for us. It does yeah, it it runs together in aspect. God, here is a truth that is not true in my heart. Jesus has taught me this thing. Okay, good. That is what keeps us from that. I see where you're coming from and probably to a degree. Yeah, and I think that there's an aspect of that that fits with Christ, that fits with God. We do our best to advocate for one another. Because we're so wretched. There's other things that are more difficult to talk about. How do I love God more? Yeah, God is love. And and you I wanted to start with the definition, but you already gave it to us because you said, Why confess when I can just turn away from the sin? Okay. We're gonna see Samaritans come to know the truth of God. I now you know there there's an aspect and and I don't completely agree with this, but I see what he's saying. And one of the things that's powerful about that, if you think back to our great great ancestor, our forefathers Adam and Eve Anyway, now I want to step back here at the point that you introduced. So now no, I think crisis both of these things at the same time. And in chapter, this chapter we are looking at Matthew 10, 37, which sets the standard for our love for God How can we love those around us as we follow the example of Christ? They heard him. Okay. I am a sinner. It is worthwhile putting in the effort to be mindful that Christ is our advocate. And because we have Christ as our advocate, one, we don't have to make excuses. Anybody think of another example of parent offending his child? So it's consistent with what you just said, but it's just kind of a different way. And I know some in the room are also done that for their aging parents. When we have a distorted view of who God is. Because living in a sinful flesh will cloud my perception of what is right. You shall. Um so that I used to be but then I feel like Greater judgment implies greater sin. And in that sense, we can think about that applying to us so ourselves as well. Now payment if I have a debt. And so the technicality is propitiation is the satisfaction of God's wrath. And I think both work in console with one another. Because think about this as well. And the author asserts that's probably how God made us. However, some sins are worse than others. And I I I want to bring these up because I want to tease these out and think about it because I don't think Jesus is out there like, oh, I got my intercessor role on right now. I would like in the future to repent from that and move in a better direction. He has cleansed us and made peace with us already. But as the author explained it, it was just kind of like, okay, I get this. I want to walk with God a little bit further today because that that was really awesome. Oh, sorry. Um and maybe that's the children in our church. It's yeah. But whatever. Yeah. And and when we sin, do you ever feel like this sin is too much? I will curl up in the arms of my loving Heavenly Father and rest, knowing that He is satisfied and is tender toward me and loves me. That beautiful tent he can make and get money for, right? Trying to get you to a place of reconciliation, coming between maybe maybe saying, you know what? But thankfully I had a pass that that stood and said what I uh my story said. You were the defendant. Because we are saying that God is a liar because God has already said that we owe him. Because his wrath has been satisfied and turned away. It doesn't mean that I'm going to now be able to live my life never giving in to the deeds of the flesh. And the author asserts here, as we see God's love, What why is it so it's not burdensome to obey God? Thank you, God, that not only are you our advocate, but you are our friend, and that is a amazing Well hear about that? When we sin, I didn't say if, when we sin, we have an advocate with the Father. Just do it to me. Um and this was an interesting chapter to think and to ponder about for a minute because Some of you are thinking, wow, that sounds hard. Anything else that you guys saw as you were reading through the chapters of the book? And we can feel this in our hearts too, right? And then he comes back to where he was before. We also learned in Matthew 14, 14 that he is a compassionate God. Fill in the blank. Cause us, Heavenly Father, to be weird in you and to rejoice in who you are. Now I'm asking the class. How kind God is to set up a situation to not only to save us from our sins But the testimony of Scripture is the Spirit of God is inside of us, growing us in sanctification. I don't think there's anything in scripture that says we should rededicate our lives once we are looking. And so we also live in a sinful flesh. Busyness of my life. And in some ways, maybe that set these children up for a better understanding of it. You can read these things and they will let you know what kind of a noun it is, what kind of a verb it is. And the author then points out that there is nothing and no one. Yeah. A real estate agent is not an impartial person in a transaction. But I believe also potentially from Christ as our advocate, that discipline may be a gentle discipline. We come to class today, we get a new piece of carpet carp carpet I want to jump step one quick step back, and it's worthwhile just going over this. I mean why does God this is a question I was asking, why does God do that? I mean Yeah really is. And if you think about that from a God saying, You must love me Everyone who loves the Father loves whoever who has been born of him. He's just out there, hey, welcome. 37, he will in no wise cast us out. Yes? Yes. Important or beautiful. They saw his miracles and they refused to repent. So anything I say incorrectly I'm sure he will correct on Sunday the this Sunday and next Sunday during part two as well. And I'm like, I'm going to wait five more minutes before I have it. Philippians 3. Then our repentance is fueled from a love for God. Can I tell you about what I just learned? I am so in need of your grace. But it's true that we should teach our children. And some in the church will be like, Whew, I don't have to worry about this. They violated what you say is true. And that Christ is able to sympathize with us Um but but in the end it's uh stuff that I have in front of me Or whatever they did back then, eating dates. And so it's a good picture. My bad for putting you on the spot. I see it almost in two contradicting ways. And read the next two chapters. Maybe he didn't actually see that one. We don't wanna because it's painful. So our homework for this week. Some sins we cannot overlook. Yes? They are all younger than him. And so we jeopardize or make a decision. You know, it's the idea is just read that and you're like, but these verses say when we said or if we said But I want to see this together as a blending, as the author says, of the heart of God Adam says, That woman you gave me, Eve says that serpent that you put in the garden You didn't have to represent yourself in court. And one of the things, the key thing, one of the key passages from this book that was brought up to draw attention to was because Christ is our advocate. Maybe you just did, but I'm going to ask for clarity's sake anyway. We pursue pleasure more than God. Identity Christ. I'm told to love God with all my heart, with all my soul, and my might. So in the sense of guilt, any sin, any violation of what God commands to do or commands not to do Yeah. We can't claim that you're not guilty, because you're just guilty. But when you start to get into plural and tenses and things like that, there are some very good helps. We've studied the fact as we went through this book, not all of us were here, but we studied Why is it This is guessing, this is hypotheses time. It's that same kind of thing. And the advocate seems like a more personal thing. What draws us towards him is this gentle, lowly, gracious spirit that God has. Do you want to share? If you look at the intercessory work of Christ in the book of Zechariah To come on on our side It is satisfaction of the wrath of God for our sins, which brings about peace. I'm gonna go ahead and eat the cookie We read about he went out into the wilderness and was tempted face to face with Satan's after he had been fasting When you are hungry, you get a little bit crazy sometimes. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your work. And we see this example in King David when he sinned. We've looked at the example of how Christ loves us. So one interesting thing pointed out that the intercessor will You know, we we are justified. Payment. Yeah, um The picture is, how can I cast out Ephraim? Well the first paragraph in chapter nine says an intercessor standard It is satisfaction Tender, warm, passionate love towards us who are his God is our father. For this is the love of God that we keep his commandments. Um how do you want to grow more in love with Christ? So it's interesting to me how you described a way. Or but your best guess is if you haven't read the chapter, right? It's been 70 years. And um and I I was thinking about it. He's had that clingy age. So I'll talk about the cookie and and that'll be a metaphor for all the icky things that we don't want to confess in front of one another right now. With confession, we're agreeing with God about the past. Well that's the advocate. And in fact, you used And so he had a list of reasons and he said, I'm going to represent you, and then and we'll and we will see what the court determines based on this. I write these things so that you may not sin. Right? But whatever gain I had, I counted as lost for the sake of Christ. Or the twenty somethings in our church. Advocate. Not not as much to do not not saying not any, but less to do with sin and advocacy for sin Everybody's sort of doing their best We'll start to take the second step and we're like, oh I can't stand it anymore, I'm gonna eat the cookie. And that answer may work in concert with this answer as well, too. Yes. At the same time, putting ourselves out there as the body of Christ to minister to other people, using our gift, being who God made us to be to He came out naked out of his house when I was and so we called the police I mean it's just everything has been one You can also read it in commentaries and in uh Bible software as well Or we think that Without having thought it all the way through. Yeah. They chase me all the time. His commandments are not burdensome. Because I'd like us to know this together. Let's just be honest about who we are. And so he looks at them and they all and in some ways John may have had some part in their salvation as well But. Um but yeah, a mediator is kind of sitting in the middle and hearing this side and then turning and hearing that side in a in a sense. Payment is a where is a way that I've thought about it and it's related to it. Yes. I think this thing is more fun or whatever. Yes. Anyway, I just wanted to put that out there because those two concepts are in concert with one another. Oh yeah, sure. And then verse 1 in chapter 2, my little children. Real quick, let's make sure that we're thinking correctly. And he made us that way to have a natural inclination. Why are God's commandments not burdensome? And yeah. Not sin. He taught that to children. And that's why in Matthew 22, verse 37, he said, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart Because sometimes what would be most loving loving is for me to come alongside somebody And in fact, Israel was commanded in the law that some sins should be judged quickly and immediately Right, so that's an interesting thought. And um I got a ticket and went to we there was a a lawyer that we knew in our church By the way, I don't know if you know it or not, but I'm trying to repeat things so that it can be on the recording. I don't need food right now. And it can kind of confirm it. And why does he say this? Right. Um Yeah, yikes. Lawyers do, doctors do, we do in the hospital, inside our families we do, but Christ as our advocate. This idea of perfectionism that you never sin Yes. And there are many times in scripture where the word but is a very, very tender and kind word. And I am in solidarity with in that answer. What's so amazing to me about all of this, and you touched on this already that in the lake when there is a car accident And as we humble ourselves, Look at the fields that are white for the harvest. You know that loving God is connected to obeying God? God, I pray that this would cause true and lasting change, that we would An umpire is just like strike, foul. Pastor Mike taught on this this past Sunday. Love God more than your mommy and daddy. That's one aspect where our marriages reflect Christ and By the way, in case anybody doesn't know, it's chapters 11 and 12. And even God recognizes this. I'm sorry? Um isn't it Yes. And if there are some old nasty things that you're you're like, oh, that was something that was very important to me and I want to make sure that I start putting that into practice. That may be more of an advocate. So Christ only intercede uh only advocates on our behalf when we sin. Your advocate came beside you. And our sins Okay. And you might want to write some of this down now so that you don't forget, because if you're like me after the message is done At first I was confused with us started say or he started, authors started saying And he went on to say, look, if Sodom had been here and seen what you've seen, they would have repented You know. He is the propitiation. And so what I'm doing now is that I'm looking back at those things and I'm realizing the ugliness of them And I think it would be a habit that may save some marriages, may restore some relationships For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish. I have like a bad situation where that was very strange. Which allows so many other blessings that come. Uh I was gonna say that's the terrible book. Are we his? Okay. In John chapter one. Amen. But there is an aspect I agree with because I'm not going to go curl up And once I have tasted and seen who God is, I will lose taste for everything else In some ways we need to be so much not about ourselves that we're thinking of other people Thank you. Yes, Steve should have said no. I have to be impartial towards Doug. We're relying on God and His strength and our advocate There is no reason now. And today we've already looked at God as our advocate. But it's a picture of this. God, are you done judging Israel at this point? Agreement? By the way, you know I'm saying sin when I say cookie eating, right? And I tried I entered into those things saying That trip down to the waterfront, that And everyone who loves the Father Of an advocate or intercessor. Like I can do this extent and you like Probably to a degree. God is tender and merciful. And he per you know he just said, I I need and and God granted mercy, but he still had punishment. And then our our theology hat gets put on while, I know God sees everything Yes. We are very good at defending ourselves. It'll change. Drawing near and looking at God will make sin less tasteful. When when the apostles were Make it true in my heart. There are sins that we can overlook. Another aspect of advocacy Um I think we'll fit together. Let's open Matthew 10, verse 37. What do you mean by identity Christmas? Um There's a aspect of this that's hard to kind of divide. He stood up before me as a somebody who, you know, with a little bit of gravitas Love God now. It maybe it means that we need to spend some more time with sinners. Yes, absolutely. Yeah, yeah yeah. And then another day goes by and I don't do it and I'm just the world is I mean it's so our mind can quickly The point that you introduced was the difference between our intercessor and our advocate Okay. Yes? We do? Or the I don't know. Uh you want to do that in a in a right I think that both of these things work in consort with This has been exciting for my soul And it seems like that's to me it seems like that's an intercessory I know that everybody sins, but you, Christian, are not allowed to sin. Just a standpoint presentation. Uh sorry, Matthew 10, verse 37 And I'm picturing children. Absolutely. Because there is a concept where all sin is sin, period. Recognize that. And by the way, that basis is based on my blood You're welcome. It will rob my faith. What would be an example of somebody in this life who is an intercessor? It may be. That's one aspect. It would become less tasteful. My little grandson, I can't pry him out of his mom's arms. Yes. Yeah, that's We can't trust our hearts always, but it does add confirmation A real estate agent is representing either the seller or the buyer depending on what kind of agent they are. We are made right before God. And so the more uh we obey God the more we begin to love him and Oh, I remember. Yeah, alright, cool. It's painful to be in a position of I I have to humble myself By this we know We don't have to hide our sin. Covering your sin So I was wrong. I get about ten seconds before All sin is what? But the reality is in our flesh we struggle with sin. And I don't mean that negative at all I had a similar case, well no. I like that answer. Um Yes. How can we mirror that back to other people Yeah. You know, I'm sorry, strike ball, foul, safe, out, all that kind of stuff. What does propitiation mean? Yes. Um but it's imp I'm sorry, first John. He knows and he triumphed over all the temptation that we face Any other thoughts? Yes, sure. And Simple. There are um What is the That wasn't the only way We Uh did you want to give an ad intercessor one? Now, now and obey his commandments I don't know if that understanding It may be. Um Is there a subtle difference in like Um I don't think God could advocate for this sin If he would do that while we were his enemies Right. And I that's not our topic for for today and I I am tempted to go down a rabbit trail. Why is it When I'm distracted. Steve. And I think both of those things are very important. That is the truth of who God is: a treasure. Oh I don't know if it's fair to think about it from a demographic standpoint And we'll have to have a conversation John is telling us to do so. I like the word all in that verse. And he's saying no. He also knows how to deal gently with us. When we sin, we earn God's wrath. That confused me because Please forgive me. We pursue pleasure more than God. Open your Bibles up to 1 John chapter 2. Sin. Yes. Yes. You gotta love God more than your mommy and daddy If you love me, you will keep my commandments. And we're like, oh whatever, I'm just a cookie eater. Yes. In the book he says God already knows our sin and He has already taken care of that sin. Why is it that we don't Maybe another idea. But it's not an accurate definition of what propitiation And if you want more information about that, we'll have to talk about that after class. So there's a difference. Look at first John chapter five I had a case when I was a uh in um And John, when he's writing this, is a oh guy And you go, no! Probably not that much. How do I love God more? Bill? Yes. Yes. And this is one of them. And you do not have to advocate. So there's no great sin, easy sin. Oh yeah, I'd love to hear it. Because uh Yes. The Venn diagram overlaps a lot. All sin makes us guilty And what I did was not That's true. But it says in verse one If we claim I don't sin. Why does Paul Because all any sin All unrighteousness. It is not payment, but it's And so um Like a mediator? Let's get some more answers. The penalty's been paid. But Christ has made Based on what we just said. Yes.