And we're just thankful for this opportunity to to share the things of you uh with each other and just pray we look for opportunities. And I think the important thing is let's uh focus on the words. They're doing the same thing. And it's like, well, you know, our our father said we're going to meet on this mountain, but you all meet in Jerusalem. There's one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. And it occurred to me, oh, I missed the important thing about this this notion of being sympathetic. One of the things that Joel says in that is, and maybe some of you would like to share about this, but you find somebody who's been through a a tremendously difficult trial. And they respond to it in the right way. You know, it's like I don't know what to say. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls, for my yoke is easy and my burden is light Yeah, I found uh actually in our book I found a couple times having to refer to a dictionary is like, eh I don't know what that word means. And uh Christiana, you know, just kind of her journey is more subtle, you know, and uh a lot of times you hear people's testimonies and you know some of them are just dramatic and oh they had this horrendous life of sin He's leading the people of God and stuff like that, but then he disobeys the Lord. But I love the story because we can see that God doesn't give up on those who trust in Him, who are followers of Him. Yep. And just pray that we could be an encouragement to each other when we're going through difficult times, when we are feel burdened with sin, that that we struggle with. you know the way we respond to somebody is is completely sinful and we just do it anyway. That's the that's what he's asking. you know, had all these neighbors that that she would take care of. In any case, but everybody has but I guess that's the nice thing is that people can dip relate to different characters. Well you can be sure God knows you better than you know yourself. And and it's gonna go on to David. You were talking about the splinter that they have in their eye, and here we have this, you know, two by four, you know, and and so I think when we're thinking of, you know, should I go correct this person? You may sin know income per sin, you know, we can do it anyway. we table over here before we know it we we we're compromising or we don't we don't think about the scripture anymore because now we're so deep over here. Yeah, so you kind of you see, okay, you know, he's making this this this statement and and he recognizes the ones that come to him, his sheep, they're they are ones that will come to him about the heart of Christ and to be an encouragement to each other. is we uh have family gatherings over the summer or uh visit people that maybe we don't during the business of a normal year um Was there anything that anybody found particularly helpful? Two two year old toddler holding on his hand, wading into the water. When he engaged in his hummus, it calls gender You know, that he can deal gently reason being is he has weaknesses such as uh such as sin and what we learn elsewhere in Scripture, um We can certainly say that Jesus is is gentle. you know, I I kinda feel like he kinda went off base in terms of who that's talking about in Hebrews and so I got a hold of Doug and he talked me down off the ledge and um so in any case I was kinda like, wait a second, you know. the role of the high priest, what were some things that we learned last week about the what the high priest, who he was, in terms of the let's just first talk about the earthly high priest. You know what the Jews believe is is correct, you know, but ultimately we worship we should worship in spirit and in truth. after Doug and I talked about it after the class, you know, I kind of threw out a word. go a as a go between, somebody who can, you know, maybe figure out what's going on between these two parties. You know, he defends us uh against accusations from Satan, you know, when he accuses us of things. that that was dealt with and you have no basis for this accusation. Um so those were some of the things in terms of Jesus being the high priest that I was I was going to talk about. We say, you know, that was that was completely wrong. He said, you know, to the Lord, Against you and you only have I sinned. As I mentioned last week, you have the tendency to want to kinda hide. It's a nice picture too, you know, after the baby's born, you know, a lot of the the the moment of all that pain is forgotten because it's joy of the the new life. You know, just you know, one of these, you know, I I'm gonna do everything I can, you know, it's nobody's gonna get in my way. You know, somebody you love is going through a tremendous amount of pain. Yep. helpful to me every time I have to live in the classroom. And they what had happened is, I mean, she had no indication she had any problems with her back, and all of a sudden she had this I I guess it was like a spinal deterioration Um profound the C. all the way that that Jesus is a better sacrifice, he's a better high priest, he's better than Moses. One is it was once for all. We will never be cast out. You know, I mean he's just absolutely brilliant guy. You know, he could do do away with all the learning that he had and he could have the heart of John Bunyan when he preached. you know, multiple degrees. and he he could fix it, you know, I don't know if the pink was the sound of him beating on the metal or whatever. He was just a common a common person. He was a man of tremendous conviction. Tomorrow I'll be preaching. is called Come and Welcome to Christ, where it dead in 1678. And there's a part two, um, I bet that was interesting too. And then you have somebody else who is saved, you know, in in BBS at five years old, you know, and it's like, Oh, I was I stole some graham crackers. He never runs out of resources. We are not robots. that it reaches down and turns around our very desires, our eyes are opened. You know, that that to that's what you know the whole song Amazing Grace is about. you know, as you're reading that because you know, when you when you grieve over your sin you feel the weight of it, you know. Um so what we do stand, um you know it's it's um it's and But maybe navigate why were those characters cast out and maybe like because that happens for me might feel a little bit less distrust. You know, it's just it it's it's so discouraging but you recognize ultimately, you know it's it's like I think it was Alice Rubeg was talking about, you know, the idea of I will never cast you out where nobody will be able to snatch you out of my hand and the person was like And you take some encouragement in that. you know, some people think, okay, I recognize when I become Christian all my sins were forgiven, but, you know, I I continue to sin. But I could still jump, you know, like jump out of there. Right. Yeah. And a man who dearly loved God didn't get off track like we did. Yep. But and Hebrews Timothy says, you know, if we go on sinning uh or if you go on sinning deliberately after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice for sin, but a fearful expectation of judgment know, make sure that you know if you are convicted you you want to change and you know not in your own strength, but ask Christ to to give you the strength to to resist temptation. under the weight of his sin at that point. I guess he was just operating under some delusion that no one else was aware. You know, you kinda wonder if at that point Dave was like, Wow, other people are aware of this, you know, and this kind of came crashing down on them that not when I asked the pastor about about sinny the response to I've got the exact question of what he said. And David is the and and I and I love the example of Joseph as well. black and white, but you know. We study the theology and so forth. So it's physical, right? for us to have the same oneness with one another that he has with God. I just in my heart I feel like we get lost in scriptures and we're not connected in this in this walk, in this relations. It's just him conforming my heart to his own heart. You've got insistent thing. You would have died, he's a door kid out. formative words and it has to do with um not with the fact that like I'm so used to casting out. Right. Yeah, we we don't understand what it's like. Another thing we don't understand is that Jesus derived his satisfaction, his his delight in us is rooted in something that's by All that the Father gives to me will come to me. And that he won't cast them out. Right. And the entire treatise of it is is God's ultimate end is his own satisfaction, delight, glory. Might just feel terrible at you, but just imagine that the life that God is getting it Himself restored. Uh last week we covered chapters three and four. And feel the promise is nothing that one shall hear last be Uh hymns are are uh one of my favorites, just because you're so rich with theology. I don't know if mine has page numbers. Sherry with the deal with all boys with tenderness of care. But but uh you know there's a lot of helpfulness in it. their religious service on their own terms with strange fire and that was met with a um rather severe reaction from God because God is holy and he wants to be approached in the proper way And uh they were just kind of doing their own thing. you'll be approached. He had to make sure he was wearing the right things, you know, going in. Um so that just kind of occurred to me, you know, kind of in that context, that it is important. um sacrifices to the people on the Day of Atonement and presented them before God in in the Holy of Holies, which was just to be done on that one day of the year. Um but the con the contrast between he and and Jesus, Jesus was sinless, and yet he can sympathize with us. the earthly high priest could sympathize with us because he had weaknesses, you know, in terms of all the people that he was representing. was uh it was the word mediator. And we need someone who can be the go-between between us and the Father. you know, to God. Sacrifices really didn't, they were just a picture of what ultimately Christ would do in the sacrifice that He gave on the cross. Uh that actually what you're doing right there is is offensive to God. you know, things that we do that that are sinful. when we sin in any of those ways. You know, men are a lot of times we're just have to be as sympathetic as we can. Um one of the things, the uh audio message that I had brought up um last week by Joel Beaky, uh uh a lot of times I send these messages out midweek. And they can be sympathetic in that way. And um so I didn't know if anybody had any examples of like somebody that maybe had gone through a difficult time if it was an encouragement to you as you were going through a difficult time. And uh she was one of these people, no kidding, I mean you just had the impression, you know, if something was in her way, she'd just go right through a brick wall, you know, just She was paralyzed and underwater. full of life to this person, you know, just seems like it was like all their health was taken away. Lost all his children, lost I mean his financial, you know, material means seemed small in comparison to, you know, the personal pain of losing his family members. they believe that every week, you know, the that host and that wine become the body and blood of of Christ and they're essentially having yet another sacrifice, you know, that that is needed, you know, for everybody's sins for that week. And probably he's a little bit better known Puritan than Thomas Goodwin. what they're all about. It's like I think he was impressed with Hebrews. Yeah, he uh he wrote a tremendous amount while he was in prison. And I think Doug was saying that and he's actually uh was was reading some of it and and you you you give it a recommendation. Stretching it across scripture and it's it's encouraging to see God doesn't change, his word doesn't change, and because of that, the people who are in God's Word, their conclusions don't change either. Yes, we just think that was a power. So and just if you haven't or you aren't familiar, it's essentially an allegory where um it's kind of b autobiographical where Bunyan kind of describes himself as Christian Was that supposed to be his wife? seeing me and yet do not believe, all that the Father gives to me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never cast out. So I guess it's kind of a in the middle of that is that he will never cast them out. Let's see. It's the Father's deep delight to freely entrust recalcitrant rebels into the gracious care of his son and will come. Jesus says, All, not most, in terms of all that come to me, he will never cast out. He takes the loving initiative. We're promised that that will never be cast out. you know, to waylays our fears and concerns over that that he will in no wise cast us out just a reassuring promise. It's something that we don't want to do. You know, so it's good for us to notice the stories in this case. um like double negative of not like the indo wise yeah like the in the Greek it's the word for na sp think that we might be cast out. you know, that that he has seen us as one of his own and that he will never cast us out. It's not like that should ever give us any sense of pride because we didn't do anything to earn that position. Saul's prophesying, geez run with the prophets, he's hanging out, you know, he's got he's got it going on because the the these two characters to be comparing. not. He said, Lord Lord, you know, didn't we sign your name? you know, our salvation by doing words or anything like that. Self self inspection is always very important, you know. peace with God and that we who were once enemies were safe from their enemy. He knew he was violating it when he had your eye killed and tried to cover everything up and he thought he had gotten away with it and he thought he could just live with it. And yet he came to him and said, Gabe told him a story and it's like, yeah, he's all David's all angry, Oh, this is a terrible person who did this. And, you know, this was somebody who loved David, you know, went to him and said, Listen, you know, w you need to deal with your sin. not only does God know but other people know, but but for whatever reason, you know, he at that moment completely recognized this is what I've done and and I I d it needs to be having prepared for it. just getting getting stronger. Do you have something else, Ricardo? I just imagine he lost touch with some of the finer points of his relationship with God. first to straighten you up before his seat. You can find a scripturing adventure, so oh yeah, I'm I'm good. With all that you have. and I we we have to say well we intentionally try to um become one. New Testament believers. to understand why Jesus would never ever get out. But like I I work on projects and I get a project and if it doesn't bear fruit after a couple months then I can't you know throw that one away. with Christ. the uh the strength and the grace to to overcome those things and be an encouragement to others that are struggling. And just uh just pray we'd begin encouragement to someone today. Um one final question. Father, we are thankful for this passage. Just to just pray that we'd be quick to encourage and to um to bless others with things that we're learning and and things about you. I cannot close my heart to thee. O cross that lifted up my head, I dare not ask you fly from me. This song talks about a love that will never let us go, so I thought it was appropriate. It says, consider what this means. He doesn't handle us roughly and he doesn't scalp school and I just think that it's sweet to think that him as a high priest treats us And we can like that and every cut. kind of got something wrong and that is he f kind of applied um Hebrews 5 2 to Christ and when I read Hebrews 5-2 I believe that's talking about an earthly high priest So um in any case, um but you know as as uh so as we learned last week, we learned about Um so he went in once a year. That that is something that um he and and in a lot of ways, you know, as as chapter five does say, you know, that The king was someone who represented God to man, but the priest represented men to God. the uh the passage in this chapter, he can deal gently with the ignorant and wayward. At that point that we shouldn't do that anymore. where you know something's wrong and you're like, I'm just gonna do it anyway. how wrong it was and accepted the consequences. A lot of times they get disoriented. And, you know, men can never understand, you know, some guy who's had you know, kidney stones will say, Oh, I think it's pretty close you know, and and then he gets hit by his wife or something. Uh Thomas Thomas Goodwin's Um The Heart of Christ, the really long title. Sure. Files in the file section of our group. Well, hopefully that'll be the case, you know, at some some point in your life and I I oh did you have a yes. And somehow she fell. was the most encouraging. See uh so I was thinking of a h uh Bible character, Job. And those first three days when his friends came with them, what did they do? But uh in any case and a lot of times, you know, that's what we can do. Yeah. He's done. So um there is the idea that Jesus is gentle with us. And then kind of here's all their their writings of the different Puritans. I found much more helpful. For him, I guess. And he's he's just can't tell on this one verse that Steve's gonna talk about and and it you know, besides this he's and I um he could be an arch pulpit teaching the things that he's teaching Yeah. And um were there Yep. and his travel from wherever he lives. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall not thirst. But the will of him who sent me. So it's it's uh chapter six verse thirty-seven that we're concentrating on and and uh as was said last week, um John Bunyan takes uh 637 and basically writes a whole book about it. comes to me. That was a a quote from the book. they have a fear of being cast out by Jesus. And I like what what you just quoted there, uh most truly we come to a person to Christ Himself, mm-hmm, you know, and it's just that's re-encouraging too, you know, very encouraging too. Is this Christ himself, you know, and it was the Father's will to to call us to Christ for salvation. you know, our forgiveness that that he offers so freely, you know, coming coming to him and repenting. Do you something say something there? judge but so there might be a part of us that wonders how how different am I than that character who ultimately could get passed out or by a misinterpreted Yeah. But their life, their entire life has shown no evidence, you know, but they are clinging to whatever they maybe read in their Bible or or something along those lines. You know, if you look at yourself and you say, you know, okay, yes, you know, the trajectory of my life, I'm growing in godliness You know, wow. Let's make sure. And I look at his life and his character. He says he refers to God as your God. So you see that food and yes knowing what so long had no proof that's right. And so I mean those are scary verses, you know, to examine yourself. What he's talking about here is if we do sin deliberately, you know, if we if we come, he will not cast us out. You know, if you do sin, do you come to him for you know do you repent and and turn back to him? He was and so that speaks to the question, what about if I sin, you know, like David did. Like just throw it away, you know. in um just the the truths that we're taught, just the notion that um that not only did you give us salvation, but you give us the promise that you will never cast us out Well, for those uh who weren't here last week, um I'm Steve Hirshner. Father, we are thankful for this class. Okay, you're gonna be seated. holding on, you know, that that keeps us secure. And um they were uh they were dealt with um as as well ultimately. And uh you know, take my yoke upon you, it says that he's gentle and lowly. Um I was looking through Doug's notes in the past and he mentioned, you know, just the idea of a man being sympathetic about what a woman goes through in childbirth You think of Judy. they uh as you read um believe that it's in the book it was kind of like all the things that John Owen were were somebody like a Jonathan Edwards, you know, very well read, very knowledgeable. And what he said was, you know, in prison they were like, if you stop preaching, we'll let you out. because he's just exeguting what the word says and he's getting into tenses and how it supplies and And you know, you think about this guy these guys way back in the day that wrote this stuff down with just a quill and a candle. And they might be afraid that they're going to be cast out. You know, unlike people who don't discount, who ignore, who love it. being passed out. Well, you know, if somebody comes to the church and you know, they prayed a prayer in in BBS as I mentioned, you know, when they were five years old or whatever. Yeah. um dealt with and uh it was. And and it it it involves some creativity, um and imagination. Gosh Wallace. He can just give and give and give and overflow and overflow and like quote waste all of his his protection and he's he's not diminished at all. All right, well, let's um this week I don't have the uh the uh the conundrum of which hymn to do. I thought rather than ask who read the chapters, I'm going to ask, what did you like in the chapters? Once a year he would go in to the Holy Hold and give it back. ignorant and wayward. You know, it's it's a dangerous thing to talk even talk about it. It was encouraging to read. Just there's a couple of words in there you're like, huh, what's that? So in this chapter, it is that we he will never cast this out. Um those who come to Jesus, they might be tempted to think that Jesus will not receive them. times in my life where I have sinned with a high hand as it were and um and you're just caught in a corner at that point. the grace of Christ as much as we should. We ought to major then on grace of Christ. But you know sometimes we just we tend not to trust God as much as issue. have very good cause to say, perhaps, you know, I an I've never become a believer and you know you need to recognize that that that happens, you know, quite often, you know. It i y but but when you're kind of saying, okay, there's this one stubborn sin, you know, that that just keeps coming back and you know, I keep asking forgiveness for And we know better. He was doing his job. And you know, you're not you're not being chosen by God and then you're in a position where you don't love God because there's an incompatibility there And I think it was because of the example like David that I knew and I never doubted God enough for me. when Christ is talking about, you know, when we're coming to someone, you know, to kind of a to to deal with their sin, you know, it's the idea that we have that um Jesus had no sin. But it's it's one of these things that maybe when you're a first a believer, you do things that are sinful but you don't recognize Can somebody look those up for me? So okay. The particular verse that this chapter is based on is 35, but um 35 to 40 of John, Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life. Then the next phrase, the Father, our redemption is not a matter of a gracious son to calm down an uncontrollably angry father. It takes your feet out from underneath of you if you're standing on that spot. And then you gotta ask yourself, well why? And he didn't repent it right away either. So many of us being in church. Some hilo. So we we have such difficulty with casting out things and people that it's almost like what you know, if we think about our relationship Okay. Okay. Yeah. Well I I will have a a moment of confession here. And it's it's kind of neat to see it from the perspective of history. For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. Either before salvation or after salvation. Yeah. You know, and it just if I stopped there for a minute, it's like, oh my goodness, what all my heart? Yeah. And I have you all stand. As we see in Matthew 11, 28 to 30, it says, Come unto me all you are weary and heavy laden, I will give you rest. Well I mean it seems like you know we we want to carry the responsibility ourselves or we feel like we have to earn it or deserve it or something like that. And um so it's beyond us. So that's an indication. And if people are God's elect, he will now wise cast out. So yeah, I d I don't see the con any inconsistency. I saw this hand up earlier. But if we go on sinning presumptuously there no longer remains and it's an indication if you maybe aren't truly saved. So, you know, I think often when we read God's Word and we read characters, we oftentimes we don't read between the lines. And then this is the and foremost again. And she's still a court. So, um let's see. It was describing, you know, Christians recognizing his sin being a a a burden on his back that he's carrying. It's not just yeah, yeah, I'm gonna pick you, I'm gonna pick you, I'm not gonna pick you. Because that's an incredible task. Right, right. So, as we mentioned, the idea of being a high priest, what are some ways that Jesus is a better high priest? So that's the gradual thing. My heart restores a life I owe That in thine ocean deaths may float flow, may richer fall. Day of Atonement, Yom Kippur. Another one that I I thought was was was pretty good was in Hebrews ten verses twelve and fourteen. As I mentioned, John Bunyan, he was born in 1628, died in 1688. Good example. Yeah, C. Uh just out of curiosity, how many have read Pilgrim's Progress? Right. He g he brought sacrifices, gave gave sacrifices um to um to uh atone for our sins, you know, but in the ultimate sense we recognize It's finished as he said on the cross. Because uh how solidly just launched on that point. Yes. Yeah, a lot of when he was confronted with things it was always rationalizing and you know, there was a reason for it and here's why I decided to d directly disobey what God told me, you know. And like if I were in the place of Christ dealing with me, I would have to I think there's two things that we don't understand that we We do not come to a set of doctrines. I don't want that to happen to me. Jesus' delight in us is not rooted rooted in his delight in us, yeah, is not rooted in us. I think I was talking last week, you know, a lot of times when you read Jesus as he's explaining things, um, we get a little glimpse into things that would never have occurred to us than when Jesus says It can be frustrating, but then we kind of go but well how many times have I done the same things over and over again? I I I was thinking as we went recently through John, the woman at the well, you know, she tries to do a comparative religion thing with Jesus. So that is what I had gotten from chapter 5. Yeah, and uh people are encouraged by you too, Maria, with all your prayer for sure. Maybe he wrote this stuff while he was in prison, I don't know. Apparently uh he also wrote another sixty titles. Yeah and we are encouraged in scripture to examine ourselves and um I think that's an ever more important, you know, and this day of Steve, if you think about that though, it's kind of like dig at that answer a little bit, because you said well we see people in the Old Testament and you know you see and the the the example that's in here is fingers They didn't get another chance. So that he can be just and the justifier of sense. In fact, though we are the Holy Spirit, the person who trained who lives within us to make us of sin, righteousness, and judgment. Yeah, that's great. Yep. Yeah, I think a lot of times when we're working with somebody, you know, and you've been over something again and again and they He's like, Come to me. And uh Thomas, sorry, John Owen, um amazingly, he has a seven volume set on the book of Hebrews. He was being chased around before. I think I might need a conductor. While the Father is clearly the sovereign overseer of our redemption, we are not dragged kicking and screaming into Christ against our will. And one of the things that I treasure about that example is because David David knew the truth and he just like, damn, I'm I don't care I'm gonna go do this thing anyway. So and it even extends to people. Yeah, that that's also hardness. So it's like, you know, if it's light enough, if the detection for us were you know, then we could lose, right? Yeah. You know, each of our students has a genesis. Oh. S. I have never read the second one. That's right. And and and so I see David and his life is just kind of screwed up at this point. I give thee back my life to a yo That in thine ocean depths it flows may richer fall. Well, hopefully we'll have more uh thoughts that come to us as we discuss the the different chapters. But going back to the original question about like for your question maybe why why might we be prone But then when you compare that example to King David, right? Everybody. Lewis has a book called Surprise by Joy that I'd recommend if anybody's hasn't read it, you know, just in terms of real difficult he went through. I could quickly interject. One thing is we don't understand infinite resources. And it's like, wow, you know, that's it it g it it it definitely uh it was a good discussion today, so And then you have John Bunyan. What is it? He's still having something. Are are do we have a relationship? Did I see your hand up in the back there, Bill? Steve, I like the author continues to come back to the idea and like you, I'm on my candle I I don't know what page number I'm on, but I'm in chapter five. And I guess the author continues to come back to that as a glimpse from the book, but yeah. S. Hebrews 10. Um, oh, I guess one thing I did want to say about chapter five. And you know, I don't what, it was five bucks, ten bucks, something like that. Um so as we go through um that passage that I just read Yeah, I think the thing I find interesting about that, you know, is like David knew full well what he had done. Um yeah. And he says with all your heart, um, and with all your soul and with all your mind. Sacrifice for himself because he had his own sins to deal with. The grace that God gives, they receive it and and it and what does it do to them? If somebody is going through a really difficult trial and somebody comes in who they know, you know, they just went through something very similar, they can be really sympathetic with that person And when she fell, she went face down in a puddle and she literally was drowning. But he, having offered one sacrifice for sins for all time, sat down at the right hand of God, for by one offering he is perfected for all time those who are sacred And this is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me, but raise it up on the last day I feel like we are given some examples of characters in the Bible and words read it. That's the whole fruit that Jesus talks about. Yeah. He hoped you're heart to tell me you were dad. He prepared himself ahead of time by by um sacrificing for himself. So it's the idea if you have two parties that are at odds, sometimes you bring in a person to kind of If the Father calls, we will come to Christ. Um page fifty-three. Um the idea here is by two is that Jesus is not those his hands up in the air. Lewis analogy of walking is the how we've all fallen to temptation, but she has gone farther than even the But you know this this notion of, you know, I don't see any evidence of of fruit in my life. Yeah. God never God doesn't have to prioritize people because he lacks time, energy, right? Very good. Judy? Because you know, well you know, we we guys believers, you know, we know the serious seriousness of this of the city. And he was doing it and then he got to the point where he was doing it the way he thought he should do it, selfishly. So that same concept should be with us and our Lord Jesus Christ. Especially when I'm starting to also my sense like, yeah, I can go to him with my repentance and he will restore me. God is ready. So uh and w what is John Bunyan's and uh Doug, he's not Paul's brother, I'm just telling you now. And when I think about them if I think about soul, so we're talking about soul. And you own it, you go to the person, you ask for forgiveness, but ultimately, you know, we see when David was confronted with his sin And somebody came out and they they hauled her out of the water and and you know, it was uh you went from seeing somebody who is strong and just You know, he uh he was preaching to the point where it became illegal for him to preach, and ultimately he was put in prison And and God wouldn't let him out. He didn't repent for the baby was almost born before he repented. Yep. And uh and and that was um that was something we read in this chapter of Hophne and Phineas Phineas, who were the sons of the priest, they were priests themselves. They're like, well, I'm doing okay today, but you know, what happens if I slip? What was it about them or the unforgivableness of what they did that's different than some of the things that I feel like should be unforgivable or I was just trying to Uh they're in a position of and and they didn't get another and then you look at saw and you know That's not God is God's nodding consistent. No. And yeah, I get on a little bit so fucking messing with the So you know with with my wife and I but I'll send messages that have links in them that you can listen to. So when we do it, you know, you know, how do we think about that? And I ask myself, Claro, what do you think about this guy? Very good. Oh joy that seekest me through pain That was very brave of you all. So the idea is when you sin, sometimes you sin David and his Jews stood up for God. Thanks. We're thankful for these chapters and the discussion that we had. We're thankful for this opportunity to um to learn more about you, to learn So um ah another thing I won uh it's funny. Yeah. And after he gave the sacrifice, what did he do? Maybe they feel you know y you might have gone through a a time where you didn't have this full assurance of faith. Um, yeah. Where are we? I think um kind of the premise of our our class that Jesus is gentle and lowly. You know, you that are are um weary and heavy laden and there's a lot of times those there's things that cause weariness and heavy ladeness is the sin in our life. And these days they let the husband come in so the wife can say this is all your fault and um but you know and and it's I can help teach the kitchen in the classroom because maybe teaching for outside. Um, as I mentioned last week, I was raised uh Roman Catholic and when I became a believer my elder brother was discipling me and was explaining kind of the concept of the mass. And then uh so our father and then says gives. When we sin, we are encouraged to bring our mess to Jesus because he'll know just how to receive us. Anybody else? Um he uh he talks about how um we will But um what we learn about John Bunyan, he's he's kind of the character of of chapter six, is Yeah. She was great. I was just thinking you know, there are two scary passages uh that come to mind in Matthew seven. And as it turns out, chapter four kind of blends into chapter five a little bit. We know that. Yep. Let's see. Um but uh one of the things that he said um is It's not gonna happen. And so we just have this incredible privilege that the third person, Trinity, chooses us. Oh, yeah. All right. Is this um a song that's unfamiliar to anyone? Yeah, sorry. It's God does it. And he said to him, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart. And from the ground their blossoms red like I shall be. Just read verses 12 and 14. Because you know, you might be tempted to say, Well well God God's inconsistent. Um Saul, when he's confronted by Samuel, like why did you decide you're going to go ahead and sacrifice? Like if I have a coworker who treats me wrongly, I'm not gonna like get vengeance on them. It's like, okay, that's a pretty absolute statement. And uh, you know, it's it's one of these things that, you know, it's kinda like, well, if I can skip that chapter There's a part two where uh he speaks of Christiana, which is We do not come to a church. And he knows. So obviously that makes him a much better high priest. If we're in a a a core group or a five or if it's that maybe so wise or what you go for We just pray that we would have good discussion in this class that would be honoring to you Yeah. But then there's the other kind of sin where it talks about this waywardness. So um that's that's kind of the idea, the distinction between the ignorant and wayward, you know, and yet Yeah. So anyway, so that was all I had on uh the the idea of being sympathetic from chapter five, anything else or yep. So again, as we've talked so often, this reveals Christ's heart. Didn't we cast out demons? Yeah. Yes, go there. Pray all these things your name, Amen You know, it's like, oh, I gotta kinda clean up my act before I can go, be make myself more presentable somehow, you know, before I can go back to God and yet he wants us to come She had oh Jesus. I love the the real people of of the Bible. But the more I read, you know, and and I and I opened up um I just want to read this. Okay. And as I'm growing, I'm I'm starting to realize I love God because the Holy Spirit loves God. I mean, just as Puritans go, you know, he's probably, you know, one of the most brilliant. Supposed to be his his wife and and uh they it's interesting how they kind of Well you've been in one yeah. And he knew that David would would recognize I need to straighten up. So so we're very thankful you know for that role. He's He's you know encourages us. Yes, we should know the seriousness again, but even more than that, we should know the grace of God. What he's done. There was so much going on in his life that he Like the anti night. And one day she was leaving work and she'd walk across the parking lot. But uh it read it it reads pretty well. The second is just like it. I'm like, oh my gosh, what do you ask of me? Second one though. So he represents us to God as we receive salvation. Maybe some loving brother comes alongside you and says, Hey, we know what you're doing there, what you said to your wife, you know, whatever it is, this is something that's not pleasing to God, and we learn You know, when we recognize the grace that God has given us, it's truly amazing. I mean we know that there isn't, but but but but sometimes you don't see the whole picture. Are we connecting with God? So he had to go in once a year. She's uh Sarah is speaking of Judy Fisher. All he does is disobey the Lord, right? Yeah. And I thought that was a really good example. You know, he recognized the importance of what he had done. And the book that's mentioned in this uh in this chapter So has anybody um ever gone through a time where they're Okay, Samuel, he's your God. And that's when the the guilt you know really comes in and you say, Well that can't be forgiven, you know, I'll just sin presumptuously or not. Oh light that followest all my way, I yield my flickering fortune. Um we learned uh you know, a couple uh Nadab and Faihu kind of tried to do And uh and yet when we recognize you know he receives us It starts with something. Mm-hmm in our relationship with Christ. Jonathan works he has a book and I think it's called The End for Which God Created the World. And um so we can learn applications from from the chapter, perhaps not So uh but uh what I will say is we recognize it's a tremendous amount of pain that a woman goes through. It's interesting as you read it, you know, just kind of the names of the places that he gives. I really liked the his example in chapter six that was uh how Jesus never lets us go. As I was studying it this week, um I had an issue with chapter five, and I'll just briefly say um I feel like the author It's it's sinful. Yeah, there's a happy ending. It's like uh that is a tough individual right there. I I I love David's example because he he got off track. She needs a show fly. They just sat with them. He was what they called a tinker. Um I was hoping you know it was it was familiar but but it didn't seem like it was But there's some some aspect of that we'll never tr truly understand. They say it's the the second most sold book other than the Bible. And um so that's uh you know kind of a very Puritan thing to do. And, you know, when Nathan comes to him, you know, somebody I mean he was David was the king, Nathan was somebody who served him Alpha reads. And so I've just been trying to think about this thing. Yeah. And then later in in in John, when Jesus is praying We'll talk too much about her, but anyway. And so basically, chapter five talks about how Jesus can be gentle. And as usual, it's available on Monergism for free. But quite often we don't recognize Yes. You know, the son's strength to hold on is weak, but it's really the father holding on And what do we have to do when we when we recognize that? That's that's how God will deal with us with respect to our sin. Yeah. So I have to see if I can uh get a a sense of whether a song's familiar to everyone or not, but we got through. You know, this is Tuesday, this is my uh day to just do that sin without even thinking about it. And it's sh solid doctrinal teaching. You we're not earning Um but now it's um Yeah. It always works better with our voices when we're standing. Many of them were expanded sermons. We do not even come to the gospel. But it it is a call for self examination. Yeah. Fifty-three. Christ becomes beautiful. You know, it's God who justifies. We talk about you know, sometimes we say uh and we And and so at that point it doesn't make sense to cast And I think part of it has been answered as like, you know, consciousness of our own mind. But um so the earthly high priest, as we mentioned, sacrificed for his own sins and ultimately he brought Oh love that will not let me go. And as we mentioned the the pa passage from Timothy. So the fact that he gave this promise that um You should love your neighbor at yourself. Are you stretching or thinking about uh Doug's question, you know, why why is it so hard for uh And he had a relationship with him. Um as we'll be learning today, particularly in chapter six, um, Jesus talks about how he will never cast us out. These guys were centuries ago and they're reading the same Bible we're reading. Why do you think our nature is to not believe that well? It was just something that was graciously given to us. Because King David uh there's some pretty gross sin that the scripture tells us about. And now much more God's gonna hold us. Yeah. Right. Are we growing every day or every year saying, Oh, this is good That's right. Never, never going to cast them out. Yeah. Yeah. And you know, that's a terrible, terrible place to be. There's things in life that we can never be sympathetic about in the truest sense Um the way he's better a high priest is that he had no sin of his own to to um sacrifice for And uh as I read about these people in this chapter, I go to the book and and read, you know, kind of um And whoever comes, yet He loved God. Didn't we do many mighty works? I thought it was interesting how he uh pointed out correctly But he was not somebody, you know, of high learning or, you know, uh you know, just Uh didn't mean the run for everybody. They were like, well, once he really gets to know me. I love Romans because it gives us the rationale for why it's just for God to not cast us out. I'm uh helping Doug teach the class. And you have to be educated as you read God's word to become aware of They didn't say anything. I was amazed. Looks like about half of us. Some of you are fat You know, he was somebody who in a day lost everything, he lost his health. We can uh you know sympathize with somebody just by sitting with them and and Actually rooted it is the most product. I trace the rainbow through the rain. Yeah. But there is an aspect of those who are gods, God's elect, those who are No wise. So um it's an important thing to to treat God as holy, to recognize that He is and uh That's great. Um and he uh You can skip over 13. Not so much about about what we've done. That's what it seems like when you read just a direct reading of the scripture and God says, No, I'm done with you I just needed to straighten up. Just don't do it. What do you mean by that Jesus? Let me make sure in my notes I made uh the text a little bigger so I wouldn't have to keep taking my glasses on and off. But through all that she He sat down, which implies what? So um but yeah. But I said to you that you have Steve you asked the question I had to felt that way. Something's wrong over here. Yeah. And the last one if I can find it either. Do you think you love God? It's like that tells me so much. It's it's Christ he died when when Christ died on a cross. Just thankful for uh Pastor Mike as he's going to be bringing us the word shortly Anyway, um as I said last week. No, that's really good. So um Cast out, cast down Right? And then we ready out on the airfield Isn't it really that big a deal? And just thinking about how much delight God gets in not asking us. Or do y'all do y'all know nobody knows it? And, you know, we He had this fervor for him. Romans chapter five says Not not to fall into it, you know, stumble into it. Just just our um just we rejoice and And um that was that was eye-opening. He references a character named John Owen. And I'm going to read John 6, 35 to 40. So see Right. And yet, you know, so that that was the sense that the priest represented us The message by Jill Beakey was on I I had, as I mentioned, the book by Joel Beaky called Meet the Puritans. Yeah, I think it'd be uh Just like it would with any relationship in that control. And ultimately when you have a party such as God the God the Father and you have man, as I mentioned, he's holy. He's like, My blood took care of that sin, you know, he dealt with It tenderizes them. And uh Yeah. I mean the passage in Matthew, come to me, you that are um weary and heavy laden Oh yeah. This is gone bananas on me here. And uh basically if you needed your pot repaired, you'd take it to him and Maybe Steve could find it for free. We come to him, and anyone, whoever, is welcome, come and welcome to Jesus Christ. What happens, you know, if I if I you know somehow disappoint God That's the that's the other thing. Okay, how do I how do I how do I become one with with Doug where you are one with God? Or like I have stuff in my house that refresh like I don't have time to fix this, I don't know what to fix it Okay. Is that the the thought that I have to I have to repent Yeah. And he just didn't refocus. It makes sense then to say no he's not not ever. We'll pretend like we don't remember. I'm going to assume that you read the chapters because I'm an optimist. He was an English writer, a Puritan preacher, and he's best remembered for the Christian allegory, The Pilgrim's Progress. It's not that he haggles over. And I like you know, it says that he wouldn't have given this promise if we weren't prone to So uh I like two uh examples. Right. What did he have to do before he went in? All these are vital. Correct. And all that come to me will I will in no wise cast out. Okay. So, you know, it's just the same for us. Yeah. You know, he will forgive us. Yeah. So that was one of the things we learned in the chapter as well But it's uh very rec uh I highly recommend it. Once the Father sets this loving gaze on a wandering sinner, that sinner's rescue is certain. He says, Yes You know, that and and God has forgiven me. And that was that was the best thing they could do. Yeah. As I mentioned, Hebrews, and it kind of kind of goes through And I think about David, being in power, maybe never really mentally Not not a portion of it. That's right. Just getting ready for the sermon last week. Yeah. Because that was outrageous. I mean that is the kind of dedication that he's looking for from us Somebody looked out the window and they saw, is that Judy out in the parking lot? Chapter six You can go be with your family. But um anyway, yeah. You know, but the idea is we recognize if we are in Christ And the thing goes on. So uh glad I didn't say everything last week. So that's a way that that high priest is different than than Christ. But she had a heart for people, always did. I didn't think hearing. Um for those of you who don't know, um we've known her probably forty-five years, she went to our old church You know, that that we don't have to try to earn our salvation. Do we truly have that relationship? Well, with that all close us in prayer. Um You know, he didn't have to go in every year to offer on on the Day of S um Atonement. I got off track. The only is he was flying You can download the ebook. I was a hardened sinner, you know. You know, we know the seriousness of sin and it's something that we hate. He was horrified. Or may have been born. Just pray that you would give us Um it's what's known as a high-handed sin It makes them more tender toward people that go through similar things So You know, he he just never thought of him as being his own God. So when we walk and we That's right. We learned that last week. And that was that was something uh So it is important to to recognize So that's just one thing that we can Anybody else? As much as a lot of times when we sin But most truly we come to a person, to Christ Himself. And that's what Steve was saying. Make sure you're you are in the truth. You know, so like like I think you were saying, you know, is you look at the fruit of your life and see. And he and he and he did Or performance. We God's saving purpose for a sinner is never thwarted, he is never frustrated But I think we have to ask ourselves the question So a love that will not let me go. Just pray all these things your name. It's I'm kidding. And Yeah. Um and For I have come down from heaven, not to do my will Um so You know, I I don't understand what's going on and and other people don't see any evidence of fruit in my life and you I love this, Matthew 22, verse 36 through 35 And Jesus says to her, you know, salvation is from the Jews, which means That's true. And you know, w we live in the gray area. But ultimately he's on this journey to the celestial city, which is heaven The divine grace is so radical And there have been some some If I if I look at his character, I would say no, he didn't love God Versus David, when you look at him, even before God was saying that Right. And yet I don't understand. Yeah. There we go. I delight in God because the Holy Spirit delights in God. So it's it's kind of a combination thing. But um uh what is he known for, John Bunyan? Um but yeah, definitely So when I look at it I don't see any consistency. And I think about this in many different areas And I I Um so But I'm probably gonna avoid them and like ignore them. Okay. And um so And yet he was saying that he wishes I I I'm just I'm stuck on this for the fall of 2024 Thank you, professional. We could we could do something unboot or I I picked one out. Um so And and so I I I love the example of David because I'm David But thanks Doug, we appreciate that. The Father Himself ordains our deliverance So um And he felt hard, but he had the kind of relationship with God where God says, I'm gonna send someone to you You've got it? Because, you know, this is something we can't say That's a long time to try to hide and You know, so I I I remember um I was in this church once I And that was on a special day. I put But um And he was like, if you let me out Like wow set hook still for me. And he knew the law of God and he knew that he was violating it when he invited Bathsheba over. And it began before we even existed, right? Yeah. And the song says that he he was squished Let's see if we can muddle through the rest Why do you think I I the same thing. Not only that, as I've kind of grown as a believer, no one preaches the gospel. What were some of his roles? Before the high priest could go into the Holy of Holies, what did he have to do? Hey, let's let's do a check, right? And he's like, That's you But he said we sh you know the two become one. You know, I can barely love, you know Yeah and they're coming to the same conclusions that we come to You know, I just don't have m as that many opportunities to sin. Again and That's true. You know, it's it's as as you know, I I I always think of um What does Sam what does Saul say? But God re restored him. Because he said that's the primary thing. Amen. God has been gentle with me. Um because I mean when you look at these verses, it says a couple things. Do we love God? Sarah. It all went wrong when they opened their mouth Um And there's never an indication that God casts David out. Yeah. Never never. I think there's separately that I've been trying to cover I saved some for this week. But in any case, um but what you're recognizing is somebody is going through Okay. Yeah. So uh we're gonna turn to hymn number 374. Anybody have anything about that? But thanks for that, Joe. They've been through, you know, just a really hard time in their life. And uh in any case, um between chapters five and six. And uh And I feel like it so I'm gonna do it on the king. It's it's it's quite good Um totally different thought. My favorite part of this was the Greek I see a man who didn't love God And you know and He used the example of his two year Um It has like a biographical sketch. And they throw out the new Yeah, I mean that it should be um Well I think it's just encouraging. I rest my weary soul in thee. Um in any case And we do that sometimes. What was that day called? Took him twenty years to write So um that's uh That's one Yeah. Try to and that's a form of chat. So I I just want to underscore privilege we have a And uh so that's really good. Brought him right back. Oh that's good. Right. We don't live in the black and white. So like well let's try to be intentional. Let me open this in word prayer. Alright. So You want to be very careful about that. And uh Um Um I lay in the silence. It's it's not just as a The love the Lord God with It was it was done once for all. Sometimes we're well aware Even though he is And so I It's really it's it's This is probably one of my favorite chapters. Fifty-three. And that's a different We might make But So