It was a long way to ask that question. Because it is one thing to say, oh yeah, when I was when I was dirty and all that stuff, God cleansed me and forgave me of my sins. And I just want to encourage you, if that's never been your memory verse, to hold on to that as a memory verse and meditate on that verse And hope does not put us to shame because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us. I'm just drawing you a picture of protocol and expectations and rules. Now imagine somebody shows up there in their cutoff jeans and their smelly sneakers, right, and they need to take a bath and they reach out and they give the Queen a hug and a kiss on the cheek. And I love to do that with my own self. Because it says there that we can have hope in our suffering. and I'm gonna react the best that I can. But also a little bit of an illustration. And it hits the target like that. And so it is important to remember the love of God. And patient with people that don't deserve mercy or patience. Yeah, we just finished sending Amazing Grace and just thinking a little bit about what that means. You know, it's like while we are if it means being unlovable, he loved us and while we were in the midst of our sin and now that we're justified If I'm missing something that he says is his deepest disappointment of what we think of of his heart toward us. It's the same thing. It seems to me that um because it is uh based a step uh struggle with profile the concept of faith, you know, believing things that you can't see if you can't hear it all that. You know, how how do you how do you deal with you know that that challenge of trying to have a relationship with the supernatural, you know what I mean? Yeah. Oh yeah. I'm just gonna be the best person that I can be. I th when I read that I was thinking about the Olympics. Throughout this book, we've seen that pattern and that truth uh exemplified. And it's wonder. You struggle to with the idea that God would also just as freely forgive today's sins as He did those sins before I was a believer I should be living a life filled by the Holy Spirit. Is God just as ready to forgive my sins? But now I'm over here in this space where there are days, can we just be honest? life than you ever were obviously before. Yeah, absolutely not. And I believe the text of Scripture has been saying again and again throughout the chapters leading up to this chapter, God's love for you is bigger than you can And then he goes on to say, and Jews sin and Gentiles sin. It's been justified, which member means declared righteous. I don't like that as much. It may be just like a thought. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's good too. In verses 6 to 11. know how much more I mean throughout all that it's all driven by God's law. And that's the pro that's the proposition that starts us all off. Can you picture that in your minds maybe a little bit better? I you just you were just kinda touching on it, but I just want to highlight it because in that passage there's three three times much more, much more, more than that. It keeps building and building and going to this though. So um I like when he was talking about Greek word for shows. And and in fact, I don't know if you heard it when I was reading it, it there's just a natural we're we're getting louder because we're getting more excited as we read this. The standard that God accepts is 70 times seven. That's such a high standard. For your wonder. And it helps us, and it's critically important for us to remember that God is here. And in that sense, that's why Jesus says, if you love me, because really there's a position of humility and dependence and love. Any anything different toward us now that we are found? the this the Quiglian. Because they were anyway. I got it. And when we say God's not as loving as he is, we're marginalizing his glory. in that moment. And I I would add um the Apostle Paul with the thorn in the thorn in the flesh, you know, he he was given that, you know, a messenger from Satan above Well, I mean, it it wasn't because of the lack of Job's faithfulness that he went through the test. Um we see that Job comes to realize that God is worthy no matter what he's going through. But it's it's it's them that are hope and that are kind of secure in our yeah. If this guy is invisible and invaluable and all we have is the word. Yeah. Take him up like a sacrifice. It says, if you want to please God, you've got to believe that he is. Having left those on who are in the world, he loved them to the end. Let's look at John thirteen. And it sets it up, right? He's going to have dinner, he's going to pray in the garden, and he's going to be arrested. Jesus is God. That means that there's eleven guys in that room that are his own and he has loved them. them for while he's not there. And we have that prayer written down. It keeps on. They and they s they made a statement about how God's judgment is is kind and I went, No. And have that removed. And here in John 13, 1, we see that Christ loves to the end. I love that Jesus is like, I I am Lord. Philippians chapter 2, Christ emptied himself and became a servant. People do say thank you, and it feels good. And I sorry, dear Lord, for that. and bring that and it'll be all fine and dandy. I say to you that a servant is not greater than his master. Thank you, God, for the kindness that you've shown us today. To see your kindness and your grace and your mercy. And so somewhere over here is this land that I stand in where I'm not trying to be over there. In the first eight chapters is a big excl explanation about the gospel. Paul says, I love the gospel. Since we've been justified with by faith, we have peace with God. While we were still weak, at the right time, Christ died for the ungodly. Shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. We were reconciled to God by the death of his son. We also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation. Um if while we were God's enemy, he made the ultimate sacrifice for us, now that we're his adoption, like what would prevent him from doing that Right in front of the king of England. There's a there's a illustration that Jesus gives where he he representing the royal king decides he's gonna throw a party and he invites some people to come to his party and they're like to impune and that's what we people, just people in general, have done and then And then the Queen of England says, I'm going to forgive all that. Now we're in a position of justification, right? All those past sins have been forgiven, declared taken care of, washed away, as far as the geese is from the west. who has already washed that away is going to be so prepared to be here's another picture. Because now we've been justified. to God by the death of his Son, much more now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by His life. It just continues to build and build it's it's much much more amazing. That's big, right? Now we can start rightly thinking about how I can try to do that to other people. that I'm still, as a believer of Christ, as God's child, I am still tenderly loved. is to find your own strength to be tender towards people, to love people. Christ and when we're in heaven, you know, no one's gonna take us out of heaven. 90 minutes or however long we have together on a Sunday morning, this is something for us to think about on a daily basis. granularity between this is maybe deeper than that deeper uh anyway. things out of all the things that Jesus was disappointed or sad about, I mean he's disappointed that the Pharisees missed that they should be loving What do you guys think about that? People with a faith, with a rich faith, understand that God is trustworthy. Yeah. Uh this is not something I struggle with, but I just think it does. you test Job, you'll see that you're not worthy of worship. You know, and but he gloried in that, you know, he'd rather glory in his weakness that Christ may be glorified. And his son that dies for us. come in conflict with what other people say is the best version of themselves as well. The book of Hebrews tells us that he knew because God's promise, and that puts him in a special category that none of us are in. Because God's promise, and because of what he said, that your descendants are coming through this guy, he knew that if he killed them, God would bring him back to life. When God said stars, that's what your descendants are going to be like. exists and that he rewards those who seek him. is what scripture is telling us right there. And and it and it goes on to say there's things here that we have conviction about. 'Cause we can hang out after class and we can talk for at least five minutes. A couple of thoughts. I follow on sort of it. That's that's the time frame for it. It's on my calendar, but if it rains, I'm not riding my bike. Next question for the people who haven't talked much. Takes off his outer garments, wraps a towel around himself, and washes the feet. message this past week in the Hope Book group. Ruminating on the love and the mercy and the grace of God. Chosen. for providing faith, for making us new in Christ, and for making us even secure in in our weaknesses, the things that we struggle with, dear Lord. Some people will probably bring some sweet stuff, some people will bring some savory stuff, and and it'll work out in the end. And a half. You also ought to wash one another's feet. Heavenly Father, I thank you so much for calling us, for bringing us to yourself. Um so we may need to have a little bit of coordination, but historically when we've done breakfast at this time, we haven't needed very much coordination. all the way to the end. And in those chapters, we were looking at both the passage from Romans chapter 5 and John chapter 13. One of the questions just to help maybe open us up and focus our minds a little bit, is do you ever have uh in your Christian life, do you ever find yourself uh imagine. But God graciously brings us to Christ. We are justified by faith. We are justified by faith. Since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ Recognizing that he's the Son of God and that what he did on the cross took away our sins has peace with God and the justifier of those who is those who are in him and his. Much more shall we be safe by him from the wrath of God. Uh while we were but before we were born again he saved us then. That's the starting point. God died for us when we were the ultimate unworthy. Okay. That's just not protocol, right? But then on top of it, then they step back and they slap the king on the face. We have offended. Nah, I'm busy with my cows. We, the people that God created, killed his prophets that were sent to him, calling us back to himself. And from our our great, great, great, a lot of great grandparents, we have believed that God has no good for us, and we would rather eat the fruit he commanded us not to eat. The amazing grace of God, and Steve said, The love of God displayed in that grace when we were enemies You know, last week we talked about our lawish hearts and God's lavish heart. Uh remind us real quick, what's the concept behind the idea of a lawish heart and a lavish heart? We're done here. How can I also be rich in mercy as God is rich in mercy? Holy Spirit, Comforter, Helper. And that position of being in glory makes me no more secure. and our inclination. What do you think? Any other thoughts? referring to have I been with you so long and you still don't don't know who I ask or yeah yeah yeah but I think Steve what you're bringing up is there's a lot of things that we do that disappoint God instead of uh rule following um that their their interpretation of God's rules were wrong and misapplied And he saved us to be in a deep fellowship and joy with him. And saying, since you've been justified, you actually will still have suffering. it it seems to be just as effective as you know being rather agnostic about whether or not God exists, but deciding, you know, I'm gonna be the best possible version of myself and life is just going to happen No, there's a lot of quiet people in this room. to me that um when it comes to trials and tribulations, when it comes to living life in general, it it seems to be that having the mentality of I'm going to trust in God and I'm going to have faith in God in his plan Where Abraham says to God, I got a complaint. Look up to the stars. And it's just like, God you said it, I believe it. And it and it's a concept, and and it is interesting to pull ourselves over to the book of Hebrews, right? The conviction of things not seen. And without faith, it is impossible to please him. In the Gospel of John, John spends from verse chapter 13 to the end, he is in the last two days of Jesus' life. Except for when he's out like on the shore baking fish and stuff like that with the disciples. 13, if you see, right, how many chapters? And the cool thing about the Gospel of John is he just, there's a meal Jesus is having with his disciples. Having loved his own who are in the world, he loved them to the end. his own. Yes, that that is a description of loving those who are his to glorification. Hold on. And then he says, Yeah. Loves to the end. Jesus loves to the end because he has, by his sovereign choice, set his heart on us squish their face on the side and they and they just sit there and and you're waiting for it. And he did all this because he loved those who were his. the judgment of God. You can't just, I don't believe that. Because their payment, they haven't been justified. and thunder and lightning and you know they're about to be tread in the wine press of God. Because we see in Romans chapter 5 that since we have been justified through faith, he's going to hold us and keep us and make sure that we persevere to the end. Let's not be over here just in the duty land. It is it brought us to salvation and it assures us of persevering in salvation. In the situation where you know your sins were paid for when you came to Christ, and that those sins were paid for on the cross, and now that you're a believer, when you sin again the royalty of England and that's a person. At the expense of my holy son. And now that, and this verse continues, right? Where God sees Christ's righteousness in us. Much more we shall be saved from him from the wrath of God. All the time, yes. The author has this quote, for God to cease to love his own, God would need to cease to exist. When Jesus expressed disappointment, it seemed mostly of their lack of faith. Um I just wonder how he would support this idea that I I I know we're told to come to him to if we're heavy and laden you know heavy laden and and burden and all. So like when we say, you know, God is loving and there's an experience where we have maybe a trauma that it doesn't feel like a creator is loving you know the the the the concept we've been talking about for a while now is we have to get our eyes off of our perspective and think about things from God's perspective If you have something on your heart. Who are his. people. That's an ultimate explanation of loving to the end. Very embarrassed me. Verse 12. If our motivation is right. Alright, so this past week uh we were uh the assignment was to read uh chapters um 21 and 22. Do you know how much contentment there is for your soul to know that we have peace? If you looked at it from an outline, verses six to eleven, the the starting point, the starting thought is while we were still weak. You think about that. That we project our own capacities to love onto God. We love like we are called to love like God loves. And thank you for drawing us back to this, that should lead us to praise. Is uh there's a couple of layers here, right? Well, I that's a good question. There's this really cool picture. We John just opens the window so we can see what it's like to have a meal with Jesus. Those who are his. And there's joy for a number of reasons. Oh, you're so wonderful for serving. Don't forget, next Sunday we're going to be bringing food together. grace of God demonstrated in Christ's love for us. And then I go and send anyway. Ten billion dollars and they forgive that debt. that means to commend demonstrably, hold forth, create a clear view, put beyond questioning. I want to ask the question. Yeah, good. Okay, good. That's good. loves his own. You can shoot a high-powered rifle and the bullet's going to fall to the ground. Weeping and wailing, that's that's the contra to what we get to experience as those who are his Um and and will be a blessing to one another. Now, just again, extending this out, Christ when he said this, when he demonstrated his love towards the end, in John 13, he says, look back at John 13. I'm in Christ now. That's true of me. And we rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. So just if we focus in on verses 6 to 11. And believe the lie that God's not good. Smallness to God. But you can't go there first. And it gets back to the original sin. We have to get our perspective off of our experience and onto God's perspective. This is my only son, my wife, she's not having another kid. having which is I think a pre not pre a per part disciple, having loved his own, who are in the world. And then he says, the one who I dip this morsel in and hand it to, and then he goes. And centuries to come on him. That God will love us to the end. There is no reason for us to believe that God frowns on us. Right? From John fourteen, you know I am the way, the truth, and the life. And and but the author makes a statement this is the deepest disappointment. There's a as there's a strong aspect I agree with what the author is saying, but I understand that it may you know, yeah And with our sin, that means look at his commitment and his argument. And after we kind of start to get those concepts, which are like trying to hold on to Teflon sometimes, after we have those concepts in our minds, God is merciful and loving. How do we get to trusting that scripture corrects us rather than our experiences? He loved them to the end of his time on Earth. Yes, sir. Because he blew on himself all the sins of centuries of people who were his And what you see here, now this was the most important meal Jesus ever had with his disciples. But Christ calls us to imitate him and gives us a reason to do so. Paul's saying, look at look at what God already did. There's a solid truth that God is about his glory and will not share his glory with another. And then he gets the pain of uh uh knowing that tribulation brings about perseverance, perseverance, proof of character, proof of character open open I think I do. His own. Is that kind of a euphemism for like a fashionist light to open that one into like one perfectly? And it gives me chills to think this. Anyone else? So it's like you know it makes me wonder why Paul blew those two things together. I'm glad you said that because that is part of the answer to the question. And verse 1 of chapter 13 sets all of that up. And the cross was coming and he knew it. It keeps on. Alright guys? Uh but we will not be any more secure in the next life than we are now. Yeah. Um that's a study for another Sunday. Many people in the nation of Israel. There is a solid hope that we have as believers, even when we sin Yeah, I should be doing better. Romans 5 is one of my favorite passages, so we can hang out here a long time. It when we miss out on that, we miss out on a big aspect of our fellowship and joy with God You know, we in these chapters that follow, in 13, 14, 15, 16, and 17, we see rich doctrine about the Trinity, about how he's not going to leave them as orphans, about how he's going to prepare. And thank you, God, that we have the it the time today to consider your goodness. And that's what the Holy Spirit inspired Paul to say in Romans chapter 5. Oh, three strikes? Through him, going on verse two, through him we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand Let's put some thoughts together and we'll move into these thoughts quickly and then we'll go ahead and see how much we can do with this. He went to the cross. To the end, because he has set his heart on us. Imagine, I don't know if you know this or not, but if somebody went and visited and I still want to call her the Queen of England, the King of England now, but if you approach the royalty, you don't reach out and shake them by the hand because Not no. It is taking a step forward to do that thing, to lower myself, but it's also a picture in me of who Christ is. Not because we're comparing God to us, but just because the heavens are not big enough to declare his glory, but they are doing it every single day. So he knows what's happening day after tomorrow. And then it says, He loved them to the end. And when they do it, they accidentally do. Your descendants are gonna be like me. That's goodness right there. In some ways this answers the question also. Yeah. Uh let's just set the table for us, right? Good. Our our standard is, look, I've already forgiven you twice. I can't climb that high. Yeah, I think that helps me when in applying it to myself first, like if you love me with that much love first, that kinda helps me then Uh anybody have any cool passages that they underlined in this chapter also? I've got God's Holy Spirit inside of me. Uh but I I can see what he means, you know, like with Isaiah just you know warning is real straying. And that same commitment that leads him to graciously forgive our sins that we do now after we're saved, it's the same thriving force behind the trial and suffering So we're on the same page. And then we see Jesus in one of his richest prayers explaining cosmic truth. And so you know it's flying when it hits the target. To the end. Thanks. And so there's this line over here I've got it. And then it was night. And isn't that sweet? Yeah. God's sovereignty, I guess. I thank you, Heavenly Father, that we can look forward to 10,000 and 10,000s in your glory and greatness. Do you struggle with the with God's grace now that you're a believer and you continue to sin? And I love seeing Bill back there wrestling mentally with what's going on. We are enemies before we come to Christ. Which uh my hope is, and what I believe Scripture is telling me, is that when I get a new body and I'm sitting in heaven, I'm not going to be sinning. I gotcha. Do you agree with the author, disagree? If you keep reading, I'll just explain it. But I thank you that you heard prayers. Yeah, it's good. While we were still weak, at the right time, God died for the ungodly. You have a question or you just now wait. In some ways this is rhetorical at this point. If you look at Hebrews chapter eleven, it says, Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for This is for the easy these are the easy questions for the people who haven't talked yet. So he knows that. Now in some respects that might just mean the twelve people that are sitting there, except for a problem. I had a conversation that God orch clearly orchestrated this past week with some folks that Latter day Saint folks that Yeah. Now we have been justified. He figured that's big. Yeah. Before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour had come to depart out of this world to the Father. Take care of see you The main point here is to try to remember that God sets the standard for love, and that standard is beyond what we understand. Because we are sinful flesh is shouting other things. But the one thing that you see Jesus marvel at is a lack of faith. So many ways. There are those days. You know what I mean? First of all, when you look at the outline of this, Jesus knows something. Right. And and the author points out We love up to a limit. Do you understand what I have done to you? If my motivation is to serve and to love you and to be a blessing to you, that's a picture of the gospel. You were a believer. Ever more so. I think that Adam and Eve thought little of God's love for them, and that's why they ate. Now in that first thing, having loved his own over in the world, is that present tense or past tense? It's powerful stuff. If you didn't listen to it, take a chance to listen to it. It's not just indiscriminate love, it is love towards his own that he talks about. And based on that case, he launches into this next thought. There's a lot of things going on there. But I'm not going to call you. But I guess that kind of raises the question of what's what is good, what's bad, was wrong who sets the standard in all fairness. And he says, Okay God. And yeah, and he loved them, good answer. For I have given you an example that you should do just as I have done to you. Do you ever think about those kinds of things? And I just want to point out to us there are people who are gods John thirteen says, Now, before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour had come to depart out of the out of this world to the Father Yeah, that is the next step, right? And there's a character of that that flows throughout humanity. Just enjoy that. I love it. That's kind of what we're talking about. They understand his character. It's important to see that. One is it doesn't make sense. The gospel is what causes people, brings people to salvation. Yeah. And that's a lot to chew on. Yes. That's just that's something that I've found to be true. Sometimes I just read over thinking of like, well, maybe there is a God, maybe there's not a God, but I'm just gonna try to be the best possible version of myself and likely is gonna happen Continue to teach them, yeah. You know, you watch that arrow. Everybody would be like, oh, that's just not done. That's pretty powerful when you think about it, maybe. What we could say is we could argue about deepest m maybe we agree that this is a really deep disappointment but but weighing 13 to 20, like these next seven chapters are the last two days of Jesus' early life. Who does Jesus love? Anybody else want to take a shot? It's just it's just like trying to understand and put your mind around it, you know, it you can't understand. Our own smallness. I mean you know it you saved us while we were still in our sins. There's this that's cool. And the word of the day, believe it or not, this is so convenient, it's impugn. Yeah. So essentially you're believing that God is, and that God is good He's about to go back to his father, right. That's a that's there's an indication there of limited atonement, which we're not talking about now. Judgment is coming. Alright, now into infinity. But it this is an amazing thing too because we know that suffering produces endurance and endurance produces character and character produces hope. And not only am I busy with my cows, I'm gonna kill your messengers. We're in a position where we now have been adopted into the Son of the Family of God. Grace, amazing, amazing grace. What's one word? Have you I don't know how much in the Bible you've been, so I don't know how much I need to back up. I don't have a written down. It's sweet to know that he loved those who were his to the end. I should be uh walking in his truth. I don't know. Help us, dear Lord, to look freshly into your word, to see its truth, to meditate on its greatness. So I feel like that you feel the weight of it a bit more. And then he gives some pictures and some examples about David and Abraham. So that's important to know where we're standing from. Yeah, absolutely. The layer is God's glorious. And there's a whole chain of things that follows from God allowing us to endure suffering and how that leads us to not be disappointed. We'll worry about the details later. That's that's me just trying to get my own kudos. And that troubles my heart. Ever more so. This passage continues, since therefore we have now been justified by his blood. But I think that it's important first to go, praise God. You're telling me that this land, I'm going to inherit this land, but you haven't given me a son. Alright, so that's one definition of faith right there. He loved them to the end that when Peter denied him three times he forgave him So think of this as breakfast. You don't have to probably bring any drinks. If you go there first, your job then is to do it yourself. I let's turn to the class. What else does it mean that he loved them to the end? Gone. And if you're counting, that's a lot of times, and you probably shouldn't have kept counting. We've been talking about verses six through ten and saying like, Hey if God has already done this for you, why would you give up on you now? And he just takes God at his word. And to him there, that pronoun is God. That's important. Everyone who's truly in the church are God's people and those are the people well, I'm just gonna say, in this he is loving those people he hung out with for the last three years. I pray that you continue to make us more like you, to be loving like you are loving, to serve like you serve, to be merciful And I'll stop there because I don't have time for the rest of it. Okay. So I know this is going to stretch our minds just a little bit. Anybody else? And think about it just real quick past second. Yeah. I'll do seven. Yeah, there's a reference, first John four sixteen. We can it's the author. You know? Don't be like, oh, stop thanking me. And I pray that you go before us this day, this week. So we'll spend the first part of next week uh fellowship in and eating. Much more, now that we are reconciled, shall we be safe by his life? Yeah, how? You're right when you call me that. Let's come from the realization of what God has done, His love towards us and His grace and mercy, and let that stir our heart to want to love other people. Yes. And he's like, okay, God, you said it, I believe it. Thank you so much, Heavenly Father, that your grace gives us strength. I've been forgiven. And and sometimes me personally, I struggle with wow, I I don't deserve this forgiveness because Um the and and and when people try to be the best version of themselves they oftentimes According to this, you can't just be agnostic and be what you want to be, right? Because Romans, in the book of Romans, as you move through the Romans is a big explanation of the gospel. Yes. The author has said numerous times, numerous times, and That's not where my heart is. Um and so let's build let's take that and and jump off to John thirteen. This line I've got it. Oh that's that's a lot of significant digits away from what you already got forgiven. Anybody who read this chapter, anybody had any cool passages that they wanted to like, oh, this was a really cool passage. And he's got the knife in his hand, he's about to kill his son. We don't have time for this. More than once in the next couple of verses, Jesus is going to say, One of you is not my own. And it's also important to see the contrast. Not only that, this is an amazing list of blessings. I'm done with you. Resting your hand. It was an accusation against against God. And that's nasty. Which means to want to harm somebody. More than that, oh, wait, if while we were enemies, we were reconciled by God Um that when there's a gap between what scripture says and what our experience Yeah. It's but even in the immediate context, he loving them to the end He set his heart upon us. And it's not indiscriminately and and this Steve sent out a really cool um This is after he was done washing their feet. Declared righteous. Can I just draw a picture about how unworthy we were for a quick hot second? Yes. Do you understand that you can't be more secure in Christ? And so like what what would you say that if somebody is, let's say, struggling with the concept of faith and struggling with the idea that there is a God in control And it was going to be terrible. You know anybody here watch the archery? The wrath of God is stored up for those who are not His. But but is it is it right for us as believers to be like, yeah, I can just sin. Uh there's this passage in Genesis, I think it's fifteen. And he's going to be on the cross the next day But what the author says is arrows quickly fall to the ground. And the righteous wrath of God is stored up. And then he says, we all, when we sin, we merit death. I think there's a reason there why David was a man after God's own heart, because he understood that. It's going to run out of momentum. I feel like also now like you become a believer you're more sensitive within your And that's you know, and there only a few people that actually get invited the privilege of being invited to visit with I'm going to justify you and declare you righteous. That's part of it, yes. So this uh this he has his his deepest disappointment is with your tepid thoughts of his heart. If you still have questions about that, Daniel, let's come back to it. Give us strength, dear Lord, and hearts to want to. Steve? Yeah. Then you know there's a lot of times you see a word in English and you go, Oh, God shows his love toward us but he says Much more we than we reconcile or saved by his life. When we serve others, it is a picture of the gospel. And there's a lot of things here that go together with these things. We're we're just as secure in him as we will be in the next slide as secure And that if is what all of us as people have. Alright, I'm gonna stay focused on what we've got in front of me. For the wrath of God. God's son would be servant, would take the lowest job in the house and clean their dirty sinking And we're we're gonna be looking today at the And a reminder. Enemies. Right? This isn't scripture. And so um She may have died at that point. Jesus has a few more hours with him and he's open. And he loves them to the end by being their servant. Because we've spent a lot of time, and it's important for us to spend a lot of time thinking on and meditating on it For if while we were enemies Because those were Bill's words. The next step is is God sets the standard, right, of uh all these things that we've been seeing as we've been going this quarter looking at Again, we gotta set the table because we got this verse, and it's bam, right here in the middle. It reminds me of what you know the disciples came to Jesus. Yeah. How does he love them to the end of his time on Earth? And so these two chapters really sit nicely together. I really like what Buzz Lightyear has to say. It's satisfying. So much so that when it came time that son actually gets born, he's a teenager now, and it came time God says, go kill him. The end of his earthly life is near. You're waiting for it. That'll be out there. There are days where we sin knowing we weren't supposed to and we run into it anyway. I have an answer, but I'd love to hear what you guys think about that. But there's there's and scripture has a lot to say to that. First of all, and that he rewards those who seek him. Because I don't know what I'm gonna do tomorrow And that's important. And God says, if you love me, you will obey my commandments. No, it's not right to absolutely sin. Yeah. And a few minutes later I owe them a dollar. There's power in the in the original language that we might miss. There is an aspect where we go, oh But but to practically the end What raise your hand. And in and in chapter one of Romans, Paul starts off by saying, hey, we've all sinned. We're in a position of not being enemies. How much more will he save us after Absolute enemies in complete rebellion Wow! No, just resting your hand. Uh but I'd like to push on. And I don't I'm not discouraging the talkers, but I'm giving the quiet people in this room an opportunity to speak. Um and so like 'cause sometimes I find it tough debt to believe that there's like a God in control Verses 6 to 11, can you summarize what's there? I guess I kinda look at it from what motivates all this. Right? But that's not the main point. Why would He do this? Alright? Yeah. And then God's lavish heart is abundant, so like he is love. Right? It is saying, you wrong me, I'm going to make my own justice. And that applies to our crudge, our suffering. He loved them to the end. But it's also important for us to remember When you stop and you realize Um and I think I think they're just a cheap thing. And maybe even down to verse 3. If then I, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet. I can see it happening. What does it mean? I'm missing out on my blessing. And before this had already said, if my memory serves me correctly, that Christ is both just Oh, and by the way, Harry comes walking by and you shoot him. Yeah, much more and much more and much more. That's one aspect of that. But the thing to do is to start here, look at what God has done, look at how God has taken care of this, and to then say, okay. We can interact about that and criticize the author all we want, or go, yeah, we agree with that. For whoever would draw near to God must believe that he is The author writes, his heart for his own is not like an arrow shot quickly but soon falling to the ground How can I be patient and tender as God is patient and tender with me? Make me like you. I mean our security is guaranteed Because oftentimes we need to really invest in retraining our minds Is uh Jesus loves And it's not to the glory of God. And uh as we've kind of seen and and gone at Very good. And and I want to remind you before what I said And that's also a picture of I think this is the standard. You know, it's like you've been with me, you've seen the things I've been doing, why won't you believe? I mean, Satan's accusation was really God you are not worthy of worship. And and we can set up other time to talk too. Oh really good ways. They throw the Union Jack on the floor, they dance on it, and do other things to defile it. It does. What does Jesus know There's an interesting little verse there that says Um I pray, Heavenly Father, that you would help us today Yeah, I mean I have head knowledge that you know they're they're covered, but it's sometimes And we oftentimes think that we oftentimes think God is here. And I think a lack of faith is tied to this idea of not seeing God for who he is And to be about y there's a a real solid truth that God He's like 90 some years old at this point. And then they let go and I just I was just like eternal judgment? Think about this as an opportunity to serve one another. Truly, truly. And so when I sin now, is it, are those sins still paid for? And the author of this book More than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom now we have received reconciliation. So don't worry about bringing drinks. For one will scarcely die for a righteous person, though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die. Not a really very powerful figurehead. That's a big deal. But that's not the way God's love is That's not the standard that God accepts And Philip says, you know, show us the Father, and that's what I think we're That's a good question. This is the most important moment in all of their relationship with Jesus before his death. Can you summarize what's there maybe in a thought? Because sometimes we can take for granted that God Much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God, much more. A lot of times the Greek language has a lot of richness that helps to How can I also be slow to anger in the way that God is slow to anger? Well that's our that's not our own. And look at verse six. I think it's chapter twenty-two. Um think about what's what you like to do, how you like to bless others I'm not trying to just send whatever I know is covered. You you got probably your own. Alright, cool. Remind me your name is Dave? And in one respect, that's what Abraham did back in Genesis. And that is the assurance of things hoped for, a child, and the conviction of things not seen. It's very likely that he also loved Mary and Martha, who are not inside this room. Sins. And we get caught with our hand in the cookie jar. It does. And um Job is obviously another example. Now this is for everybody in the room. What do you say that ended back to one? Any other ways? I think archery is so cool. It is a step of faith. The main point here This is not something for us to think about for Have you ever read like the book of Genesis? And that's what's going on here in chapters thirteen to uh seventeen, eighteen ish, and then the rest of it is just the crucifixion. And it's important to pray for those who haven't yet escaped, who haven't had faith, to trust in God as their Savior. It's a conclusion that's based on the fact that in Christ Why would He bring tribulation into our lives? Jesus knew that his hour had come to depart out of this world to the Father. In your name we ask, Amen. And so that's when I think it's really important to focus on God's grace and is forgiven in that moment That was the example Jesus gave because You owe somebody, I owe somebody ten billion dollars. What do you think? So Oh, you talked about it? And you know, maybe Paul's understanding his audience and anticipating the question Terrible. The author's making his point. It says, therefore Having loved his own who are in the world. And then when he gets to chapter five, he's already stated this case. And it is interesting to see the And and we'll spend some more time after class talking about this. He also loved them when they're in the garden and the garrison comes to arrest them and he says, let these guys go And that's what's wrapped up inside this mercy, grace, love that God has for those who He has. Do you understand what I've done to you? Let's look together at Romans chapter 5. And And you gotta go, What are you doing? And when you see that, you should pay attention. And you wouldn't speak to them until you've been spoken to Yeah. Past tense. Is a quick and simple way to ask that question. Therefore, we have now been justified by his blood. That's just wrong. And so um in the test though, you know And this is the reason behind that suffering. I want to get to John 13. And God doesn't. In your name we pray. Everyone who has trusted Jesus Christ for their salvation. And anyone else wanna take a shot at explaining these verses in your own words? And I'm going to welcome you into my family. Praise God for your glory. Anyway, yes? In fact, hours away. But verse 1 is a really good encapsulation of what's coming and what's the rest of it. That's the position. But that's not just it. Not just maybe humgus humongous ways. It happens. But people love their sin and they ignore it. We're not at war. Not only that, but we rejoice in our sufferings. Get out of my face. Terrible. Another aspect of that is to remind ourselves of my security. But on this line over here, I know that I sin Yeah. Daniel. I think I do Take those thoughts captive. We'll talk a little bit about the class and uh and then we'll get into the last chapter Anybody can can anybody remind us really quick besides Steve Okay, anybody want to take a guess? And going back to the word of the day, when we do that, we impugn Yeah, the trees. There is joy in serving others. Well, now You wanna take a shot? Well it's hard to be different toward us now that we are saved? Yes. Which means to declare bad things about somebody Uh he also writes oh wait, no. I don't want to spend a lot of time on answering that, but I will direct you back to what we read in the chapter five. I think it's I think it's like All of those things. Yeah, I like um the reminder of our security in Christ. Daniel. And it's hard to stop there, but I've got to force myself to stop there. And they're gonna be like, dollars easy. More than that we rejoice because It's just a tease, okay? If you keep reading What does it mean that he loved them to the end? It'll go for a waves, but it runs out of momentum Look at Philippians chapter 2. Because God does not simply have love. I mean I I'm not sure how he gets And you ever wonder what it was like to hang out with Jesus? Revelation says the throne room of God is all in smoke. Because oftentimes our hearts don't. Yeah, that's a very important point to this. But Jesus wasn't just a people Like Yeah In chapter 17 when he prays It's building truth upon truth. Be my best self. That's the starting point. This is Daniel everybody. It's God's love. If you love me, you will keep my commandments. You did not I can see where he's going with that continuous And it it seems He loves to the end. Um Amen. Now here's where we really want to focus. The things that put enmity between us and God have been set aside I'm not calling on anybody. Um I think it was Peter who said, Hey, should I forgive my brother seven times A lot to say to that. Right. God's going to be so prepared. And God says, Come on outside your tent. He said, Oh, I don't believe in that. But God. And Yeah. Um that brings up other questions that brings up. Um it's it's you know it's My entrance into heaven is good. And now we're staying in a position of imputed righteousness. But like the three or four verses before that are we exult in our tribulation. That's not needed. What does he know? God's deepest disappointment is our tepid thoughts about him. It's because that same commitment that led him to Daniel I can't tell you how much I appreciate that question. And you guys, thanks for your input. So he can't He's visiting he's been here a little bit. You can't be. If my service to you is so that you would say thank you Are there any other ways that Jesus loved them to the end? You call me teacher and lord, and you are right. That's the really that's so important for us to hold on to. More than that I've picked you twelve men, and one of you is not my own. Because we killed the son of God. That's faith. It was like it had I couldn't tell, so I just had to ask. That's a long discussion we don't have time for. But take a look at what God says in the book of Hebrews, which is a little bit of a puzzle. That's about as much as guidance as I want to give Yeah, after Hagar, all that kind of stuff. That's just wrong. Yeah. I'm going to be glorified. And you know God wouldn't ask you to do that What do you think? Because I know, I know. How to forgive you ten billion dollars Yeah, thanks. Our loving Heavenly Father Why don't you believe? I can do whatever I want to now. So is there boundaries on who Jesus loves then? So the lawish heart is way Now, he says four. It's just Um when I think of Turn to Paul is But um I just I wonder how He's just on the road. And if you He is love. I'm not gonna call it Because Paul's rolling now. Well I'll give it a try. Anyone else? And I like this also. That me feels like disappointment And so God says, take your son. But God He says, well as far at being Well yeah you know to that In fact, in Alright, cool. That's the starting point. That's a really good point. Um Having loved He says, Okay. I think your only son. Um Yes. Um Steve.