It's been a number of years um Doug and I did a uh a class on hymns. You know kind of uh the hymn, the words of the hymn, and also uh the author, perhaps what he was thinking when he wrote the hymn. That was a fun class. And uh maybe we'll do that again one day. But um Uh in my notes I have kind of the history of this this hymn I wanted to go over since we just just finished it. If I can find it. Let's see. There it is. What a friend we have in Jesus. The gentleman named Joseph Scrivan. He was from Ireland. Lot of deep details there. He was an Irish immigrant to Canada. And he wrote this text near Port Hope, Ontario. Fort Hope, Ontario, in eighteen fifty-five. Because his life was filled with grief and trials, Scribbin often need the solace of the Lord as described in in his famous hymn He was educated in Dublin, Ireland. He enrolled in a military college to prepare for an army career. However, poor health forced him to give up that ambition. Soon after came a second blow. His fiance died in a drowning accident on the eve of their wedding in 1844 Later that year he moved to Ontario, where he taught school in Woodstock and Brantford. His plans for marriage were dashed again when his new bride to be died after a short illness in 1855. Following this calamity, Scribbin seldom had a regular income and he was forced to live in the homes of others. He also experienced Mistrust from neighbors who did not appreciate his e eccentricities or his work with the under underprivileged. A member of Plymouth Brethren, he tried to live according to the Sermon on the Mount as literally as possible, giving and sharing all he had, and often doing meaningful. genial tasks for the poor and physically disabled, because Scrivin suffered from depression, no one knew of his death by drowning in Rice Lake, whether it was suicide or an accident. Sorry to end on that down note, but the I think the important thing to take from that is, you know, he wrote about what a friend we have in Jesus and that notion I think brought him comfort even though he struggled as many Christians do, struggle struggle with depression. And um so anyway, that's uh kind of the story behind the story. So I just wanted to mention that. So these chapters were as I mentioned, eleven and twelve. And we'd like to start off with uh maybe giving you all a chance to say perhaps something that you found particularly helpful in these uh in these chapters. So anybody have anything? First one on the emotional life of Christ, chapter eleven. Yeah, sure. Yeah, uh two notes on compassion, but I thought it was interesting that the emotion was attributed to Christ's passion. Mm-hmm. And then I thought it was a good insight that my sin was restrained from my compassion. Yeah. Yeah, I think uh I I thought the point that he was saying, you know, just kind of as he was in India and encountered somebody, you know, in a pitiable condition you know, y we have a measure of compassion towards someone, but we recognize that Jesus and his humanity experience the full, you know, extent of what compassion can be. And a lot of times we think, oh, I'm very compassionate, but you have to recognize he was much more so. So that was good. Anything else? Yeah, it says in your grief, he is grief, in your distress, he is distressed, he knows Okay. He knows what it is to be distressed. And he mentioned the compassion. I think that's always been remarked. people to be just you know he would come up say if you're willing would say I and he would touch them. He would touch them. Yeah. You know whereas usually they would cast stones at them, right? But he would reject Yeah. Yeah. Certainly we could keep their distance, but um yeah. Sure. Okay. So I thought Steve the It's the second sentence, or it's still in the middle of the first sentence, is the the idea that Christ is permanent permanently human Is one of those and that's kind of the concept that drives the ideas that come in this chapter and that there's emotion that's tied to Christ being people Um in a similar way that we're human. I think the author's trying to point out that if I remember correctly, that it's the humanity of Christ that allows us to see and know and relate to His emotion Mm-hmm. Um it it's easy to imagine Christ being God going up to heaven, you know, filling the temple with the robes with his robes and all that kind of stuff and and forgetting that he still bears the marks of pain for our site. There are a lot of doctrinal errors Yeah. Yeah, actually uh Doug usually checks in with me once a week to make sure I'm uh keeping on task and um in any case Uh as I mentioned to him, um we were going through this discipleship program and in the first year um we studied a lot about the nature of Christ, Christology. And um a lot of the early church heresies were related to um basically how people viewed Christ. You know, they uh they kind of thought, you know, what we deal with, you know, as humans, we we we think, okay, I mean the same as saying to error as human, you know, just think it's it's something that's that's built into the idea of being human. If I'm human, I'm gonna make a mistake, I'm gonna sin. And and yet what do we know about Jesus? That he was absolutely human, one hundred percent, but he was also one hundred percent God. And That is a hard thing for a lot of times for our mind to wrap around. But it's certainly true. Early in chapter 11, he gets into some of the technical things. you know, that that were dealt with in the early going of of the church. You know, the idea that, okay, you know, we recognize yes, he was God, but perhaps It was like a God, you know, influence that came upon this human being. But the Bible doesn't teach that. The Bible teaches that he is completely human And a lot of times we always think, as Doug is mentioning, you know, he's ascended to heaven, you know, he's there at the right hand of the Father, and yet, you know still in his human form, still with the nail you know, uh prints that he offered Thomas and um you know we we forget that. And um A lot of these early church councils were held to deal with some of these heresies. One of the early ones was Arianism. you know, the idea that that, you know, again, you know, as humans, you know, flesh is inherently evil. or Jesus, you know, he just must have been some kind of spirit that came upon and and they had to deal with that. And and this this big word here, the Eutikianism or a I don't I can never do the mono whatever it is, physicism or whatever it is, but uh the idea, you know, it it's just kind of you they can't get past the idea that that he was completely Very God and very man, you know, just that he was was all those things. So and as such, he uh He shr he he had all the same emotions that we do but but in a in a in a godly way. And um So we'll talk about that as far as reviewing chapter 11. So my question to you all Do you ever think about Jesus as having emotions? What were some of the emotions perhaps that he had? We mentioned compassion. What are some other emotions that Jesus had? Yep, hard. Anger? Okay. That's an interesting one. I think a lot of times in fact as I'm mentioning, I grew up Catholic and after I became a believer I started trying to talk to some of my Catholic family, Cat Catholic friends. And one of them was saying, Oh, well, Jesus sinned. I'm like, He sinned? Yes, he was angry. And and what they were saying is they feel like just the the uh expression of anger in itself is is an is sinful and uh I was trying to convince them there is such a thing as as righteous anger, so we'll talk about that. But what are some other ones so I can stay on topic Some other emotions that Jesus expressed. Yep, Joe. Sadness. Sadness, for sure. Yeah, I'll I'd like to talk about that in a minute. What was one I heard distraction? What was it? I said sorrow. Sorrow. Yep. Again, sadness and sorrow right there. I'll throw an interesting one in. Astonishment. Anyone remember a time when Jesus was astonished? do many miracles. Right. Right. Yeah, because of unbelief. The Roman centurion state. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. I'd like to talk about that as well. That was one that I wanted to kind of make sure we mentioned. It's remarkable that God could be astonished. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, why is that? Well he's all knowing. He's all knowing. Yep. Yeah. So that that teaches us, I mean, you know, it's interesting, um, Jesus in his humanity, you know, what does it talk about in Philippians? That w did he empty himself of all his godly attributes? I mean we we we talk about this idea of kenosis, you know, that he emptied himself, that he i i I think it's more accurate to say that he kind of set set them aside, you know, is i I mean he's never going to be less God than he ever was. But we see um there's an instance where he says there's no one who knows the day or date of my return. N not even I know that. Okay, so his omniscience on in his humanity was was somewhat limited, but but does he know the day and date of his return now Absolutely. Yeah. So um so but we could get into a lot of rabbit trails, yes, Ricardo. So think about the establishment and I think astonishment is really more of a reaction to to something. Like I think about like things that I know that are bad in society. Mm-hmm. And I should never be surprised. Right. But I am astonished. Yeah. Even though I I'll say to myself, why are you astonished? Why are you surprised about this? Do you you know this is how the world is or you know the situation or whatever. There's this something about seeing and experiencing even a thing that you know is true, it still touches you in a certain way. Isn't it just more of a like an emotion I think? Yep. Yeah, and I think while we're on the topic of astonishment, we think of the centurion, his statement, you know, basically he believed that Jesus could heal his servant. by remote control, you know, by not even being there. And Jesus pointed that and said, that's great faith. And so often there's several instances where Jesus praises the faith of someone. And one thing I notice about that is almost always these these people are Gentiles. And he points it out to the people that were listening to him that were predominantly Jewish, and that's not lost on them. They A lot of times they're kinda like, hm, yeah, you bring him up, you know, or whatever. And uh, you know, it's it's interesting, but But often that you know, it it's kind of the beginnings of you know, the that Jesus first came to the Jews, but but his plan all along was to to go to the whole world. So Um so that was one and then um let's see. Oh, so uh you mentioned sorrow. I brought my trustee uh MacArthur commentary along. There's a section in there. But let me ask the question first. Um when Lazarus died Jesus went, he got, you know, the the lecture from Martha. If you'd been here, you know, Lazarus wouldn't have died. And, you know, everybody's sad. You know, they they have a lot of Hired mourners there, you know, they're all is she's a scene of so of uh just incredible sorrow. And and Jesus himself, you know, wa was a good friend of of Mary Martha and and brother Lazarus and, you know, there's probably a measure of sorrow But but the thing that always struck me is the easiest verse in the Bible to memorize, Jesus wept. And we see that, you know, that that he wept and A lot of times you read something like that and you you don't think about it, but then it strikes you, why did he we you know and a lot of times we just kind of take the word of this is the uh the consensus Oh, he must have really loved him. Which he did. But is that why he was weeping? And uh, you know, it was one of those questions that it was kind of bothering me, so I got several commentaries out and they all agreed that He wasn't weeping because he was sad that that Lazarus died. There was more to it than that. So I I wonder read oh well first of all let me ask, does anybody have any theories as to why he was weeping? I'm sure that that was part of it. I think another thing that gives us a little insight is his conversation with Martha You know, first she says, if you were here, he wouldn't have died. So that's her fate is if you'd been here, this would never have happened. And then he starts talking to her. Anybody remember what he starts talking to her about? Right? But he starts talking to her about the resurrection. Yeah. He says he says, you know, your brother will rise again. And in her mind You know, it's like if you'd been here, you'd still be alive, and he's like, Your brother will rise again. And so she starts putting him into the frameworks of what she understands. It's like, well I know he's gonna rise again in the resurrection And so then he goes on to explain to her, you know, this is uh this is something that you know that you need to understand more about. But um In any case, it's it's a difficult uh I I feel like it's a different difficult thing to to consider, so let me just re what it was that that was said about that. Let's see. Says the scene was understandably one of intense sorrow and pain. Not only was merry weeping a form of the verb Cla clau, I don't do the Greek pronunciation well. To wail or to lament loudly. But the Jews who came with her were also weeping and wailing loudly. According to Jews Jewish custom, even the poorest family was expected to hire at least two flute players and a professional wailing woman. I would think funeral you probably want an oboe or maybe a bassoon, but flutes, I don't get it. In any case. Since Mary, Martha, and Lazarus were a prominent family, they would likely have had even more professional mourners in addition to the others who came to pay their respects. Observing the chaotic scene, Jesus was deeply moved in spirit and was troubled. Some pretty interesting Greek words. Deeply deeply moved is a misleading translation of The verb ambramai there I go again which literally means to snort like a horse, a part From its use in verse thirty eight it appears only three other times in the New Testament, where it is translated sternly warned or scolding It thus includes the connotation of anger, outrage, or indignation. So you would think in a scene like this, you wouldn't expect Jesus to be to be angry. And yet that's what it says this word, you know, entails so it it thus includes that okay, uh Jesus appears to have been angry not only over the painful reality reality of sin and death of which Lazarus was a beloved example, but perhaps also with the mourners who are acting like pagans who have no hope. Tarasso, troubled, further emphasizes the intensity of the Lord's reaction. This term is similarly used elsewhere to describe strong emotions, such as Herod's reaction to the Magi's arrival, the disciples' terror when they saw Jesus walking on the water, and Zacchaeus's Oh Zacharias's fear when he saw the angel in the temple. The disciples' amazement at seeing Jesus after his resurrection, Jesus' reaction to his impending death, and his response to Jesus Judas's imminent betrayal. So then says Jesus asked them where He laid them, they said to him, Lord, come and see whom? The term they refers to is not defined, but it evidently refers to some in the crowd who are favorably disposed to Jesus since they addressed him respectfully as Lord. Like the others, Jesus wept, but the Greek verb is not klao as in verse thirty three, but the cru, a rare word used only here in the New Testament, in contrast to the loud wailing it applied Um it has the connotation of silently bursting into tears. Unlike the typical funeral mourners, Jesus' tears were generated both by his love for Lazarus and by his grief over the deadly and incessant effects of sin in the fallen world. So it is the shortest verse in the Bible. It's rich in meaning. It emphasizes Jesus' humanity. He was truly a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. But while the Jews were correct in seeing Jesus' sorrow is evidence that he loved Lazarus, they were wrong to think his tears reflected the same hopelessness, hopeless despair that he felt. The stage was now set for the compassionate Savior to visibly substantiate his claim to be the resurrection and the life. In the next section he would convincingly demonstrate his power over death by restoring Lazarus to life So that uh hopefully uh added some context to you know why Jesus was weeping. Um I'd say the other thing Yeah, as I mentioned, you know, Jesus' anger. I think a lot of times, you know, when we get angry, maybe, you know, for instance When I think of the of the whole concept of abortion, you know, it it causes a lot of anger, you know, to rise up in me. A lot of times people think it's somebody's right, and yet when you recognize it's the murder of an innocent life, it can cause, you know, feelings of anger. And yet a lot of times, you know, we kind of if we get angry, we say, Oh, you know, it's righteous anger. More often than not, when we really look at what's going on under the hood, it's not righteous. You know, our anger, a lot of times, maybe it has a good you know, we see something an injustice, for instance And we we react, we our anger rises, and and yet you know what happens with us more far too often is our anger gets out of control very quickly Um a lot of times you were surprised how quickly you're driving down the road and somebody decides to use the space that's right in front of your car and and uh you know that a lot of times, you know, you you just you just kind of catch yourself in like, why am I reacting like that? Yes. That's the way our anger works. But what was the difference with Jesus' anger whenever he got angry? Whether it was the cleansing of the temple, um perhaps in this instance there was there was a type of anger that was going on in him What was what was succinct about his anger? The the first word that comes to my to my mind is that he he was usually grieved over what he was seeing Yep, for sure. Yeah, it was always for a good reason that that he would get angry. And you know, and a lot of times, for instance, the cleansing of the temple Was he upset about some injustice that was done to him personally as as a as a man? He he he looked at it as this was an offense against God. And a lot of times, you know, if you hear, you know, somebody blaspheming you might feel a a level of anger that is related to, you know, God's name being profane. So, um I I think the thing I was going for though is His anger was always it was always proportionate and under control. He uh he saw what it was for what it was and and reacted Um, you know, probably a lot of people are you know, they see Jesus day to day and suddenly he's flipping over tables. And they're probably like, whoa, whoa, whoa, what's going on here? You know, and yet that's that's how you know, we should be when we express anger, just that it's always focused on, you know, just how this affects God. But um we're probably better off trying to control our anger because it's usually mixed with with lots of bad things. So um at the same time. Yes sir. Justice is is not loving. That's true. Um when we see people harmed or hurt, you know, even when we see a player get hit in the heavy fastball. Mm-hmm. Yeah. There's a there's a measure of uh that's not right. And to be angry at what's what's you know, the sin of that's going on in this world isn't appropriate. And the way the author describes it, and I think even the way Professor Carter described it is a an appropriate well enough rate. Different than that. We're not reflecting God. Right. But there like you said, there needs to be an appropriate limit to where our anger is. We don't want to go Right. Yep. Yeah, and I think a lot of times, you know, if we're somebody who does tend to have you know, people say, well, you know, it's because of my heritage, perhaps I'm Irish and we're allowed to get angry. You know, it's like that's no excuse, you know, it's like Yeah, we pick up cues from people. My dad always got mad when somebody did that, so therefore I ten or something like that. It's just i these are all excuses. We have to The the the ideas behind the fruits of the spirit, you know, it's like as we become believers, you know, all these things should typify our life. And to the extent that they don't, we need to recognize where we need to change. So um but uh I think you know maybe a a a good thing is when it comes to our emotions, um try to always be under control. So yes or the cargo. I just wanted to reiterate What you said earlier how really drove the point home to me that um said when Jesus was angry it wasn't because of a personal uh wrong done to him Right. So I translate that in my mind. And I thought about the times that I get angry and it's always stuck me. Yeah. you know, driving to Baltimore and folks wanting to touch my car you know, which I shouldn't value as much, but I do. Yeah. And and those things I pray about to get money under control. But yeah, it's used it's about me and I never really thought about that before. So I'll I'll be playing that in my head for a while. Okay. I'll be safer on the roads. I'll I'll try to do the same. Yeah. Yep. That's great. I mean so so we mentioned the sorrow and joy and or I mean sorrow and anger and grief. But he did have joy also pleased to do the Father will and joy you know um when when the truths were hidden from the wives but revealed to the age He rejoiced that he for the joys that were born in him, he endured the suffering and endured the cross. Well, oh yeah, sure. Yeah, and the one that I I was thinking of um you know, I mentioned a couple weeks ago when Doug was teaching. just the idea that a rich young ruler came to him, was kinda trying to justify himself, you know, Jesus went down the list of what was expected of him. And this guy heard that as, okay, I'm keeping a list and I just checked off all the items you've mentioned. And then Jesus knowing, you know, he had the he ha he had the ability to understand this what this guy was thinking and his character flaws, kinda put his finger on it and is like, you know, this guy who's a rich young ruler and wants you to give away everything you have to poor. And that was the this guy was like, well I can't do that. And what was Jesus' reaction to him? So he felt love for him and as I expressed, you know I'd be sitting back there going, as this guy kicked off Oh yeah, I kept that commandment, oh I got that one, good on that one It'd be like, You haven't kept any of them. I haven't kept any of them You know, but but Jesus looked at that guy and in all this self righteousness. and felt love for him. And um so often, you know, we we see about you know I mean John, you know, as he's writing about himself in the third person, describes himself as the disciple that Jesus loved. You know, he's just felt that so acutely that um he and and and a lot of people say, well was he bragging? No, he he was amazed that that Jesus loved him that much. So that's another one for sure. Oh okay All right. So and by all means, you know, just like just be interactive. We uh have lots of time so if anybody has any thoughts or anything. Please speak up and I'll try to notice that you are. In any case, um so let's see. Um there was a book. Oh, I wanted to um also mention um I Usually once a week post a uh ebook on uh the group website and when I do it doesn't send any alerts everyone say, hey, there's a new resource there. But I want to mention if you wanted to go back, I usually post the book. title, who it's by, and then in the like the subject I put what chapter it relates to. So all these ebooks I've gotten from Monarchism, which the website at the end if you if you're having trouble remembering how to sell that. They're all free. And uh if you're wondering what in the world would I do with an ebook, there's software. I tried to find uh software so I'm a Mac guy um but I try to find software that runs on both PCs and Macs perhaps you know multiple apps for the phones or whatever But um if you are on a desktop, a PC, um I believe there's a uh Mac version as well, but it's for the desktop, you know, whether it's the MacBook or um whatever they have. Um It's called uh Calibre, C A L I B R E. Um nice software, it's free, and you can uh load all these books into it. It keeps track of where you are if you're reading a book. You know, you maybe you bookmark or you highlight or whatever. It keeps that all there. Doug mentioned Kindle. That is of course available everywhere. But it has to be a Kindle-oriented book to be able to be read. So if that's helpful, you know, that's where I've been putting all these resources. In this chapter, um, it mentions a book by B. B. Warfield, and the name of the book is The Person and Work of Christ. And um as I mentioned it's there in the file section if you want to uh look that over. I think uh Doug, did you say it was kind of almost like a uh not so much a book as a uh um almost like a sermon or I'm not sure if you had looked at it, but um some of them are longer than others, but but uh I just put that there in case it's helpful. Yes, so yep. So here were some some other notes about this chapter before we move on to the next one. It says Jesus clothed himself with humanity and will always be so. Jesus had and continues to have emotions So um and then B. B. Warfield, um he noticed that his that Jesus' emotions flow from the deepest part of himself. Anger and compassion being the most common ones we see, we would naturally think of Jesus as compassion. He was often merciful to people. I I uh I wrote down a few examples of when Jesus expressed mercy, the woman caught in adultery, um, the ten lepers, that was an interesting one. How many of the lepers did he heal? All ten. And how many of them thought to come back and and thank him for for doing that? Just one. That's right. And that's that's just so uh often you do something for someone and you're like It'd be nice if they you know, but but a lot of times I mean we see Jesus he was just he would do something we knowing that he wasn't gonna get thanked. And uh a lot of times that's that's kind of um the way it is. Um And so, uh, let's see. The man who was born blind. That's that's one of my favorite accounts in in scripture. You know, just you know, he he healed the man. It's like some people they have an accident and they go blind but they remember what it's like to be able to see but this this guy had never seen. And um, you know, it's uh i i they they kinda talk about it's never heard of been heard of that anybody's been healed of s you know somebody who'd been born blind And they and and the interesting thing they all assumed it was because I don't know how this would have worked, but they assumed that either he sinned or his parents sinned. It's like before you're born, you know, I not a lot of people are doing a lot of sin before they're born, but in any case, um so one of my favorites. Um and then he encounters Jesus and I I also like what about that guy is um you see his his faith kind of growing, you know, as it goes from when he's healed to getting into discussions with the Pharisees about who healed you You know, give glory to God, you know, tell us that that man's a sinner. He's like, I don't know if he's a sinner. I'd never met him yet, you know, in terms of being able to see and identify him And then ultimately, you know, he makes a tremendous um vindication of the state by by being thrown out of the synagogue, which was a was a bad scenario, but in any case Um that's one of my favorites in John 9. So um and then let's see. Uh I mentioned the Richon Roller. So um so we feel emotion and pity toward others We are corrupted by the fall, Jesus was not. So I thought it was interesting in the book how he talks about, you know, the emotions that Jesus felt. they had to have been to the extent of the human capability to have compassion, to feel love. And the anger that he felt was was pure anger, but godly anger. Um so I I think that was pretty much all I wanted to ha to say about chapter eleven. So chapter twelve, a tender friend. Um Matthew 1119 says, The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, Look at him, a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners, yet wisdom is justified by her deeds. So it was interesting the people that kind of observed the ministry of John the Baptist and the early ministry of Jesus. And they were quite different in terms of the way they dressed, the way they kind of kept themselves. Um I mean John was kind of the uh itinerant preacher, you know, out in in the wilderness calling everybody to repentance And um and Jesus, you know, sometimes hung out with people that that were not perceived as all that godly. And so they had criticism for both of 'em, you know, for different reasons But uh but in this case they said that he hung out with tax collectors and sinners. Heavens. Um so it's uh Um but before we talked much about um that I I had uh a few comments um from Proverbs about friendship in general. But before I do that, let me a uh before we talk about any of this, what uh what do you all consider um would be the things that would make for a good friend? You know, somebody uh that you would consider to be a good friend, what what would what would be their attributes? Something It would define that. Trustworthy for sure. If you tell them something you don't want them spreading it all over the neighborhood, right? Someone who's uh empathetic. What is it? Someone who's elpageti. Can you explain who's empathetic with empathetic? Empathetic? Okay. For sure. Yeah. If you if you're going through something, you want 'em to be able to uh to recognize the difficulty we're going through and and uh they try to bring a measure of comfort maybe they've been through something similar that's always encouraging. And uh Okay. How about another one? What is it? God fearing. That's that's a great attribute in the friend for sure. Because you know, not only are they gonna feel empathy, but they'll be praying for you. And and that that's a great thing. You know somebody's praying for you. So Ricardo. Um perspective on friendship. Um I'm looking at it these days more as more of it's my responsibility to be a friend to others. So not necessarily looking for any from that other person. Now if I get something back, let's let's say this is twenty-five people that I know. Yeah the ones that are giving me back the things that I'm giving to them, they're gonna be like It's more like you know Christ's disciples, okay, but the ones that I'm going to find in the others I'm still ministering to. Um I may never get to it. Sure. I think what you're bringing up though, I I think a lot of times you would say it's natural for people to develop friends with people that have things in common. You know, it's it'd be very unusual to find people that like have nothing in common to to be great friends. Usually you want to be able to share, oh, you know, my teenage son is doing such and such, oh I dealt with that. You know, you have this commonality where they can relate to and express oh yes when I did that when when they did that this is how I I I resolved that or whatever. So you you would expect to find you know things in common and as as well Is it Lola? A as you mentioned, you know, as as believers, what do we have in common? Of course we have Christ in common, so a lot of times when you're talking to your Christian friend, most people kinda go, What do you two have in common? You know, it might be an odd pairing, but but when we have Christ in common, that that tr is a tremendous amount. So um For sure. So um and hey Steve. Yes sir. If we pull it back and based on what we're seeing here, what do you think we have in common with Christ Well, of course in this chapter, humanity. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, that's that's a big one, for sure. Anybody else? Are there some things that we might have in common? Well I mean that's sorta the that's sort of but that's the task we have living as believers is to is to create that commonality so looking at who he was Whether that's a human um and trying to trying to replicate that with you know the way you love is the way you hear it for a stranger the way he healed I don't have the power to to touch um Doug and heal him, but maybe there's something in his life that's where I can have some influence and I t take take my time out so so every day I'm I'm I'm replicating um in my life what I saw in Christ. Yeah. And if I'm not then I need to take that title of Christian and put it someplace else because obviously I'm not taking on his his quality, so I don't think it's something where we automatically have something in his comment. I think it's something that we're we're s we should be speaking But Christ go ahead. So the thing we have in common is we need a savior, and he is the savior. Yep Yeah for sure. And and kinda along with that, and when you read this chapter, it says he's a friend of sinners. Yeah. And and the people who drew near to Christ were the people that weren't like Christ Right. Right. But but that's that's my point because what what Steve was saying is we look for folks who have commonality with us. So we're not calling ourselves spinners at this We're looking for folks who are perfect like us. Okay. So, you know, um Um one of the things I'm doing now is I'm reaching out to folks who are not like me. And I I am finding commonality but I'm still on that on that track of I'm ministering to you in some in some function or way. And I'm available to you even though you don't trust Christ. But in that and with those relationships, guess what? I end up having conversations with those folks about Christ without proselytizing directly. is what I see in Christ is that he he had conversations. He answered he answered questions. He set things up. They ask questions he answered. Mm-hmm. You know? And that's different from how we have been taught to do evangelism for instance. It's like I got this and you got a head and then I got a pound you gotta head with that. But instead Christ was just he made himself available. And so um yeah. That's that's that's one way that I'm trying to have something in common with with Christ by reaching out to those who are not like I think you mentioned that in terms of evangelism, I I do think I mean, I went through programs where they have you memorize a whole barrage of verses that you You can just kinda, you know, here's this verse, here's that verse, you know. But when you go to somebody and maybe it's somebody you have hopefully like at work, maybe an on ongoing friendship, but and they understand you're listening to them, that they are asking you questions and then, you know, they recogni I mean if you ask them a question that kind of draws them out you know, uh they they recognize, oh, this person doesn't just look at me as like a not another notch in their belt, you know, as it they really care about me. And um so that was that was a good insight there. Um I found a few verses that I like from Proverbs that talk about um kind of godly friendship Proverbs 1717, a friend loves at all times, and a brother is born for adversity. See what I like about this It it says a friend loves at all times, not just when it's a good time or when you when you're you know, enjoying life or whatever, it says y they love you at all times. But so a true friend will love you at all times, good times and bad. And we need friends and we need to be a friend that is there in in in times of ad of adversity. So that that verse to me has a lot of A lot of content in it for friendship. Proverbs 1824. A man of many companions may come to ruin, but there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother. I I find this proverb very relatable. We know somebody, maybe you look in their Facebook and they've got over a thousand friends, you're like, wow, they got a lot of friends You know. And uh and but so many of them are are surface only. A lot of times you get a friend request like, Who in the world? Well, they know three people I know, so okay. You know, so uh but that is not I I doubt many of us would consider them to be valuable friends. Um, so many of them. But this proverb says you should desire to find a friend, and again be that friend who's closer to you than perhaps a family member And Proverbs 27, 6. Faithful are the wounds of a friend, perfuses are the kisses of an enemy. Love that one too. Um it has tremendous wisdom. Somebody who's truly a friend will wound you on occasion. That's a sign of a faithful friend, someone who will tell you something that's hard to hear, but's helpful to us. And their motivation, the motivation behind what they those hard words are to bring benefit to you. And you can you can tell that. Conversely, those who speak flattering words Or, as it says, kissing us might be the enemy of our souls. So something to keep in mind when we're doing our friend inventory. So this week we learned about Jesus as our friend and how is he different from any other friend we have had or ever will have. So what are some ways, you know, when when Jesus talked about being our friend, what are some ways that um that that is a unique sort of friendship? Yes, Jan? tempted in every way that we are. He is the one and only that completely understands what I struggle with. That's right. Yeah we've covered that in terms of him being sympathetic and we know he truly is You know, that we can never say, Oh, you don't understand. You've never been through anything like this. And um and yet we know that he has been and and um and is concerned about what we're going through in that respect. So How about the idea? I'll be talking about this shortly. Anybody have a friend? At least they thought they were a friend, but when the times got tough They were nowhere to be seen. You know, it's like I thought that guy was a friend of mine. Absolutely not. Okay. Okay, next. Yeah. I mean can you imagine I I always uh marvel at um the twelve disciples. I mean from day one Jesus knew who was going to betray him. And yet the thing is telling is at the very end, he says somebody's gonna betray me and they're all looking at a I mean uh it's one of those rare moments of humility, is it me? You know, they have no idea who he's talking about. And uh You know, so that uh that tells you that Jesus never treated Judas any differently than he did the others. You know, showed the same love and and you know appeals to him to um to you know, not do that, but but it was uh something he knew that would happen. And um as good a friend as we might have At some point, somebody's gonna let you down. You know, somebody that maybe you thought was a really good friend. But what do we know about Jesus in that respect? that he'll never fail us, you know, that he will never never let us down. Things that he has told us are true and we can rely on those things and recognize that he's never going to forsake us. So um and that his love for us a lot of times, you know, we talk about the the unconditional love of a mother and uh and yet Jesus' love is is truly unconditional. And um So uh and uh uh another thing I like, uh Matthew 28, 20. That's a section uh perhaps you might recognize the reference. What is that area called? What do we think about the last part of Matthew 28 is the Great. Great commission. That's right. So he's telling his disciples that you know, I'm about to leave, and here's some marching orders. And so he's giving them this commission. Here's what I w want you to do from from here on out while I'm you know, in heaven. And at the very end he has the little tag that says, and lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. So as you are obeying me, as you're discipling, as you're doing these things, recognize that I will be with you. So so that's um That's another thing that I thought was helpful. So um in John fifteen, there are several statements that that um make Jesus Give us an insight into Jesus' heart toward his toward uh John fifteen and verses are thirteen to fifteen. It gives us an insight into Jesus' heart toward us as friends. So first he says, Greater love has no one than this, that one lay down his life for his friends. So just a little editorial comment. I mean Jesus had been cruising around for three years with his disciples and they would refer to him as master. You know, he was the teacher. He he was the master, and um that's how they perceived him, and yet this is an indication of a change. It says that one lay down his life for his friends. Verse 14, you are my friends if you do what I command you. No longer do I call you slaves, for the slave does not know what his master is doing, but I have called you friends, for all things that I have heard from my father I have made known to you. So we see a few things there. The uh the indication that Jesus is calling them friends is because of their obedience toward him. And yet um there's a uh Uh obviously this was a changing of the relationship. He's now calling them friends and what were the implications of that friendship, he was going to reveal things that he'd heard from the father. These are things that My father and I are have been communicating and I'm now going to reveal to you as my friends. So um that's uh That that is a a pretty powerful um section. You know, you you uh I I think I talked a uh recent week um just in terms of It's amazing when we get little glimpses into inter inter Trinitarian communication. You know, when Jesus is talking directly to the Father, it's like Wow. You know, it's like you get a a a a picture of this is exactly how God thinks. These are the words of one member of the the Trinity speaking to the other. And uh it's just incredible revelation, you know, to to have that insight. So um so again we see that Jesus is sacrifice for us. was motivated by the greatest love ever. Jesus, the incarnate Son of God, calls us his friends, and we demonstrate our friendship with him by our obedience to him. The disciples have referred to Jesus as master. In verse 15, Jesus says that relationship is changing. No longer would they be considered slaves, but would be his friends. that change in relationship would be accompanied by a greater level of understanding between the Father and the Son. So I I believe if we if we meditate on this passage, we should be filled with awe at the grace given to us And it amazes me that we're given insight into this communication between the Father and the Son. So um as I mentioned, many of us have felt betrayed by one that we consider to be a close friend Jesus saw that most easily at the betrayal by Judas. Um you'll see that in Psalm forty one nine, John thirteen eighteen. Jesus And um in Hebrews three five uh s sorry, Hebrews thirteen five at the end of the verse it says, I will never desert you nor will I ever forsake you. Yes, sir. It's interesting if you follow that passage. In Hebrews? No, I'm sorry, in John fifteen. Um verse sixteen says, You did not choose me, but I chose you. And it makes me also to think then about I've always thought about this first in the context of election uh and and God's God's sovereign plan for myself. salvation. But if you connect this back to Jesus calling us friends, there's an aspect there of it's a it's kind of a it initiates as a one sided thing. And we think of friendships we get to a place where it's mutual. Uh and that's what really defines a really good friendship, right? David and John And they their hearts were kind of knit together. Yeah. But but it wasn't it wasn't uh David said, Okay, I'm gonna choose Jonathan to be my friend And when you think about that kind of in a worldly sense, if if um if somebody comes along and says, I'm gonna ch you're I'm gonna make you my friend, uh there can be some awkward moments there Yep. Right. Um because if the other party doesn't precipitate that, that's kinda um on one hand that can be kind of weird and awkward. And it just and you see that kind of plays out sometimes in dramas and and movies and things like that where somebody says, Pee, it's make me your friend and they're like, No, get away from it. Um It there's so many movies like that, right? And then that the little person gets super towers. But um it's what happens in the movies, right? Sorry. Um There's an aspect there that's kind of hidden behind that where and this is just in our human nature, right? Where if a person who is beneath you says, I want to be your friend and like I don't have time for you you're beneath me. What do you what do you bring to this relationship? I'm sorry, it's awkward. But that's that's kind of people are self-centered and that's the way they thing. But if somebody who's above you comes to you and says, I want to be my I want to bring you into my circle, I want you to be my friend, in that same sense you're like, ooh, I get to you know, I get to come into your circle. Yeah. If the CEO of your company says, Hey, I'd like for you to be on the board and start giving me advice, be like, That's pretty cool. I wouldn't mind some of that. Uh and the bonuses are both on the But but that's kinda how we are. And Jesus here says, I chose you, you know, to be my friend. And there's a a natural inclination that this is this is the the ultimate God of the universe. He's saying, I'm gonna let you in on my circle. And and there's there's something very tender in in light of all those human things, our natural inclination should be like, Yes, I got the best friend ever Right? Yeah. And but also then to see it from a standpoint of wow we're the tender love of God. Yeah. And what that means. And to to remember who we are and the blessing of being invited, lovingly invited. It's not God God obviously has no reason to be like, ooh, I'm gonna add to my circle of friends somebody who's above me. Yeah. And improve myself He's he's a friend of sin. Yeah, the uh I think the the inclination a lot of times when you share your faith with someone and they start thinking Okay. Yes, I recognize, you know, that I have sin in my life that, you know, I'm not perfect who is kind of thing. They start thinking along those lines. But if they start pondering, okay, now I recognize you get you have this get the salvation you're offering me, but I need to make myself presentable. I need to kind of clean up my act before I could even think to enter into any sort of committed relationship with God. And what does Jesus say, you know The the word in scripture it says, um, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. And that's it kind of goes along with this passage. It's like, okay, while you were sinner, not once you kinda got to an eighty percent, you know you know, on the uh uh the holiness scale. It's it's while you were down in the gutter. You know, you think of the prodigal uh prodigal son at that moment where he's in the in the pig swap, you know, it occurs to him, I could go home to my father. You know, I I I I will try to set up these terms and maybe he'll have mercy, but who knows? But it he just reached the end of himself. He was at that moment of desperation recognizing What other choice do I have? And just how when the father saw me ran to him. It's just uh it's amazing. But um he wants to he wants to just go I'm gonna hang out with them. Yeah. And and that's that's so sweet to my heart. Yeah. To know that you know, the friendship with Jesus is not just to pull me out of my swim pit that I'm in, but it's it's to throw a party. Yeah. And and not just to throw a one time party. Hey you came back, cool, let's go find something else I can out. It's a you came back and now let's have fellowship. Yep. And I go ahead John. So what is the location like today like we have would you this was that's a good question. I uh you know the thing I and I'd like to know what other people have to say But the thing that pops into my mind is to enjoy what Jesus has to say. And you know, there's a there's a line in here that says, We're just comfortable hanging out Uh and what that means is I'm not trying to hide who I am. I'm not trying to be like, oh, I got this secret part of me that I want to make sure that doesn't that we're not we don't ever talk about but that I'm allowing God to see all of who I am and I'm also listening to everything He has to say. And truly treasuring those things. Because if you have a friend and your friend's hanging out, right? And and you're like do do uh huh do to do right. That that's your friend is gonna be like I see where this is going. They don't have time for me uh or an interest in this relationship right now. But and and sometimes our our are looking and listening to what God has to say and God's word, right? It's kinda like, cool. I read my verse for today. Maybe I even memorized it. That's cool. Now check, I'm gonna go on. That doesn't sound like a relationship to me. that sounds like a list of to do. Right. Uh but I'm sure other people would say that better than me. I'm not sure. Because price is done everything. I can't think of anything else you could did more than what he's done and what's already on his agenda. He's he's pleading on my behalf to the father that where we screw up. And so I'm thinking more about well how how do I deliver on my part of the the president Um so uh lately I've been visualizing Jesus. Um but him him here right now on what are like I might have sitting right here beside me and and just trying to make him more real because I think sometimes we we lose we you we lose track of the fact that he's real, that he is a person and that you know he he is a friend And so when we're doing stupid things, you know, like if if we're hanging out together, you're gonna be like, Ricardo, what the heck are you doing? You know, I'm not gonna be stupid in front of So I'd be less stupid if if my friend Jesus is beside me side and kind of visualize, you know. I I take whatever human tricks I can to to draw me closer to to be more real and um and uh you know um I I had to give this um I'm gonna have to confess, okay, so I gave this this little talk recently and I And I and I told God I'm I'm doing this um physical therapy for for the shoulder. And um and there's and there's men and there's women there. I said, Okay, so Jesus is next to me, so he said, um Um you can't look for six seconds, you can only do it for like two point five. So basically the man thing, like, oh that's a beautiful woman over there. No. Because Jesus is he's he's he's he's my he's my friend. He's like I'm keeping you focused. You're here you you're here for physical therapy and and even though you don't have any wow parts yourself, no, just focus on on this. It's a it's a real thing. You know, I I try to be that that friend where I have him right next to me and not just the celestial um me because Yeah, we have real issues and we're s we're still stupid. Well I'll speak for smart. We're still stupid. I I still I still do stupid things, think stupid things, and and I need Jesus to be right to sign it. So That's the story, that's it. Okay. Let's see. And Steve, you said it too in this passage. And I think this this is part of the answer. And then talk about the stupid part, right? I think sometimes friends can be stupid and laugh together and have fun and just let you know, it's hard for us to let our hair down, but other people they get to let their hair down. Right? Um but the That's right. Yeah, that's how we indicate our our friendship with with the community and relationship and uh that that holds us together, right? When when I hang out with certain people, I live in a way that that certain group of people lips. Sometimes you go back to your you know, you if you ever go back to that high school reunion where you have a family reunion and you got that weird cousin that when you were younger he used to be weird things with and you try to do weird things again even though that's not who you are anymore. That when we hang out with Christ, we're gonna be in that circle of okay, I'm r and and if the fact is we remember we're always hanging out out with Christ. That that starts to form and shape our lives. It's not because I'm trying to check off a list of seduce, but because I'm hanging out with my friend and this is kind of the standard when we hang out, this is what we do. We walk a certain way. So I guess um before I finish up on the concept of of friendship, I think it might be something that that Greg alluded to, just the idea that we recognize the qualities of friendship that Jesus offers us, it should affect the sorts of friends that we are with other people. We want to be a friend who's dependable, be a friend who won't, you know, give away uh something that's shared in confidence. And um I I was thinking of, you know, c kind of the extent of that. Um In terms of forgiveness, um, you know, there's uh I think of this church that was in South Carolina where where somebody came in and they received them in to their prayer meeting and then I don't know exactly all the details but not long after that he started shooting the whole place up and I don't know if it eleven people died, a lot of people died. But the thing that struck me was when they got to the news person out front They immediately expressed forgiveness for this person and what he done to all their friends and their family. And um They they couldn't figure out what to do with that. They were like, this is not what we expected to hear. And when people see people have the kind of forgiveness that Jesus did, it blows their mind. So Anyway, um yeah shouldn't have told that story because it it often affects me. So in any case, um any final thoughts on these chapters before we close in prayer? Um it's kind of off deep. But in the the friendship thing we're we're making friendship under the other quote. Okay, but it it occurred to me. So if if if we're making friends with unbelievers, the the the first thing that's important is that That unbeliever must know who you are. Yeah. Then you're gonna be pending about well. I can't tell them now that I'm a Christian or that I don't do this So the the relationship has to be around, hey I'm there to help this person. But they first have to know who you are and right. So the the expectations were set. from the beginning because otherwise then you're just hanging out in the darkness. For sure. Yeah, because one of the things that I read here and I was thinking about was why Is Jesus called a friend of sinners and not a friend of Pharisees? Yep. Because he's not. I mean David David never said but he he went and hung out with Pharisees too. I mean the Pharisee invited him to his house, but he didn't wash his feet or anything like that. Yeah. And why didn't Jesus why wasn't Jesus called a friend of Pharisees? Because Pharisees are sinners too. Right. I th I think it was rare that a Pharisee would invite him to his house because Yeah, because you know that Jesus he hangs out with tax tax gatherers and sinners and uh I I think you know that's that's interesting. You know, he Uh there's that one moment where he says to them, it's not the sick that that uh I mean the sick are the ones that need the physician, not not the healthy, because they perceive themselves as healthy and not in need of whatever he was offering, it was people that knew they had a need, that recognized they were sinful, that came to him. Yes, sir? Um I think respond for the way the friendship of evil is quite different from the friendship of men. How do we pick or choose our friends Yeah. We only speak and choose our friends through the relationship that we have to put a sexist. No, either for what we gain from easy or the benefits we are expecting from each other. Mm-hmm. But that of Jesus Is a sacrificial that he paid not for the righteous but for the finance. Has it not been the that type of love that he has for us? Most of us sitting here would have not been able to be Mabinese of God And that's why he started, he said, I have chosen you. Not you that chosen. Do you know many people come to Jesus and say we want to be going I'll tell you and you said no. Would you be able to to pay the price to someone say follow me? I will speak. The area, the love of Christ, quite different from the he said those that love he loved, he said he loved them, he wants you to be Okay. So that's the reason why it's putting uh at the at the peak of this ministerial work here or not We are is uh uh throw everything home. Okay, not as highly the as we be thought and that was what steps to finish in task and right here on earth So that's why law is genuine law. Adaptive law is sacrificial law. A law that is not with losing So when we were yet seen Romans 5e, then while we are yet seen uh Christ was That's right. Well we were in the apples in me. Not well we were perfect. That's right. And that was why we go right decide. He knows us before he keeps up. Isn't it? Most of us know the type of life we have already lived. Isn't it? If we have to pick our friends and we know the type of life we live behind. that first thing we want to give as a frame is liberal right and we pick them law. But that would be the law open while I I guess uh just to kind of summarize that, I I think um there's places in scripture where it encourages us to beprend people that need a friend. You know, if you look for somebody oh, I'm gonna ask this person because This wife's a really good cook and when they have a sober for dinner we're gonna have a nice meal. You start recognizing, you know, uh God has given me so much and and I I need to befriend somebody who needs a friend. And um so I'll just leave it there. So Thanks all for coming. Let me go ahead and close this in prayer. Father, we are thankful for this topic. We're thankful for the insight into Jesus' heart. We're just thankful for this day you've given us and the worship time that we'll have. Just thankful for Pastor Mike and just pray that he'll bring the forth bring forth the word with power and just pray all these things in your name. Amen.