That was one thing I was going to look into. As opposed to justice, would be asking God to give us something that we don't deserve. And the word loving kindness is a word, it comes from the Hebrew um Hesed or Hesed. And that's why they were so hated because that was a attractive thing to so many of them and and they would they would extort money from their fellow countrymen That's the the work that God does on on a uh on a believing heart, you know, that He a lot of times will break your conscience to encourage you to I've I've encountered this a lot, you know, that if you're sharing your faith with someone, um, particularly, you know, with a Catholic upbringing, you know, if I'm talking to an a person who's who's still in the Catholic Church A lot of times people go, Well, you know, I'll just kinda live my life, do my own thing and then, you know, when I'm you know, on my deathbed I'll I'll uh you know, but you don't recognize you know, when you have opportunities, you know, just And his father's kinda like, What are you doing? And uh it's just like, oh, there's so many times in my life where I was and have done things to secure my place to please the Lord and to be in his family. That's that's that's that's exactly right. uh I I think of it as illustration this is uh this is one of these great moments. He's a tax collector. He ha he has a love toward him and he gives him in his situation, knowing this guy's heart, he says, Okay, the one thing you like, you need you need to sell everything and um is to preach to a room full of people people that are at all these different spectrums. in that place and make you feel like, oh, I gotta do something. Is it is it to earn your keep or is it out of love and joy and salvation? You know, a lot of times you read the different epistles and he's recognizing the good things that's going on there and maybe some things that he correction, but he just kinda hits them between the eyes. Uh you know, it makes me feel like you know, God will be more pleased with me if I do. uh this is something I feel I I have to do or I uh you know I need to do. out for the distance. And has been uh very impactful. in chapter six he talked about the perseverance of the heart of Christ as sort of another facet of the document that I hadn't really considered before. Mm-hmm. You know just that um he's the same as he as he was then and will always be. You know, it's just the idea that he's going to provide rest for your soul. Oh good study. Red is. uh sets a a a ridiculously hard bar but also in some ways God being gentle and lowly, God being slow to anger, God being like you're gonna talk about today reach and mercy um is something that feels to me more I don't know if this is the a fair way to say it humanly accessible way to sanctification And yeah, they were afraid of the storm, but I think their fear has just gone up a a significant amount with realizing they're in the presence of God and and uh you know I think a lot of times we you know You know, a lot of times it's kinda like, I'm not I'm not holy, I'm not, you know, I I don't understand, you know can use it in a different way. Pick out your little it's like a fortune cookie, you know, here's my verse of the day and a lot of times you drip a verse out of context and you know, but God can work through that, you know, his word, you know, it's just a lot of times Sometimes in our misunderstanding as he's growing us. That was um we can uh have trouble remembering the uh actual chapter numbers. The first one was about him being rich in mercy, and the second one was our lawish heart and his lavish heart. I've left it. It is like our initial understanding of a passage, but then you hear a sermon where somebody explains a broader context and you kinda go, Oh, I get it now. Uh you see that in in uh Jesus' disciples is like, so exactly how many times do I have to forgive these guys? And that's the whole point. Um condemnation. Which I don't know if you want us to stay away from the second chapter or not. You know, the most familiar, you know, being uh Ephesians uh two, eight and nine, you know, the out the whole idea about we're being saved. As a free gift, you know, it has nothing to do with anything we've done. You're always doing this for them and not doing it for me. of things. their number two son had done something that warranted a spanking. It says, For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life through Jesus our Lord. in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. You know, God doesn't owe me anything, I don't owe him anything. It's already true. And I think a lot of times um we hear words like that, it doesn't hit the impact doesn't hit us, you know, it's the idea that that God The idea of God being merciful is something that's natural to God. God knocked him to the ground there. Right. If you're in one of these uh read through the Bible in a year you kinda kinda get to these different passages and one that always uh kind of struck me rich in. It's kind of over the top. I hope that that gives you fun. He comes to Jesus and says, you know, what do I have to do to e inherit eternal life? keeping the commandments and his assessment, this this young rich young ruler looks at himself and says, I've kept all those things. uh in there. and give these things to the poor. Um I mean certainly we in scripture we're told to pay taxes. it what does it say? Were they very popular? You know, if you have strong people, you know, relationships that need to be mended, um a lot of times there's specific ways that God will work on your heart too It was just something that Zacchaeus was so overwhelmed by Jesus wanting to spend time with them that you know you just see in that that this spontaneous here's what I'm going to do and Jesus looks at that and says saw different reactions from the two characters there. you know, we might just suddenly realize I wronged this person fifteen years ago. that's kinda convicting and pokes at you, right? So I can go and do the thing I want to do rather than having a chance to hang out with my dad. Yeah, you have those verses in Galatians where Paul he says, Oh foolish Galatians you know, I mean that's a pretty strong thing. uh if that was that was their sign, but um was it needed for salvation clearly not. These new things that we're going to be doing will commend us to God more so. You know, we feel like if I were to fast a couple times a week or I, you know, spend you know multiple hours in prayer that somehow times you know I've been thinking about my Bible reading and then I miss a couple of days. And he deals in ways he wants us to desire him. Okay. I don't know, was there anything else in this chapter that anybody found particularly helpful? We sin, not just in the past, but in the present, and not only in our disobedience, but by our out of works disob She's chosen the more significant thing, more important thing. And then you make your way over to James and we see what appears to be a contradiction, but we know it's not. They're all about works. It's not the works that save you, but they give you an indication that you have true faith. So I think Martin Luther had some bad feelings about James until he worked that out. It fits our human imagination. There's this um a desire to do and uh I feel like sometimes when I start to congratulate myself And you know what happens. I'm not feeling this. i is there's a it feels like there's a spectra, right, of I wanna I wanna do what's right, um and it gets to our motivation. to break, make sure. Um a lot of times the feelings start to you know it's kind of like, oh I'm glad I did this. Go ahead and open this in a word of prayer. The Old Testament his mercy is displayed. And yet, you know, I I guess kind of the foundation of the book, you know, talking about, you know, how you're you're you're weary, heavy laden He's gentle and lovely. at a Christian bookstore on a slack, you know, coming down who who are weary and and then the his ways are not always. The the law ish of course is you know it's it's kind of an invented word, but I think it kind of describes, you know, something that we we uh it'll be helpful for us to uh to discuss. that we went through this week. there should be no end to, you know, the forgiveness that we have for people because we've all been forgiven such a tremendous amount. we dislike or things like that. And, you know, a against I guess one of his his uh his fellow countrymen and that the m the uh I guess the the king or or or whatever it was in that case just the amount of, you know, this ten thousand talents is just such an unbelievable amount of money. Um okay. or maybe through ten thousand little ones. God being rich in something and uh it's a tremendous thing to be to be rich in, you know, is uh the concept of of mercy. And a lot of times we look at a situation and we're like, that's not right. This is a a common thing we all were children, I presume, growing up. You know, that that your parent didn't always single out, Oh, Johnny here, he's such a good boy. What did we often ha what was our main complaint? And and yet um I think it's it's helpful to recognize that you know God is is perfectly just, he ultimately will for say to say to God, I want justice. And uh a lot of times you don't have kids of your own, you kind of observe you know little life lessons in in child raising and uh So many other things. See, yep, to that one. It's it's what you earn. And I was thinking of um Romans 6. And um and yet it says the the gift of God, what he gives to us freely, is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Which is of course a contrast word. have time for today. Because you know, you get to a word like but it's it's kinda like uh you know, when you see the word therefore, you always wanna know what it's there for. Um w in what ways do we see God's immense mercy toward us? So um that's an indication of um of of God's mercy. Shared boxes that I happen to send. that from the world standard well from from from the Christian mindset you'd say, well this person's gonna be antagonistic you know I mean can you imagine somebody more antagonistic than the Apostle Paul, you know, before he became a believer and before completely transformed and to become one of the most effective evangelists, probably the most effective evangelists who separate lives. And in Psalm 118, it ends with the phrase, His mercy, sorry, His loving kindness is everlasting. And in Hebrew, well, you see it a lot of times in in Jesus' words, one of the ways they communicate something that's important is it gets repeated. Um it's twenty Psalms I I was trying to remember which Psalm it was, but as you're reading it, you know, it's like it starts this way and it ends the very same way. Martha, Martha. It starts with an idea and then finishes with his loving kindness is everlasting. Which as I mentioned is kind of an interesting word that does really describe us and then this idea of lavish, it might not be a word that we use very much, but if you say that Oh, there was this lavish, you know, uh banquet at the wedding. And um how do we tend to respond when we encounter people that we perceive to be self righteous? But then Roman government gave them the opportunity to take beyond that, you know, just to kinda line their pockets or we would feel pretty bad about that person as well. spend the evening with you. is I'm going to spend the evening here with with uh Zacchaeus. to do that, but it's not like it's ever written anywhere, okay, when you become a believer you have to give half your money to the poor or or whatever it is. And I think that, as I mentioned, that is our normal this is the way I'm going to kind of clean up my act. an opportunity and cried out for salvation and received it freely. kind of started trying to think, okay, how can I really, you know, put myself in this position where, you know, I I feel like a son. And um, you know, a lot of times, you know, that that might be something that that we, you know, are in a similar kind of situation, you know, where we'd we recognize that you know that we were received you know, people, you know, as you're you're growing in your faith, you know, somebody introduces some idea that, okay, so you're a Christian, but if you want to be like Christian plus, then you're gonna follow this or you're going to, you know, maybe start, you know, uh some of these liturgical things that have been, you know, in the church and out of the church, but that's And it's just a wrong way of thinking. You see Paul, you know, just really deal quickly and and and severely with the Galatians. were b believing, you know, it's clear that they were believers, but at some point somebody started introducing this idea that circumcision is required. But also you're gonna need to you know make sure you get circumcised or something along those lines. That's where you really can get close to God. I look by faith in the Son of God, who loved me, and gave himself for me. This person over here, they probably never start stop reading their Bible. Is it one eighty seven? Jesus is visiting with Mary and Martha. overcome with this idea that, you know, we gotta get all this stuff done and my sister's not helping me and, you know, so uh Those things are good, but um you know just kind of the uh a lot of times we need to hear you know what Jesus was saying. Like with your identity that you're trying to put yourself to avert your way, you're under a curse. Just an interesting concept. See if there's anything else here. My motivation has switched. to do what's right and find myself tired or whatever, right? talk to that person 'cause I don't have any desire to, you know, and yet, you know, I I feel like it's has anybody had that experience where you just weren't feeling like doing something and and when you felt like you should and obeyed, you know, that whatever it was, the prompting or whatever, you know, that that you felt blessed afterwards. All right. to be sanctified, to um to be more holy. A lot of times our obedience feels like we're just checking boxes, you know, it's I've done this, I've done that, you know, but but um I'm not feeling it, you know, whereas yesterday I did. And I I think God can work in in our desires and our emotions. to me like um much more encouraging uh when when it phrased that way. What um if there was something in particular that you've gotten out of this class so far, um something that's been particularly impactful to you that we could uh discuss, you know, just in terms of as we down to the last few classes. I I never really thought about the fact that yeah, Jesus died on the cross and we kinda leave him. doing I mean the fact that he's interceding for us it's it's like it didn't stop there. than just hearing be holy for I mole. I should be growing and being slowed. Um it's uh that's that's probably been the most impactful thing. kind of realize they're in the presence of God. why God would receive me, you know, in my in my state, you know, just just this notion of he's everything that I'm not and and um and yet he Yeah, I mean we know God's word is powerful, um, but you know, I I remember when I was a kid we had one of these uh plastic loaves of bread, you know, on the table. So, okay. like that and you see how completely contrary God is. Thirty five, thirty you know, it's like four hundred and ninety. didn't repay his small debt, you know, he was kinda like, Oh, you know, I'm gonna send you off to jail and and just uh just how that's often so much like us, you know, that when we've been forgiven so much how quick we are to hold something against someone. You almost feel like you have to work to to keep something you know becomes a work based, you know, two good works. That's really still to keep that in mind, you know, the booking refreshes and book the uh and I think that that's the second chapter Because, you know, that's that's the whole point of the second chapter, which is just like awesome sauce. And um you know that that's uh a lot of times we miss little details. It's what I it's what I um it's what I'm due. We want justice in that situation, what do we want? He was asking for something he didn't deserve and and that's that's the concept of mercy is is recognizing your father loves you. And, you know, I know I deserve this thanking, but would you please consider to be merciful in this instance? set everything right, you know, balance all the books and and you know, he's that that is a a part of who he is. And um so he gives us what we don't deserve. But this verse clearly says, when we sin, what we earn, what God if He was being completely just, what would He owe us is death. Okay. um freely. Um the in the book we kind of broke it down this way. But verse 4 is the reason why God is rich in mercy. In uh verses eight eight through um ten. other things of that nature. what we would do, what you know, what we had done and what we would do in the future. So in both cases, in verses um Ephesians 2. Which if they're not a believer, that is true, but they don't feel that themselves. When we were hostile to God. you are at war against God that um maybe there's a more diplomatic way to put it, but it's that that would be the truth if he told them that. And um so let's see. through his love when we were God's enemies, when we were hostile to God. And um it it was in a passage that uh referred to his ways being higher than ours and his love being infinitely uh deep. i the innermost aspect of his being, you know, it's just that he has this love for us. I I did think it was interesting, you know, that talked about, you know, God being rich in mercy. And when they did, they didn't die instantly. That was a way of God showing his mercy toward us. he he puts up with puts up with us for a long period of time and that's something that we should be thankful with because if we were, you know, rightly judged when we sin, none of us would be here. um of a case where in in your life you've experienced the mercy of God. Uh not him. And this phrase in Psalm 118, the first four verses and the very last verse, they end with, His loving kindness is everlasting. Um you know, the uh the example that I was going to use is where Jesus, you know, he you know when he's really trying to drill down on somebody, you know, Simon, Simon the mercy that he has is lavish. Um I think it describes our default position. to inherit, what do I have to do to make myself presentable for God? Jesus kind of takes him through, you know, kind of the uh the standard questions, you know, in terms of and you know here is associating with them, which was something that Jesus was accused of sometimes completely wrongly. And he he get tries to get himself in a position where he can see him, comes up in this tree, and Jesus walks through this crowd and walks up through the tree and says, come down here, we're gonna But um he didn't spend a lot of time trying to uh correct people's uh incorrect opinions of him. And, you know, I'm going to give half my money to the poor. cries out in desperation and says, Remember me, Lord, when you come in into your kingdom. and, you know, here's all the things I'm gonna do. But perhaps they kind of drifted away. And it it a lot of times when you try to explain to them, this is this is not you know, I mean, salvation is given freely. you know, make things right with some people that maybe he'd wronged or in this case he's probably being crucified, you know, for for some heinous crime. And it's just like and I've been preached too also in the past that says, hey, if you're not doing these things, uh beware you might, you know, not necessarily lose your place in the family. maybe out of a feeling of I just can't believe all the sins I I was forgiven of, you know, we just feel like we have to do something. That's not acceptable. And uh is my joy hanging out with the Lord or is my joy doing that entertainment like whatever. This is you know salvation and you know something you know circumcision, it was something that was is common, you know, to the Jews, but you know, as a sign in the Old Testament, you know In any case, so that um let me see what what was our key verse for uh this chapter? Um let's see. Yeah, as I'm growing in my faith, you know, that if I do something, you know, I think a lot of times there's things we kinda confuse with, you know, spiritual disciplines. that we're God would be more pleased with us if we if we did things that in and of themselves is is nothing wrong with But um has anybody ever kinda felt it fell into that temp temptation or have anything to share about that But um a lot a lot of times you kinda go, you know, what is what's motivating this this desire? approach to him to be this is something I I I want as opposed to I feel like I have to do. Very good. Martha, you know, was doing important things. Uh I'd say we're talking about works, it's always helpful for things. I don't know if that directly relates, but it was just something that occurred to me. Yeah, I think a lot of times God works, you know, with our obedience. your heart toward us and that it would change our attitude and our our our motivation for this angry god that uh you know smites people and and uh you know there's there's so many passages that would dispel that notion. maybe a a simple way I like to think of it is it's it's what we deserve. He's in his early forties now. made this offer to us while we were sinners. Oh yes, sir. you know, as you're trying to assess, you know, where do I stand before God? they feel that they've done enough to inherit, you know, eternal life and and yet I mean when God when Jesus sees this so much of you know his um his situation was was bound up in you know the the things he owned. Okay, you know this is this is something that God is working on on his heart and and uh so I just thought that was kind of an interesting both of them were were rich and what is it that it says how to commend yourself to God? Let's see. So as we're coming into the home stretch, I thought it might be helpful to uh ask um I know a lot of times we ask, what did you learn from the two chapters that you read this week, but I thought I'd ask wants me to come come near and um all those kind of things. they are you know, at at odds with God, then they start to realize, okay, this is why I I need this salvation. So, um the the idea of God being rich in mercy, was it necessary to say that? So I think that was all I had to say about the chapter on hi the richness and mercy, unless there's any questions about that or perhaps anything anybody wanted to discuss. that he says, you know, that um if I have taken any money from somebody wrongly, you know, I'm going to pay it back four times as much. into the the family of God, you know, just completely freely, but you know, a lot of times, you know, it just Um let's see. Why read over the evidence evidences of God's love for your soul, love to your soul? and turn off those comforts which are due. we do things, you know, just kind of out of sense of duty as opposed to we're I think that's what God wants is our obedience out of love for him, as opposed to And um you know she goes to Jesus and like, Why can't you get my sister to help? You say you have faith but you don't have works. Right. I want to be more lavish with other people. And uh the author doesn't do this very much, but I've been trying to do a exercise of thinking about, okay, this is God, this is spirit, this character. Yep. And so maybe you, maybe the room, I mean what's it how to be steadfast in that motivation. And that's going again for a wicked heart. of God but questioning where you stand in your in a place with God. For Pastor Mike as he brings the word to us today and the rest of our day that it would be honoring to you. I I think it's interesting, you know, when when um somebody recognizes the holiness of God, their natural reaction It's it's like kind of put in the middle of a passage and we take it and put it on a plaque and it's really good. Anybody else? If not I understand. Well, there's any others? Okay. I I guess that's the difficulty. Um and and that's it's uh it's a s different direction, I think, in thinking about uh how if I wanted to grow in sanctification We're not actually merciful. And uh, you know, we we always want things to be fair. Yep. Father, we're thankful for this important topic. But keeping track of what my motivation is is a lot of work. And a lot of times people think, you know, how do I get to heaven? No, out of worse. We forget. Even when we were dead in our trespasses, he made us alive together with Christ, by grace you have been saved. Let's see. Whose repeater then? Greg's nodding, my friend over here. Let me ask a couple questions here. Because that's who he is. It's not he's gonna become mer uh rich in mercy. And I think that um what I'm saying doesn't diminish or change anything, but but it it's it broadens the same concepts I think, God's speech. It says he went away sorrowful because he's unwilling to do those things that that God in particular asked him to do. Um and nothing's changed except what's inside me. Yes, is is it Abby? The uh I think the thing for me a lot of times we tend to think of what we see in scripture from our perspective Mm-hmm. Yeah, yeah for sure. Yeah. And so you can almost ch trace it as your motivation is right and then it changes your joy falls with it. Um and it just becomes labor. And then holding that as a picture of what it means for you to grow at Sancho. That's a great example. You know, I don't have the desire to to reach out to that person. So I have a question. That's that gives us insight into God's heart. Um well with that we'll uh let's go ahead and look at our chapters. But he's saying here, this then also applies to our security in Christ. Oh, I think that was off my head. Were there anything as impactful from either of those chapters? So um yes done. So that's of course very encouraging. Yes, Joe. You know, it's uh it's just a technique that they use to really say this is important. And and what I f I as I've mentioned a number of times now, it strikes me as interesting that it says that Jesus felt a love toward him. Yeah, I'm gonna make Kindle it's seventy one percent through. Why don't they appreciate me? But what does this say? So um has anybody uh ever been I g I guess found that temptation to uh you know feel like He's quick to forgive and um being able to see the carnival sign and the father have the father ransa me And um and yet we we recognize that God desires to give us mercy, and why is that? That's right. And um I think the it it's interesting to just do a research on rich and even in this passage in Ephesians Yeah, yeah, for sure. And uh what was the average uh the average um Israel Isra Jew, what were they what were their attitude toward people that collected taxes for the Roman government? You know, everything they that that is the basis of their whole system. We still like to remind him of that. Or is it disrespectful or you know, um like you know what I mean, like to take it out of that context. A lot of times people don't don't recognize, you know, you you go share the gospel with someone, and if you were bold enough to tell them that they were an enemy of God You know, he was just chasing us all down last week. Yes, this statement um in in the notes here. It's good to be reminded. So we're right. Very good. And uh, you know, it just I think it was it was funny because so many of the believers at the time were like And of course, those who observed that, they were like, oh, Jesus hanging out with sinners. But in love and obedience we do want to please him. Um there's the um the parable, you know, about the guy that had a small debt that um he was he was forgiven. So um for the being rich in mercy passage, did they go to Ephesians two, four? Oh I thought this uh the whole discussion in this chapter I thought was interesting, you know, about the child who was trying to earn or you know, he didn't suddenly w woke up one day, didn't feel like he was a son and you know he Obedience. And the moment you go against me, that's on that lawless heart. Yep. That's who he is. Um so Ephesians two four says that God's rich in mercy. Oh, were you saying something? And uh, you know, so that's that describes I mean, we as we were talking about you know God being rich in mercy. You've squandered his mercy and you know it. I have been crucified with Christ. You know, a lot of times, you know, we always feel like we have to completely fill our calendar with all kinds of Christian activities and events and And it's it's slippery in a lot of sense because I might start off with a really good motivation. Uh John Flawble. Yeah, I mean I guess similar I feel like it is very versatile in letting me be safe being brought up both sides of my parents. And all these other attributes and looking at is we've been thinking about uh the love that God has for us We think oh it's a being I've given you too many chances, so on and so forth. And you know, because Ephesians two, I look at that and I go, Well, this is a passage that's about our salvation. But suffice it to say that the point of both these verses is to show that the love of God was extended when we were God's enemies You know, it's like we all want to grow closer to to God. And and yet when it talks about our idea of uh having a a lawish heart I have a lot of notes here. Father, we are thankful for this time to look into your words, to study about how you are merciful and something that we know, but sometimes we What's the most common complaint of of children? It says God in demonstrating his love, he he um And this was something that the guy was unwilling to do. Um Yeah, there was this I guess the discussion in the chapter about adoption. Martha, you know, she's stressed out, she's trying to get everything ready for the meal. Yeah. How is he so merciful? So what what it's saying is, when we sin, we are owed death. I think a lot of times you see the providence of God working through people, you know, that just you just feel like it was just this random conversation, but you see the eternal impact of that. Their normal reaction is, well I'm going to start going to church again. It's just terrible. He wasn't asked to do any of those things. God's working on your heart and you know as we sin it it makes things um your heart a lot colder toward God. So um yeah, I d I uh I think that's you know, one of those things where And a lot of times I think our heart kind of goes, Yeah, I could I could do that, you know, and and we see we feel like somehow That's one of the things I'll be talking about today, so that's great. So um it's a it's uh it's a helpful thing. And yet when it talks about Zacchaeus, interesting character, he hears Jesus is coming. We're perversely resistant to letting Christ loved us. Yeah, there was a couple of concepts in there, you know, it's just kinda like so a lot of times we A lot of times um if we had time, we could spend time seeing what came before. You know, the the center needed to be prepared or whatever it was that she was doing, but she was Effectively, what kind of faith is that? Um I mean if you think of pretty much any religion or you know, you have some uh Jehovah's Witness or Mormon come knock on your door We're thankful for this book. I mean these things just kinda came out of a heart of I can't believe you wanna spend time with me I didn't think I'd need my reading glasses today because I can make the font bigger, but still too small. We're just thankful for this book and this time that we have to discuss things that will be an encouragement to our hearts. So yeah. We want guy we want go ahead. And uh you reassured him, there's nothing you have to do. Yeah. Yeah, okay. It's like, oh, that's wonderful, just what I need. You know, whether it's, you know, on the the uh Sea of Galilee as people, you know, or the disciples witness Jesus basically calming the storm I was gonna say it didn't seem like we were getting into that, but but if you have something quite fine. Verses one to three tell us why we need salvation. So um I see a parallel passage in uh Romans five to eight. In the context of us being sinners, he died for us. Good? Where the son says, I'm just doing all I can to secure my place in the family. And um we're just thankful for this time that we've had to discuss these things and just pray. All right. And I think that there are aspects of what we've been studying that represent the holiness of God and God's love is attached to His holiness And I kind of embedded a word in there that I think is part of the answer because he loves us. 23. Yeah. It's it's something that they need to be awakened to, that they need to be told, you know, by your sin See. So last week um we learned about the immensity of God's love. Just feel so burdened by the days that I miss that I'm like, ah, why does but why would I start like it just feel caught in the cycle almost rather than realizing the Lord's mercy start Flaw Flable, Flabble. At the end of the chapter, um it it says something that goes right along with what you said. Yep. It's it's basically kind of uh our standard reaction to things. I bet they're up you know four thirty every morning, you know, and and yet God deals gently with us It's what I've what I've earned. You know, it's not something I think the author talked about his strange work and his natural work. Oh. They were seen as traitorous. A lot of times we don't think of we tend to think of things from our perspective as opposed to um things that God's trying to tell us about himself. I don't know if I ever gonna remember to count that high, but but uh his point in that is it it should You know, I mean would that ever be something that would would it would be a a smart thing for somebody to ask? And um so it'll be some of the things we'll we'll be talking about today. And the thing I find interesting is Zacchaeus is so overwhelmed by this. So let's see. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. He wants us to uh pursue him for not not as oh I'm I feel like I'm okay with God kind of thing, that that he wants our And then the second point with that would be how mercy isn't a weakness. So I I think a lot of times people feel like, you know, I have to make myself presentable to God. Okay. The others? Right. Chapter twenty? Well, you can't. So Steve. But um those leading up verses are very helpful, and in particular verse 4, it talks about God being rich in mercy Um yep, so God extended this um praise to us. I think of first Adam and Eve, they were warned, you know, if you eat from this this fruit of this tree, you will die. Who can define what justice is? You know, and and what was he asking for? But I want to be in a land of living and growing and working towards God's glory. Should be a familiar passage to many. He is rich in mercy. And um you know, just just the idea that We're told to pay what to do, but if we had somebody who was going around collecting taxes for the government and we knew they were taking beyond what was required of us You know, this idea of being rich in something. And um there may be some truth to that, but more often than not we just have kind of a work perspective Um so my wife's brother has five kids So it showed me a line by bringing in one thing that's that's an He was, you know, signing our death warrants and uh and yet God Thanks for that. Yeah, so in the context of him correcting their their confusion on circumcision, you know, he kind of nails it down with that with that passage. So the other thing that I wrote down was what the are of words or incurs. So in any case let's see. And the reason that it's so hard for us to comprehend is because it's so anti OER. 4 and and Romans 5. And um his love for us was a demonstration of his this immense love that he had toward us. I think that God scripture reflects that God is rich in other things too. And and it's important to hear the message based on the truth of where you stand with Christ. Yeah, he did he did that and rose again. Yeah. You know, that we want someone to come in and make things right, to establish justice. Just was wondering if that Yep. It comes down to a question of motive, right. So um there was one other thing I wanted to throw in. And it's a bit of a struggle, I think, from time to time And um and then hopefully that changes you to say, you know, why was I so hesitant before, you know. So Amy had her hand up. Yes? Um, they certainly could have, but that was an indication of God's mercy that He's long suffering Okay. You know, y were expecting to see, you know, finger foods and peanuts and mints, you know, you're expecting to see, you know, lobster and filet mignon or something like that. It just is spontaneous. I'm learning more about the character of God that when I sin doesn't hold me And I just loved it because when he was about to get the spanking, he heard him cry out, Mercy You know, it's clear in Romans you know that we're saved. And you go to that person and you do your best to make things right with them. It's a whole lot easier to just do what's right. That his passion for us is just as strong right now as it was on lacrosse. This tour through Yeah, I think a lot of times, you know, you see in scripture where people So in Ephesians chapter two, verses one to ten. I think a lot of times we see, you know, if we're praying for somebody to receive salvation, it might be somebody Yeah. It looks like they need somebody to encourage them. Okay. And um, you know, you you never want to count on However you say his name. Living based on work makes sense and is natural to us. To you I say, do you know what Jesus does with those who squander his mercy? So it was something that was very important. Okay. And just pray that we would um desire you more, that we would recognize And these verses say, But God being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us Um that that that was something that that he did and it was motivated again out of it out of his love for us They don't feel this enity, this, you know, they just feel like they're living their life and you know Those there's a couple of examples. You know, that that um this is you know, I'm I'm kind of on cloud eight, but I want to get to cloud nine, you know, when it comes to my spirituality So that's our key verse for this chapter Yes, sir. Okay. So Eric was pretty neat about his ways or not our ways, you know, you always hear that uh Were there any things about these these chapters um about God being rich in mercy And we always, you know, we feel like, you know, why can't there be justice in this household Um Rich and Mercy. And that comes from John Plaubel's book, Keeping the Heart, How to Maintain Your Love for God. You know, it's it's it's completely different than any other religious system that exists. Any case, um so Mercy Yep. Yes. I would just say like going with that just how contrary we are to God. I'm not sure I remember that particular passage. And then all of a sudden I'm doing this thing and I'm not doing it with the right vote. Something that's fair or something else. And I think it's important to recognize that Despite being a good person. You know, you feel that God was being merciful to you in in a particular instance that you'd feel comfortable sharing. I think a lot of times when we kind of compare ourselves with each other, you know, you're like You know, this is this is you know, I can't believe I have to do all this by myself. It's it's something that describes his very nature. Yep. Yeah, I think a lot of times we buy into the idea that you know the God of the Old Testament is just a It's over, it's done. Why can't you be like Johnny, you know, and and maybe you felt that way. So uh does anybody if anybody has any examples Um so yeah I think a lot of times, you know, if you've And sometimes it the the challenge of the preacher But then you re recognize in that passage where it talks about the reason for that. Um you know if I'm gonna receive justice Um and yeah, it's just a a way of thinking about what's fun, where's my joy even And a lot of times I think But, you know, I I I I think a lot of times we feel like if I'm not feeling it, it'd be hypocritical to, you know You know, Jesus knew this guy's heart, but that his heart was captured by his possessions, by his bank account, by all these things and Yeah, I think I see seventy seven at the bottom of mine. Um if if we see a situation and we Yep. Yep. Yeah. And um when you try to I I think that's one of the things that's interesting about Christianity when you look at, you know And I think that's how you would kind of explain what seems to be a contradiction to some And so I start to do something for somebody else. And, you know, and and yet when this guy, you know If you've done any uh you know evangelism programs, they have you memorize this one. He's shown us that in in providing salvation, you know, when when Jesus came, died on the cross And you know, uh the thing I thought was so interesting about that And Paul has no patience with that. So um let's see. You know, I think a lot of times, you know, you see our s our society becoming more and more lawless, out of control. Was he asking for what he deserved? Forgiveness, salvation. You know, it's it's it's an awful thing. Well, with that I guess unless there's any other questions, I'll close this in front. And uh, you know, you had siblings, hopefully. This week we're considering the mercy of God and our hearts by comparison. You know, you see this in in in scripture, I think of the uh the rich young ruler. Yeah. That's not fair. It's a uh it's a condition that We do want to do his commands. Um this idea of Pray always thinks your name. Anyone else? Is it wrong to do that? So the way it worked was somebody who was given the job of tax collector, they could collect what was due to the Roman government. You know, a lot of times if you're saying, you know It was no time for him to, you know, try to Because you can't do something. Um, I think it was the intercession chapter, but just how Oh okay. And I think a lot of times, you know, when you become a believer, God changes our hearts in so many ways, you know, that um Yeah, when I was a kid, if my dad asked me to do something, I'd do it to get away from it as quickly as possible Did you have your hand up? But it's actually the strongest thing you could do. 8, it starts with the word but. But um in this case Um I I'm gonna ask for your help because I didn't write down the context, but something that struck me was why But he still actively Um to to grow more into that likeness. I did. But we're not saying five good works, uh four good works. You know, what is one way to describe the riches of the mercy of God You need to be paying attention to this. This is the way that I'm going to try to, you know, bring myself, make myself presentable before God You are my son, you're in this family. Christ is his faithfulness and power that perseveres Um but uh It's basically the same meaning. Um so the next chapter, as I mentioned, you know, it talks about our our hearts being law-ish. So he's starting right from the get go, what do I have to do? Yeah. Yep. Um so So wages, when I say wage, what would what kind of thing am I talking about? Yes. We all want to grow in sanctification. And over there, you know, it's just talking about So uh there are passages now that we're learning that don't necessarily mean you know it's like Jeremiah twenty Yes. I guess if that makes sense. Why do you study evasion? Um so um one thing I thought was interesting And now or and the life I now live in the flesh. Is it truly, you know, to be more holy, to be more sanctified, or is it something that Well God, aren't you happy with me now? No more mercy to him We'll be talking about that in the next chapter. Verses five through six tell us about the solution. Okay. Yeah. So that thank you that that's what struck me is why Rita would like skip with I think the book indicated this is the only time that it ever describes You're just her sitting at the his his feet and learning was the the more important, better thing. And yet when you do, you know, I think God blesses that. Yeah so you know in the last what five minutes we've talked about two passages that you can probably find That's right. That's right. And I I thought it was an interesting contrast, you know, Zacchaeus, he uh he was a little guy. Yep. How do you mercy And yet would it would it ever be a safe thing? I understand it would be the first time we were collecting on it and that person Um Why does he why does he love to give us mercy? Um it's it's good to look at the the whole passage and um of course that would be beyond the scope of what we Oh I I haven't been to confession in years. I um I this is a rich book from a lot of perspectives seeing God who he is. Yeah. She could hear point So, um, yeah I was thinking of the uh the Galatians We learn about that. And uh Yeah, the quote Steve right there is Um I thought I thought I saw a hand over here. We're not saved by works of the law, but we're saved by faith. You know, but um but God can use all those things, you know, just in Yeah, I don't know. If I say I want to receive justice, what am I referring to? Amen. Um and I I feel like in in this there I mean is it wrong to does it still speak of God's character that his ways are not my ways and we So um yeah. You know, the author says that mercy is the thing that God is Um because right if you're trying to earn or earn your place in the family It says, But God demonstrates his own love toward us. They just they assumed he hung out with people that were drunkards, that he himself was a drunkard It's something that can be received And here's Mary in there, just sitting and listening to Jesus. Yes. That's right. So he gave that sacrifice knowing full well But as Level says, why should you be such an enemy to your own peace? Let's see if it's counting up. Um You want to say it? And yet he saw So but that was a good example, Jan. Yes. Yeah. And we a lot of times we are a little bit biased about our perspective. You know, this this guy's the worst of the worst. So and that's a uh kind of a thought that is is captured later in those verses. We we say, Oh, this is terrible. So it's a question of motive, you know, why are you doing those things Uh, you know, w you were treated with justice You know, does God really have a plan for me in my life to raise your mind twenty nine weapons to You know, it would be really easy to understand God's merciful if we're naturally merciful. We will restrict our mercy from being But um I was thinking it's helpful to kind of look at you know verses one through ten, of course. Right. Steve go ahead. It says we are sinners. You know, that ultimately if I don't receive this gift that was given to me, I'm going to face judgment. Mercy Mercy, God's mercy and his loving kindness are are seen as the same. And this is something that you see in that passage that And a lot of times that amazes them. You know, the uh the thief on the cross, you know, next to Jesus Let's see. So So and It says he's rich in grace. That's that's me. It was uh it was that significant that you know he was telling them Uh and that point in this is about God rescuing us from That's part of who he is Um I think I mentioned it before. And and what was going on there, they You know, it it's you receive salvation freely Right. I start to treat them with mercy It says perhaps you have difficulty receiving the So if you're It just it seems No. Yeah. Yeah, eight fifty-three. Um I think it's it's I have to, you know, follow his law. And when people come to realize, you know, by their sin And um but And Jesus admonishes her and says, you know, Martha, Martha, you know I wanna do what's right, I wanna figure out the right motivation to do I underlined it a lot more stuff here in the second chapter But I'm going to make sure I get down there this Saturday afternoon and go to confession And just pray all these things in name. Should never leave home without them. And And when you felt that way And that that can shake you in X An enemy to your own peace. He pours out more mercy. Um And you had the word bowels in there, you know, they kind of You know, I am These people they're just self righteous, they you know, they they're Okay Yes Joe. Thanks. They're like, I don't even remember what you're talking about from fifteen years ago but Mm-hmm. I don't know what's the difference between yesterday and today So it looks like it was chapter 19 and chapter twenty. And So um And so it's just Um just struck me how many passage That's a good sign. So And I just wanted to say that because I Um The whole interchange with If if you have a wage, what is it? Amen. So I think that's been helpful to me. Um So I just counted And Anyone have the passage? God is rich in mercy. I have to follow the Ten Commandments. We see something and we're like, oh So thanks for sharing that. So So