Well are we all feeling and sensing the spirit of Christmas? But then I ask, and the world always asks, what is the spirit of Christmas? There's the spirit of Christmas past, we're told, and present and future. But alas, they miss the true spirit of Christmas. The true spirit of Christmas is the Holy Spirit of God. He is the one who impregnated Mary. He is the one who came to light upon the Lord at the beginning of his. Public ministry of preaching and healing. Holy Spirit is the one who drove Christ into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil over 40 days. Jesus gave credit to the finger of the Spirit of God and his power when he healed. It is the Spirit of God, the scripture says, that raised Jesus from the dead. And when Jesus got to heaven, the one work he wanted to do immediately was to send his spirit into the world. So, I think it's appropriate to study the Holy Spirit at the Christmas season. And hopefully you do as well. One of my goals in preaching about the Holy Spirit is that you develop a thirst for the things of the Spirit of God. I really want you to comprehend how incredible this gift was. Christ gave us a gift. We say, well that gift was Himself, true enough. But he also gave us the gift of the Holy Spirit and how important he is, particularly in this dispensation. This is the age of the church, the arrangement of God's economy under the new covenant. You and I are partakers of this. We are post-Pentecost believers. We must therefore value our relationship with Christ's spirit in the world. It should be important to us, and we should grow to try to understand it. After all, Christ came into the world, was born in Bethlehem. He came to save sinners from what? From God's condemnation, which every man, woman, and child is under, by the way. All men are already under the condemnation of God. The only way they can escape that is to flee to the Savior, right? But Jesus exited the world and he returned back to heaven. And he did so, so that he could send the Holy Spirit into the world and dramatically inaugurate this new covenant age. It is important, however, as we grow in our relationship with the Holy Spirit, and that's our prayer, is prayer for you and for me. That we need to make sure that we combine truth with our enthusiasm for the Holy Spirit. There is always a danger that one or the other will be left behind. that in enthusiasm for the Spirit, truth will not guide, and error will begin taking over those who are well meaning, but are steered easily off course by spiritual forces. There is another equal danger, and that is that some study truth, but they don't sense the power and the vitality and the experience of that truth. And I'm afraid a church like ours may fall more into that category Where we try to deny and suppress enthusiasm of the things of the Spirit of God because, well, we are doctrinally astute. That also is an error Because if you understand doctrine correctly, you understand that it should swell your heart with love and vibrancy for the things of Christ. Today we're going to read about a mighty manifestation of the Holy Spirit. And we're going to study it in truth so we can appreciate it more and not abuse it And the text today is Acts chapter 2, verses 5 through 13. I'm going to start with verse 4 in my reading and go down to verse 13, but we'll be concentrating on 5 through 13. Back to verse 4 of Acts chapter 2. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak with other tongues as the Spirit was giving them utterance. Now there were Jews living in Jerusalem, devout men from every nation under heaven. And when this sound occurred, the crowd came together and were bewildered, because each one of them was hearing them speak in his own language. They were amazed and astonished, saying, why are not all these who are speaking Galileans? And how is it that we each hear them in our own language to which we were born? Parthians and Medes and Elamites and residents of Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia. Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt and the districts of Libya around Cyrene, and visitors from Rome, both Jews and proselytes Cretans and Arabs, we hear them in our own tongues speaking of the mighty deeds of God. And they all continued in amazement and great perplexity, saying to one another, What does this mean? But others were mocking and saying, They are full of sweet wine. Well, this section of the Word of God is about speaking in tongues I think it's pretty obvious to everybody. It shows that from day one the early church knew what the gift of tongues was, and they knew why it was given. The very first day they knew. For all of the controversy over the gift of tongues here in modern times, the gift was given for a very noble purpose. And as you read this text, there is no ambiguity concerning what the gift actually was, or what tongues was supposed to accomplish This is a detailed historical record of the first occurrence of tongues. The first occurrence As we study this together, my hope is that you will be able to tell the difference between this true work of the Holy Spirit and counterfeit works that are going on in our present age. From this text, I think it'll be best to sort of approach it in a question and answer kind of format. We're going to ask A couple of questions, and then give some answers from the text about it, about about tongue speaking. And then I also want to address some of the aberrant understanding of tongues or the work of the Holy Spirit today And then lastly, I want to draw some applications for ourselves. So the first and the most basic question that surrounds this controversial gift is what is speaking in tongues? What is speaking in tongues We'll start with the word tongue in Greek. Actually go back to verse 4, and that's why I started reading there. In Greek, it's the term glosa. It's actually a word that is used some 50 times in the New Testament It was the common word for the literal tongue, the physical organ in our mouths. By extension, it was then also used normally to refer to what the tongue would produce, and that is a spoken human language. Revelation chapter 5 and verse 9, for example, uses it this way. It speaks of Jesus in heaven, and it says, You were slain and purchased for God with your blood men from every tribe and tongue. That's Colossa. And people and nations. So it's talking about languages. The same is true in Revelation chapter 7 and verse 9. There it's used in the plural tongues. So you could translate Acts chapter 2 and verse 4 as languages. That would be a perfectly good translation of the term. And verse 4 also says they began to speak, to speak in tongues. What is that? Well, that is the infinitive form of a very common verb in Greek. for ordinary intelligent speech. It's the term laleo. It is used numerous times in the New Testament and it is always used for normal speech. So when Luke writes that they were speaking in tongues, that simply meant that they were talking in languages. That's not difficult to understand. Hopefully, you're already beginning to see that there really isn't some tremendous mystery that should be surrounding this wonderful gift of speaking in tongues. But though it's not a mysterious thing, it was a miraculous gift. Please notice in verse 4 again that they were filled with the Spirit of God, and then they began to speak with notice the next word there. other tongues, other tongues. Other than their own tongue is what is meant. Other is the term heteros And it means other of a different kind. It could even be translated, they spoke or they talked in different languages. That's a great translation for it. They talked in different languages. That is, languages from other lands, languages from other people groups. Languages they would never have known. Some of them they probably had never even heard one word of. These were very simple disciples of Jesus. They were hardly world-renowned linguists that they would know seven languages or something like that. This was a group of mostly Galilean, and you need to understand the Galileans were looked down upon by the Judeans. They were just less educated. The Judeans were more the elites, and the Galileans were more the normal kind of people These were uneducated, for the most part, Galilean disciples, and they immediately began speaking in all kinds of world languages, and evidently very well. Languages they did not know and they couldn't possibly have known. Foreign languages to them, but still tongues spoken somewhere throughout the world. This was obviously not just a miracle, this was a grand miracle, this was a notable miracle. In fact, the text is so clear about the nature of the gift of tongues, it is mystifying how anybody can read Acts chapter 2 and not understand what it is. I mean, was Luke really all that difficult to understand? Luke even records each of the specific people's languages that these disciples burst forth speaking Again, consider the list in verses nine through eleven. Just kind of look through it. You see Parthians and Medes and Elamites. And there's this long list of languages, and it continues in Luke Belabors the point that they're from all over. Egypt is mentioned. Arabs are mentioned. But they're religious Jews. I mean they've come to Jerusalem. This is a religious city. So they're pious Jews from every direction of the globe. And then they this group of pious Jews are hearing these uneducated, untraveled Galileans speaking their home language. And to them it was incredulous. In fact, this list highlights many of the key Jewish settlements that were in existence at that time outside the land of Israel. And it probably indicates the scope of what was called the Jewish diaspora. You may remember in the Old Testament, the Jews were warned and warned again that if they violated their old covenant, the covenant that God had made with them on Mount Sinai, and they ended up following other gods that God, their God, would be jealous and would eventually remove them from their land. You remember that And so first the northern tribes, the ten tribes of Israel, were torn off of their land by the Assyrians, and then later the two southern tribes were torn off of their land by the Babylonians Where were they taken? Well they were taken and they were dispersed and and they were gone for some seventy years before they were restored and began to rebuild their temple. And while they were out there they they had to live life And they were put in different locations and they developed Jewish communities and they tended to cloister together to keep their study of the law and all of that going on and And during that time they scattered and they they grew up. Some people had never been in the land of Israel and one generation led to another, and so there was this massive number of Jews that lived outside the land of Israel, and it was called the diaspora, the dispersion. But now verse 5 tells us that they were dwelling or living in Jerusalem. Notice that. So that means they had either returned from the diaspora and they'd already found housing in Jerusalem, or it could mean that they were in Jerusalem for what we would call an extended stay. Maybe some of them had come back for the Passover feast, and rather than journeying all the way home again, they decided to stay the extra fifty days Maybe they had relatives in town, maybe they were just doing it out of religious devotion, and they stayed all the way to the next feast, the feast of Pentecost. Either way, their background is widespread throughout the known world and extended way beyond the bounds even of the Roman Empire Parthia, for example, is in today's northern Iran. That was not part of the territory that Rome conquered, and Rome conquered a lot of territory. The Mesopotamian Valley is included there too. That would be to the east of the land of Israel. And then Rome is included. That's way over in the west. Egypt is mentioned to the southwest. There was a strong presence of Jews in the city of Alexandria. Actually, it's there where the Hebrew Old Testament was translated into the Greek, what we call the Septuagint. Cretans are from the island of Crete in the Mediterranean Sea. Libya and Cyrene are mentioned. They're in northern Africa, and so there were Africans present here as well. The Arabian Peninsula is represented. People from modern-day Turkey and other locations. Now there's one mention there of A place that is seemingly out of place, and and scholars have talked a lot about this, and that is Judea. I mean Jerusalem is in Judea, so why are they talking about that as something far away with a different language? But probably Judea means here is being spoken of in a more broad sense, maybe referring to the boundaries of the ancient kingdom of Judea, which spread much further, and it would include places like Syria. So all of these languages from this wide scattered locations, many of these places, they were being spoken, and they were being spoken one after another And they were being spoken miraculously in front of a large crowd of these Jews. In fact, Luke equates the tongues that they spoke on that day with another term for language. It's found, look down in verse 8. And it's it's translated as language, but it's dialectos, and you might hear an English word we get from that, and that is dialect Dialect. That's just another normal word for a normal human language, but it stresses the characteristics of a particular region, the dialect that would develop there. So clearly, these disciples were not speaking in some ecstatic utterance That's commonly heard in charismatic and Pentecostal churches. I know, because I've spent plenty of time in my life in them, and I know what has been heard and what is there. And it's pretty common and it basically is what we would call or they call too ecstatic utterance. Ecstatic utterances are not languages They've been recorded, they've been studied in detail. Often they just repeat the same syllables over and over, changing from one syllable to another, back to a third, or some other highly repetitive kind of outbursts. It's nonsensical. It's not language. There's no order to it. It doesn't take a linguist to understand that what's being heard is not a language. They're not speaking in any kind of discernible language at all. Modern ecstatic speech is not a miracle. It is a human phenomenon. It has been well documented. It goes on throughout the world, even in non-Christian groups. All kinds of religious groups in their worship speak in ecstatic utterances. The same was true in ancient times. People of ancient times were well aware of ecstatic utterances. They were spoken by many of the Greek oracles as they consulted their gods, which in that case would have been demonic. When worshipers work themselves up into a state of intense emotion, it would often increase the ecstatic utterances Ecstatic speech would not be anything noteworthy for Luke to take time to record and say, wow, look at this. People back then, as now, would hardly be impressed with such a phenomenon It would not attract the attention of thousands, and even if it did, it wouldn't lead to the conversion of thousands of people, as we see here. Indeed, outsiders today, when they hear about churches who break out speaking in ecstatic speech in their worship services or by themselves, are not convinced that anything noteworthy is occurring at all. It may be strange to some ears, but it's certainly not miraculous. Since ecstatic speech is fairly common, and it's fairly common without the Holy Spirit, it's not something all that impressive. Pentecost, however, was miraculous and it was very impressive. I wish I could have been there. That would have been just amazing. I'm even trying to figure out how would that sound. If you love language and you love the diversity of language, maybe this would be impressive to you and you wish that you could hear it. Because they were praising God and they were doing it miraculously in language they had never spoken. Imagine the speaker and hearing the things that were coming out of their mouth. Imagine being one of those people and you realize, wow What is happening here? It's the tongue is being driven in some miraculous way. The brain is even being controlled by the Holy Spirit. Just imagine that. It's kinda like in that movie The Matrix, you know you have an instant download of knowledge except this time it would be Rosetta Stone or something. You know, just dial up Fifteen languages, I'd like this one, this one, this one, this one. Your head shakes a little bit and you come out and you say it except none of that happened. That's five. This is real. This happened in history Now the actual words are not recorded, but they're probably similar to scriptural words of praising God for his mighty deeds, like Psalm 106. 2. Who can speak of the mighty deeds of the Lord or can show forth all his praise? Maybe like Mary's words in Luke 1. 51, he has done mighty deeds with his arm. He has scattered those who were proud in the thoughts of their heart. Remember, God is opposed to the proud. Or Psalm 150 in verse 2, praise him for his mighty deeds. Praise him according to his excellent greatness. So there it is, that is what the gift of tongues is. Talking in different languages There it is, and it's a miracle. Now that leads us to a second question, and it's just a natural question that would kind of fall out here as you're reading and you're trying to understand and interpret. You'd want to know why I know what, but why? Why was the gift of tongues given? Why did the Lord do this on this day? Again, this isn't really that hard to perceive. Please notice that the filling of the Holy Spirit prompted a chorus of praises to God. And look at verse six, it indicates that their their praises in these other languages were either so loud within the house Or more likely by now pouring out into the streets, that that noise of them calling out the praises of God in these different languages drew a larger and larger crowd of interest in Jerusalem. Now, you have to understand that these ancient cities were small by our standards. So something that is happening a few streets over can be heard here I mean none of the ancient cities were really large by our standards today. Rome was the largest city in the ancient world that had ever been known, and I think it had around a million people You know, well Columbia, Greater Columbia has a hundred thousand. But Jerusalem was much smaller and it was all packed in there and the streets are narrow. And so there's something probably pouring out into the square. Maybe there isn't a little larger of a square. Some have said, well, the only place they can handle a crowd like that would have been up in the temple precincts. That's possible. We don't really know. It doesn't actually say. But that word in verse six called sound, in Greek is phone, again you can hear words that we get in English from that, phone, it's a different word than was used back in verse two, that word that's translated by the Nazvi noise. That was the noise of the violent wind. So it makes more sense that the sound that drew the crowd of Jerusalem dwellers was the tongues of praises being loudly proclaimed and sounding rather clamorous and and drawing people out. Maybe it was c it was quiet and it was in the morning and it just drew many people out into the streets. The sound of the wind was given for the sake of the believing disciples to confirm for them that this was the day Jesus had spoken of, the Spirit has arrived and they're baptized in the Holy Spirit. The sound of the tongues was given for the sake of the unbelieving Jews in Jerusalem. We call them unbelieving. Remember, they're believers in God and they're devout, but they're not believers in Christ. They're not born again. For notice down in verse eleven, what the the Jewish people were amazed about here, they weren't going on to talk about the noise of the wind. They went on to speak of the mighty deeds of God, hearing that in their native tongues. That's what mesmerizes them. That's what enthralls them. That's what draws them in and makes them think about this They're riveted not on the sound of the wind, but on this use of the languages. What is this? It's a little difficult to picture exactly what happened, but it must have been loud and it must have been amazing So the miracle of the gift of languages was meant, listen, was meant as a sign for Unbelievers. The miracle of the gift of languages was meant, according to Acts chapter 2, as a sign for unbelievers. Remember, Jesus in his ministry to the Jews, he provided for them thousands of miracles The Jews were trained in the Old Testament that when God raised up a prophet, the prophet would perform a sign. And if the sign came true And if his doctrine was compatible with Moses' doctrine, then he was a true prophet of God. If he didn't provide a sign Or if he did and his doctrine did not harmonize with Moses's, then he was not a true prophet of God. He was a false prophet, and the people were not to listen to him Jesus knew that. And Jesus provided the Jews with tons of miraculous signs. Miraculous signs were very important to the Jews. When Paul writes 1 Corinthians 1:22 He says, you know, the Greeks they spend their time searching for wisdom, but the Jews, do you know what they do? They ask for signs. And that's putting it mildly. They demand signs, miraculous signs. And that is what tongues served as, a whopper of a miraculous son. Again, we need to use the apostolic teaching in the letters, in the epistles of the New Testament to confirm this. And so in 1 Corinthians chapter 14 and verse 22, it directly states what the purpose of the gift of languages is. And there Paul writes this: tongues are for A sign not to those who believe, but to unbelievers Is there anything unclear about that? It's very clear. Why did God provide the gift of languages answer as a miraculous sign to the unbelieving Jews that the time of the new covenant, the time of the arrival of the Spirit had come. Tongues were assigned to lead the unbelieving Jews to faith in Yeshua, Jesus the Messiah. And by the way, that is exactly what happens in Acts chapter 2 as we continue to read in the chapter. Jews are led en masse to faith In Jesus as Messiah. Today some people say, but I'm Jewish, I can't believe in Jesus. All the believers in Jesus were Jewish to start with, and thousands of Jews believed in Jesus And many of them did so because of this sign on Pentecost. Not to mention Peter's great preaching on that day, too. Peter particularly mentions this sign toward the end of his sermon. If you glance down at verse 33, you see he mentions this sign and possibly some of the other signs. And he mentions them to say, you Jews, know you can sense something has happened here with the Holy Spirit because you can see the signs. You may be kind of dense when it comes to spiritual things, but you can't miss the sign. It's there for you. It was provided for you. It got their attention, by the way. And then Peter's words led them to Christ. Tongues were a sign to the unbelieving Jews that something great was happening on that day of Pentecost. Now, please keep in mind The disciples did not need to speak in those other languages in order to communicate the gospel effectively to their brethren. Because they could have just spoken in Greek, because Greek was the lingua franca of the day. Or to the east of Israel and east of the Roman Empire, many of the Jews who are in the diaspora commonly spoke Aramaic. Could have they could have spoken that. That would have been just fine. They would have all understood, and it would have been great. I doubt that when Peter starts preaching that he chose another tongue, or that the Holy Spirit had him in another different tongue, he spoke in a normal tongue But this sign was meant for a purpose. It was meant to tell this broad swath of Jews from all over the globe. God is doing something now in this day, something special. This was a grand introduction to a new age, and the Jews had the front row seat to it They were the ones who got to hear about it first because salvation is from who? The Jews, right? Salvation comes from the Jews, and so it's to the Jews first. And when God was beginning the new thing, he didn't do it quietly, he put it very publicly, and he had them gathered from all over the world and brought them in, and then he did this miraculous sign for their sake It told them, God has kept his promise. God spoke through Jeremiah, and God spoke through Isaiah, and he spoke through Joel, and he spoke through the other prophets, and he said, A day is coming. It's been a long time, but God has kept his promise. This was the beginning of something that would extend beyond the borders of Israel. This was something that would would begin to fulfill the Abrahamic covenant and bring blessing to the ends of the earth, to all the families of the world, where all of these languages were spoken. It was a sign that spoke of something that was going to grow and go beyond Jerusalem. It was not going to be contained. It was not a religion just for the Jews, it was a religion for all people. And you know what? The sign worked. Look at verse 7. It says, They were amazed and marveled, saying, Behold, are not all of these who are speaking Galileans? Notice the little tone there, by the way. And how is it that we each we might say, you know, I don't want to pick on a state, but you know how it is. If you're from New York or you're from LA or DC and you grew up in certain areas You think of some areas way out there in the country, a little bit less, you know, you have a little bit of prejudice against them. You know, it's that kind of a sense. They're Galileans. Nothing good can come out of Nazareth, remember What is all of this here? This can't be special. God chooses the weak things and the foolish things of this world to shame what? The wise and the strong, right? That's how God operates, and that's what he's doing. So it got their attention. It worked. They did not know, though, what it meant. They didn't know what to make of it. They were at a total loss. In fact, this is very interesting. In verse 6 That term that is translated bewildered by the Nazvi, Sun Keo, that term is exactly the same term that is used in the Greek Old Testament in Genesis, that is the Septuagint there, the Greek Old Testament, for the confusion that happened, guess where? At the Tower of Babel. That's right. In Genesis chapter 11 and verse 9. Back at the Tower of Babel, you remember the story, God confused the languages. Why? Because they were disobeying God. God said, Scatter, they came together and said, Let's build a great tower for to make a name for ourselves, right? God comes down to see their great tower, by the way. I find that ironic for God to even find their tower. He had to come down to see what they were doing. It was so small From God's perspective, right? He comes down, he spots this tower and he basically says, That's not what I told him to do. You know, I told him to scatter And so he just confuses their languages and they're trying to build the bricks and do the project and they're getting on one another's nerves and just overnight the whole project, this massive project, probably the greatest building project post the flood, anyways, it just comes to a halt immediately. And God did it on purpose. You're not going to be together. No, no, no, no. You're going to spread. And that's the way it's going to be And now the Jews here on Pentecost are standing together in Jerusalem and they're listening to a chorus of all these different languages from those faraway places And they also are confused. So you have confusion at Babel, but you have a different kind of a confusion now. All the languages are coming together, and this group of Galileans are speaking it, and they're confused about that. What does that mean? Well, I think it is clear that at least at some level, Pentecost is meant to foreshadow the turning back of the Tower of Babel, the reversal of the Tower of Babel. Obviously, Tower of Babel in the world's sake has not been reversed. Babel resulted in a needed separation. Babel resulted in a needed scattering. God didn't want unbelievers who were rebellious to be together. That was a bad thing. To have to have all unbelievers in the world cooperating together was not a good thing. It was a bad thing. And this is the only time there's been one world government in the world, and God looked at it and said, uh-uh, it's not happening It's too much evil too quickly. God had a plan for the nations. He had a plan for the thousands of years. And so he scattered them so he could work his plan through those nations. But here, the miracle of Pentecost demonstrates that in Christ, listen, not in the world, in Christ In the body of Christ, there is to be unity of the different peoples and tribes, and yes, tongues, and yes, nations. The unbelieving world must needs remain divided. God's people must be united. God was not happy with the unity of the unbelievers at Babel. They all spoke one language. They all were together in one place. They all were under one evil leadership. But they were up to no good. Their purpose was disobedient. Their purpose was blasphemous. They wanted to make a name for themselves, and God said, Enough, I'll confuse your minds and your languages. And that will remain in confusion until The end times. When the end times come, the Bible makes it very clear that that one world government and that one world economy and that one world togetherness and that one world cooperation will happen again. Indeed, the forces of globalism are already very much alive in our world today. And beloved, it will not be a good thing. It'll be a very, very evil thing because the head of that system will be the man of sin, or more commonly known, the Antichrist. That will not be a good thing when that happens. But in the church, God is showing that in Messiah, the Messiah of Israel, all are together All are under one leadership. All are united. All are speaking the same praises of God. They're unified in spirit, even though their languages are different. People in the country of India today who are worshiping are one with us. People in the country of Mexico today who are worshiping Christ with one The true gospel are one with us. People in South Africa today who are worshiping the Lord Jesus Christ as the Son of God, as the Messiah of Israel, are one with you and me. People in Australia. Yes, even in Syria where they may be doing it in private, where they may have to hide, or in China where it's The underground church, their spirit is knit to our spirit, and we are knit to Christ, and we are one. And with one voice we honor the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen? Divisions necessary among unbelievers. It establishes nation against nation and keeps evil in checks and balances But divisions in the body of Christ are disastrous because we're one body, one spirit, one faith. And won everything else. Pentecost with the Spirit of Jesus begins the reversal of Babel, so that by the time we get to the book of Revelation, which is futuristic in the end times. You hear in Revelation 5. 9, they sang a new song, saying, Worthy are you to take the book and to break its seals. This, of course, is to Christ, for you were slain. And purchased for God with your blood men from every tribe and tongue and people and nation. The gift of tongues was a sign to indicate that purpose. Samuel Waldron, in his book To Be Continued with a question mark, writes this tongues mark the reversal of Babel and the universality of the new covenant. The curse of Babel divided the nations by imposing different languages. When on the day of Pentecost the word of God was proclaimed in many tongues This was a sign that the curse of Babel was now to be reversed. Many nations and peoples were to be reconciled in the one Christ and in his work of redemption. This is the purpose of talking in different languages. The signal to the Jews, unity of all peoples in their Messiah, praising God. Invariably, though, as straightforward as this text is, people, especially those caught up in churches who value ecstatic utterances and who equate them with the gift of tongues, have some objections. Things don't really need to be complicated, but because of poor teaching, people still have considerable confusion over this which is supposed to be straightforward. And I share these with you just to dispel some of the confusion, to aid you. For example, some have tried to justify speaking in ecstatic syllables by claiming that the miracle on the day of Pentecost was not actually in the speaking by the disciples, but was in the hearing by the Jerusalem crowd. Some have claimed that all of the disciples actually spoke in ecstatic languages, but God caused a miracle not in the speaking but in the hearing. In other words, it came out ecstatic and went in organized language. Now that is what you call creative Bible interpretation. But it is not accurate. It does not pay attention to what is said. Please notice the text explicitly says in verse 4 that they spoke with other tongues. This is not rocket science, people. The reason they heard them speaking in other tongues was because that's exactly what they were doing. Besides, that would make the miracle be coming from the unbelievers rather than from the believers, and that would be all backwards. There is a reason it is called the gift of tongues and not the gift of ears. Beware, beloved, on this issue or any issue like it, when you feel very strongly about something and you've made some application or you've come from some religious background And you try to press the scripture to say what you were taught or what you think it should say, or to interpret it in the way you want to hear it, that is a misuse of the words of the Holy Spirit who inspired this book Now, others object and say, but the charge that the disciples were drunk with sweet wine down in verse 13 must point to the fact that they were speaking an ecstatic, nonsensical speech. No, that's not true either. Otherwise, the charge would have stuck. And Peter's explanation in verses 14 and following would not have dispelled their objection. And no one would have believed that a miracle had happened and the crowd would have dispersed. What would be the point in gathering? Notice only some of them said that in verse 13. Only some in the crowd rushed Please understand that not one Jew out there in the crowd would have understood all of the languages being spoken, so they might have thought that it sounded like gibberish at first from a distance. But as the crowd came together and listened, they began to testify, wait, that's my language. I hear that. That's being spoken like we have back home. With closer listening, they came to understand this was a noteworthy miracle. Others have focused on the word at the end of verse 4 if you go back there again where it says utterance. The Spirit was giving them utterance, and they claim that that Greek word indicates Something that would not be normal speech, but it would point to ecstatic speech. That's not true either The same term is used in verse 14 here in chapter 2 of Peter's declaration in his sermon, which is pretty normal speech And it is also used of Paul's logical testimony in Acts chapter 26 and verse 25. There he actually said, I utter words of sober truth. Then others have tried to tie all of this to 1 Corinthians chapter 13 and verse 1, where Paul writes, If I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, And they claim that ecstatic speech is the tongues of angels. But in 1 Corinthians 13, the love chapter, Paul was merely speaking hypothetically. And in each case, he is using hyperbole to make a point about the greatness of love over anyone who has super faith, super knowledge, super insight into mysteries, or could speak so many languages that he could even speak the language of angels. Nothing, nothing at all, ties angel talk to speaking in tongues. It's a complete fabrication. Besides, I doubt too many angels in heaven go around speaking Egyptian and Parthinian up there in heaven. Fortunately, most people involved in the tongues debate today have conceded that the tongues that were spoken on the day of Pentecost were real human languages known in the world but unknown to these Galileans. It's really not deniable. And we do not have time to study it in detail. But this is also true of all the other tongue speaking in the rest of the Bible The other mentions of the gift of languages in Acts chapter 8 or Acts 10 or Acts 19 all use the exact same phraseology and terminology. As they do in Acts chapter 2. They all depend on Luke's first explanation of what the gift was in Acts 2. In Acts 2, he mentions it first and he describes it longest. Then when he gets to Acts 8 and 10, same writer, he doesn't need to go back and explain what that gift is, because as any good writer would do, by the time you get to later chapters, you just simply refer to what he wrote earlier and you know what the phenomenon is. And that's what Luke does. Again, going to that book to be continued, Samuel Waldron makes these points. Given the indisputable precedent of Acts chapter 2, there is every reason to conclude that the other instances of tongue speaking in Acts were also human languages. Acts 2 sets the precedent for the meaning of tongues in Acts and the rest of the New Testament. This precedent must control how we interpret the other mentions of the gift of tongues in the Book of Acts. It would take the strongest evidence to overturn this presumption. As a matter of fact, no evidence of any kind exists to show that the tongues of Acts 1046 and 19. 6 were anything else than foreign languages. The same is true in the mentioning of tongues in 1 Corinthians chapter 12 and 1 Corinthians 14. Again, They all use the exact same terminology. Glosa Lalaya, talking in languages And they also all function as a sign to unbelieving Jews in each of the contexts. In 1 Corinthians 14 The only time that believers benefit from the speaking in tongues, as Paul writes about it, is when that foreign language can be interpreted so that everyone else can comprehend the meaning with their minds and then be edified and be sanctified. Please remember that Luke, who wrote the book of Acts, was a traveling partner with the Apostle Paul. Luke wrote the book of Acts. Paul wrote the book of 1 Corinthians. If they're using the exact same terminology to describe some phenomenon and they taught together and they travel together, then they must mean the same thing. So it's the same gift everywhere else in Holy Scripture. There are some, however, who wonder about that very interesting statement in 1 Corinthians 14 and verse 2, which says this For one who speaks in a tongue does not speak to men, but to God. For no one understands, but in his spirit he speaks mysteries. And again, many find in those words justification for speaking ecstatic syllables which have no meaning. They call that a mystery But in 1 Corinthians chapter 14, this merely means that someone does not understand the tongues because there is no interpreter. God, however, knows all human languages spoken in the world. Otherwise, how can he answer their prayers? So he understands what the person speaking in the tongue means. God doesn't need an interpreter 1 Corinthians chapter 14 is a strong admonishment to the Corinthian church not to speak in tongues without an interpreter. The only value tongues has to a believer is to understand the words. Because when the foreign language is interpreted And then they understand it, then that gift functions in the same way that the gift of prophecy did in the early church, bringing the Word of God in their own language to their own minds so their faith can be built up. Others even ask about Romans chapter eight and verse twenty-six that says the Spirit intercedes for us believers with groanings too deep for words. And again, they're looking for a verse that might justify the ecstatic speech, and they think, there it is. That's what's happening. The Spirit is speaking with groanings too deep for words. And I say, yes, the Spirit of God does speak with groanings too deep for words. But it is the Spirit who is speaking, not the human being, in that passage. And he is groaning, he's not speaking gibberish. Others ask, but what about a special prayer language? Couldn't that be what ecstatic utterance is? Beloved, we don't need a prayer language. We already have it. It's called faith, and it's called submission to God's will. It's the language of Scripture. I think that God hears us just fine in our own language. I really do. If there is a prayer language in the world, it is that language of faith. And so that's all we need, not gibberish. Don't be fooled, and don't be led astray by something that carries with it some kind of worldly aura, that it is a movement of the Spirit of God, when it clearly does not. coincide with the teaching of the Holy Spirit in the Bible. And that's the application for today. So a lot of information, but it's important to study that doctrine. How do I apply something like that? It's simply this. Make your enthusiasm for the Holy Spirit also combined with your correct interpretation of Scripture. You do not interpret the scriptures by your experience, right? Rather, you interpret your experience by what? Scripture. That is the application. We must explain experiences we have in our spiritual lives with a proper handling of God's word, which, by the way, are the words of the Holy Spirit. If we want to know what the Holy Spirit is up to inside of us or around us, we need to read what the Holy Spirit has written and told us to listen to. You must have both spirit-filled zeal for the things of God, and you must have cognitive and careful biblical doctrine You must not pit one against the other and say, Well, I'm more this or I'm more that. You must not be so free and so easy that you twist God's words to endorse your feelings and your experiences And in counterpose, you must not learn doctrine in such a way that you minimize vital Christian experience. Don't learn the Christian faith in a passive way. Learn it in a zealous way, because that's what it is supposed to be. Even with the Lord Jesus Christ, it was said of him when he came to the temple, zeal for thy house has consumed you. We are to love correct doctrine, but we are to live it passionately I know that people get so personally offended by this issue because they swear that their experience is from the Holy Spirit What I would swear is that they are in the Holy Spirit, and they have a relationship with the Holy Spirit, but they've misunderstood their experience You can have good motives and you can want to please God. And you can be in prayer, but you can still be misled in practice The only way to know that you're not being misled in practice is not by some mystical experience or by some thought you have in your conscience, but it is by the teaching of Scripture. That's the anchor to make sure that you don't drift into Satan hijacking a legitimate spiritual impulse and emotion and taking it in a direction that does not actually bring honor to the Holy Spirit. You need to combine zeal for the things of the Spirit with accuracy in biblical instruction. So, people of God Live for God and always always translate your understanding of what's going on around you through the careful teaching of the Word of God. The last question that people have, of course, is our tongues for today. Clearly, just by listening, you can tell that the vast majority of the so-called tongue-speaking movement in our world today and in our churches today, that's going on broadly and vastly now really all over the globe is not, is not the gift of the Holy Spirit. It is not the gift that the Holy Spirit gave on the day of Pentecost. It just doesn't measure up. It is not the miracle of foreign languages. It does not measure up to a New Testament definition of the gift The modern tongues movement is not of God. For whenever men distort the gifts of the Holy Spirit, those who love the Holy Spirit And love the Lord Jesus and love the vitality that the Holy Spirit brings to our spirits and our souls, we must stand up and correct that. It is not loving to remain silent. We love God. We love vital Christian experience too much to let distortions reign. We must be true to the Holy Spirit of God. It is not putting God in a box by insisting that what happens among God's people honors God by practicing what God said we are to practice and by not practicing counterfeit. We must use discernment, and we must not let abuses scare us from having experiences with the Holy Spirit of God. Just because there are well-intentioned people who do other things vitally for God does not mean that we should somehow Run far away from experiences from God, for He is at work among us. He is at work in this room now. He is in your life if you know Christ. And he attends all the things in the church. He really is the church's administrator. We love him, we need him, we rely on him. We do not want to grieve grieve him, and we do not want to quench him We want to experience the power of the Holy Spirit in all the ministries that we do for His name. Father, thank you for Allowing Christ to pour out the Spirit for us and to give Him to us, that we would know you more intimately, that we would be empowered by you more consistently. We confess our sins to you now as we come to your table. We confess that we haven't lived up to the resources that you have provided for us. We pray you use this time that we might make genuine confession of sin. And we might forsake sin, that we might experience the power of your Spirit among us. For so we have preached in the name of your Son, and so we have prayed in the name of Christ. Amen.