As we turn now to the Word of God, I'd invite you to turn with me to John chapter 11. This is now our fifth message, walking through this final sign of the identity of Jesus that John records for us. We've been taking our time studying this chapter because under the Holy Spirit's inspiration, John has taken his time in recounting this miracle that Jesus performed. Most of this account, as we've seen, focuses on the four days leading up to the performing of the miracle, which will happen in verse 43. And then John describes that miracle ever so briefly. And then finally he concludes the chapter by describing how people responded to this miracle. And we'll just briefly touch that today. focusing more on that forty six and following next Sunday, Lord willing. The four days leading up to this miracle may not seem like anything to us. After all, it was four thousand years ago by our perspective, but It's also only not much time because it's not our brother that died. As some of you know all too well, the days after the death of a dear loved one, whether a spouse or a close relative, are some of the most miserable and painful days of one's life. Unstable would be the word to describe such days. The mind goes many places at once. The emotions are like a windstorm blowing every direction. The body experiences that stress and strain of the constant weeping and the fitful sleep. Well, in the inscrutable wisdom of God, the Holy Spirit uses this painful experience in the lives of Martha and Mary to reveal seven life-transforming realities. that keep us steadfast in the midst of trials. Let me quickly review those first six realities that we've seen, then we'll read the account, and then we'll focus on the final Life-transforming reality. First, as we've seen, suffering is a servant in the hand of God intended to reveal his glory because he loves you. We've seen that in suffering we are naturally disposed to turn inward on ourselves, but ultimately God impurposes suffering to point us outward, upward really, to him who is sovereignly working out his glorious plan. Second, God's timing is determined by his love When you and I pray and we perceive that God is silent, that He's not hearing, He's certainly not answering our prayers, what's really happening is we are just unable to perceive what God is actually up to behind the scenes that he is working out of his love for our good. Third, we saw that God's will keeps us from stumbling. That is to say, instead of getting stuck in life when you don't know what to do next, and you're waiting for some answer, some sign, some indication from the Lord of what you should do next in your life, some decision that you need to make. And instead of feeling stuck, you can do what God has already revealed in His Word, what He has already made clear regardless of what the ultimate answer to your prayer will be. Fourth, we saw that God's design is to increase our faith. is to say that God uses both our suffering and the suffering of others that we observe to expand our view, our vision, our understanding of His glory, to teach us more about Himself and thereby increase our faith. Fifth, for those who believe death is not the end, we have life now and forever Having been freed from the fear of death, we are now free to view our suffering from an eternal perspective that radically changes how we respond in the moment. And then sixth, Jesus is a man of sorrows. And so you are never alone in your sorrow. As truly God and truly man, Jesus has the capacity to know all things, and because he is truly man, he responds with righteous emotions, whether it's sorrow or grief or anger or whatever is proper. And because if you are a believer, you are in Christ and Christ is in you in that intimate union, He is with you in your pain. Well, the final and seventh life-transforming we'll see today is that for those who believe, glory overcomes sorrow. Glory overcomes sorrow. Sooner or later, sorrow will melt under the light of God's glory as he puts his power and wisdom on display. Now, with that, let's read this account starting in verse 1. We'll read through verse 46 and then we'll dig into verses 38 to 46. John chapter 11 begins, Now a certain man was ill, Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary and her sister Martha. It was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was ill. So the sisters sent to Jesus, saying, Lord, he whom you love is ill But when Jesus heard it, he said, This illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it Now, Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus. So when he heard that Lazarus was ill, he stayed two days longer in the place where he was. Then after this, he said to his disciples, Let us go to Judea again. And the disciples said to him, Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone you, and are you going there again? Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble, but he because he sees the light of this world. But if any one walks in the night, he stumbles, because the light is not in him. After saying these things, he said to them, Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I go to awaken him. The disciples said to him, Lord, if he has fallen asleep, he will recover Now Jesus had spoken of his death, but they thought he meant taking rest in sleep. Then Jesus told them plainly, Lazarus has died. And for your sake, I am glad that I was not there, so that you may believe. Well, let us go to him So Thomas, called the twin, said to his fellow disciples, Let us also go that we may die with him. Now when Jesus came, he found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb four days. Bethany was near Jerusalem, about two miles off, and many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to console them concerning their brother. So when Martha heard that Jesus was qu coming, she went and met him, but Mary remained seated in the house. Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. But even now I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you. Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again. Martha said to him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day. Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live. And whoever lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? She said to him, Yes, Lord, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world When she had then said this, she went and called her sister Mary, saying in private, The teacher is here and is calling for you And when she heard it, she rose quickly and went out to him. Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was still in the place where Martha had met him When the Jews who were with her in the house consoling her saw Mary rise quickly and go out, they followed her, supposing that she was going to the tomb to weep there. Now, when Mary came to where Jesus was and saw him, she fell at his feet, saying to him, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. When Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews who had come with her also weeping, he was deeply moved in his spirit and greatly troubled. And he said, Where have you laid him? They said to him, Lord, come and see. Jesus wept. The Jews said, See how he loved him But some of them said, Could not he who opened the eyes of the blind man also have kept this man from dying? Then Jesus, deeply moved again, came to the tomb. It was a cave, and a stone lay against it. Jesus said, Take away the stone. Martha, the sister of the dead man, said to him, Lord, by this time there will be an odor, for he has been dead four days. Jesus said to her, Did I not tell you that if you believed you would see the glory of God? So they took away the stone, and Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. I knew that you always hear me, but I said this on account of the people standing around, that they may believe that you sent me When he had said these things, he cried out with a loud voice, Lazarus, come out The man who had died came out, his hands and feet bound with linen strips and his face wrapped with a cloth. Jesus said to them, Unbind him and let him go Many of the Jews, therefore, who had come with Mary and had seen what he did believed in him, but some of them went to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done. This is the word of God. John wrote this entire gospel that We may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing we may have life in his name The life-transforming realities that we've seen up to this point largely pertain to that life that we have when we believe in His name. This final life-transforming reality, this final section of the account of this miracle in verses 38 to 46 really straddles both purposes. First, it moves us to obey, or rather, to believe. And in believing, it's intended to strengthen us in seasons of sorrow. Most of us are sufficiently familiar with this miracle that It's lost its wonder. And the problem with this miracle losing its wonder is that we don't take time to think about just how powerful Jesus is. And the problem with not thinking about just how powerful Jesus is, is we can accept this narrative as at face value as it's presented to us here, but we don't then take time to think about How does the power that Jesus manifested in this narrative apply to my life today? But beloved, there is glory. here and this is a glory that we are intended to live by. You heard Jesus say in verse 4 This illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of God so that the Son of God may be glorified through it. What does it mean that Jesus, or rather that the Son of God, will be glorified through this illness that temporarily temporarily rendered Lazarus dead? Well, it means that Jesus would so work in and through Lazarus' death to put his glory on display such that it would be seen and worshipped And believed on and lived by. The glory of Jesus is not to be seen for entertainment Nor is it just to be believed. And it's not just to be worshipped The glory of Jesus ultimately is to be lived by, meaning that the followers of Jesus then, his disciples and Mary and Martha, and all those who believed, and his followers today, You and I, if we are believing in Christ, we are to live under the light of the reality of his power and glory. Just as we are to live with an eternal perspective, and just as the gospel is to transform our lives, so the glory of Christ demonstrated in raising Lazarus from the dead radically alters our view of reality. One specific change this his glory makes is that it overcomes our sorrow just as it overcame the sorrow of Martha and Mary. Life is full of sorrow And if you're not sure that you agree with that, just keep living and you will find out. But we come to know the life-giving power of Christ through this text, and it overcomes our sorrow. We're going to walk through this passage under two main headings. The first part, verses 38 to 40, we're going to see that unbelief blocks our view. or our vision of God's glory. Unbelief blocks our vision of God's glory. And then in verses forty to forty-six we're going to see that belief opens our eyes to the glory of God. Belief opens our eyes to the glory of God. And then finally in the end we'll see and conclude all of this put together that glory When you believe overcomes sorrow. Let's begin with the first heading. Unbelief blocks our vision of God's glory. Look again with me at verse 38 Says, then Jesus, deeply moved again, came to the tomb. It was a cave, and a stone lay against it. So here we have Jesus deeply moved again. Just as in verse 33, that phrase deeply moved translates a word that speaks to complex and intense emotions. It can include compassion and grief and anger. He has compassion for the grief of Martha and Mary, who've lost their brother, as well as for their lack of understanding of his true power. He has sorrow over the impact of sin and death in this world in general. He has anger that some will see this miracle and still not believe in him. We see there in verse 36 that some saw him weep and thought that he was just grieving like the rest of them, as if he was helpless, that his his love was stricken by grief. But then in verse 37, that some question his love because they admit he had the power to prevent Lazarus from raising Lazarus from dying, but he didn't do it. In other words, I guess he didn't love him as much as we thought he did. No one even considered the possibility that Jesus might have the power to raise Lazarus. And even when they saw it, some still didn't believe in him. Amen. So when these thoughts with these thoughts in his mind and the intense sight and sound of a c a large collective group of people mourning around him, he experiences a complex mixture of compassion and sorrow and anger. And with that emotion, he acts, he moves, he takes action. He arrives here at the tomb, which is a cave with the entrance covered by the stone. Now this would be familiar to us who know the the gospel of Jesus Christ that after he was crucified on the cross he was buried in a stone tomb with a with a uh stone covering the entrance. I've mentioned before that Martha and Mary and Lazarus were a wealthy family, and we've seen a number of indications of that, and there is no clearer indication of that than this very tomb. Because in that day, there were two primary ways that people would be buried. The first, and effectively free way, was that people would be directly placed in a dug grave in the ground. Caskets were not used at that time, so they would wrap the body, they would cover it with the dirt, and then they would place rocks over that grave to prevent animals from digging up. the body. The second and far more expensive method was to place a body in a stone tomb, whether it was a natural cave or a cave that was manually cut into the stone. This method was only possible for the rich because there were only so many stones around who could hold caves sufficient for burial. And so it would require either purchasing a cave by itself or purchasing land that would include such caves. And because these caves would be used for multiple family members and even multiple generations of family. Uh inside these tombs would be carved various shelves to place the bodies on, and once those shelves were fully occupied Then they would take the oldest remains, put them in a space under one shelf so that they could add a new body to that tomb. This practice went as far back at least as Abraham. We're told in Genesis chapter 23 that Abraham purchased a field from the Hittites which had such a cave in it for him to bury Sarah. And when Abraham died in Genesis 25, it tells us that Isaac and Ishmael went back to that very same place and buried Abraham with Sarah, his wife. In the books of the Kings and Chronicles you read that each of the descendants of David, the kings of Judah, would be buried with his fathers in the city of David, it says over and over again. In other words, in the city of David, which was really just down the hill from Jerusalem, there was a cave where all of the kings would be buried in succession. In fact, prophesying the Messiah's burial, Isaiah 53, 9 says, And they made his grave with the wicked, and with a rich man in his death. That was a hint of the manner in which Jesus would be buried in the New Testament reveals that specific manner. Matthew 27 tells us that the rich man named Joseph from Arimathea received permission to take the body of Jesus and to bury it. And it says in verses four fifty-nine to sixty And Joseph took the body and wrapped it in a clean linen shroud and laid it in his own new tomb, which he had cut in the rock. And he rolled a great stone to the entrance of the tomb and went away. So again, this is an old practice, particularly of the rich. The cave in which Lazarus was buried was most likely a family tomb. It's almost certain that his parents were buried there, perhaps other family members, and once Martha and Mary themselves would die, they would be placed in this very same tomb. Look at verse 39. So they arrive at the tomb and Jesus says, take away the stone. Martha, the sister of the dead man, said to him, Lord, by this time there will be an odor, for he has been dead four days Remember that when Jesus asked them earlier in verse 34 where Lazarus was buried, nobody thought that he wanted to go there to raise Lazarus from the dead. They all thought, oh, he just wants to go to the tomb to grieve and mourn for Lazarus. So you can understand that when he gives this command to remove the stone, people are shocked What is he thinking? Who would ever open a tomb so soon after burial? Remember, there's a lot of noise around him, a lot of weeping and flute playing and and crying out. And I imagine that when his command rang out to remove the stone, all of that noise stopped. The flutes and the wailing and the professional mourners, the weeping of friends and family, all of that cacophony ceased. And everybody looks to Jesus with shock and confusion. No one really knows what to say until Martha finally speaks up. And I think John identifies her as the sister of the dead man. To highlight that she's the only one other than perhaps Mary who can question Jesus at this point. It's her brother, it's her family tomb. If anyone can challenge Jesus, it has to be her. Notice that she calls him Lord. She recognizes his authority. Remember, she believes that he is the Christ, the Son of God. Which means that she knows that he has authority over all things. She knows he is the coming king, and so she affirms his authority, but she just doesn't understand why he would give such a command. Especially given the natural course of things. Notice that she says, By this time there will be an odor, for he has been dead four days. She may not know biology, but she knows reality in cultures where the family themselves or the community handles the body from death to burial, they understand, at least in general terms, what happens to a body over time. In broad strokes, in the first few days, as the fluids settle, the soft tissues start to break down and bacteria produce odors and gases that are carried into the surrounding air. The Jews did not embalm bodies, but they did r usually wrap bodies in cloths soaked with spices and incense to counteract some of those odors, especially when they were just buried in the ground. However, in cases where burial had to take place sooner than expected, they often skipped the adding of spices. And so when Martha says here that there will be an odor, that may indicate that they had, in fact, skipped adding spices to the cloths that Lazarus was buried in. Another possible hint of that is in John chapter 12 when Mary anoints Jesus with this very expensive ointment, as we'll see in coming weeks. Remember the disciples were rebuking her for that, and Jesus says in verse 7 of chapter 12, Leave her alone so that she may keep it for the day of my burial. One wonders whether that ointment was available because they had not used it on Lazarus. Well, whatever the case, when Jesus commands that the sun be removed, Martha Martha's primary concern is that they would be struck by the pungent odor of a decomposing body that would be, to say the least, socially Unacceptable and shameful to the family. Remember, Martha believes that Jesus is the Son of God She believes that he is the resurrection and the life. And yet it did not enter her mind that when he commands to remove the stone, that he might just exercise his power to raise Lazarus from the dead. For all the faith that she expresses to Jesus earlier in the passage, even when he takes that first step to raise Lazarus She is unable to see. She is blind to his glory. Why? Because she does not believe that he is capable of it. This is not mocking skepticism. This is not a rebellious heart toward Jesus. This is just ignorance. She doesn't know what he is capable of, and she just can't imagine that he would possibly be capable of raising Lazarus. I wonder if you can identify with her. I know I can. Haven't we been in situations where our troubles seemed so insurmountable that it doesn't even occur to us that God might actually have a way to work through the situation? That somehow he has the wisdom and the power to provide resources or open doors or overcome obstacles or change hearts. On the one hand, we would affirm the omniscience and the omnipotence and the power of God and the wisdom of God, but then we find ourselves in a situation that seems so impossible that not even God can handle it. Or at least that's our initial reaction based on the tears that we cry or the anxiety we feel or the depression we spiral into. You see, unbelief blocks our vision of God's glory. We believe in God and we cry out to Him for help, but then when we find ourselves so deep in trouble, we forget God's power. We might even think, after all, if he is so powerful, wouldn't he have prevented us from getting this deep Well to Martha, Lazarus is so is well beyond the point of no return. As we've said, there seemed to be the superstition that when a person died, their spirit hovered over the corpse. wanting to return, but then after three days the corpse would be so indistinguishable, so unrecognizable that the spirit would depart, making resurrection impossible. And so maybe she was thinking That maybe Jesus could have raised Lazarus on day one. Maybe even on day two. Possibly even on day three. But today is day four, and that is truly impossible. It is too late or so she thinks. Well notice how Jesus responds in verse forty. Jesus said to her Did I not tell you that if you believed, you would see the glory of God Before we look at the positive aspect of this, the reverse of this must also be true. If you do not believe, you will not see the glory of God. There's two senses in which it's true that if you don't believe you won't see the glory of God. The first sense is the same sense that Jesus meant when he spoke to Nicodemus in John chapter 3, verse 3, where he said, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. It's in that same sense that Paul writes in 1 Corinthians 2. 14, the natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are folly to him, and he is not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned. This is to say that those who are cut off from the life of God, those who live in hardened unbelief, are blind to his glory. They cannot see. They are like the Pharisees who witness Jesus performing miracles that instead of bowing down in worship, they get angry because he did it on the Sabbath. Those who are hostile to God by nature and by choice cannot see the glory of God. That's the first sense in which it's true. The second sense in which it's true that if you do not believe, you cannot see the glory of God, is that one who believes in Jesus Christ will not attribute his power and glory to him. We may believe in Jesus, but as we live life, we just see problems. We just see impossibilities. We see hopelessness. And in not believing, we will not ask God to work. And we will not think He is able to accomplish Redemption, and we will not step out in faith. We find another vivid example of this in Mark chapter 8. There was a time when Jesus and his disciples were in a boat making their way across the Sea of Galilee, and they were discussing, really debating amongst themselves the fact that they only had one loaf of bread, which was not enough for at least thirteen men. And the problem with them debating this is they had just witnessed Jesus feed 4,000 people with a mere seven loaves of bread and two fish. And so Jesus is listening to his disciples debate with each other, probably blaming each other for forgetting to load the leftovers onto the boat. And he said to them, Why are you discussing the fact that you have no bread? Do you not yet perceive or understand? Are your hearts so hardened? Having eyes do you not see? Having ears do you not hear? And do you not remember when I broke the five loaves for the five thousand? How many baskets full were left uh were taken up? And they said to him, probably looking down, five, or rather, twelve. Jesus goes on, the seven for the four thousand, how many baskets full of broken pieces did you take up? And said to him, seven. And he said to them, Do you not yet understand? Did the disciples believe in Jesus? Yes, they did. Did they believe everything that was true about him? No, they didn't Jesus has just said to Martha in verses 25 to 26 here, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live, and whoever lives and believes in me will never die. Do you believe this? She says, yes, Lord. And Jesus says, take the stone away from the tomb. She says, Lord, no. She truly believes, but she does not fully believe. She is blind to his glory, and if we're honest, this is our common experience We might read our Bibles in the morning and be reminded of how God manifested his power and his glory in some way as he delivered his people as he did over and over again. And then five minutes later we shut our Bible and encounter some situation that we think, oh no. What can God do? Or consider how this kind of unbelief may have prevented you from stepping out in faith to serve Christ. Perhaps, just by way of example, to serve the Lord in some short or maybe even long term missions or ministry I can't do that. How will I provide for my family? I can't do that. What will happen to my job? We are blind to how God can work. We believe truly, but not fully Unbelief blocks our vision of God's glory. Well that brings us to the positive side. Our second heading, belief, opens our eyes. to God's glory. Notice again what Jesus says there on a posit on in a positive way. Did I not tell you that if you believed, you would see the glory of God When he spoke to Martha in verses 21 to 27, clearly these words are not recorded there. And as we've said before, the gospel writers didn't they don't give us a transcription of every conversation that Jesus have that would occupy far too much space. And so sometimes they'll emphasize certain things by in fact repeating sayings. But other times, as in verse 28 and here, they'll just give us one representation of the saying with the understanding that it was indeed spoken earlier if it was not recorded. But a more important question is here, uh question to ask here is Does Jesus mean that if Martha didn't believe she would, or rather, he would not raise Lazarus from the dead? Is that what he means when he asks, if you believed you would see the glory of God? Is the miracle dependent on her faith? It would not be hard to come to that conclusion. It would be easy to see those words that if you believed you would see the glory of God as as an expression of faith being required for Jesus to perform perform his miracles. And we see that at other times in Mark chapter 6, Jesus was was prevented from performing miracles in Capernaum, his hometown, because, it says, of their unbelief. But I submit to you that Jesus can't mean that here. Martha's faith is not going to permit or prevent this miracle. Most clearly, Jesus has been intending to raise Lazarus from the dead from the very moment he heard that Lazarus was sick. So what does Jesus mean? Well, I think he means in principle that our faith opens our eyes to God's glory. If Martha believed, she would see the miracle of resurrection, and in that miracle she would behold the glory of God. In other words, in believing, she would grasp the significance of the miracle. She would see the light of who Jesus truly is. and be compelled to worship and trust in him more than she had before This is in contrast to those who would see this very same miracle. They would see Jesus raise Lazarus from the dead, but instead of seeing his glory, they would only see a reason to kill him. We'll see that next time. Even those who have a true faith in Jesus must still exercise faith to see his glory. God is working whether we acknowledge it or not. He's going to do what he's going to do, whether or not we ourselves see it. But to exercise faith simply means to live according to what is true. So when we face what seems to be an impossible situation Rather than living according to what is false, which is to say that this is an impossible situation to God We should live according to what is true, and that means anticipate that the Lord will work in a way that we can't foresee. Because he delights in displaying his glory Well, with that admonition, Martha's objection is settled, and the men move to obey the Lord's command. And then Jesus does something interesting. Look at verse 41 and 42. So they took away the stone, and Jesus lifted up his eyes. And said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. I knew that you always hear me But I say this on account of the people standing around that they may believe that you sent me. Jesus has done this multiple times throughout his ministry, he is always intent on ensuring that the Jews know that what he does, especially in performing miracles and in his teaching is always done in harmony and in unity with the Father. That he is not some lone prophet. Rather he is in fact the Son of God who does the will of his Father. Remember he said in John five nineteen, Truly I say to you, the Son can do nothing of his own accord, but only what he sees the Father doing, for whatever the Father does, that the Son does likewise. And so here Jesus displays that by praying out loud so that the people can hear that he's already had a conversation with the Father about this miracle, and Jesus is acting in unity with the Father. Again, he wants the Jews to know that he's not a self-made prophet. He's not an independent miracle worker. Rather, he is the Son of God empowered by the Father through the Spirit. Remember that Jesus said again in verse 4 of this chapter, this illness does not lead to death. It's for the glory of God. So that the Son of God may be glorified through it. In other words, Jesus is not only concerned for his own glory, that they know who he is, he is also concerned for the glory of God, his Father. As well, this prayer calls to mind what Martha had said to Jesus when she affirmed her faith in him. Remember, she said in verse 22. But even now, I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you. In other words, she was affirming her faith that Jesus has such a unique relationship to the Father. That the Father would give Jesus anything that Jesus asked for. At that time, she just didn't think or believe that Jesus could or would or had the power to even ask To raise Lazarus from the dead. But now she hears Jesus express that he has, in fact, asked the Father for this very thing. And so look at verse 43. When he had said these things, he cried out with a loud voice, Lazarus, come out! He cried out with a loud voice, and a simple and clear command rang out. There was no incantation, there was no spell, there was no dancing around with incense. Jesus did not have to conjure up the spiritual and physical forces to try and convince them to do what he wanted them to do. No, Jesus is the Son of God who by a word has the power to bend spiritual and physical realm all to his will. Now he doesn't even need to speak out loud to do it. But he does it for the sake of those around him. Notice what he says. Lazarus. It's been rightly noted that if Jesus did not say his name, all the tombs in all the world will empty their dead. And that's just that's not just a nice saying. That's actually true. Because Jesus said that that's exactly what would happen In John chapter 5, verse 28 and 29, Jesus said, An hour is coming when all who are in the tombs will hear his voice and come out. Those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment. So we could rightly say that if Jesus had not called out Lazarus specifically, Judgment Day would have come early. But for this day, only one man would be raised from the dead. Next, Jesus' words are translated, come out, and that's a faithful translation, but literally there is no imperative in the Greek. It's stressed to adverbs. Hear out. Like a parent talking to their child. Think about what Jesus has just done. He has commanded Lazarus to do what Lazarus cannot do Lazarus has no ability to hear. His physical ears don't work because all of his soft tissues are disintegrating. Everything from his brains to his nervous system to his muscles are incapable of receiving and responding to this command. But that's not all. Not only is his physical body incapacitated, his soul is no longer there to animate his body. His soul has long since left the earth, not after three days, but immediately after he died and went into heaven It's the soul that recognizes authority and desires to obey and enacts the will to obey. But Lazarus' soul is not there And so, even if there were some medical advancement that would be able to restore the physical components of the body, no science can restore or reunite the body with the soul. So when Jesus commands Lazarus, come out, his words do two things at once. His voice carries past the tomb. into heaven itself, interrupting whatever Lazarus is up to in paradise, and calls him back to earth. At the same time, his words regenerate the body of Lazarus restoring all of his organs and tissues to full health and function. In that instant the the dead body regenerates and the departed soul of Lazarus returns and he springs to life. The glory of Jesus, who is the resurrection and the life, is on display. Look at verse forty-four. The man who had died came out His hands and feet were bound with linen strips and his face wrapped with a cloth. And Jesus said to them, Unbind him and let him go. Unlike Jesus, who when he rose from the dead left his grave clothes folded up in the tomb, Lazarus was kept bound to those grave clothes so that They would know when he came out that he hadn't actually been dead and just sitting there waiting for a few days till somebody figured out he was alive. No, he had been dead and he's only just now been raised to life. And there are different theories of how Jews would wrap bodies for burial. There's probably even different methods depending on one's wealth and and the circumstances of one's death. But what is described here is consistent with other burials, namely that they would place a different cloth around the head than the rest of the body, and then they would tie the hands and feet together to keep them contained as they went through the process of burial and as the body decomposed However, his feet must have at least been loose enough for him to scuffle out of the tomb. It's kind of funny to imagine what that could have looked like, but not so much for him to walk freely. Just put yourself in that scene and imagine how the people would respond. They'd be stunned They'd be shocked, maybe even dismayed at the sight of what we might call a mummy, but a corpse wrapped in gravecloths walking. And so it wouldn't be any surprise that they would freeze trying to understand in their limited categories what has just happened. So Jesus has to snap them out of it and get them moving. And so he says, unbind him and let him go That's the simplicity of the miracle as it is described, a command for Lazarus to come out. With all that leads up to this miracle, with the emphasis on the sorrow of Martha and Mary and the Jews who had come to mourn with them. One might wish that John described something of their response. I think you might agree with me that that's not really needed. Because to this display of resurrection power, there's only one possible response. Indescribable joy. They went from the deepest sorrow to the highest joy with a simple act of divine power. They had already believed in Jesus, but this display of power beyond their understanding caused their faith to soar beyond measure. John doesn't need to tell us how Martha and Mary responded, but he does tell us how those who had not yet believed responded. Just briefly look at verses 45 and 46. Many of the Jews, therefore, who had come with Mary and had seen what he did, believed in him. But some of them went to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done. Some saw the miracle, and the Lord opened their eyes to see his glory, and they believed. Others saw this miracle, and they were still blind to this glory. And so they went and told the Pharisees, whom they knew were out to kill Jesus These are the three responses people have to the glory of Christ. Indescribable joy. Belief and rejection. Consider them in reverse order It's perhaps the most common response that people see the glory of God and are completely blind to it. The sun shines on their face and they feel its warmth, but they cannot see its light. They see the glory of God in creation, they hear the glory of God in the gospel, they witness the glory of God and the remarkable providences of the world, and it's all meaningless random chance to them. Instead of seeing the all-powerful, all-loving God who sovereignly rules over his creation, they just see impersonal forces of evolution. For some, maybe even some of you here, that blindness manifests as apathy. You read the accounts of Jesus performing miracles, and they mean nothing to you. Nothing in your experience of life stirs any interest in God. For eternity. You may even accept at face value that what the Bible says is true, but frankly, you just don't care. If you are blind in these ways, know that it is because you are dead in your trespasses and sin. You have eyes, but you cannot see. You have ears, but you cannot hear. And this is a fearful place to be because it means that you are under the judgment of God already. He is withholding his life-giving grace from you. And friend, if that's you, I would just urge you to pray. That the Lord opens your eyes to see his glory. Plead with him that he gives you life so that you may see. Then there's a second response. Maybe some of you have been on the fence about Jesus. You've been coming to church out of interest, you You want to know more, you are open to the possibility that Jesus may in fact be the Savior of the world Well, let me tell you that you can turn the world upside down in searching, and you will never find a shred of evidence that indicates that anything of what we read in Scripture is false. In fact, you will only find mountain upon mountain of evidence that proves that what the Scripture says is true, that Jesus really is the Christ, the Son of God. And so I would ask you, what are you waiting for? What more evidence do you need? Believe in him who demonstrated his glory and who did so supremely by dying and rising from the dead Are there fears that are keeping you from putting your faith in Christ? Know that your worst fears will come to pass if you do not believe. Do you fear being proven wrong? Well, one day you will stand before Christ and you will see your error Are you afraid of losing the life that you've been working for and that you aspire to? Friend, this life is a vapor, and you will lose your life if you're not in Christ. Are you afraid of what your family and friends might say? Know that the day will come if you do not believe that you will Join your friends and family in hell and they will think you a fool for not believing when you had a chance. Let go of whatever holds you back. See the glory of Christ and embrace Him as your Lord and Savior. Finally, to all of us who are believing in Jesus Christ, whether in the past or right now in your life or in the future, we all face at one point or another what we perceive to be impossible circumstances. Whether it's personal loss or destructive disasters or ailing health or limited resources or conflict or s societal upheaval or war. These things are beyond us. They are too big for us to control and to rein in. And we often are helpless to restore Or reconcile, or resolve, or redeem our circumstances. And so in such times we have two ultimate options. First, we can succumb to hopelessness and despair We can put ourselves in a state of depression and anxiety and bitterness that actively or passively denies the power and the glory of God. Or, second, we can sorrow over life in a fallen world, but we do it by believing and grabbing hold of the glory of God. We can affirm to ourselves, even in our sorrow, that God is, in fact, all powerful and all-wise and all-knowing and all-loving. And even when we cannot peer into his infinite wisdom and we cannot imagine how our circumstances could possibly be used. by God for His glory and our good, we can trust that He is in fact working out His will in a way that will manifest His glory, which is our ultimate good Because Jesus is the King of glory. And he is glorified when his people see his glory and worship him for his glory and live in light of his glory. Therefore, we can be certain that his timing and his work will be that which brings greatest glory to him and our greatest joy. It is a law of reality that joy Let me start again. It is a law of reality that glory overcomes sorrow. Let's pray. Father, as we reflect on these truths I know there is so much more that we could say and meditate on. But Lord, what you have revealed here is so clear, the glory of Christ. And sure, we would love it if our spouse or our brother or sister or child or parent would be raised from the dead and we could have them back and we can enjoy more years and time on this earth. We would love it if you would so radically turn around our circumstances such that it would be as if It had never, we had been never been brought to suffering to begin with. But we know that you do not always Perform such miracles in this way. Sometimes, in fact, perhaps most times, your work is to sustain us by your grace. Your work is to cause us to worship you in the face of incredible loss. And put on display to the spiritual forces around us and the world around us that you are worthy of worship no matter what comes our way. Lord, whatever each person is facing in life today, may we see a glimpse of your glory and know. that you truly are all powerful, that there is nothing impossible with you And may our sorrow, even in the midst of trials, be turned to joy, that we might be delighting in you and strengthened by you And ultimately live our days in the praise of your glory. We ask these things for Christ's sake. Amen.