All right, good morning everybody. We're gonna get started here. Good morning. Uh kind of a thin crowd, I see. Um But we're gonna we're we're gonna uh worship the Lord by studying his word, whether there's two or two hundred here. So let me uh Let me open us with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this Lord's Day. We thank you for the wonderful opportunities we have to worship and serve you. We thank you for your word and the opportunity we have right now to study it. We pray that through your Holy Spirit you would open our hearts and minds and that we would truly be able to understand what you're trying to teach us from your word today. And we pray, Lord, that we would be not just hearers of the word, but doers of the word. that we would apply what we learn to our lives so that we would be better servants of Christ in our walk with you. We thank you, Lord, for your great loving kindness. We thank you for your plan of redemption played out in the pages of Scripture from Genesis to Revelation. We thank you for the birth of Christ, for the life of Christ, for the death of Christ on the cross for our sins. We thank you that you raised him from the dead. and that he sits at your right hand intervening in our behalf as the perfect high priest. We thank you for all of that, Lord, that you put that plan of redemption in place before the foundation of the world uh and that you loved us enough to to to plant it and to bring it into uh existence. We thank you for your faithfulness to your promises. And we thank you for the opportunities that you give us to be the light of Christ in this dark world. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. So here's what we're going to talk about today. We're going to be in uh primarily Genesis chapters 31, 32, and 33. We're going to see the great escape as Jacob runs away from Laban. Laban pursues Jacob, tracks him down, and confronts him, and then Jacob has a meeting with Esau. This is in Genesis 31, 32, 33 Um I looked back over some old notes and um I taught this the same s set of scripture uh the book of Genesis in twenty seventeen, eighteen, nineteen, I I took two and a half years to go from Genesis one to Genesis fifty. And I looked at this what we're gonna study today and I did it in six weeks. And today today we're gonna do it in one week. Uh so six weeks of stuff in in one week here, so uh buckle up So we'll take a look back at what we studied last week. And so Pastor Antonio was here last week and I'm grateful for him filling in while I was teaching the new member class last week. Um so just to set the the framework uh in this section of scripture um that we're s looking at right now, we're we're looking at basically 260 years. So The book of Genesis covers two about two thousand five hundred years of history, uh, but this section on Isaac, Jacob, and and Joseph is about two hundred and sixty years. So from the birth of Isaac to the death of Joseph 260 years of scripture. Um So last time we talked about Jacob uh and his wives. He he marries Laban's daughters. Uh Leah the oldest has weak eyes, Rachel's Beautiful. Jacob really wants Rachel. He offers to serve for Rachel. Laban agrees to have him serve for Rachel. And uh And behold, it's Leah. So he ends up with Leah first. Laban makes feeble excuses about why he has deceived him. Laban promises he can have Rachel too for a little a low, low price of seven more years of um of service. Um and so he agrees he'll serve her for another seven years Uh and he he marries Leah, s spends the bridal week with her seven days, and then he marries Rachel. So seven years in he's he's married to both. When he serves another seven years, the bride price after he marries Rachel. Um and of course, what's the lesson that God is trying to teach Jacob here? It's the deceiver is being deceived here. He's getting a a dose of his own medicine and he doesn't like it. Um he's deceived uh Esau and Isaac in the past and now he gets deceived Um and so he he ends up uh Laban finagles fourteen years of service out of him for the for the two daughters. And so the plot, of course, has some parallels with Jacob's plot to steal the blessing from Esau. Uh Rebecca makes the plan, but the execution is Jacob. Uh this time it's Rebecca's brother, Laban, so this deception seems to run in the family. He makes the plan, but the deception, the execution, depends on Leah uh going in there and pretending to be Rachel. Uh so there's parallels there. Uh God always has a sense of humor. Um and Jacob realizes that he's been deceived and he's not happy Right? He he's been deceived in a kind of a similar way to how he deceived Isaac and he just is not happy about that. Um but he ends up marrying them both. Um he Leah's not loved and so the the Lord uh gives her children. The first four are born, Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah. Uh, Rachel then comes up with a scheme to give the uh the the maid, her maid Bilha, um and she has two sons and then Uh Leo retaliates by giving her maid Zulpa and she has two sons. There's all this tension between i within the family. Um and then God remembers Rachel at the very end and she gives birth to Joseph. And of course Michelangelo makes statues of both Leah and Rachel. Trying to make uh Rachel look more attractive than Leah in the statue than he made in fifteen forty five. So this is what the family looks like. So Jacob ends up with four wives, Aliah and her maid Zilpa, Rachel and her maid Bilha. And he's he's by the time by this time in scripture he has eleven, uh eleven boys and one girl, um, and then uh Benjamin is is born later. And of course, um Rachel dies in childbirth with Benjamin. Uh notice of course that Leah, the first wife Is the one that has both Ju uh Levi, the priestly line, and Judah, the royal line. Both come through Leah, Leah's children. And of course, the one that leads to the Messiah. the Royal Wine. Both from Leah. Uh okay, so um there's a This is kind of serves as a genealogy, it goes it it shows how this family that will become the nation of Israel where these tribes come from, right? With the twelve tribes of of Israel, these are the these are the first eleven that we've seen uh so far. And when it comes to this, God's fulfilling his promise to Abraham, Isaac, and now Jacob, it's obvious who is in control It's the Lord who decides when these women have children. It's the Lord. Um And so then after 14 years, we see he he works 14 years, and Laban uh doesn't want to lose Jacob's service, and he gets him to work another six years for him. And so the Lord He's watching out for Jacob and He's causing Jacob to prosper. He's caused Abraham to prosper. He's caused Isaac to prosper. Now he's causing Jacob to prosper. Any questions about what we did last week? Lingering questions from last week. Alright, let's take a look forward. This is the last part that we're gonna do on Jacob, and then uh the the last four lessons of the Quarter are going to be about the life how God worked in the life of Joseph. So we're wrapping up Jacob here. As I said, I did what we're doing this week, I did in six weeks previously. I'm gonna talk six times faster. You know how you can set the uh on your uh your YouTube videos you can set it faster and faster. So let's open our Bibles to Genesis chapter 31. And so you'll notice that on the screen I haven't printed every single scripture because we don't have time to look at every single scripture. I'm just doing kind of an overview here, unfortunately. I wish we had time to do every single part of it, but we don't. So Genesis chapter 31, open your Bibles or tune your devices, starting in verse 1. Now Jacob heard the words of Laban's sons. So he hears Laban's sons saying, Jacob has taken away all that was our father's, and from what belonged to our father he has made all his wealth. Jacob saw the attitude of Laban, and behold, it was not friendly toward him as formerly. Then the Lord said to Jacob, The Lord said to Jacob, Return to the land of your fathers and to your relatives, and I will be with you. So Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah to his flock in the field. And said to them, I see your father's attitude that it is not friendly toward me as formerly. But the God of my father has been with me. And then skip down to verse 11. Then the angel of God said to me in the dream, Jacob, and I said, Here I am. And the God of Bethel Where you uh I am the God of Bethel, where you anointed a pillar, where you made a vow to me. Now arise, leave this land, and return to the land of your birth. Rachel and Leah said to him, Do we still have any portion or inheritance in our father's house? Are we not reckoned by him as foreigners, for he has sold us and has also entirely consumed our purchase price? Surely all the wealth which God has taken away from our Father belongs to us and our children. Now then do whatever God has said to you. Then Jacob arose and put his children and his wives upon camels, and he drove away all his livestock and all his property which he had gathered, his acquired livestock which he had gathered and padded around to go to the land of Canaan to his father Isaac. And Jacob deceived Laban, the Aramean, by not telling him that he was fleeing. So he fled with all that he had, and he arose and crossed the Euphrates River and set his face toward the hill country of Gilead So let's talk about what's going on here. Jacob finds out, or he hears, he hears this rumor, or he overhears, that his his um His cousins, so ja his uncle is Laban, so Laban's sons are his cousins. So Jacob's cousins, the sons of Laban, are these Islamic His brothers. They're also his brother-in-laws, yes, both his cousins and his brothers in law. Uh they're angry and jealous of his will. The Lord tells Jacob to return home, so the next day Jacob leaves for Canaan without telling Laban. Before leaving, Rachel steals Laban's household God's word We don't really have time to go into that story, but she does steal his household idols. Here's a map of the what we're looking at. So Haran, remember, is across the Euphrates River. So everything that's on the other side of the Euphrates River is the east, and everything on the other side of the Euphrates River is the west. And he has to cross the Euphrates River to go back to the land of his fathers. And so that's what he's gonna do. He's gonna cross the Euphrates River, he's gonna go down uh to the hill country of Gilead is what it says. So the hill country of Gilead is to the east of what? What's that little body of water up? The Sea of Galilee. So that little body of water that you see right here, that's the Sea of Galilee. And the hill country of Gilead is to the east of that, and that's where he's headed, at least initially, when he leaves Haran. Okay. So there's a final drama between Jacob and Laban. So there's been tension, there's been deception, and now there's going to be kind of a final chapter to this drama between Jacob and Laban. Jacob senses the heightened tension and the danger because he's getting wealthy at the expense of his brothers-in-law and cousins. He makes plans with his wives to flee Haran and return to Canaan. Um Jacob uh He heard the words of Laban's sons in verse 1, and he saw the attitude of Laban, and so he's getting the picture. That he's no longer um he's no longer wanted there there's anger there. Um and then the Lord orders Jacob, he tells him, return to the land of your fathers in verse 3 This is the first time in the scripture we get this phrase land of your fathers. After this, it's used many times It becomes a common way of describing the land, the land of your fathers. And so when Joshua's going in there, that's how the scripture keeps describing it. as go in and take the land of your fathers. Even though had the had the fathers actually had that land? No. Abraham never got possession of the land. Jacob never or Isaac never got possession of the land. Jacob never gets possession of the land. It's not all the way until the Exodus and Joshua that they actually get possession of the land. But it's the land that has been promised. to Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. And so the scriptures describe it from this point on as the land of your fathers. We see it for the first time here. And of course, in that same order that God gives Jacob to go, he says, I will be with you. So this promise that God will be with him, that he's gotten before, and he reiterates it again, that uh and why does God uh f why does God know that Jacob needs to hear this? Jacob's afraid still of what Esau might do for him. Well he yeah, he's afraid of Laban behind him and Esau in front of him. He's got enemies behind and enemies in front in his mind. And he needs to know that God's going to be with him. And God knows that he needs to hear that God's going to be with him. And so God tells him, I'm going to be with you. Libra? Yes. Albany says land of your father is all. Maybe that's an indication that it's land where Yep, I think that's true. It's where uh Abraham has pitched his tent and Isaac has pitched his tent. That's where they've been. They've been sojourners in that land, but that's where they're essentially from. That's where Isaac was born. That's where Jacob was born. Right? So the land of your fathers. So it's a good description. It's a good way of describing. Okay. Um so after God's command to leave Haran, Jacob first summons his wife into the field. So he's going to have a discussion with his wife. Is this a good idea? It is. It's a good idea to have a discussion with your wife. Now, if your wife tells you to do something contrary to what God told you to do, it's not a good idea to follow advice that's contrary to God's command. But it is a good idea to have a discussion with your wife about a big life issue that's coming up here. So he he kinda he summons the wife into the field. Now, why does he go out into the field He doesn't want to be overheard, right? He's he's planning on escape, and he doesn't want to be overheard by the household servants who might scurry off to Laban and his sons and say, hey, they're planning to escape. So he goes out into the field where nobody can overhear him. Smart. Um away from Laban and his family. Uh he lays out the situation to Rachel and Leah. Notice he's got four wives, but he only lays it out to Rachel and Leah, the maids are So uh he tell he he lays out the deteriorating relationship with their father Laban and God's and he tells about God's command to leave and go back to the land of Canaan And Rachel and Leah are all in. Right? They they charge their father Laban with treating them like foreigners and selling them and squandering the bride price. Uh they're they're through. They're ready to go. Um Rachel and Leah believe that the wealth that Jacob has accumulated belongs to their new family, them and their children. Right? They've they've become a new family. They've left their father's household, even though they're still living in together there in the same area, they they now um are they're fully in the new family. with Jacob and their children. And they say to Jacob, do whatever God has said to you. That's good advice, right? Now, of course, that aligns with what they want, and so it's really easy to follow what God commands when it's aligned with what we want anyway, right? That's the that's the easy part Um but it's good I mean it's good advice anyway. It's good that they've seen that God has commanded and yes you should do what God has commanded. So it's good. Everything's good in the f in the family. Jake um Rachel and Leah were committed at distance to each other. Yes. Yeah, even though there had been some tension between 'em, yes, they're committed together as a family to go. Uh to go I don't know if I remember I mentioned this before, but later on in the law, the law will forbid marrying sisters. Leviticus chapter 18 forbids the marriage the marrying of sisters. Um so th this what what's done here will be specifically forbidden by the law later on. But yeah, it they the sisters are committed together as a family with Jacob to go with their kids and and and detach from Laban and leave. So Jacob and his whole household sneak away uh and take everything that they own. Plus something they don't own. Plus something that they don't own, yes. He steals the household gods. Um so uh Haran Once again, he's gonna go, he's gonna flee. Uh and it takes him seven days to go from Haran down to Gilead. Uh it takes him ten days to go from Haran down to the hill country of Gilead. Okay, uh let's let's read on. Um Genesis 31, continue with verse 22. When it was told Laban on the third day that Jacob had fled. So he leaves. And and Laban doesn't find out for three days because he snuck away. He he did the whole planning for it out in the field so none of the servants could could hear. Um it was probably typical for him to move the flocks around a little bit and be gone for a day or two. Anyway, it takes three days before Laban realizes, hey, he's completely gone. Then he took his kinsmen with him and pursued him a distance of seven days' journey and overtook him in the hill country of Gilead So ten days for Jacob to get down there, but he's got children in flocks and stuff, so he's going slow. Uh uh Laban and his army only take seven days to get down there. God came to Laban the Aramean in a dream of the night and said to him, Be careful that you do not speak to Jacob, either good or bad. That's a Hebrew idiom saying, Be careful what you say to Jacob. Laban caught up with Jacob. Now Jacob had pitched his tent in the hill country, and Laban with his kinsmen camped in the hill country of Gilead. Then Laban said to Jacob, What have you done by deceiving me and carrying away my daughters like captives of the sword? So the deceiver doesn't like to be deceived. Jacob the deceiver didn't like to be deceived. Laban the deceiver doesn't like to be deceived. He gets a dose of his own medicine and he doesn't like it Uh why did you flee secretly and deceive me, and did not tell me, so that I might have sent you away with joy and with songs, with timbrel and with lyre, and did not allow me to kiss my sons and daughters, now you have done foolishly. That's all a complete lie. Continuing verse 31. Then Jacob replied to Laban, Because I was afraid, for I thought that you would take your daughters from me by force. Continuing verse 36. Then Jacob became angry and contended with Laban, and Jacob said to Laban, What is my transgression? What is my sin that you have hotly pursued me? These twenty years I have been with you, your ewes and your female goats have not miscarried, nor have I eaten the rams of your flocks. These twenty years I have been in your house, I have served you fourteen years for your two daughters, and six years for your flock. And you changed my wages ten times. If the God of my father, the God of Abraham, and the fear of Isaac had not been for me, surely now you would have sent me away empty-handed God has seen my affliction and the toil of my hands, so he rendered judgment last night. So what does Jacob know about? He knows about the dream from the night before. Either God told him or um or Laban has told him. But Jacob obviously knows about the dream that Laban had the night before. Okay, continuing verse 43. Then Laban replied to Jacob, The daughters are my daughters, and the children are my children, and the flocks are my flocks. And all that you see is mine. Mine, mine, mine, mine, mine. But what can I do this day to these my daughters or to their children whom they have borne? So now come, let us make a covenant, you and I. Let it be a witness between you and me Then Jacob took a stone and set it up as a pillar. Jacob said to his kinsmen, Gather stones. So they took stones and made a heap, and they ate there by the heap. Laban said, This heap is a witness between you and me this day, therefore it was named Mizpah. For he said, May the Lord watch between you and me when we are absent one from the other. Then verse 55, early in the morning Laban arose and kissed his sons and his daughters and blessed them. Then Laban departed and returned to his place. So let's talk about what's happening here. So Jacob is gone three days. Laban finds out, he has left. Laban pursues him for seven days and catches up. He pursues him with an army He gathers his army and and pursues him, runs him down, essentially. Um he confronts Jacob for d about deceiving him and carrying away his daughters and stealing his idols. Um Uh he begins to search for his idols. We don't have time to go through that. Rachel hides them, sits on them, and uh he he yeah, he really wants those golden idols back, but Rachel is stolen him. Um Jacob becomes angry with Laban, so they've deceived one another. You know, they're both tricksters, and they don't both don't like being tricked. Hegel becomes angry with Laban and they work out a covenant and agree not to harm each other at the end. And so this is all happening in the hill country of Gilead Uh they're both camp. So Jacob's camp there first and then uh Laban catches them and they're both camped there in the hill country of uh Gilead will see they'll later go down to Maenaeum and Penuel and Sucath and then across to uh Shechem afterwards. That's that's uh what they said may the Lord watch between me and me while we're asking for one another. Yeah. That was the closing verse in the church I grew up in. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So it it's i i that is a it's a r romanticized verse. Uh it you'll see uh necklaces. that people will give one another with uh the the that it's like a heart, it's got a it's cut in two and it's got that verse on there and y you know That scripture is not at the end of a romantic uh uh uh encounter there. It's uh you know it's a it's a violence almost happened. The Lord precluded violence there. Uh but but the covenant is not a romantic thing. People use it in romantic ways, but it's not. It really is not. So as with everything else, there is a landscape portrait of the parting of Jacob and Leiden by Peter Post, who's a Dutch painter. Notice that uh Laban's house looks suspiciously like a European farmhouse in this painting. Uh Laban's house probably did not look like a European farm house is my guess. But that's the painting of the parting of Jacob and Laban there. The ancient Middle East did not have uh middle middle ages uh European farmhouses, I don't think. But people paint what they know, right? They paint what they know Um so uh it's reported to Jacob uh the Laban, so Laban, as soon as he hears about it, he's in hot pursuit. Um he has a three-day head start, but uh Laban runs him down. Uh and just the night before, God warns Laban in a dream to be careful how he treats Jacob. So God intervenes, in other words, to make sure his plan of redemption through Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob remains intact and moving forward. Uh God will not allow Laban to go down there and slaughter the the people that he's chosen to be his chosen people and to bring the line of the Messiah, there's no way that got that Laban is going to interfere with God's plans. And so he goes to him in a dream. Laban feels that he's been wronged. Right? No, uh I I'm supposed to be tricking other people. Other people are not supposed to be tricking me. This is not right. I don't like it. He confronts Jacob, what have you done by deceiving me, carrying away my daughters? So Jacob counters by going through a litany of wrongs that he's experienced at Laban's hands. Now wait a minute, you've done this, this, and this to me. Uh he walks through the twenty-year relationship uh and points out all the ways that uh that Laban has tricked him and been dishonest with him. Jacob points out, God has seen my affliction in the toil of my hand, so he rendered judgment in the dream that came to Laban. It's divine presence that restrains hostility that otherwise would have occurred. God shields Jacob from disaster. And Jacob realizes it. He points it out right here in the scripture that it's God who has intervened for him. He realizes that Jacob with the uh Laban with his army could have wiped him out And so Laban is clearly frustrated, but he realizes that there's nothing he can do. He agrees to enter into a covenant with Jacob because there's nothing he can do. Early the next morning, Lehman says his goodbyes and heads back home. So there's an application, there's a uh a commentary that I really like. It's called a study commentary in Genesis. It's by a man named John Currid. And he writes an an application based on this sort. Story of Laban and Jacob. Story of greed, lies, and feigned innocence, which poisoned relationships and led to threats of violence. The relationship had gone from bad to worse. And he said he points out that this is the human predicament in a sinful world. the brokenness of people, the brokenness of creation in a sin-soaked world. Humans have a need for that brokenness to be taken care of. And then Kurud in his commentary relates a story from another guy who talks about a wicked man who comes to another guy and says, How came I by my wicked heart And the guy says, that's the wrong question. It's not how did you come by your heart so much as how you shall get rid of it. It doesn't matter how you came by this wicked heart, how can you get rid of it? You have a wicked heart which renders you entirely unfit for the kingdom of God, and you must have a new heart or you cannot be saved. The fact is that all humans are truly broken like Laban and Jacob, and Jesus is the answer. That's the lesson from the interaction between these two. tricksters. Alright, let's we have uh I hope we have enough time. We have one more uh one more story from the life of Jacob and how God deals with him uh and his meeting with Esau Yes. Mm-hmm. Listening to um Jacob and um Olivia's story, one thing that came to me in God fight out in battle. I could imagine even army going to fight in the war. Share the Lord and take it to all the mind my heart. And um recently I've been sitting on a verse that Psalm 50 verse 15 that says then call on me when you're in trouble and I will rescue you and then give you. So um there are a lot of battles that are going with individual to me And God does have a way of fighting that battle for us. Even when we don't see what to say all of us in dream or things like that. So Yeah, so th this is a good example of a way that God fought for uh Jacob that he would never have expected or known about, but he did. And and that's a good uh lead in to the final story we're gonna have about Jacob and how uh what Jacob's response to his fear about the encounter with Esau. And we'll see how Jacob responds. Let's turn to Genesis chapter 32. The beginning of Genesis chapter 32. Now, as Jacob went on his way, the angels of God met him. Jacob said, when he saw them, this is God's camp. So he named that place Maana, God's camp. Then Jacob sent messengers before him to his brother Esau in the land of Seir, the country of Edom. He also commanded them, saying, Thus you shall say to my lord Esau, Thus says your servant Jacob, I have sojourned with Laban and stayed until now. I have oxen and donkeys and flocks and male and female servants And I have sent to tell my Lord that I may find favor in your sight. The messengers returned to Jacob, saying, We came to your brother Esau, and furthermore He is coming to meet you, and four hundred men are with him. Uh-oh. Then Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed. And he divided the people who were with him, and the flocks and the herds and the camels into two companies, for he said, if Esau comes to the one company and attacks it, then the company which is left will escape. He's thinking, well, maybe fifty percent of my family can can live. Um Jacob said, and so no, but notice what he does next. This is the important part. Verse number nine. Jacob said, O God of my father Abraham and God of my father Isaac, O Lord, who said to me, Return to your country and to your relatives, and I will prosper you. I am unworthy of all the loving kindness and of all the faithfulness which you have shown to your servant. For with my staff only I cross this Jordan, and now I have become two companies. Deliver me, I pray, from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau, for I fear him, that he will come and attack me and the mothers with the children For you said, I will surely prosper you and make your descendants as the sand of the sea, which is too great to be numbered. Then Jacob lifted his eyes and looked, and behold, Esau was coming, and four hundred men with him. So he divided the children among Leah and Rachel and the two maids. He put the maids and their children in front, the human shields, and Leah and her children next, and Rachel and Joseph last. But he himself passed on ahead of them and bowed down to the ground seven times until he came near to his brother. Then Esau ran to meet him, embraced him, and fell on his neck, and kissed him, and they wept He lifted his eyes and saw the women and children and said, Who are these with you? So he said, The children whom God has graciously given your servants. Verse 16, so Esau returned that day on his way to Seir. Jacob journeyed to Succath and built for himself a house and made booths for his livestock. Therefore the place is named Succath. So here's a map. So he comes down from the country of Gilead and and Esau comes up from the land of Seir or Edom. So See what's happening there? Down from Gilead, up from Edom, they're going to meet in the middle. And he first goes to Maenaeum, and then he's going to go to Penuel and then to Sucath after that. But they're going to meet there in the middle. Jacob comes to the place where he meets angels. Remember, he had met angels on the way up to Laman. Now he meets angels on the way back. Jacob sends messengers ahead of him to speak with Esau. So he's coming from north to south. Esau's coming from south to north. He sends messengers ahead of him to meet with him. They return saying, Hey, Esau's coming, and he's coming with an army of four hundred with him. Jacob divides his people, flocks and herds, into two companies, hoping that if Esau destroys one, the other could escape. Jacob prays to God for deliverance. He does the same thing in Psalm 50 that Psalm 50 tells us to do. Pray to God for deliverance. Uh after spending the night, Jacob sends he sends presents forward to uh to Esau, a total of 550 animals, tremendous present. As Esau approaches, Jacob places the maids and her children first, the human shields, Leah with her children second, Rachel and Joseph last. There's an obvious hierarchy in this family. Not good, but the fact is that there is a hierarchy in this family. Esau runs to meet Jacob and embraces him, and afterward Esau leaves to wait for Jacob and Seir, and Jacob journeys to suck it. There's a last deception. He Jacob keeps giving Esau the impression he's going to follow him down to Seir and to the south, and he immediately turns west and goes over the Jordan River and runs away. Um so he doesn't quite trust uh Esau or that God will protect him from Esau. Um of course there's a painting. Uh this was by a Flemish painter named Peter Paul Rubens. If you go to Antwerp you can see his work. there in Antwerp in Belgium. Lots of his work there in Antwerp. This is called The Reconciliation of Jacob and Esau. Uh it's Jacob on the left and Esa uh Esau on the left and Jacob on the right, and notice that his wife, one of his wives there looks very European. Uh Rach Rachel Rachel and Leah. Yeah. So people paint what they know. Uh you can see the camels on the right that are carrying uh Jacob and his family, and you can see the war horses and spears on the left there with uh with uh Esau. Um but so the famous paintings, middle e uh uh medieval uh Europeans, this uh Rubens is also the sixteen hundreds. So, on his way to Haran, twenty years earlier, Jacob had an encounter with angels. The angels of God in chapter 28, now in chapter uh 32, he has more encounters with angels on the way back. The purpose of that vision was so that Jacob would be encouraged on his journey, knowing that he was protected by God's messengers. God's messengers were there as he set out on his journey God's messengers are there as he comes back from his journey. God is watching over him. He has angels there, his messengers watching over uh his people, his chosen people, that he's making uh this nation that will that will lead to the Messiah. On his way back from Haran to Canaan, angels appear to him again, probably for the same purpose. He's about to meet Esau and he needs hope and comfort. And he renames the place Maenaeam, the encampment of God He has finally put things right with Laban, and now he intends to be reconciled with his brother Esau, but he does so with fear, anxiety, trepidation. He's expecting to be slaughtered. So he makes detailed preparations, he installs safeguards, divides everything, he sends messengers to ESO, he eventually sends presents to ESO. And everything that follows, even though Jacob has the birthright and the blessing, God has chosen him, he places himself in a subordinate position. He sends a presence, he he bows down, he calls him my Lord. Um he uh he humbles himself Uh in other words. So the message Jacob sends to Esau Stoats starts out, thus says your servant Jacob That's what he tells the guy, the messenger, to say to his brother Esau, this is your servant Jacob coming back. The response from Esau is very disturbing. Uh we came to your brother and he's coming, but he's coming with a four hundred-man army. So uh uh his his fears are not allayed by this by what the messenger comes back with He comes back and says, oh yeah, he's coming, but he's coming with a gigantic army. Then Jacob does the right thing. He calls on the Lord in prayer, and it's a magnificent prayer. He says, I'm not worthy of all the things that you've already done. He realizes his relationship to the Lord now. He's got it right in this prayer. He also praised God's words back to him. It's never a bad idea to say, thus saith the Lord, this is what you've said, and to walk through the promises in God's words The words that God has used to promise Jacob, Jacob then uses those words in his prayer with God. This is what you said, and so therefore I pray for your d my my deliverance. And and but he starts the whole thing out saying, I I'm unworthy of these things that you've done for me and these things that you've promised for me. It's a magnificent prayer Uh uh for you said, I will surely prosper you and make your descendants as the sand of the sea, which is too great to be numbered. He he r he reminds God of his promises. And it it's not really and and the attitude of the prayer is not um It's a humble attitude and so um it's it's the good way of reminding God God of his prayers, uh of his promises He also does other things. He sends a gift, a magnificent gift. The per provision of tribute from someone of lower status to someone of higher rank was common in the ancient Near East. But it was usually a small gift, because it wasn't expected that the one of lower rank would have a tremendous gift to give to the one of of higher rank Jacobs is is way, way over the top for this kind of you know 550 animals that are of breeding age. That's way more than would be expected from a lower rank to a higher rank. Uh it's un uh it's it's undoubtedly reflective of uh the the magnitude of Jacob's fear. He wants to give a spectacular gift because he's really afraid of what Esau would do. Um so he doesn't follow immediately behind the gifts, he takes additional precautions. Putting putting the family in rank in his mind or any Gordon. Um even though of course he puts uh Rachel and Joseph at the back Uh who whose sons are going to be the priesthood in the royal line? Lias, that he puts in in greater danger He divides the wives and children into three groups, the maiden and their children in front, the canon fodder, Leah and her children next, and Rachel last. Esau responds unexpectedly So uh he embraces him, falls on his neck, kisses him and we and weeps. And so Jacob's apprehensions and precautions have all been unnecessary. It was it was it the fear was in his mind. God had already uh provided a change in uh in Esau's heart so that he wasn't going to attack uh Jacob. Yeah, so he's afraid of what his father will do and instead his father comes out and embraces him, kisses him, and welcomes him back. Right. Yeah. Yeah, so yeah, so the precautions are um understandable that he takes all these precautions and gives gifts and humbles himself and that sort of thing. So was he uh was Etho expecting Jacob to attack or something? What would he be doing with four hundred? So I don't know why he was traveling around with four hundred. It seems from the the subsequent uh interactions that perhaps the road was was there was some danger in the road of robbers and thieves and Because he offers a um a protective escort for it. Um he said, I'll leave some men behind to be an escort to protect protect you if you want. Uh Jacob's not interested in that at all. But Esau offers, and it it uh it doesn't say explicitly, but I think the inference is that there could be some danger from robbers or highwaymen or brigands or uh Yeah. Hopefully this teaches us that uh first impressions would be uh second thought when you're telling uh different people. we have a first impression of the person is usually uh you you don't have a true uh outlook on how they're approaching. Yeah. So you usually it's it's a second thought. go back to uh to uh reevaluate yourself and how you're thinking. Yeah. So yeah, think about the whole history between the brothers. So um Jacob had really done Esau wrong. He had s he had kind of swindled him out of the birthright and the blessing. And remember as uh what was the reason why Jacob fled to Laban in the first place? Well, he said he would kill us. Esau had said, I I'm gonna kill him. And so that was what was stuck in Jacob's mind. Twenty years later, what is he thinking of? He's thinking, I swindled this guy, and he's going to kill me for it. That's that's he's been holding that thought of his brain for twenty years. Um and in the intervening twenty years, Esau has gotten over it. But the s the swindler himself It's still bothering him. It's still causing him probably guilt and fear about the consequences for his actions. Um it's just uh it's another example of the fact that our our sins um Yeah, they can they can go before us and they can follow behind us if if we let them. Um yeah And so Jacob's sins have kind of followed him a and caused him to have tremendous anxiety about this meeting with with Esau. Could Esa had the feeling that oh I threw the killed my very uh uh nature did you come back and look at it. So yeah, so there could we don't really know what was going through Esau's mind, but it could be that there was some fear there and he's coming back as a tank company and maybe he's got Maybe he's got more than my four hundred guys. Maybe he's gonna come with an army of a thousand and uh there could be a could be trouble here. So maybe that's why Esau had his whole army with him He he had some fear too. Um and then of course when all the gifts and presents started coming, uh that fear would have been allayed if there was any from Esau's side. Yeah. Any other thoughts or questions about that? Yes. It's important to have a position of humility before God and even the person that has that constant to see peace and then asking for wisdom or words and actions is it's very important. I think that's right. I I think that's the uh the the message to learn if we have a conflict like that is uh attitude of humility before God and before the the other person Okay, application once again from Coured. It is clear at this point of the story that Jacob is a believer. Right? That prayer is the right prayer. That's a prayer of a true believer. Yet at times Jacob reverts to his old ways of craftiness and deceit. And including at the very end of this story, he tells he he tells Esau, Yeah, go ahead, I'll follow you down there to see her, and then he immediately uh runs away to the west. Uh so he's still he there's a battle with the flesh. And so this is common to all believers. We have to make sure we don't mix up these two theological concepts of justification and sanctification. Uh justification is a judicial act of God, a one-time uh event in which he declares on the basis of the righteousness of Christ and the finished work of Christ on the cross that we are imputed the righteousness of Christ, that we are declared righteous because of the righteousness of Christ of Christ and the work of Christ. The penalty for sin is paid. It is finished, Jesus said on the cross. That's justification. Forgiveness of sins and restoration of divine favor. That's once for all Sanctification, on the other hand, is an ongoing process that occurs in a believer after he or she is justified. Sanctification continues throughout life and is always imperfect. We always are having a battle with the flesh. The seventh chapter of Romans talks about Paul talks about this in his own life. And this is what we see in the person of Jacob. Elements of corruption remain, yet through the power of the Holy Spirit, Jacob is overcoming. He's growing in grace. We see him growing in grace in this. story, especially that prayer where he turns to the Lord for deliverance, and he does so with an attitude of humility before the Lord. Okay. Uh any questions about anything that we've we've studied here? So yeah, go ahead. Now I know we just read that they take it. They they almost didn't settle their differences, but we've seen the grace of God whether it both likes. But In the Old Testament it shows throughout the whole time that the descendants of Esau were very angry with the um nation of Israel and persecuted them and a whole lot of things too. Even so Esau didn't do it. His descendants followed through on it. Right. So we do see conflict later on with the descendants of Jacob and the descendants of Esau. We do. Uh just like we see uh conflicts with the descendants of Lot as well. Uh the Ammonites uh and the Moabites are the descendants of Lot, and so even though Lot didn't in his lifetime have direct conflicts with Abraham, the descendants do. And the same thing we see with Jacob and Esau. Alright, any other comments or questions? this today. Yeah, that's true. Yep. Any any other comments, questions? Yes. Um how many people do you think live with jail? So yeah, so he he had a big group, uh I don't know exactly how many, but it says he had uh maid servants, male servants and female servants, and so he had some sort of a large household. Um T. It doesn't the rival doesn't say how many. But a large household, no. Yeah, five hundred and fifty to give a gift. So he had to have enough servants to be able to shepherd a huge flock. Yeah. So I don't know how many that would be. Uh but he had to have a it was a large household. It wasn't just him and his four wives and his twelve kids. I it was a big household with lots of servants. Yeah. Uh what do you think about um uh Rachel stealing the household? Yeah, so that was a w uh kind of a weird thing. So Rachel, um You know, she is the favored wife, uh but she she's not um She's not the one f through whom the priestly line and the royal line come. She has this incident where she steals these gods. And so it it seems to me that there's a family trait we can see here Um between Laban and Rebecca and Rachel uh and Jacob many times, um, that they are kind of greedy grasping schemers, right? Um without the intervention of the Lord, that's who they are. And that's who we are too, right? Let's not pretend that we're not greedy grasping um schemers as well without the Lord. Uh yes, yeah. Actually what I'm thinking is obviously if she's still in the thoughts she doesn't believe in the true God. So I think that's probably right. And and she dies soon after sh in giving birth to Benjamin. So s soon after these events she has Benjamin and she dies. And that's a tremendous um sorrow to Jacob But uh you know, i is this the Lord saying enough of this woman? Um enough of her. Um yeah. So the the Bible doesn't doesn't give go specifically into her spiritual condition. But I think there are clues here that perhaps she is yeah not a follower of the one true God. Yeah. He did she out of the picture and ugly Leah because the Latin So yeah, so his mother dies when he's young. Um he's seventeen when the events that we're gonna talk about later come by, and so he's definitely younger than that when his mother dies Um and so it's a good point that his mother is not the influence uh uh during his formative years, um and perhaps the Lord did that on purpose. Uh took a of negative influence out of his life. We d we don't know for sure. Uh yeah, there was another Yeah. Right. And he says This is what he said, that the possession of the idols was a claim on the inheritance. Perhaps means that that uh Rachel was claiming that she was entitled to her father's estate when uh when s as long as she held the idol. That's why it was so important to be recovered. Very well could be. Yep. Yep. Another thing, when somebody becomes a believer depending what each day are they I'm amazed if many Christians still read their horoscopes. Yeah. But that was never my behavior, so I never had that. It's not that I was a better person if it wasn't my behavior. It's hard to give up your behavior. And simple things like that. So she's just picking up her mother. Perhaps c that could be as well. Yeah. Yep. All right. We've run out of time. Let me close this with prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for our time together, gather around your word. We pray that we would learn the lessons that you want us to learn. uh that there are dangers, uh that the flesh is still there and it still pulls at us. We pray that uh through your indwelling Holy Spirit You would help us to overcome the flesh, the world, the flesh, and the devil, and that we would be about your work. We know that you save each and every one of us for a purpose, that there's a a ministry out there for each and every one of us, and that we're supposed to be about your work. We pray, Lord, that we would do that, that you would empower us through your Holy Spirit that when we have interactions with our unbelieving uh family members and neighbors and co-workers and friends uh that you would give us the words to say through your Holy Spirit that need to be said to those unbelievers, that we would be able to shine the light of Christ, that we would be able to show the love of Christ to those that are lost and dying. We thank you for our opportunity right now to worship you in corporate worship, and we pray that the things that we say and the songs that we sing and the meditations of our hearts and the words of our lips would be pleasing in your sight and would bring glory to your name. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.