Okay, part three. So uh we've been studying uh uh the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, so we're following the life of Abraham, but really our focus is on the God of Abraham Not on Abraham himself. So today we're going to talk about the fact that the Lord comes to Abram. He's still called Abram at this point. Comes to Abram in a vision. And he talks to him in a vision. The Lord makes a covenant with Abram. We'll talk about what that looks like. And then Sarai, Abram's wife, makes a plan. She needs to help God along. God's plan is not uh not coming around the way she wants it to, so she makes a plan Uh we'll talk about the fact that we're heirs according to the promise. That's how the Bible describes us, and it uses the example of uh Isaac and Ishmael as um As an illustration of this fact that we are heirs according to promise. And then we'll talk about the fact that God establishes a sign of the covenant with Abram. All right, first we'll review where we went last time. And so we'll start with a map so we can put everything into perspective of where Abram is. So he's told to go to the land of Canaan, and he gets to the land of Canaan, but there's a famine there, so he goes down to Egypt. And then after some time in Egypt, he comes back to the land of Canaan, and then he settles around uh Hebron and his nephew Lot goes over to Sodom. And so first they go to Egypt. There's a famine, and it provides an opportunity for God to test Abraham, and Abraham has some difficulty with this test. He has some fear. Uh, even though God has promised him he's going to have a multitude of descendants, he's afraid the Egyptians are going to kill him. And so he struggles with a lack of faith in God's promises. So Abraham is an example given to us for faith, but we also see very clearly demonstrated here That Abraham has some peaks and valleys in his faith. He has some some times of doubt and fear. But he's still an example for us of faith. And so what does that tell us? What does that tell us we should expect as followers of Christ? That there will be peaks and valleys in our faith that that um We can't we can't let it permanently cripple us if we have a time of fear and doubting. Um so That's that's why I believe that the Holy Spirit has these kinds of examples for us in the scriptures, that we will know that this is what we should expect, even if Uh even this towering hero of Faith Abraham, he has these times of fear and doubt. Now that doesn't excuse the fear and doubt But it tells us that this is what happens with somebody that's a true follower of Christ is you will have times of fear and doubt. We need to rebound from those uh learn from those uh those times of fear and doubt. Um so he has this lack of trust in God's promise Uh he's convinced that bad things are gonna happen to him in Egypt and so he uh he does something he shouldn't do, he lies, he tells uh Pharaoh that Sarah's his sister, and he puts Sarah in s in some real danger. God rescues her, uh but Abram puts her in danger. He's also given male and female servants out of this whole thing, one of whom is probably Hagar, whose story we're going to see today. Um and of course the uh God had these plans that Abraham didn't know about. That there's going to be a seed, uh this Redeemer that's going to come from not only Abraham but also Sarah. And so he's putting Sarah at risk and uh and God puts a stop to that. Abram's lack of faith. Um i God won't permit man's action to interfere with his purposes. He is sovereign. So his lack of faith placed Pharaoh's household in danger also. Pharaoh was in danger over this thing, even though he hadn't done anything wrong in this particular circumstance. And that's illustrates the fact that we see in Scripture that one person's sin can definitely affect another person. And of course that carries through all the way to today. Um and the ultimate lesson of this that we learn from this is that fear is the enemy of God's people. And Satan tries to use it. He uses fear to draw God's people into disobedience And so when we get to a point where anxiety creeps in and we're tempted to fear, we need to remind ourselves of all that God has done for us. Uh then chapter thirteen we talked about. We talked about uh the fact that Abram and Lot had both become very, very rich and their herdsmen were were arguing with each other so they had to separate And Abram gives Lot the first choice. And Lot chooses the rich luxurious green valley of the Jordan River, and he goes there. Abram goes down to Hebron And Lot goes down to the into the valley and then he eventually works his way south all the way to the point where he's living in Sodom. Um and so they've been traveling for years together, abram and lot, and because of their stuff, uh they're forced to part. Um God is using these circumstances like he uses all circumstances to divide the two, to keep Abram essentially away from the influence of Sodom and Gomorrah. Um and notice in this situation that Abram has just had a big spiritual failing. He comes back in Egypt, he comes back to Canaan, and now he demonstrates great humility and generosity toward his nephew Lot. He is the elder, he's the head of the ha family, the household, and he could have insisted on his right to choose first, but he doesn't. He defers to his nephew Lot Lot, of course, looks out and says that well the the fertile green place is what I'm going to take for myself. Instead of deferring back to his uncle, he takes the choice of the best land for himself. Abram continues to dwell in tents in the land that God had given him in Canaan, and Lot moves eventually, as we see, into Sodom itself. And so we learn a lesson from this that the comforts of the world can become a deadly trap. And there's always going to be a balance for those of us that are followers of Christ. Our citizenship is in heaven. But we're in the world. In the meantime, before we get to our final destination, we live in this world, but we're not supposed to be of this world. Um and first John chapter two says, Do not love the world nor the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. So it's a black and white thing. You love the Lord or you Love the Father, one of the other. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the boastful pride of life, is not from the Father, but is from the world The world is passing away and also its lust, but the one who does the will of God lives forever. So obedience is the key doing the will of the Father, and Jesus, of course, modeled that perfectly So an overview of the promises that have been given to Abraham so far. So in Genesis chapter 12, he had the promise of land, descendants, and blessing. And in chapter 13, it's reiterated the promise of land and descendants are once again reiterated. In chapter 15, we'll see God Reiterates the promises again. Chapter 17 he reiterates again. So he keeps reminding Abraham over and over and over again of these promises. And so what does that tell us about what we need? God knows that we need. We need reassurance. We need to be reminded. And so One of the things that I take away from this is no matter how many times I've read the scriptures, I need to read them again. Abraham was able to hear from God directly these promises, but he needed to hear them again. He needed to hear the exact same promises again. And so And we need to hear the safe exact same promises again. So we need to keep feeding on the word, even if you've read it before. Abraham had heard those promises before, but God knew that he needed to hear them again. And then Genesis chapter 14, we had Uh Lot's living in Sodom, and there's a big battle between four kings and five kings, and the four kings beat the five kings, and one of the five kings that was beaten was the king of Sodom, and Lot and all of his stuff is captured in that battle. And carried away, and Abraham tracks down those who took his nephew and uh tracks him down, beats him in a battle, and brings Lot back. So the choice of his residence starts to have negative consequences right away for Locke. It'll keep having negative consequences. But this is the first one he's carried off in battle. So Abraham finds out about it and he has his own private militia. 318 members of his household are trained fighting men. So it's a big household. He's got a huge household. If he has said if he has his own army of three hundred and eighteen people from his own household, his household is big. They pursue the captors more than 150 miles from south to north. They overtake them and defeat them in a battle. Um all the way up to Dan, which eventually if you um if you read later on, descriptions, a general description of the territory of Israel is from Dan to Beersheba. You'll hear that phrase, Dan to Beersheba. Well Dan is in the north, Beersheba is all the way in the south, and so that's all the way from the north to the south. Uh so Dan is all the way in the north of what will become the territory of Israel. He tracks him all the way up there, he starts fighting them there, he fights them all the way up to Damascus in Syria and takes Lot back. And then we get this incident with somebody named Melchizedek. So after Abraham wins this battle, brings Lot and all the stuff back He meets this man named Melchizedek. And Melchizedek is the king of Salem. Salem is what would become Jerusalem uh later on. Um so it's Jerusalem. He's the king of Jerusalem. Uh his name is Melchizedek, it's an old Canaanite word, um, and it means um uh king of righteousness, Melchizedek does. Uh he's the and he's also a priest of God most high, El Elion. Um and he's so he's a combination of a priest and a king Uh not unusual in the ancient Near East, but absolutely unusual in in the history of Israel. Israel never had a priest and king combined. And so this uniqueness of the combination becomes a sign in other parts of scripture, points to Melchizedek as a type or a sign, uh a symbol of Christ, the fact that Christ will be both priest and king. There's a prophecy in the book of Zechariah in chapter 6 that talks about the Messiah being both a priest and a king. So if we look at Melchizedek, he was a priest and a king, and so is Jesus. His name means King of Righteousness, and Jesus, of course, is the King of Righteousness. He's not in the line of Aaron, because he's before Aaron is even born. Jesus, of course, is not from the line of Aaron. He's not from the tribe of Levi. He's from the tribe of Judah. And there's no record in Genesis of the birth or death of Melchizedek. We only hear about him here when Abraham meets him. And so this is a symbol of the eternal priesthood of Jesus. So at the end of Hebrews chapter 7, it says Jesus, because he continues forever, holds his priesthood permanently. And so the the author of Hebrews is just making He's using Melchizedek as a symbol for Christ. And so we see that Melchizedek, he's a priest and he's a king, he's a type or a foreshadowing of Jesus Christ. He's a historical person who points ahead to the Redeemer. He is the shadow, while Jesus is the reality. So that's what we talked about last time. Any questions left over from last time before we dive into new stuff? Okay, so we're gonna do uh that's we've done two parts on the life of Abraham. and God's interactions with Abraham. And we've got uh today and one more. So altogether we're going to spend four weeks talking about this man Abraham and how what how God deals with Abraham. Alright, so if you're turning your Bible to Genesis chapter 15, we're going to basically look through uh highlights of Genesis 15, 16, and 17. So starting in Genesis chapter 15. So at the end of chapter 14, we just saw Abraham interacting with Melchizedek, giving him a tenth of the plunder. And then Genesis 15, right after those events, starts like this. After these things, the word of the Lord came to Abram in a vision. So God comes to Abram in a vision. Do not fear, Abram. I am a shield to you. Your reward shall be very great. Abram said, O Lord God, what will you give me since I am childless? And the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus. And Abram said, Since you have given no offspring to me, one born in my house is my heir. Then behold, the word of the Lord came to him, saying, This man will not be your heir, but one who will come forth from your own body. He shall be your heir And he took him outside and said, Now look toward the heavens and count the stars if you are able to count them. And he said to him, So shall your descendants be. Then he believed in the Lord, and he reckoned it to him as righteousness. So, God comes to him in a vision and he reiterates his promise because Abraham's having doubts. God knows that Abraham's having doubts. He's having doubts to the point where he's starting to make his plans for when he dies, this this man that's uh was one of his servants um is gonna be he's gonna declare him his legal heir But notice what God starts the promise out with. He starts them out with really something new. He's really promising himself, I will be your shield. He's promising Abraham a special relationship with him. He's already promised him descendants and land and uh that he's going to be the father of of a great nation. Now he promises himself. I will be your shield and your great reward. He's not descending just to say it's in a nice piece of real estate. He's promising himself God is. We also see that despite all God's promises and personal appearances to Abram, he is still unsure that the promises will come to pass. So he's been promised. In chapter twelve, he's been promised again in chapter thirteen. Here in chapter fifteen, he's he's still having doubts. Uh he's unsure that the promises will come to pass. He's struggling with Doubt and fear. And notice through all of this how patient and merciful God is. God does not strike him down for his unbelief. He has mercy and patience with Abraham. And so this shows us the character of God, the God that we serve. He has patience and he has mercy. And that's really a good thing for us, that he has patience and he has I know it's a good thing for me. I can only assume that it's a good thing for you too, that God has patience and mercy. And so this is how he deals with his very closest servants. This is how he deals with the people that follow him. And so those of us that are in Christ Jesus are adopted into his family. That's what the Bible says, that we're adopted into his family. And so Apply, make sure you apply this character. God is the same yesterday, today, and forever. And so the same God that was patient and merciful with Abraham through his fear and doubt will also be patient and merciful with you through periods of fear and doubt. And that should give us great comfort. That should help us through periods of fear and doubt. Just like Abraham had So it's almost as if Abraham is demanding here some proof. And we see this in scripture, other places where people demand proof from God, and of course that could make him really angry And perhaps it does, but he still is patient with Abraham. Um so um to Abraham God's promise had stalled. It's been a number of years now, and he's still not having the son that he's promised. Uh I mean it only takes nine months, right? And we're so it's been years now, and there's no son. Um so his God's promise is stalled, and so adopting his servant Eliezer uh as an heir, which was a well-known Mesopotamian custom of the time, was the best possible arrangement as far as Abraham could see. But God patiently answers Abram and tells him that Eliezer will not be his heir, but he's very explicit. God tells him, but one who will come forth from your own body That's who will be your heir. So there could be no doubt. Just from that. Well, according to uh as far as Abraham could see. Abraham's eye. So so as far as Abraham could see, God had promised a son, and there was no son. And then there was no sun. And then there was no sun. And so as far as Abraham could see in his own human sight, you know, nothing was happening. So God had made a promise and it wasn't coming true. It wasn't coming about. Yeah, so that's yeah, so uh good point. This is not uh obviously God's promise had not stalled in reality. But from Abram's perspective, that was how he was starting to see things. He had promised and it wasn't happening. Now Abram would later take this promise in the narrowest possible interpretation, the promise that it would be someone from his own body. And so we'll see when when he comes up with Sarah comes up with this this plan to have a child, well, Abram's thinking, well God said it comes from my own body, but he didn't say Sarah's own body, so So you know technically it fits in there. You can see the mind uh working there Um and later on God would make it even more abundantly clear that to Abram in the future that his heir would also come from his wife Sarah's own body as well. So God has Abram go out and look at the star. So he gives him this kind of physical, visceral, real thing to look at. Gives them an illustration to look at. It says, Abraham, come out, look up at the stars. Now who's he talking to? He's talking to the one who made those stars That's who Abram's talking to. And the one who made the stars says, hey, look up at the all these stars I made. So he he's he's showing Abram not only an illustration of this idea that he's gonna have many many children, but he's also showing him a demonstration of his own power. I made those stars. Um and you can't even count them. There's so many of them. Uh why would you doubt that I can make one child? Okay. So he gives them this illustration, takes them out, looks at the stars, that's how many of your descendants are going to be if you could count them, but you can't. And in spite of his doubts and the seeming impossibility of the promise, Abram believes. That's what Genesis 15, 6 tells him. Abram believed God. So it's important to realize that this was at the core of Abram's character. He believed God. He had faith. He had doubts that would come sometimes, but the core of Abram's character was that he actually believed God. He had faith. Uh the New Testament uses Abram as an example of one who's saved by faith. And of course that faith is in Christ. He doesn't know uh the whole story, the whole plan, but he has faith in God's promise. And what is God's promise ultimately? It's a promise of Christ. And so Abram trusts, he believes, he has crisis of doubt as he goes through his life like we all do. But the core of his character, the core of Abram's character, as revealed in the New Testament, is that he does have faith. And so Genesis 15, 6 says Abram believed God and he credited to him as righteousness. And so Paul quotes Genesis 15, 6 three times, twice in Romans and once in Galatians. Abram believed God and it was credited to him as righteousness. Paul, three times he says that And of course, um it was becoming and looking more and more impossible in human uh sense that he could have kids. He was getting older and older and older and older, and so was Sarah getting older and older and older. At this point, um Abrams eighty-five. Sarah's seventy-five, um, and they're just getting up there in years and it's not happening. Uh but Abraham believes. He has faith. And that faith is what's credited as righteousness. And in Romans 4, Paul points out, and this was before he had circumcision. We'll talk about circumcision in a minute. And so God then makes a covenant with Abraham. And so if you continue along in in uh Genesis chapter 15, look back down at Genesis 15 and chap in verse 7, and he, God said to him. I am the Lord who brought you out of Ur of the Chaldeans. So I'm the one that's been with you all this time to give you this land to possess it. He said, O Lord God, how may I know that I will possess it? So he said to him, Bring me a three year old heifer, and a three year old female goat, and a three year old ram, and a turtle dove, and a young pigeon. Then he brought all these to him and cut them in two and laid each half opposite the other. But he did not cut the birds. The birds of prey came down upon the carcasses, and Abraham, or Abram drove them away. And then later later on in verse 17, it says, And it came about when the sun had set that it was very dark, and behold there appeared a smoking oven, and a flaming torch which passed between these pieces. On that day the Lord made a covenant with Abram saying, To your descendants I have given this land from the river of Egypt as far as the great river, the river Euphrates. And so this is a description of a covenant. So uh what's going on here? What is it what is a covenant? Well, what God has done is he's set out his culture's equivalent of a legal legal contract So it's like signing a binding legal document in in those days, making a covenant, taking these animals, separating them and walking between the pieces as if to say, may this happen to me, may my body be chopped in two if I violate this covenant or legal agreement. That's what's going on here. Uh by performing this ritual, God binds himself to fulfill his promise. Now, was God ever gonna not fulfill his promise? No, I mean so this is not for God's benefit. Whose benefit is this for? This is for Abram's benefit. He's he's going through this ritual of making a a formal legal document To help Abraham overcome his fear and doubts. That's what God is doing. He's giving him one more thing One more demonstration of his seriousness and faithfulness about fulfilling what he's promised. He's doing something to help Abraham's faith, to encourage Abraham. So God gives Abraham instructions on how to prepare, but it's God who initiates this remarkable ceremony. Um Abram in the actual ceremony, Abram doesn't even participate. It's only God who walks between the pieces. He's the only one of the two parties that passes between the pieces. So God is the only one committed to fulfill the covenant, regardless of what Abraham does. So therefore, we call it an unconditional covenant. Uh God has promised to do this. Abram doesn't have a his promise part of it. Yes, go ahead. And the smoking pot? So good good question. So the smoking oven and the flaming torch symbolize the presence of God. Now why do they use a smoking pot and a flaming torch? I don't know. I don't know why he used those two particular symbols, but those two are a symbol of the presence of God here. Something that Abram could see he used Later on he's going to use a pillar of cloud and a pillar of fire to go before um Abram's descendants. Uh in this case he uses a smoking oven and a flaming torch. Odd things, but something that Abram could definitely see And these are two things that wouldn't on their own be walking between pieces. So Abraham knows that this is not a natural event. smoking ovens and flaming torches don't just wander through uh pieces of dead animals. Um and so they symbolize the presence of God and I don't really know understand the the the significance of those particular things. Uh there's been speculation through the millennia of what those what they uh the fierce determination, burning determination of God and things like that have been suggested. Uh but I just don't know. And the the scripture doesn't tell us. So, of course, uh God's trying to allay the fears of Abram and and make his promise something that's so uh that Abram can see with his own eyes and um to to try to encourage Abraham, but God has much larger plans than he's even revealed to uh Abram. He's he's larger than just descendants in land for Abram And Abraham could not have understood this larger plan. God had given hints all the way back to Genesis 3. uh that the seed of the woman would uh would bruise the head of the serpent. And this was a a veiled promise of the Messiah. And the promises of the Messiah are contained in the in the promises to Abram as well. But Abram certainly didn't have the details that we now have or able to look back on We're able to look at this examples, these examples from Genesis, with the knowledge of what God actually did in history after this and see how it fits into these promises. But if you put yourself in Abram's place, there's no way you could see that. But God's plans were, in fact, much larger than just descendants and land for Abraham. So he talks about this promised land, this big area of land there in the Middle East, and there's a whole bunch of tribes that are living there that are listed at the very end of Genesis chapter 15. There's all these Canaanite tribes that are there. And of course The descendants of Abraham will then meet all these tribes when they come in and are are given the land under Joshua. They have to fight for it. Now, one last thing. We didn't read this part in the middle of chapter 15. God gives a He gives a prophecy to Abram about what will happen to his descendants in terms of their captivity in Egypt. I just wanted to lay this chart out for you because you will sometimes have skeptics tell you, well, you know, some places the Bible tells you it tells us it's 400 years in Egypt, and some places say 430 years, and some say 490 fifty years and so what's going on? The Bible has all these contradictions, you can't trust it, you silly Christian. Um but i if you actually look at the details and you put it on a little chart, it all fits We're told that there's a 430-year sojourn in Egypt, which includes the time from Jacob moves to Egypt and all the way till the Exodus. That's the sojourn in Egypt and it's 430 years long. We're told that it's 400 years of bondage. That's because when when Jacob first goes to Egypt, they're not in bondage They have their own land, they're free people. They're later on they're put in bondage, and that bondage is 400 years. Then we're also told that there's 450 years, but that includes bondage Wandering in the wilderness and the conquest of the Promised Land. And so that starts when they first go into bondage, and it but it includes a lot of stuff that happens after the Exodus, includes the wandering in the wilderness and the conquest of the land. And so all of those timelines fit. If you put them on a little uh chronology, they all fit, but you will get, I have gotten. Unbelievers who will say, well, it says 400 years, it says 430 years, it says 450 years. Your Bible is contradictory, la la la la la. No, it's not. No, it's not. If you look at it, if you read it carefully, it says The the Bible is true, and it stands up to scrutiny like that, that may sound difficult when the unbeliever first brings it. Yes, there are passages that talk about 400 years and 430 years and 450 years, but they're talking about different things. And so if you're interested in this particular diagram, you can download this with the slides from Hope Book. So this is one of the slides in there. Okay. And then we get to uh in chapter 16 we get to Sarai makes a plan. So uh turn over to chapter 16. And let's let's read through a little bit of this as well. So uh it's a good question because the scripture doesn't tell us everything that happened you know, every person that Abraham met and every conversation he had with s with Sarah, his wife, but one would assume that a a an unusual a tremendous event like that where God comes into a vision, he's the smoking pot and the torch going through pieces of animals and and that that would be something he would discuss with his wife Um how did your day go to today, honey? Oh well, you know, nothing. You know you would think that this would be something that he would discuss with her. So yes, I would assume that she heard this. And that she heard that it would be somebody from Abram's own body. And that that she came up with this and that fit with what God had said technically. Um yeah. So yes, I think that's I I assume that that's true. That Sarah knew that Abram didn't have this haven spectacular event happen to him and he hid it from his wife. I assume Yeah. So if you look at the beginning of chapter 16, so next what happens is now Sarai, Abram's wife, had borne him no children. And she had an Egyptian maid whose name was Hagar. So Sarai said to Abram, Now behold, the Lord has prevented me from bearing children. Please go into my maid. Perhaps I will obtain children through her. And Abram listened to the voice of Sarai After Abram had lived ten years in the land of Canaan. So how old was he when he went to the land of Canaan? In Genesis chapter 12 it tells us he was 75. He went from Pharaon to Canaan when he was seventy-five. So ten years now he's eighty-five. After Abram had lived ten years in the land of Canaan, Abram's wife Sarai took Hagar the Egyptian, her maid, and gave her to her husband Abram as his wife. He went into Hagar and she conceived, and when she saw that she had conceived, her mistress was despised in her sight. And then later on, I'm going to skip a whole bunch. So Hagar bore Abram a son, and Abram called the name of his son, whom Hagar bore Ishmael. Abram was 86 years old when Hagar bore Ishmael to him. So 85 when he was conceived, 86 when he was born. That's the timeline. So, uh Sarah makes a plan. Abram's wife, she can't have children or she hasn't had children. She's getting impatient. She knows about these promises, obviously. uh that he sees that Abram's gonna have a son, he hasn't had a son, and it's not happening with her, so she comes up with this brilliant scheme. Give her hand her maid to Abram his wife in order for Abram to have an heir So, uh Abram and Sarah are still waiting. It's been ten years since God promised the son. So they decide that they should help God along. So ten years that's a long time to wait. Um you know it's it it only takes us a few minutes to read those chapters in Genesis. Well just think about Abram and Sarah. They're ten years, they've been promised by God, the Almighty creator of the universe, they're going to have a son, and nothing. And years go by and more years, and now a decade has gone by and nothing. So uh it's also important to note this is before circumcision and his name changed. So we're going to talk about that later. That's going to come next. But this is before that. And notice something in the midst of the text of the scripture that Sarai's focus is on herself and her plans. I will obtain children. That's an interesting way for her to put it. I will obtain children. Um Not not Abram will retain children or we'll or it's I will obtain children. Very interesting. Now, of course, God's plans were far bigger than Sarai realized And the results of her scheme would also last far longer than she realized. So these descendants of Ishmael will cause all kinds of problems. for the descendants of Isaac forever and ever and ever all the way down to today. Yes. Can we talk about Abram's role in this? Yes, we will. We will definitely talk about Abram's role in this That's what's coming next. So hold hold that for just one second. Yeah, we're gonna have to talk about Abram's role in this. So Sarai puts into action her plan of assisting God in the business of producing an heir. So Abram repeats the mistake of Adam. By placing himself under the spiritual authority of his wife. And that's exactly how God puts it in Genesis chapter 17. In the introduction to Adam's punishment For his sin, God starts out by the using the phrase, because you listen to your wife. What is he saying there? Is he saying, don't listen to your wife? That's not what he's saying. What he's saying is the spiritual responsibility was yours And you abdicated your spiritual responsibility. And so therefore I hold you Adam responsible. And so the Bible is really clear about that throughout the Bible, that it's Adam's sin that caused the fall. And cause the sin nature to be in all of us because the spiritual responsibility was his and he abdicated his spiritual responsibility. And Abram does the same thing here. It's his responsibility, but Sarai comes up with this idea His spiritual responsibility, he's he's had this conversation with God over and over again. He's had a covenant and visions and all this kind of stuff. And Sarai comes up with an idea and he lets her go with it. He lets her assume spiritual responsibility for the family. So the Lord has just come to Abram in a vision. He's made a formal covenant with them. There's a smoking oven and there's a burning torch going between the pieces. He had bolstered Abraham's faith and encouraged him. But then Abram turned right around and let his wife take the lead rather than taking the spiritual responsibility. This is so it this is the same, the same as Adam and Eve in the garden. Eve perceived a problem that didn't exist. Right? They had all the food that they needed, but she saw that one fruit and said it was good for food. Well there but there's no problem needing food. They had all the food they wanted. Uh pleasing to the eye. Well so was all the rest of the garden pleasing to the eye. She she invented a problem that didn't exist Thanks to the direct lies of the serpent. So the serpent had put those ideas in her mind. The serpent came and said, Hey, God's just trying to withhold that good thing from you. And then she took matters into her own hands to resolve that non-existent problem. There was no problem to be solved, but she took things into her own hands to solve a problem. And the same with Sarah here She perceives a problem with God's promise, the promise not being fulfilled. So she took matters into her own hands to solve it. Just like Eve did. There was no problem to be solved, but she took action to solve a problem that didn't exist. And the results in both cases are disastrous. The Lord, of course, would hold Abram responsible for abdicating his spiritual authority in the home, just as he held Adam responsible in Eden, and the whole rest of the scripture holds Adam responsible. Um so uh the lesson here is yes listen to your wife, but no, you cannot Abdicate your spiritual authority and responsibility because the Lord's going to hold you responsible. Um and so that's what happens here. We have a case where Abram had just come from these glorious promises of God. But he still um he still listens to this scheme that Sarai comes up with Uh yeah. So any questions about that? This is yes, go ahead. If you don't have kids then we think have kids through so before they uh got the command they could have had uh produced Yeah, so um Abram and Sarah kept coming up with um human ways to fulfill God's promise on their own. Oh even before God's promise, yes. So there were there were two ways. You could adopt somebody like Abraham was talking about when he was talking to God. And you could also take another wife. to have children. Uh that was legal then to have another wife. Um and so Yeah, there were things that you could do, acts of your own righteousness to try to save yourself, essentially, is where we're going with this. Yes, go ahead. little scenario. Were they considered like um Hagar considered a wife? Or was it just like No, so the wife no, no, so the Bible says that she gave him uh to s Abram and he became her wife. So yeah, he yeah, he he took her as a second wife. And how about Leah and Rachel's maid? Were they also wives? Yes, they were. So uh yeah, so there were different levels of wives back then, yes. And We'll see uh that the New Testament uses an illustration here, and we're gonna get to that here in a second. Um In fact, maybe we'll get to it right now. Yeah, let's get to it right now. Turn to uh Galatians chapter 4. So uh the scripture actually uses this passage, um, this incident, uh to make a spiritual point. So Galatians chapter four. So notice the spiritual point that uh that this this passage is making. Uh starting in Galatians chapter 4, verse 21. Tell me, you who want to be under the law, do you not listen to the law? For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by the bondwoman and one by the free woman. But the son of the bondwoman was born according to the flesh. And the son by the free woman through the promise. This is allegorically speaking, for these women are two covenants One proceeding from Mount Sinai, bearing children who are to be slaves. She is Hagar. Now this Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia, and corresponds to the present Jerusalem, for she is in slavery with her children. But the Jerusalem above is free, and she is our mother. For it is written, Rejoice bearing woman who does not bear. Break forth and shout you who are not in labor, for more numerous are the children of the desolate than the one who has a husband. And you brethren, like Isaac, are children of promise But as at that time he was born according to the flesh, persecuted him and was born according to the spirit, so it is now also. But what does the Scripture say? Cast out the bondwoman and her son, for the son of the bondwoman shall not be an heir with the son of the free woman So then, brethren, we are not children of a bondwoman, but of the free woman. Now remember that he said at the beginning of that whole section that it's an allegory. So most of Scripture is not, you can't just say, well, that must be an allegory. But this you can say that must be an allegory because it says, hey, this is an allegory. So the allegory is Ishmael's born because Sarai and Abraham tried to take God's will into their own hands. He thus represents legalism in Paul's letter, because legalism is man's attempt to earn righteousness apart from God. This was man's attempt to fulfill God's purposes on their own. Sarah and Abraham are trying to do it on their own, doing it do it in the flesh, do it in their own righteousness, their own way. They tried to do it themselves In other words, that's what Paul is saying here. He's using Isaac and Ishmael as symbolic symbols or examples of doctrine. One represents the covenant of the law of Moses given at Mount Sinai. And the other represents the covenant of grace given on Mount Calvary when Christ died for our sins. So this is the covenant of works or legalistic righteousness and the covenant of grace. That's what those two sons represent, because Sarah and Abraham tried to do things in their own strength, their own power, their own ability, their own way. But that was not God's way. God's promise was different. And God's promise was much bigger. He was looking all the way forward to Calvary at this time. Legalism, of course, leads to bondage. That's Paul's point in Galatians chapter 4. Bondage. The law, it can't, we can't be saved through the works of the law. It only leads to bondage. But grace leads to freedom in Christ. That's Paul's point. And he's using these two as an illustration of that point So Paul's analogy about Ishmael being sent away, so Ishmael is sent away. And His analogy about Ishmael being sent away is that mankind's good works do not and cannot play a part not even the smallest part in our salvation. That's Paul's spiritual point, using Ishmael and Isaac as examples or analogy or allegory. But the spiritual point that he's making is very, very important. And he uses this passage that we're reading here in Genesis as his best the best example that we can see of this. So any questions about that? Everybody see that? Yes. Okay. What what do we learn from from both of them? So A Abraham had the primary responsibility and he failed. Now um Sarai, like Eve, was trying to help. So she's I mean she's not she's not thinking, let me undermine my husband. That's not what she's thinking. She's thinking, I want to help. Now, it was Adam's responsibility and Abram's responsibility to evaluate the help that their wives offered. Um and in both cases the advice that the wife offered in these two cases was bad advice. Um and it wasn't out of maliciousness in in either case. As far as I can see, there's no evidence from scripture that they were thinking I'm I'm bound to determine to undermine my husband here. It it seems like they were both trying just trying to help. But th th they were um their husbands had both in both cases had had direct communication with God that had laid out a different path. And it was their the husband's responsibility to um to evaluate God's Revelation to them, both of them had had direct revelations from God. Both Adam and Abram had direct revelation from God. And to see that the the Advice that they were getting in this particular case was not in accordance with the path that the will, the will of God, the path that God had laid out. And it was therefore their responsibility to say no to that particular advice. And in both cases, um Adam and Abram went along with the advice of their wife to catastrophic consequences The Bible makes clear that it's the that that was Adam's responsibility in one case and Abram's responsibility in the other case. But that doesn't mean that in general, therefore, husbands should ignore the advice of their wives Uh I know that's not what the Bible's teaching at all. It's showing two examples of when husbands had had, especially in Adam's case. Uh in Adam's case God said, Don't eat that fruit. And Eve came with that fruit, and it it was really, really, really, really clear in Adam's case that he should have um said no to uh the advice of his wife. Um a little bit less clear I think in Abram's case, but in any way, in any case, either one of them, they should have followed God's revealed will rather than the advice they were getting from their wives in this case Uh yes. For it for A we're studying Abraham here and he has very frequent contact with God it appears. Um I mean every instance we we come up with here in the Bible he has some course sort of interaction with God. Now We're only seeing highlights of his life. You know, we we check in every few years here with A Abram's life. We're going to see that here in uh chapter 16, he's 86 Chapter 17, the very night next thing that happens, he's 99. So between one verse and another verse, 13 years go by And we have no idea what happened in those thirteen years. We have no idea how frequent his contact with God was. We just don't know. Because in one verse it thirteen years go by. And that happens a lot, uh, in in this book of Genesis, where years go by and we don't know what God's interaction has been with any particular individual. Um but I think we can get a sense for The fact that God has this personal relationship with Abram in that God continually comes to him in dreams and visions and talks to him and tells him things and Um so it seems to be a uh pretty regular um that he has some sort of a close relationship with God. I I would characterize it that way from what we see in scripture But 13 years go by from one verse to another verse and we don't know what happened in those thirteen years. So yes, so there is some mystery there Uh well no good intentions are not necessarily sin, but good intentions don't uh uh don't cover over sin or don't uh don't make it so that it's not sin. J just the fact that you have good intentions doesn't make it okay. Right. So it's obedience is better than sacrifice. Obedience is better than sacrifice, that's uh correct. That's what the Bible tells us Um and so obedience was what God expected from Abraham and from Adam and he didn't get it. And in the case of Eve, of course, uh notice that Satan attacks Eve and not Adam. Um and you know, Satan has a strategy. He he he he perhaps he perceives that if he can get Eve on his side and then Eve goes to Adam Well then Adam will go for it. Whereas, well if I go straight to Adam maybe he won't go for it, so I'll I'll try to get I'll try to get Eve on my side. I'll try to get Eve to be my spokesman to Adam and that way I'll I'll I'll get him Um and so Satan's sneaky like that. Um sometimes it's not a direct assault, it's a flank assault, and in that case it was, and I think in this case it was as well. Um So the I mean the overall so back to the question. So what is the role? So when Eve was created, what did God say her role was? Helper. Uh a helper suitable to him. And so um it it seems to me that Eve was trying to take that role seriously. She was trying to take that role seriously. She was trying to be a helper. And Satan used that against her and against Adam. He came to her and said He came to her very slyly try to try to give her this notion of how she could help her husband. Hey, this is how you can help your husband. There's a tree over there that's it's good for food and it's good to make you wise and um Yeah, you'll you'll know good and evil, you'll be like God. That's a good way to help your husband. You know, I you can uh you know, just think about how that probably played out in Eve's mind Um that that so her role was to be a helper for Adam. And and there's no indication that that's changed anytime since. There's no no scripture that said that there's anything different There's some additional instruction about what uh what the marriage rules are in Ephesians chapter five. Um and about children as well. Um but in the end we have a There's still a hierarchy in the Bible. There's a husband, a wife, and children, and that hierarchy comes with some level of authority and some level of responsibility. Um and so and the the Bible is really consistent about that responsibility. Uh the the the Adam is held responsible Um e you know, Eve is deceived and but it's Adun who's held responsible for the whole thing. Um 'Cause he's the one that's given the authority, he's the one that's given the responsibility as well. And so that continues and so uh there's of course it's very controversial in this day and age the uh the biblical teaching about male headship and marriage as well in the as in the church. So um the Bible in the New Testament talks about um the office of elder pastor. Elder pastor uh the uh presbyteras, episcopas, uh the overseer of the church, and that very specifically says men who are called and qualified. Now, does that mean that women are less than? Only if you define value as the world defines value Only if somebody that's uh that's in uh a particular role of leadership, that's the only way that you gain value. But that's not how the scripture talks about value of of people. The scripture talks about value in obedience is righteousness. Faith is righteousness, not what particular role you have. Obedience, faith, that's what counts as righteousness, that's what God rewards, not a particular role. Um and so but but in the world um the the the pagan secular world values roles And so when the ideas from the pagan secular world invade the church, and we we buy into the secular world's notion that it's roles that give you uh value or worth, um then we w we start to get this idea, well then well if women can't be elders, well then they're not worth as much. But that's not what the scripture teaches. That's not where the scripture puts value in in people in their particular role. And so I think we have to be careful. We have to be careful about letting a secular mindset creep in that that defines a hierarchy of value based on what particular role they have. Um because that's not it. That's not how God assigns value to people by their role. So some are called and equipped to do one thing in the church, some are called and equipped to do another thing in the church And every single one of those things is of equal value to the Lord if you are obedient to his calling and equipping. Whatever it is he's called and equipped you to be, you do that thing. And that is what Christ values. Um and so we can see uh examples in scripture, examples in everyday life, that there are plenty of women who have greater faith and greater obedience to the Lord than some men that we know. We see that in Scripture, we see that in everyday life. So that's what's valuable, not what particular role you're given within a church or even in the marriage. God defines the roles for his own purposes and for his own glory, but our calling is to be obedient Obedient to his will, obedient to his calling. And he has called and equipped every single person in the body of Christ to do something. We all have a ministry. Every single person has a ministry. And so we need to be about figuring out what is what is it that God has called and equipped me to to do and then going about being obedient to the to the will of Christ. Good question. something that uh Christians are wrestling with right now and the the the biggest caution I would give is don't let don't let the world define what value is to God because their their idea of what what is valuable is twisted. It really is. What what does that tell you about how God assigns value? Um yeah. That's but that's not how the world assigns value The world sees whoever is the CEO of the corporation, you know, that's the guy. That's the guy that everybody wants to be, that CEO of the corporation. Nobody wants to be the janitor. Right? But that's not how God assigns value Okay. Um I gotta get off my soapbox. We got one more thing to cover. Um so uh God establishes a sign of the covenant So between the last verse of Genesis chapter 16 and the first verse of Genesis chapter 17, 13 years go by. He's 86. At the end of chapter 16, and now he's 99 at the first verse of chapter 17, thirteen years whoosh, gone. We have no idea what happened in those thirteen years. But what we do know is he still doesn't have a son. Still, isn't it? So there's ten years went by and and he was really getting anxious. And now another thirteen years have gone by, and he still doesn't have the son of the promise. So now when Abraham was ninety-nine years old, the Lord appeared to Abram and said to him, I am God Almighty Walk before me and be blameless. I will establish my covenant between me and you, and I will multiply you exceedingly. Abram fell on his face, and God talked with him, saying, As for me, behold, my covenant is with you And you will be the father of a multitude of nations. No longer shall your name be called Abram, but your name shall be called Abraham, for I have made you the father of a multitude of nations. And then a little bit later in the chapter, this is my covenant which you shall keep. Between me and you and your descendants after you, every male among you shall be circumcised. And you shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskin, and it shall be the sign of the covenant between me and you. So there's a sign of the covenant. So the covenant of circumcision between God Almighty, El Shaddai, and Abraham. So he identifies himself. As God Almighty. And he gives this covenant, this symbol of the covenant, an outward symbol of circumcision. So he's 99 years old. He affirms his covenant with Abram. So he's cut he's circled back around and he has reaffirmed. So chapter 12 gives the gives the promise. Chapter 13 reiterates the promise. Chapter 15 reiterates the promise again. Chapter 17 reiterates the promise again and gives the sign of circumcision. Circumcise the flesh of the foreskin every male when he is eight days old. Now Abraham of course doesn't get circumcised when he's eight. He gets circumcised when he's ninety-nine. And Ishmael doesn't get circumcised when he's eight days old. He gets circumcised when he's 13. And there are some Muslims that still circumcised at 13, because Ishmael was circumcised at 13. So God establishes a sign of the covenant. Previously the Lord had made a covenant with Abram concerning his descendants in the future of the land of Canaan. Now he comes to Abram some years later, 13 years after the birth of Ishmael, to reiterate this covenant. So he's he's circled back around to make the same promise to Abram again. He's pacing with Abram. He's making sure that Abram understands that God hasn't forgotten him, that he's still promising the same thing he's always promised. But this time he's, there's going to be a sign, circumcision. This rite of circumcision will eventually be something that sets Jewish people apart as those specially chosen by God. It separates them from the people around them. It's a physical sign of that they're different, that they're the people of God. It's something that God uses to keep them separate And so we'll see that God deliberately wants them to be separate until they produce the Messiah. And then in the New Testament we see that God makes great pains to tell them that they're no longer separate. Uh and it's very difficult for by this time, many centuries have gone by, it's very difficult for them to think of Gentiles as being included. We see that in the New Testament church. God is telling them you're separate, you're separate, you're separate, you're separate. But now in Christ, you're not separate. There are no Jews or Gentiles. There's no male. or female, there's no slave or free. You're all one in Christ Jesus. This is a mind-blowing thing to these Jews who have been told you're separate, you're separate, you're separate, you're separate. Uh yes. So so yeah, so there's two there's of course two ways it's fulfilled. One is literally there's more than one nation that comes from Abraham. There's lots of nations. Uh there's lots of nations that come from Israel. Um there's uh from Isaac, there is of course the the Jewish people will come and then at the very end of his life he has another wife and has a bunch more sons. And a bunch more nations come from those bunch more sons from Keturah. So he literally has many nations come from him physically. But The real promise, what is God really getting at? That there will be many saved from many nations, from every tribe and tongue and nation and language in Christ. That's the spiritual uh fulfillment of that promise. So there's a physical and a spiritual element to this promise here. So it's significant that God gave Abram a new name because it underscored the fact that God had a special purpose for Abraham. as the father of his chosen people. So he's he changes his name from Abram, which means high father, to Abraham, which means father of many nations. And we have come to the end. Let me close this in prayer.