Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your grace. Thank you for bringing us together this morning. Thank you for the great gift it is to gather as your people. Adopted into your family, washed clean of sin. And even as we look at this very messy family, that is our spiritual uh ancestors here, we we just marvel at every way that you've worked in our lives to bring us to this moment. And so we do ask even now for your grace. for your wisdom and ultimately for your glory in our midst this morning. So give me everything I need to help serve your people well. And help us all to receive from you what you have ordained for us in this time. And so we thank you for all this and commit these prayers to you in Jesus' name. Amen. Awesome. Thank you, Father. This is all right. Yes. Okay, sweet. All right. So disregard the the date there, this fly deck. uh is uh slide deck that I got that I made some adjustments to, uh but I'm not a PowerPoint master. So uh I'm thankful that the entire deck wasn't up to me because some of the graphics and stuff that are on here are just like next level. Very helpful uh resources. If you don't have a copy of uh some of these graphics in here I'd be happy to share those with you, or if you want to snap a pic with your camera, that would be uh great because it it it's solid stuff. Um but as uh those of you who have been with us for some time, which it seems like I think Anyone here? First time this morning? Oh, okay, sweet. Anyone else? Okay, so we're walking through um The book of Genesis, uh we're about midway through. So you came about midway through the story, but everything's slowing down. Right, we're slowing down here and we're we're looking at uh this family. So uh you're familiar with the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob We are now starting to focus our attention on Jacob and his descendants. And so this is part eight overall of this series, but specifically this is part three of four. This is part three of four as it pertains to Jacob. Jacob. And so what we are going to cover today is going to be Jacob's marriage to Laban's daughters. That's not a typo. That is plural. Daughters. The birth of Jacob's children. And then the prosperity of Jacob, how the Lord blesses him through that season. So we're going to be flying through Genesis 29 through 30. And we're going to see how Jacob the supplanter, remember that from a few weeks ago, how the supplanter receives blessing From God in really unexpected ways. We're going to see how he shows up in Haran with nothing but a sap and a clothes on his back. But then leaves, prosperous A huge family, a huge wealth amassed during that time. And though much of this time is going to be focused on the person of Jacob and his family, I want us to pay particular attention and really marvel at God's use of imperfect men to fulfill his purposes. God's use of imperfect men to fulfill his purposes. So don't lose sight of that as we go through these next Chapters as we go through these next sections in Genesis, early chapters 29 and 30. And so before we dive into where we're going today, I'll just do a brief review. So As was mentioned, I think, last week or the week before, uh, the book of Genesis really covers about 2,500 to 3,000 years of history, right? Uh and so we've been looking particularly at the last about 260 years of that history recorded in the Genesis account. And so we've been primarily focused on the descendants of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And so from the birth of Isaac to the death of Jacob, that's about a 260-year period. And so that's That's where we're going to be focusing a lot of this time, and that's where we have been focusing a lot of this time these last past weeks. And as you recall from last time, we saw Jacob finagel the birthright, right? He stole the blessing from his older brother Esau and now he he's gotta leave. He's headed from the southern part of Canaan. They're on that map right there down in Beersheba up to Haran, northeast there. And so this map or this map, this this sort of uh chronology is is is really helpful if you don't have this. You can snap a picture or try to get a copy of that. Email me or Pastor Rob, we'd be happy to get this to you. This is really helpful Genesis 28 verses 1-4, we see Isaac meeting with Jacob to give him instructions, right? And to also bless him. uh regarding his future and regarding um the blessing that would come through his progeny. And so Isaac and Rebecca, they've already discussed with him in passages past uh the issue of heathen wives, right? They want Jacob not to marry with the wives of this land, but from the wives of his mother's land. Sounds very familiar if you're if you're seeing the pattern here. And so uh Jacob's gonna go to his mother's family and find a wife just as Abraham sent was sent uh to Haran, or just as Abraham sent to Haran, uh Isaac, right? Uh Because this was Rebecca's family was in Haran. And so with the blessing that Isaac gives to Jacob now, here in Genesis chapter 28, We see him sent to Haran to get himself a wife. In Genesis 12 and 17, there's language used there whereby God is referred to as El Shaddai, God Almighty, thereby connecting that God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob as being the same God who is to bless. Jacob here. And so God reveals himself to Abraham proclaiming, I am El Shaddai. And it's this blessing that Isaac gives to Jacob that really centers on two ideas. Blessing in the form of many descendants, a nation, and blessing in the form of the land that would be the promised land to these descendants. So uh Rebecca's plan for Jacob was Basically, cross over from here where we're at to Huron, get yourself a godly wife, and uh fulfill or find fulfillment in the promises made to you. And so with Isaac's blessings, Jacob travels northwest. Right, he's he's essentially traveling uh the same path that uh Abraham had traveled when he came into the land of Canaan. And then the same path that Isaac traveled when he himself went to go get himself a wife. And so worth noting at the end of Genesis 28, so if you or not the end of Genesis 28, look at Genesis 28. Uh and look at verse five, Genesis twenty eight, five Actually Isaac did not do that travel. It was Eliezer with the servant who went to look for a wife. I'm sorry. Isaac via his servant Eliezer, correct? Yes. Yep. Yeah, that's right. And we're actually gonna compare that in just a second. That's right, yeah. Yep. That's actually gonna be part of the comparison we make. And um seeing Jacob compared to Isaac. Sorry, my computer has frozen There we go. Alright, Genesis chapter twenty-eight verse five. Thus Isaac sent Jacob away And he went to Patamoram to Laban, the son of Bethumel, uh Bethuel of the Aramean, the brother of Rebekah Jacob's and Esau's brother. So just a note there that Jacob is listed before Esau, even though he is the younger of the two. So by all accounts, um Jacob has the rights and privileges of the firstborn. He has, by all accounts, received the blessing. And so this is what God said it would be. If you recall what he said regarding the two, that the younger would be preeminent in that way. And so There's been some up to this point, just some interesting developments in the life of this family, but God's plans and purposes are going to prevail. And so on Jacob's way from Beersheba here in the south up to Huron, yeah you guys got the map right there. He stops and loves He stops and loves. And so it's during that rest. He has a dream. We see that in Genesis 28, verses 11 through 15. That's the place where he had this encounter with God. And it's after this encounter he names this place Bethel, right? House of House of God. And it's from Beersheba to Bethel That is historically that path there, if we go back to that map. There's a way by which, I think it was called the Way of the Patriarchs, if I'm correct. Yeah, Way of the Patriarchs or the Central Ridge route was historically the primary way that someone would travel uh from Mesopotamia down to that southern part there of um Beersheba. And so in any way, uh, what Jacob ends up seeing in this dream as he's heading up north, so he's heading up to uh Haran, is he sees a ladder. This is Jacob's ladder. You guys are probably familiar with that. Or a stairway going from Earth. Say again? I just said it saw a ziggurat. A what? Zigguroth. A ziggurath. I've heard that word before, but what is that? A ziggurat. It's the the way they built it our temple structures they would have steps on the outside they built steps on the outside of it. It's like when they built the towel bell then It took for build steps on this side. They still got a bunch of more seeds right there in the Middle East and steps on this side that you go off the each side and go up to go like a Is the ziggurat the temple a building itself or is it the stairs? It's called a ziggurat, but our English language uses the word staircase. The word that should have been in should have been a ziggurat. Because that's what they saw, that's what he saw in the dream of Zigarot leading up to God. Stewart stairways to God at the top they called it the gate of the gods. So that's not in this text though. Gotcha in this text. Okay. Well he said when I first read it, it said Jacob had a dream of a staircase, something a ladder thrown up to walk up the ladder, but as you get further into the Hebrew of the text is referring to a cigarot and and that was a main structure they used during that time, especially from yeah the tower bowel through and you go over the Middle East now they got 'em everywhere. They still got 'em there that's still pr uh around right now. I don't think it's in this point. But what I'm saying is What he sees here to see a sphere ladd that we normally think of when we said a sphere thing that we see. So that's a helpful uh way to picture uh what what is being described there. Um the way I ended up really being helped by uh this text here was uh the angels going up and down, right? Because this is a dream, right? And so the the idea is to what is this dream conveying to Jacob? And how are we to understand the dream We're not jumping into the details and we don't have an interpretation of the dream like we see in Daniel and in the case of Pharaoh, right? So the details of the dream aren't really the focus, but what's being conveyed by the dream And the idea that you have these angels going up and down, and that word there for angels is just messengers, right? These messengers, these servants of God going up and down is There's a connection between God here on earth, I'm sorry, uh God in heaven and his people here on earth, and these messengers are are are connecting um God to his people here on earth. And so for Jacob to see that there's a connection uh specifically to him and his descendants uh and the God of creation uh would have been something encouraging for him to to see and perceive to such an extent that after that he's like, wow, I have this amazing relationship with God. He puts a Um he he he uses that rock that he laid his head on as as a as a Ebenezer essentially um uh uh a place to remember and a place to worship God. Um it's like God revealing his place Right. And it how so how do we today connect with this and why are we spending so much time on this? Jump forward now to John chapter one. John chapter one. I I got the text right here too if you don't have it in your Bible John chapter 1, verses 47 through 51. Check this out. So Jesus saw Nathaniel coming to him and said to him, Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom there is no deceit. Nathaniel said to him, How do you know me? Jesus answered and said to him, Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree I saw you. And Nathanael answered him, Rabbi You are the Son of God. You are the King of Israel. And Jesus answered and said to him, Because I said to you that I saw you under the fig tree, do you believe? You will see greater things than these. And he said to him, Truly, truly I say to you, you will see the heavens open. And the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man. So no mention of a ziggurat there. But rather the Son of Man is the fulfillment of that ladder, that means of connecting heaven to earth, right? The bridge between heaven and earth, Jesus is saying, is the Son of Man And recall even further there in Hebrews that long ago the fat uh the father long ago God spoke to the fathers in the prophets in many ways and portions. This does include dreams. And so in these last days though, so this is for us now. So in these last days, he has spoken to us in his son. whom he appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the world. So for Jacob to receive this communication from the God of all creation That there will be messengers that I'm involved in what's happening in your life. You're going on this journey by yourself. You're not sending a messenger like you're going. And you're not going with an entourage of all these gifts. You're not going with a bunch of security. Like, you're just going with like nothing, right? But I'm with you in this way. And then to hear Jesus now make that connection that the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man Bridging again that gap between heaven and earth, that relationship between fallen man and holy God, is encouraging for us. And so just as much as it's encouraging for us to know that Christ is that for us here today, Jacob at that time had this direct revelation that God would be with him in serving him and his descendants in this very special way. But back to Genesis. So Jacob he sets up a pillar there at Bethel, right? We read that at the end of chapter 28 there, and he continues his journey. He's heading back north to his mother's land. Uh and so there's like we were referring to earlier Yeah, sir. Yeah. Uh it seems occurring to me was the fit, what's the green Was he rem was the dream a reminder of the covenant? Was that the question? Was that dream of the angels descending and ascending a reminder of the covenant? The Bible doesn't or I'm not aware of where the Bible makes that explicit connection. Again, interpreting the dream. I don't know that we get an interpretation of the dream, but Jesus provides an application of the dream. That that dream that you would be familiar with I am the fulfillment of that dream. So Jesus is using that dream as a way to point to himself. Paul would pick this up elsewhere, right, in uh 2 Timothy. There's one meet eater between man and God. uh the God man Christ Jesus, right? Um but I don't know that in this text in Genesis that there's a connection to this dream and the covenant Anyone else maybe aware? Yeah? Yeah. Usually when uh when he's talking about uh Samuel, usually uh when the Lord talks about the Son of Man, he's usually talking about his return in the uh during his time in judgment. And it's also that picture of, you know, his um his humanity, uh his fulfillment. Uh being the son of being f the fulfillment of everything the Old Testament was pointing to. Right? Yeah, yeah. And the biggest thing about that Genesis What we just talked about and uh seeing the ladder and everything. But you gotta remember in the mind of Jake, I'm going back into the culture now. in the mind of Jacob when it comes to the ziggrats and everything like that, he had a full understanding that that represented what Nimrod did. Yeah, I don't think it applies to Nar what he came out of that culture. In the culture, Nimrod rebelled against God and he set up Babylon, and then Nimrod built a Ziara that to reach the heavens and at the top of it they had a a a a a pillar in there a a section in there called the gate of God. Now anybody in that culture that's seen that and experienced that When they see the same thing happen, and instead of these beings that Nimrod was trying to reach up to, the real God came down to Jacob. So the dream doesn't doesn't uh give us a description of God coming down? I mean the angels came down to think they were looking for something. um d manifestation of something Nimrod I'm talking about. So I I think the focus here, because we're kinda getting in the weeds into like what the details of the dream could be. Um which is just kind of fun to do. But for purposes of connecting this to the bigger main point that we want to see, the main point that we want to see is this You have a very, we're going to see here, jacked-up family that attempts in so many ways to grasp and claim these blessings that have been made to this family. And God's grace outshines all of these fallen attempts to try to grasp the blessings. So I don't want us to lose the main point. Going into the details are great. and and fun, especially when we're keeping everything in context, but uh I want to get us back on track on right now we're looking at One, Jacob's journey from where he's come to where he's going. And then two, once he gets there, what that new life and that new destination consists of, right? And so looking at Uh yeah. Looking at verse uh 1 through 14, verses 1 through 14 of chapter 29, that's where we see his arrival. So Jacob arrives there in Haran Uh he he he saw uh a well, there's flocks of sheep there, uh there's a large stone over the opening of the well. He you know shows off his strength, like yeah, Rachel check this out, you know, he he strikes a conversation with the shepherds Um and everything seems to be good, right? He he finds out that the shepherds are from Haran uh and that they know his uncle Laban and so Uh the shepherds tell Jacob that his uncle uh is good and Laban's daughter Rachel's coming with Laban's sheep. And so, you know, he He strikes up a conversation with uh Rachel, he he kisses her, uh he's overjoyed that he has found his mother's family exactly as his mother and his father command and Right? And so he Jacob kisses Rachel, and he also has a kissing Laban too. So everything seems good. This is Genesis 29, 11 through 13. And so I want us to notice firstly that that initial everything seems to be going well, right Everything seems to be going well. He has an encounter with God. He's encouraged. He's like, oh man, God's going to take real good care of me. He gets to where he is aiming to be, and just in the Lord's providence, everything's going good. Don't miss this. Don't miss this as if this is just written abstractly just for fun facts in your mind. How many of you are there right now that you're in a season of like, everything's just going great Everything's going good. Everything's going great. Or maybe you were, and you're not now. Don't miss the main point here, that the same God who promised these blessings is going to be the same God. Who is ordaining, who is continuing to bless, who is caring very well for this jacked-up family in what we're about to see. Because things are sounding I think we're going off to a good start. And so Genesis 29, 14 Laban recognizes and accepts welcomes in his family, my bone and my flesh, right? And as a result of Laban's acceptance of his nephew, that's who the relationship is, is his nephew, Jacob stays there for a month. And so Jacob just happens to be at the right place, at the right time. That's not coincidence. That's God's providence, right? So that brings us now to where we're at today. So if you want to open up to Genesis 29, Genesis 29, and follow me beginning in verse 15. Then Laban said to Jacob, Because you are my relative, should you therefore serve me for nothing? Apparently he was working there for a month unpaid. Right? Tell me, what shall your wages be? Now Laban had two daughters. The name of the older was Leah, and the name of the younger was Rachel. And Leah's eyes were weak. What does that mean? Leah's eyes were weak, but Rachel was beautiful, a form and face Now Jacob loved Rachel, so he said, I will serve you seven years for your younger daughter Rachel. Laban said, It is better that I give her to you than to give her to another man. Stay with me. So he seems And this seems like a solid deal. Notice there isn't any negotiation there. It's like seven years. You got it. I'd rather her be with you, my family, than someone else. So it seems like a good deal So, verse 20, Jacob served seven years for Rachel, and they seemed to him but a few days because of his love for her. That phrase there, but a few days is referenced when Rebecca is communicating to Jacob regarding the travel. It'll take you but a few days to get to my family in Halan, which is just an interesting connection there. So uh then Jacob, verse 21, then Jacob said to Laban, give me my wife, for my time is completed, that I may go into her Laban gathered all the men of the place and made a feast. Fast forward to the So in the evening Laban took his daughter Leah and brought her to him And Jacob went in to her. Laban also gave his maid Zilpha to his daughter, Leah, as a maid. So it came about in the morning that behold, it was Leah. Here we go. It was Leah. And he said to Laban, what is this you have done to me? Was it not for Rachel that I served with you? Why then have you deceived me? But Laban said, It is not the practice in our place to marry off the younger before the firstborn Complete the week of this one. There's a the marriage practice at that time was like a week-long celebration. So complete the week of this one. So at the end of this marriage celebration week and we will give you the other and and we'll give you Rachel, right? We'll give you the other also for the service which you shall serve with me for another seven Years. Yeah. I thought it was that uh in scripture and uh King James is it that uh Leah had weak eyes, but Jacob was the one that couldn't see. Wow, that is great. Uh yeah so there's all sorts of debate on what that idiom is. Uh I read some really interesting interpretations of that. Yeah. But what's clear is that like Jacob was not a bad Like he was not into Leah, right? Um that's really well said, yeah. Leah's described as having weak eyes, but Jacob couldn't see. That's right. That's right. Right? So so Jacob did so and completed her week, and he gave his daughter Rachel as his wife. Verse 29, Laban also gave his maid Bilhah to to his daughter Rachel as her maid. So Jacob went into Rachel also, and indeed he loved Rachel more than Leah. And he served with Laban for another seven years. So Jacob married his first cousin, and herein begins the hot mess of this family, right? Yeah. So I'm not quite sure why, but I always understood it as after another seven years Jacob would Yeah. So the reason uh and let's let's look at that verse there. It's uh uh look at verse twenty-eight. Oh sorry. The question was um I had always understood that Rachel married Jacob, like became his wife after that additional seven-year period. Right. So if you look at uh verse twenty uh seven, sorry, twenty-seven, complete the week of this one, right Complete the week of this one, he's referring to his marriage with Leah there. So complete this marriage celebration with her Right? And we will give you the other also. In return for serving me another seven years. So I'll give you Rachel, but you need to serve me another seven years, right? Verse 28. So Jacob did so. He completed her week. That's the first piece. So he completed his week of marriage to Leah. Then Laban gave his daughter Rachel to be his wife. Then she was given as his wife. Uh and then verse 29 details about um Bilha being given to Rachel as a servant, which was a whole nother rabbit hole that I went down on this differentiating between the dowry and the now I'm forgetting the name. There's all these different uh so there's the Hebrew but then there's this other Anyway, so there's a father would give his daughter something. It could be, and in this case it was the bridesmaid. I'm sorry, it was the maidservant, it was the maid. But the historical practice during this time was the father would give his daughter that he's marrying something of value, either a person, a slave, possessions, and whatnot. Um think uh fast forward to uh judges, uh the daughter who wanted like a river or something like that. Give me more like this was a practice during this time. Um So you had that, but then you also had the price that a bridegroom would pay for the bride. Both of those things were happening. And they're distinct things. Um that was a rabbit hole. But anyway, so Laban gives the May as a gift to Rachel, right? As part of I'm giving my daughter to this bridegroom and this is what I'm giving to my daughter. This will come up in later, I think, chapter 35 When Laban takes this approach of like, you're taking my family. Because from Laban's perspective, all of this is mine Right, I I've given my wife stuff and then you, um Jacob, you belong to me. You're my servant, and so he got weird with it. But anyway, um verse 30, so Jacob went into Rachel also And he loved Rachel more than Leah. So that was the consummation of the marriage right there. And that wasn't. And then the end of that verse 30 says, and served Laban for another seven years. So that's how we uh fit that together. I had to do the same thing because in my mind I was like it was after the I was like oh wait, hold on. Okay, yeah, so I we're not alone I'm sure in in thinking that was the order of that Yeah, yeah. Um where we at? Okay, so uh Leah, that's Laban's oldest daughter. She's got we guys, right? Lots of discussion there on what that could mean, but what is crystal clear is Jacob had eyes for Rachel. Uh and Jacob loves Rachel, and so he ends up agreeing to serving an additional seven years uh there for Rachel's hand in marriage. And so after uh the wedding feast, like we just mentioned, right, Laban brought Leah, that is not Rachel, to Jacob Jacob slept with her, not realizing he was deceived until the morning, which is just wild if you think about that, right? Because we sometimes think, oh, the deceiver got deceived, and we often put that on Laban. But like Leah wasn't a slave. Like Leah all the way like you had to participate in that. And then where was Rachel? Right? Like the agreement was for Rachel. Where is Rachel? Now this is this is all the scripture doesn't tell us the heart or motive or anything like that. But again, the observations, this is jacked up. We come I'm I'm looking around here and I know I'm not the only one. We come from jacked up families and this is jacked up. Laban explains that in this country the older daughter always marries before the younger. Why didn't he mention that up front? Right? That's a tradition in most of them squared away right up front. Like I understand what you want to do, but we can't do that here. No, what does he do Deceives, right? Trick's yeah. So we see that play being deceived of Jacob. But was that really ham deceiving or is it was the Dodge all the time because there's like to be twelve kids out of this marriage. Could break your head twelve kids or so this uh so the question here is We're s we are seeing deception. Um But uh how did you phrase it? But knowing what we know about Rachel, that she was barren. You know, how is God going to otherwise fulfill uh the this nation that he was going to make of the descendants of Abraham with these twelve children that would eventually become the twelve tribes of Israel How could he fulfill that with Rachel? If not for right, and what we what we need to understand and why this stuff is really helpful for us is God's providence. And actually we talked about this yesterday in the Foundations class. Understanding the three different aspects of the will of God. God's decretive will or His sovereign will. He's sovereign over everything. Right? But then there's his revealed will, which is his word. Which is his word, which is explicitly what he has to say. This is explicitly my will. This is explicitly what you should do and not do. This is explicitly what I think about these things. God's sovereign will is a mystery to us, Deuteronomy 29-29. The secret things are for God. They're not for us, but the real things are for us. The idea there, right? And so God's decretive will, that which He has decreed, God's sovereign will, we only come to see and kind of understand after the fact. That's God's providence. Right? So we can look back at this hot mess of a family and be like, wow, look how God redeemed that I mean we're just getting started, right? It gets way we have not even gotten to Joseph, right? But it's like it's this hot mess of sin and fallenness, but God redeems it And so we look back and we don't call what is evil good, right? We don't we don't we don't bless that which God clearly um forsakes, but we do recognize that despite the sin, God still makes good from it. Even I'm taking Pastor Obb's future uh glory here and uh you know what you meant for evil God meant for good, right? Yeah. I was supposed to mention that same thing, but I think sometimes we There's a choice of saying in the midst of the hot mess, God still saves. But it doesn't mean it's still not obvious. Yes. Uh and in that context, I think we have to work on making sure we can continue to separate those two things. That's desire and choice to do what you intended to do. But still the requirement for us is equally so to not just be fatalistic and say hot mess is just hoped. Yes. But to strive to not be an open Uh and believe that concept. So it's but it's it's it's also that comfort in knowing even if I get it wrong God is still in control of us. So there is hope involved, but I'm still working and striving at seeking and pursuing what His will. Amen. You hit on the last aspect of God's will, his desirous will. So God desires that none should perish but come to repentance. But we know that all won't, right? But his heart is that they would. Because God's not going to force anyone to love them. And so in the relationship that we have with the living God as finite creatures as best we're able to and try to walk in light of who he is in those three aspects. are put on display here in as we look back in the messiness of of the people that God ultimately used to bring the Messiah, right? Yeah. Through all uh through all deceptions within this whole family, Bayman and his sister and all of them. God's probably the still rain. That's right. Yeah. Because his covenant wasn't going to fail. Right? And that should give us hope. That even in the messiest mess up of circumstances, God's promise, and this is why we have to stand on his word. This is why doing stuff like this, like looking at all of these reminders Of God's fulfillment of his word. What did God say he was going to do? He said he was going to bring about many descendants. And everyone that's in Christ is a spiritual descendant of Abraham, right? It's Romans 4. And so you have the picture here of God saying what he's going to do, God doing what he said he was going to do, and that goes all the way back to the beginning, even the original promise in Genesis 3, right? The proto-Uegeleon. That seed of the woman. And so the picture we have of God's faithfulness over time, it builds up our faith. So that when we here and now, this side of history are needing to walk out our faith. We're able to walk out that faith on the shoulders of all of those who've preceded us. Well I was just gonna say the see the deceiver has been deceived. Yeah. Like Jacob like uh Jacob deceived his father. Now he's been he's been deceived by his uncle. Uh this for you those of you that are into art, I'm not. So if you appreciate this, be blessed. Okay. Yeah, that that's that's Laban sitting down, that's uh Jacob pointing at him, that's Rachel, who I guess is the pretty one in that picture, and then in the back is Leah, right? That's Leah right there in the back. Yeah, in the back Can't see your weak eyes, yeah. So we normally lower breakup. Um I can I'll put little that from the beginning after the same, God wanted to readin' kind of and of course Jesus indicates from the tribal to death and left from there. That's right. Could you say Can I think this way that it was God's forbidden and plan for Laden to have received I'm not saying to settle this right? I'm not saying it's right, but could I think that way is that in God's progress plans for Jesus to come from Judah and Leath that God thought allowed that to happen. Could I have that talk at all? Could you have that talk? Um God's plan for Jesus for the time we will before we use, but it's also reviewed. The question there is how do we understand, how do we interpret uh God bringing about the Messiah through Judah, through Leah? I there's a whole Rabbit hole. I would love to go down just on Leah, because I think it's one of the most beautiful pictures of God's faithfulness during this time. But the short long of it is we really don't want to mix up those three aspects of God's will. And so we need to remember that God is sovereign over all, and we don't know God's sovereign will until after the fact We don't know God's sovereign will until after the fact. We do know his um his uh that's his secretive will. We do know his oh my goodness, what just happened? His revealed will. We do know his revealed will. And God's revealed will at that time was not Jacob. Go get deceived by Laban. That wasn't his revealed will. Right? And right now, that's not his revealed will that people deceive and lie to each other, right? So it wasn't so so so when we look back at it, we have to look back at it with an understanding that everything that happened falls into this category of God's sovereign will. So he sovereignly ordained it to happen, right? But he's also made his desirous will clear. Which is everything the rest of the scripture that we have that make clear from the beginning he created them Adam and Eve, man and woman, one man, one woman for life. Right? That was that was the desirous will, marriage. So what we see here happening, that clearly is not in line with his desirous will, but the fact that it happened is indicative that it was clearly part of his sovereign will, or else it would not have happened. Right? Yeah. We always remember that Judah came from Leah, but we tend to forget that Levi also came from her and that was just the priesthood. That's right. Yeah. That's what I'm saying. Both came from we have Don't threat me as a good time. We can go down the hole, just take this all down because I think it's so beautiful for that. Like there's there's so much richness there in how God Okay, I'm gonna do it How God honored He honored the good thing, right? He honored the desirous things One man, one woman for marriage. Who did Jacob marry first? Whether it was deception or not, it was Leah. And how much of a message is that for us here today? That you might find yourself in a circumstance where like this is the result of something terrible How many of y'all know young women who have a baby? And this is like the circumstances that resulted in me having this child right now are terrible That was Leah. And God blessed that. God said, I'm going to honor the thing that is desirous here. You see just in the naming of the kids, where up to that point she's just desiring a godly good relationship with her husband. Like she's trying to be faithful, caught up in this hot mess of the family And it's with Judah that she's like, I I I'm just praising God. Like I I just want God to be honored in this now. And then not even going further down into that line of Judah where the Messiah would come, again, God blessing. The things that accord with his desirous will, but also Levi. Through Levi, you have the priesthood. So in this one marriage where this woman is just All she's trying to do is be faithful. She's got weak eyes. We all know what that means, right? She's not loved, but God loves her, and God honors her. But then he also does this really cool thing with Rachel and Joseph. Right? And it's not through Judah. Judah doesn't stand up to his man, I'm taking all the Excitement out of okay. Right? Judah doesn't stand up and say, let's not do this to Joseph. And then it's not Judah who we see this beautiful picture of God's grace and forgiveness. No, it's Joseph. Right? And so in this hot mess of this family, in all of the just wildness that's gonna come God's grace is going to just be put on display. But you cannot attribute anything good that has come from this family to this family. You can't attribute it to them. It's all God. He gets all the praise, he gets all the glory for what He has done Um, you guys took me off on a tangent. Okay. We're gonna try to push through. So Laban promises Rachel in exchange for another seven years. We talked about that. Uh Jacob loves Rachel more than Leah He notices, or no, we we want to call our attention to the deceiver being deceived. This is the first recorded time that we see that Jacob doesn't immediately get what he wants Right, notice that. Think of, you know, I'm gonna be out first of the womb. No, okay, that's okay. Well, here on out I'm gonna make sure I'm getting mine. And this is the first thing that we see here that's like, hold on No, the tables have turned. I I I thought I would get what I wanted. Um and so Uh we gotta move Jacob's uh Yeah. Uh there's a brief description of the girls there. Uh we talked about how that description is just really just trying to convey to us that um Jacob really preferred Rachel. We talked about that. Okay. Worth noting here For the free guns. Rachel there, or uh Jacob with respect to Rachel, you know, is is wanting his wife. And the the picture there that we see of uh Jacob wanting what he had worked for. Uh there was a custom where you would basically have almost like a contract written up of what the marriage between the two would consist of. And Rachel was legally betrothed. And so how this in that context of the scripture doesn't describe any of this, of how this shaped itself out. Um but basically you had uh Laban pull a pretty dirt baggish move on Jacob here, right? We mentioned there the code of Hammurabi. Interesting additional pieces that will come up later. So that code also provides it if a wife uh provides a maid to her husband for the purpose of bearing children, the husband is forbidden from taking that then maid, that servant, as a primary wife. So there were like degrees of wife. So you would have like your primary wife, um, and then you would have um second primary wives, but then you could also have these things that could That would be basically surrogates. Rachel Mason. So this is that this is where going down a rabbit hole gets kind of it's different than a concubine because the concubine was to the husband So the concubine belongs to the husband, whereas the maids belong to the wives. And the wives served as, or the maids served as surrogates to the wives. The language that Rachel uses about her maid and something about like the thighs, I forget how it's worded, but the idea is Actually we see the same thing uh with the uh family redeemer. You guys remember the kinsman redeemer? Right? So that same idea, this is the female version of it This is the female version of the Kinsman Redeemer, where the female would take her maid, because that maid was my property, and through this maid, I'm going to use her as a surrogate to carry my child, right? Because this is my husband, so my child My husband, my maid, the child now belongs to me. And there was something about during the birthgiving process that the baby would come out, be put on the barren wife's thigh, and this is now my child Right? Like Sarah and Haglar. Yes. Yeah, same thing. S same dynamic. Uh she wouldn't be a concubine because that woman, the the maid, did not belong to the husband. In this particular text with Jacob and his wives, the language there in those first few chapters here in Genesis from 30 I think 31. It uses the word that is commonly understood as wife with reference to the maids. But in Chronicles, and then there's another text later on, either in Deuteronomy or later in Genesis, I'm forgetting off the top of my head. But uh it basically conveys the idea of something less than a wife. So there were like uh there was my wife, uh, my uh there's a there's a word for it, but I'm I'm forgetting what the word is. uh my surrogate for my wife and then concubine these were three different distinctions um and those three distinctions had different legal um obligations There was a whole thing of like what you were entitled to. And also the children too. So the the child was legally Jacob's, right? And so that's why you see those children, all twelve of those children, are given land. because they legally are of Jacob. So and then this last thing here, which was also part of the code, if the maid, after bearing children, tries to rank herself up Um the mistress, the wife, uh, could actually reduce her to less than a maid. Like she'd go back to being a slave. That was often the state of these maids as they were given They were owned by the father, and as the father would marry off his daughters, he would, here's a gift for you, one of my slaves who's now your maid. And so that wife who now has a maid could actually decrease you now back to a slave. Abraham was a servant So Sarah talked about Abraham getting it's a a a Hamari code that backs what she did. She said get that Yeah, keep it. Yeah, that was that was their and that was that was normal practice actually Right. And so that's why Abraham, that's why when she goes to Abraham and has this complaint, he's like, She's yours. This she's your property. She's not my concubine. She's your maid. So like do what you get out of here. Okay, so Laban brings up. Yeah, we talked through this. Okay. Uh oh my goodness, ten twenty eight, come on, no. And Oh my goodness. Uh okay, Pastor Rob, he'll he'll he'll bring you all to speed. Um here here would be an application question we guys consider. Are sins have a way of finding us out? Right? The Lord discipline disciplines those he loves. How does seeing Jacob's tactics used against him here How does that help us understand God's sanctifying work in the life of a believer? That this man Jacob was clearly loved, clearly blessed, clearly all in so God's sovereign Covered by God's grace and his sovereignty. And we see all of this wickedness happening. How does seeing Jacob's own tactics now being used against him help us understand God's sanctifying work in the life of the believer? There's so much more. We've got the birth of the children here. Um what would be worth imparting to you before we leave. This is a really helpful chart. If you don't have a picture of that You're missing out. Take a picture or or get it electronically, but that's good. Those twelve sons, right, are eventually gonna become the twelve tribes of Israel. Um Man. Yeah. The naming of the kids, I guess all good. Um We're gonna have to read the book. You're gonna have to read the book. So after 14 years of working Jacob's ready to go home. Right? So he has his wives, he's got these kids. Um he's got this blessing. We didn't even talk about the prosperity. The short thing to know about the the short long of it is this. There's some interesting stuff he's doing with the branches and the sheep and all this stuff. The big point is this. His tactics isn't what resulted in him being blessed. It was God. Right? Some water, some plant, but who causes the growth? Nothing's attributable here to Jacob, nothing's attributable here to these people. It's God at work in their life. And so what we really want to take away here is God's intervention, God's working in and through, even physical methods. Uh thing uh the the the what we read about there in Jacob with the sheep and whatnot. uh the livestock. Uh even think of Moses and the rock, right? It wasn't something in Moses that caused the water to come out of the rock. It's God that caused the water to come out of the rock He just used his instrument, Moses, to accomplish that for his purposes. And so Jacob often through this portion of his life uh tried to in a sense help God through his scheming uh to get that blessing to get something that he desired and so how does this text remind us that God's blessing is ultimately a matter of grace God's blessings ultimately a matter of his grace in our lives, not our ingenuity. God remains faithful to his covenant despite the failures and sins of his people. I wish there was time to do more, but I'm over a minute. So let's pray. Lord, we do thank you for even this time that you've ordained. And how you've used this imperfect vessel here to just remind and encourage your people that you are faithful. That you could ultimately cause the very stones of this building to cry out and worship to your son. But that you would have anything to do with any of us is nothing short of a miracle. So we thank and praise you for who you are. We thank and praise you for what you've done and what you are doing. So would you glorify yourself through us today, we pray. And help us to be doers of your word and not hearers only. Thank you for this time. Bless the rest of our worship, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen.