Let me uh let me start us with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day that you have made. We thank you for the opportunity that we have to rejoice and to glorify you and worship you on this Lord's day. We thank you for your word. We thank you for how you've revealed yourself and your plan of redemption in the pages of Scripture from Genesis to Revelation, and we thank you for this wonderful opportunity to study it together. We pray, Lord, that through your Holy Spirit you would open our hearts and minds. uh that we would be able to truly understand what you want to teach us from your word today. We thank you for your magnificent sovereignty over all of your creation and over all of history. We thank you for all of your promises, Lord, and how faithful you are. to your promises. We thank you for your loving kindness. We thank you for uh the the gift of Christ Jesus in his life and death and resurrection. And we thank you that we have such a great high priest in heaven sitting at your right hand to intervene on our behalf. We thank you for all this these wonderful things, Lord, and we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, we're on part two. So we're going through the life of Abraham. So uh this uh thirteen parts of uh Genesis from uh Genesis twelve to fifty we're gonna we're gonna look at how God works in the life of Abraham and then how he works in the life of Isaac and how he works in the life of life of Jacob and then how he works in the life of J shift and so today Just like last week, we're going to be looking at how God works in the life of Abraham. And today we're going to learn about uh Abram as he was known before his name was changed to Abraham, and Sarai, as she was known before her name was changed to Sarah. They go to Egypt and we're going to find out what happens there. We're going to find out about this separation between Abraham and Lot. That they uh at one point uh they have they've been traveling together and they have to separate. And uh Abraham ends up having to s rescue Lot after he's captured. And then at the end of that incident, there's this mysterious character of Melchizedek. And he blesses Abram, and we're going to talk about that too. So first we'll take a review of what we talked about last week So last week we started to talk about this man Abraham. We uh we we started actually at the end of chapter eleven with the genealogy that goes from Noah. connects the events that we had at the end of Genesis chapters 10 and 11 uh with Noah coming off the ark with his sons and then the Tower of Babel and we follow the genealogy down to this man Abraham Abram whose name becomes Abraham. We took a little bit of a look Excuse me. At the family of this man Tirah, who was Abraham's father. And so there's a family tree of Tirah and his descendants. including Abraham, uh his half-sister Sarah, who he marries, his brothers Nahor and Haran. And there's some intermingling of this this family And there will continue to be intermingling with family throughout the pages of Genesis. For example, Nahor marries his niece Milka And their son Bethuel then is Isaac's first cousin. And then Bethuel has uh two children, Rebecca and Laban. And so uh Isaac marries Rebecca, that's the daughter of his first cousin, Bethuel. And then Uh Rebekah and Isaac have uh Jacob, he's their son, and Laban, uh, who is Jacob's uncle has two girls, Leah and Rachel, and though of course those are Jacob's first cousins. And so he marries two of his first cousins. So these families come back together again. Sequence of events. Abraham is called from where he has been living, or the Chaldees, to go to the land that God will show him. And not just Abraham goes, but Tirah goes and also uh Sarah and Lot. And they go to uh a city called Haran, which is in the northern part of Syria Antira dies there. We looked at the overview of Abraham's life, how basically The book of Genesis details about a hundred years of Abraham's life. He's 70 when he's called Um and he he goes through um this calling and then he goes to the land of Canaan um and then he eventually has the promised uh child Isaac when he's about a hundred, but he lives to be a hundred and seventy-five years old. We saw on the map the the Chur the journey that he made from Ur of the Chaldees up to Haran and then down into Canaan and eventually as we see today he makes it into Egypt. Um and here's a map with the modern countries on there. So Ur is in the southern part of what is today Iraq. Haran is in what is the northern part of what is today Syria, and then they go down into Canaan and eventually into Egypt. We saw in chapter twelve that God makes promises to Abraham. He promises land, he promises descendants, and he promises blessing. And we'll see as we go along that those Uh those promises are repeated to Abraham and then also repeated to Isaac. We'll see that too We also took a little journey into some of the things that the New Testament says about Abraham. And we looked at this curious example of different places in the New Testament that talk about the same event in Abraham's life, the offering of Isaac. In Hebrews chapter 11, it says it's by faith It's also uh the other places in the New Testament talk about uh Abraham's faith and also in conjunction with this event. But then in James chapter 2, James uses the exact same event that Abraham offered Isaac and says that it was works. Um and so we talked about what um what this means and what the scripture is telling us from these two different ways of of thinking about this this event. And the conclusion is that justification is by faith And we see that consistently throughout the scriptures, but that faith um leads to work That the true saving faith always, without exception, results in works. And in fact, in Ephesians 2 It tells us that's the purpose of salvation. For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works. That's the purpose. for which we were saved. And that purpose is never thwarted. And so if God purposes to save somebody for good works, that means if somebody is in fact saved That there will be good works, not just there might be, but there will be, and that's what James is saying. He's coming at it from the opposite direction And saying that, well, if you were saved, if you had faith, then you would have works. And so show me your, uh show me your faith, and I'll show you my faith by my work. is what James says. And he uses this same example. Excuse me. So uh so what's the the conclusion? The conclusion is that uh we're saved by faith, but faith always is worked out in works. It shows itself in works We also talked about the fact that in the Bible, uh spiritual transactions, big spiritual transactions, are uh most often marked by some physical event, something a spiritual transaction that people can't see, marked by a physical event that people can see. And we did we went through two examples Uh one was uh the paralytic that was let down on the mat. Jesus forgave the sins first, but nobody could see the fact that the sins were forgiven, and so he said, so that you may know that the Son of Man has authority to forgive sins on earth, I say to you, take up your mat and walk. And so he did a miracle that they could see to show a trans spirit spiritual transaction they couldn't see. And of course the the biggest Example of that is the cross and the resurrection. On the cross, Jesus says to Telestai, it is finished, paid in full. That's a spiritual transaction. It's an absolute reality But it's something that we can't see. Human beings cannot see that spiritual transaction. But what could human beings see? They could see a dead man coming out of a tomb and coming back to life again And so that was the physical um uh physical mark, the physical stamp of approval of the father of the spiritual transaction that happened on the cross, the resurrection. So that's works in conjunction with faith. Okay. Any questions about any of that before we go on to something else in the life of Abraham? All right. Let's move along then. So here's a map of uh the land of Canaan and the environs around there at during the time of Abraham. He he comes down to Hebron and then as we'll see today he goes into Egypt and then he comes back. And later on we'll see him in Gerar. uh as well. So if you'll open your Bible um to Genesis chapter twelve, we're going to take a look at some of the uh this one particular event in Abraham's life. So uh Genesis chapter 12, open your Bibles or tune your devices, uh starting in verse 10. Abraham uh God orchestrates this uh a test in Abraham's life. And as we'll see, Abraham is a huge embarrassing failure. in this test. He's a huge embarrassing failure. And so what do we learn from the fact that this hero of the faith has a spiritual test and he's a huge embarrassing failure? There's hope for me. Right? Because in spite of the fact that that Abraham, this huge um hero of the faith as this failure, God uses him powerfully anyway. And so uh just as a big picture Step back before we get into the details of this. What we should learn from this is God can use even me. He can use even me in spite of my failures, in spite of having a spiritual test that comes up, and I'm a huge embarrassing failure Because whose power is it that's accomplishing mighty things? It's God's power that's accomplishing mighty things, not my power to begin with. And so um this is the the lesson uh from these this event in Abraham's less uh life. Okay. Uh starting in verse 10, now there was a f Famine in the land. So Abram went down to Egypt to sojourn there, for the famine was severe in the land. It came about when he came near to Egypt that he said to Sarai his wife, See now I know that you are a beautiful woman. She's sixty-five at this point. He he's seventy-five, she's sixty-five. See now, I know that you are a beautiful woman, and when the Egyptians see you, they will say, This is his wife, and they will kill me. But they will let you live. Please say that you are my sister, so that it may go well with me because of you, and that I may live on account of you It came about when Abram came into Egypt, the Egyptians saw that the woman was very beautiful. Pharaoh's officials saw her and praised her to find her. Pharaoh, and the woman was taken into Pharaoh's house. Therefore he treated Abram well for her sake, and gave him sheep and oxen and donkeys and male and female servants and female donkeys and camels. But the Lord struck Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai, Abram's wife Then Pharaoh called Abram and said, What is this you have done to me? Why did you not tell me that she was your wife? Why did you say she is my sister, so that I took her for my wife? Now then, here is your wife. Take her and go. Pharaoh commanded his men concerning him, and they escorted him away with his wife and all that belonged to him. So, um there's a famine, and so uh all God is sovereign over all events. So these are events in God's control that drive uh Abram to Egypt. Abram begins to fear what will happen to him in Egypt, and he talks himself into fearing the worst. So what what's the what's the foundation of Abraham's sin here? It's fear. Uh this kind of lack of trust in God will end up having long-term consequences for him, his family, and the world, as we will see next time in the Hagar-Ishmael incident. It comes up Several times in Abraham's life that fear leads him to doubt God's faithfulness God has made all these promises to him. Uh God has just made all these promises to him, and he could have trusted that God would fulfill his promises. Um, but he fears, and the fear leads him to take matters into his own hands, and we'll see that happen uh a number of times. Um there's these there's really three huge embarrassing failures in Abraham's life. We're going to look at one today, one next week, and one the week after So we see Abram struggle with a lack of faith in God's promises. God has said that I will make you um that that He's going to make them a great nation, that He's going to Uh he's promised him the land, he's promised him descendants, he's promised him blessings. If he dies in Egypt now, none of those things will come true, right? And so if God has promised it, and Abraham has faith in his promises, then what does he have to fear? He doesn't have anything to fear, and yet we fear It's not just Abraham. We fear. God has promised us things, and we, out of lack of faith in God's promises, we Fall into fear. Yes. I don't think the end of the story is right here at the bottom of the way. And um and so there are a lot of e examples in scripture for us. And why are there examples in scripture for us? Because these are things that are common to human beings, common to mankind, common to men and women, that we f have these situations that come up and out of lack of trust in the Lord we fear. And we see that happening here with Aram. He had convinced himself in fear that bad things were going to happen, though they never did in this situation, and if he had believed the promises, they never could Fear leads God's people towards doubt and away from faith, which is why the Lord so often commands us in Scripture not to fear. Fear not, do not fear, do not be afraid. One of the most common commands in Scripture. There's over 150 instances in Scripture where we're told not to fear. So over and over and over again. And so when we see something like that in Scripture, what does that tell us? It tells us that that's something that that we need to hear over and over again because we're so prone to falling into fear and Satan using fear um to m move us towards doubt and away from faith. So Abraham in this case, the scripture says he was afraid. He was afraid of what the Egyptians would do to him because of his wife Sarah. Okay. Notice that Abraham is given male and female servants by Pharaoh, one of whom may very well have been Hagar. So Hagar is an Egyptian servant that's be that's uh becomes Sarah's maid and who eventually um they Sarah and and Abraham hatch this plot to help God's plan along because God's not doing it right or in the right timing And it ends up in a huge uh another huge embarrassing failure for Abraham and one that still has consequences today. Who who are the descendants of Ishmael? I mean all the Arabs that are on the planet today are descendants of Ishmael Um and so that issue is still with us. The the the the mistake that Abram made um all those years ago, four thousand years ago um is still there are still consequences uh to that mistake today. Uh the significance of Abraham's action is much deeper than lying about his wife. Uh that's bad. Lying uh is bad Uh God intended to bring his Redeemer through Abram's seed, and he would later make clear that he meant to bring both his chosen people and his chosen one through the offspring of Sarai. So God's plan was Abraham and Sarai. Abraham's lack of faith actually endangers God's plan for the coming Messiah. But of course, God will not permit man's actions to interfere with his purposes. And so he intervenes. He makes sure that Sarai is safe. For this reason, and because Sarah was the one in real peril from a human perspective, God protects her from becoming uh Pharaoh's wife. Abram's lack of faith also placed Pharaoh and his household in jeopardy, even though Pharaoh had not done anything to threaten Abram. Uh so think about what a A Abram did. I mean he puts his wife in real jeopardy. Uh I mean he he he thro he he He he's supposed to be protecting her a and he l lets her uh all go off into Pharaoh's house and it has consequences uh unless God intervened it was going to be really bad consequences. And it of course it also has bad consequences for Pharaoh. God brings plagues on Pharaoh Pharaoh doesn't even know what he did. Um so it it's a principle of sin that one man's sin will often endanger others. So sin always has consequences, has consequences for the the sinner But it also often uh is like a hand grenade and it and it and it damages others too. Um you know the the husband that gambles away the rent money that affects the kids too Right? Not just him, but others too. So sin has consequences, and it has consequences for the sinner, and often consequences for others around him as well. Um unfortunately Abram does not learn his lesson well enough and his entire sad episode will be repeated with Abimelech, another king, later. So he'll go to Gerar and there's a king there, we'll see uh in a in a subsequent lesson that he that he gets this exact same test again and he fails it again in the same way. And oh by the way, his son Isaac does the exact same thing, fails the test in exactly the same way as well. And so uh this is like if you uh if you're taking a class and you're given a practice test and you fail the practice test, and then you walk into the real test and the then the pr the teacher gives you the exact same test with the exact same questions and you fail it again. Uh that's what this is like for Abraham. He does it again. So uh but eventually what happens at the very end w when he when he has uh the final major uh test of his faith that recorded in scripture with Isaac So chapter 22, he passes that one. Right? He's fail, fail, fail, pass. Right? He finally learned the lesson. with with Isaac. And the New Testament fills in some information about that test that eventually comes with Isaac. And um it says that that knowing that God could even raise the dead He went up and was going to slay Isaac. Because what? What had God promised? He promised that your descendants would be numbered through Isaac. And so he was going to go up there and kill Isaac And the New Testament says that Abraham figured that God would raise him from the dead because now he knew. Now he really uh was able to pass the test of faith in that God had promised something. God had promised that he was gonna have these descendants through Isaac. And so he knew Even if he went up and slayed Isaac, God had told him to slay Isaac, okay, I'm going to slay Isaac, God can raise him from the dead. That's how strong his faith was by the time he got to that final test After the huge embarrassing failures earlier. Okay. So he learned. Yeah. Question. Yes. But all his failures were with his wife, but his one passing was with his son. Correct. Yeah. Yeah, so I don't know uh I'm not gonna I'm not gonna say anything more about that. Yeah. Yeah. Won't say anything more about that. Yeah. I'm just gonna say in the previous cases he didn't trust in God's promises. In the final case he trusted in God's promises. I won't say anything about Sarah. Uh yeah. I won't touch that third rail. So uh he doesn't learn the lesson this time, but eventually he does. Uh so The bottom line, fear is the enemy of God's people, and Satan loves to use fear to draw God's people into disobedience. Now, in spite of this fact God still accomplishes his purposes in and through Abraham. Um even though Satan um And fear, um fear leads to disobedience. Uh God's purposes are not thwarted in spite of disobedience in spite of the actions of Satan. Um God is sovereign. Uh so when anxiety creeps in, what are we to learn? We are wise to remind ourselves of all that God has done for us already and to focus on his promises. So when anxiety or fear creeps into your life, what do you do? What's the lesson that we learn that we should take from this scripture? When anxiety or fear creeps in, turn to the Lord and remember what He has done. And we have such uh a rich variety of lessons to pull from Uh not only from our own lives, what God has done for me, what he has saved me from already, what he has brought me through already, but we have all these examples in Scripture as well including this example of Abraham, that God, we can see the whole story all the way through and see how faithful God was to his promises. And if that's the case, then what do I have to fear? So God's word drives out the fear introduced by the devil. If we'll just read his word and and believe it, yes. I looked up just evenly. This study wasn't necessarily a concrete outlet. I wanted to say an eye God will provide. That's a great place to be th I don't know how God would work out, but God will sit down. Yes, yeah. It's it's really clear when we get to uh Genesis twenty-two we'll s we'll s we'll go through that in detail, but yeah, he he trusted that God would work it out Yep. He he didn't know how, but he knew God would work it out. And that's what we need that's the place where we need to get to in our lives as well that God will work it out. In spite of whatever the circumstances have that have come into my life, that God will work it out for his glory. And that's what I want as a follower of Christ, is is God to be glorified. And so we should be joyful about that. And so that's why the scripture says, consider it all joy when you encounter various trials. Okay. Next uh any questions about that one, we're going to go on to another incident in Abraham's life Okay. Genesis chapter 13, we have an incident with Lot. So if you open your Bible to Genesis chapter 13, we're going to start in verse 2. Now Abram was very rich in livestock and silver and in gold. So there's no doubt Abraham was a rich, rich man. as a rich man. Livestock, silver, and gold. Uh he went on his journey from the Negev as far as Bethel. Negev as the southern part of the land of Canaan, really between the land of Canaan and uh and Egypt uh as far as Bethel, which is back up where he started, to the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel and I, to the place of the altar which he had made there formerly. And there Abraham called on the name of the Lord Now Lot, who went with Abram, also had flocks and herds and tents, and the land could not sustain them while dwelling together, for their possessions were so great that they were not able to remain together. So Lot's really rich too. And there was strife between the herdsmen of Abram's livestock and the herdsmen of Lot's livestock. Now the Canaanite and the Perizzite were dwelling then in the land. So not just Lot and Abram, but others So Abram said to Lot, please let there be no strife between you and me, nor between my herdsmen and your herdsmen, for we are brothers. Is not the whole land before you? Please separate from me if to the left, then I will go to the right, or if to the right, then I will go to the left. Lot lifted up his eyes and saw all the valley of the Jordan, that it was well watered everywhere This was before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah. Like the garden of the Lord, like the land of Egypt as you go to Zoar. So Lot chose for himself all the valley of the Jordan, and Lot journeyed eastward. Thus they separated from each other. Abram settled in the land of Canaan, while Lot settled in the cities of the valley, and moved his tents as far as Sodom. Now the men of Sodom were wicked exceedingly and sinners against the Lord. Alright, so here's a map. Um and so they uh Abram and Sarah have been down in Egypt and then they come back to the land of Canaan and they come back to the area between Bethel and I where he first was when he first came down from Haran. So he came from the north down to Haran between Bethel and I. Then there's a famine he goes down to Egypt and now he comes back to between Bethel and I. And the The country there is elevated. It's hill country. And then to the east of that you can see the At to the north is the Sea of Galilee and then the Jordan the the River Jordan, the Jordan River connects the Sea of Galilee down to the Dead Sea in the south. And that's That's a rift valley, there's a valley there, and there's hill country to the west of the Jordan River, and there's hill country to the east of the Jordan River. And so um Abram and Lot are in the hill country to the west of the Jordan River, but they're at a high elevation so they can look down into the valley of the Jordan River. And that's what they're seeing there Abram uh journeys to the south to around Hebron and Lot journeys to the east to the Jordan River Valley and then eventually works his way south all the way down to Sodom, which was probably towards the southern part. of the Dead Sea. Alright. So here's another map. Most modern archaeologists believe that the ruins of Sodom and Gomorrah are now under the underwater under the Dead Sea. Um And down there towards the south of the Dead Sea. And that the Dead Sea, the the shores of the Dead Sea once extended further to the south and it was narrower there where Sodom and Gomorrah are. So it was narrower and longer in ancient times and now it's a little bit shorter and wider at the southern end. So that the ruins of Sodom and Gomorrah are under water under the Dead Sea. Um okay. Uh there's a on the left there is a NASA satellite photo. of what the land of Canaan looks like, um, what Israel looks like. And so you can see up there to the north is the Sea of Galilee. Down there to the south is the Dead Sea. and the Jordan River connects them, and there are hills on both sides. So Abraham Lot After years of traveling together, they've been together from Ur the Chaldees up to Haran while they're in Haran, while they come down to the Canaan, they've been together for years and now they're gonna part. And more by compulsion than choice. And so here's a tragic fact, even close relatives are driven apart by possessions. So they have too much stuff. So now the family can't stay together 'cause they got too much stuff. Abraham's path will be marked by divine protection, while Lot's will be characterized by temptation and compromise. Uh yet God was using these circumstances to providentially divide the two and keep Abram away from the evil intelligence. So Abram demonstrates great humility and generosity here. He's the older, he's the uncle, he's the patriarch of the family now that Tira's gone. Um so he could have insisted on his right to choose first. But he doesn't. He defers to his nephew, Laden, gives him the first choice. Lot looks down on the fertile Jordan River and says, that looks like wealth and comfort to me. That's the choice spot. uh he could have deferred the choice back to Abram, his uncle. Uh but instead he sees seized the opportunity. Once he was given the opportunity, he saw the the good fertile valley of the Jordan River down there, he said, Okay, I'm I'm taking that Um and so uh this whole incident demonstrates the power the deadly power of wealth and comfort that can exert on a righteous man. And we learn from the New Testament that Lot was in fact a righteous man. Second Peter Chapter 2 says that Lot was a righteous man. In fact, that's the same um the same phrase that's used about Abraham. Abraham's righteous He's uh he believed God it was credited to him as righteousness, righteousness, that same righteousness is how 2 Peter 2 describes Lot So as we read this story of Abraham and Lot, it's the story of two believers Not a believer and an unbeliever, but to believers, the New Testament makes that clear. And so think about that as you think about the events of Lot's life. And and the way that even a believer can make terrible mistakes that lead to terrible disasters. Um something like a king stealing a somebody's wife and murdering them, like King David. Um a believer can do that Abram continues to dwell in tents in the land that God had promised to him, while Lot eventually moves all the way into the city of Sun. Sodom. We'll see later on. He's actually living in the city of Sodom later on. Abram and Lot made different decisions about where to live and what lifestyles to adopt, and those decisions had consequences. Really terrible consequences in Lot's case. So this is a principle that we find emphasized throughout Scripture. Our obedience or disobedience will affect our lives and the lives of others. Um Lot ends up uh with his wife dead and living in a cave. He he's a tremendously rich man. He chooses the very best land. And how does he end up? His wife is dead, he's got no possessions, and he's living in a cave. That's what his choices lead to Disaster for him, disaster for his whole family. Uh yeah, so so yeah, so somebody that didn't participate in the particular sin or didn't have a choice in the particular sin uh is affected by the sin. Yes, that definitely happens. Yep. All right. Um so the comforts of the world can be a deadly trap. Uh and it there's always a difficult balance. Uh God's people are called to be in the world but not of the world. So how how do we strike that balance? Uh we have no choice but to live in society and take part in the working economy. We gotta Um we have to feed our families. To be able to live. uh and also to be able to accomplish whatever purposes God has for you and your ministry. Uh yet we we must also be on guard to ensure that these things do not become the focus of our lives. And and it's easy and it can be a subtle thing where we start out saying, all I'm doing is I'm I I have to do this to to feed my family and before you know it it becomes the focus of your life. Your your career or your work be becomes not just the means by which Uh you provide for your family and you provide resources to the church, but it becomes all-consuming and becomes the most important thing in your life So there's a balance there that we have to be able to strike. And so 1 John puts it this way, puts it in a stark contrast. The Apostle John says in 1 John chapter 2 Do not love the world nor the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the boastful pride of life, is not from the Father, but is from the world. The world is passing away and also its lust, but the one who does the will of God lives forever. So um this idea of love for God or love for the world. So we're in the world but not of the world. We're participating in society But we can't, that can't be our focus. It can't be our first love. There's warnings in the book of Revelation to the churches, you've lost your first love. They've been uh seduced away from a focus on Christ. Uh and he calls them out for it in in Revelation. So Uh there's danger there and Lot has fallen for it here. Lot has fallen into uh this this temptation of of love for the world. Okay. Uh any questions about any of that Questions, comments. Yes. Well I don't know about that. It could be. It could be. Um the The um the Jordan River has there's greenery on the banks of the Jordan River and evidently he could see that. Um it is possible that uh four thousand years ago um the land was more fertile than it is today. And there are little clues about that in scripture like when the Uh when the spies go into the land to spy out the land, um they come back amazed that how fertile and lush and flowing with milk and honey. Well if you drive through Israel today, it it's not really like that. It doesn't you i th that's not what springs to mind when who's been to Israel I'm driven around there. Uh it's pretty arid. A lot of Israel's pretty arid. Uh and rocky. Um So uh my guess is four thousand years ago the climate was a little different. Why was this different destruction of sodomy war? Could be, yeah, yeah, could be. Yeah. Okay. Um so uh after so he's uh Abram has gone down to Egypt, he's had a spiritual test that he fails He comes back, he he's he splits with um uh Abe uh with Lot and then he has he he he worships God Um and he God reiterates at least part of the promise that he gave before. Um and so it As we continue on in the story in chapter 13, God says, All the land that you see, I will give to you. So remember where Abraham and Lot are. They're up on top of the hill. They're in the hill country. They're looking down at all the land And Abram is still there, and God says, All the land that you see, I'll give you. So he's up there on the hill, he's looking around, he sees all this land. Lot has gone to take the the valley, the lush valley. Um but Abram From where he is, can see all the land, and God says, all the land that you see, I'll give to you, and your offspring. He builds an altar uh worships the Lord. He's built an altar before, he builds another altar. And in chapter twelve we saw God make these promises, promise of land, promise of descendants, promise of blessing. In chapter thirteen, he very specifically says, All this land I'll give you and also your descendants. So in a way he's promising the descendants as well there in chapter thirteen. But Uh so why did why did Abraham need to be reminded of this promise? What's just happened to him in Egypt? Right, he's had a spiritual test and he's failed And so what could Abraham be thinking? God's through with me. God's through with me, right? He made these promises before, but now I've failed, and so you know, is God through with me? And got so it's it's timely for God. He knows Abraham, you can look right into his heart. And he knows that Abraham needs the encouragement of being reminded that God's promises, God is faithful to his promises regardless of our loss of faith. And so yeah, so in chapter thirteen he reiterates the fact that yes, I'm still giving you this land, even though you're Uh you failed this this particular test. Okay. Um next we're he's gonna rescue lot. So um So in chap Genesis chapter 14, we have this story of the four kings come and beat the five kings. Four kings come from the north. Um they go go on a kind of a raiding expedition. Uh so they come from uh around Damascus, they come back down, uh they come they sweep down through on the east side of the Jordan River. uh uh pillaging and and destroying and then he go all the way down to um to what's now Elot uh on the uh the the northern tip of the Red Sea And then they sweep up through the Negev and and to the west side of uh the Dead Sea, and then they're gonna go back. And as they've gone through They one of the places one of the kings that they beat was the king of Sodom. And so they looted Sodom and they captured prisoners, and one of the prisoners they capture is Lot. And so Abram tracks them down. He he he chases them 150 miles and he he whips these four kings And he takes Lot back. And here's the scripture. Genesis chapter 14, starting in verse 14. When Abram heard that his relative had been taken captive, he let out his trained men, born in his house 318. So he had such a huge household that he had an army of 318, a trained army Trained militia of three hundred and eighteen. So how many people did he have? So obviously the trained army doesn't include the old people and the young people, the women and children, and so it at least a thousand He he has a household of at least a thousand people to have an army of three hundred and eighteen. Okay. So he takes his army of three hundred and eighteen, he pursues them up to Dan a hundred and fifty miles, he chased them Uh he divided his forces against them by night, he and his servants and defeated them and pursued them as far as Hobah, which is north of Damascus. He he beats them and beats them and beats them all the way to the north of Damascus. He brought them back all the goods and also brought back his relative lot with his possessions and also the women and the people. So both women and people he brought back Um an interesting way to phrase that. Um little funny little funnies phrases in the in the scripture. So Um and then then he meets this this uh strange character in Melchizedek. Uh and Melchizedek, king of Salem, brought out bread and wine. Now he was a priest of God most high He blessed him, that is Abraham, he blessed Abraham, and said, Blessed be Abram of God most high, possessor of heaven and earth, and blessed be God most high, who has delivered your enemies into your hand. He gave him a tenth of all So um once again he's he he's gone through this whole thing where he tracks them down all the way to the north, beats them and he comes back. And he's back down to Jerusalem. Um he's the king of Salem, w what will become Jerusalem. So he's back down. Um to where he started, with all the plunder. He's brought it all back. And he gives a tenth to this man Melchizedek. So uh Lot finds his choice of residence in Sodom has led to the first of many negative consequences. Uh so he's been captured. Uh he was enlessed in the community of S Sodom to the point where when the city fell, he's his goods are consequent is confiscated and he's captured. Abraham finds out Uh his nephew is captured, he takes his fighting force and he goes, tracks them down, and he whips the four kings. They pursue the kidnappers over more than 150 miles and defeat them in battle Uh and he doesn't hesitate to respond to Lot's distress. So Lot has kind of taken the best choice. Abraham could have been bitter So Lot made his choice. He made his bed, let him sleep in it, right? He could have had that attitude. But Abram does not have that attitude. He finds out that one of his kinsmen is in trouble, and without hesitation he goes to his rescue. Um so then we meet Melchizedek. So who is this Melchizedek and what is his significance? So We have a couple of places in the rest of Scripture that talk about Melchizedek. This one is in Hebrews chapter 5. So Hebrews chapter 5 says, So also Christ did not glorify himself so as to become a high priest. But he who said to him, You are my son, today I have begotten you, just as he says also in another passage, you are a priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek. So another passage, that's Psalm 110. We'll see that later. So uh Hebrews 7 has uh that was Hebrews 5 brought up Melchizedek. Hebrews chapter 7 has a little bit more detail. Uh Hebrews chapter 7 says this about Melchizedek For this Melchizedek, king of Salem, priest of the most high God, who met Abraham as he was returning from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him, to whom also Abraham apportioned a tenth part of the spoils was first of all by translation of his name King of Righteousness. So Melchizedek evidently means King of Righteousness. But that's not in Hebrew. W what language is that? It's actually Canaanite. It's old Canaanite. So he's a Canaanite king, descendant of Ham through Canaan, the cursed line. He's a Canaanite king. Melchizedek is a Canaanite word that means king of righteousness. And then also king of Salem, Salem or Shalom means peace. Um which is King of Peace, so he's the King of righteousness and the King of Peace. Without father, without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but made like the Son of God, he remains a pe priest perpetually. Now observe how great this man was, to whom Abraham, the patriarch, gave a tenth of the choicest spoils. And those indeed are the sons of Levi who received the priests office have commandment in the law to collect a tenth from the people, that is from their brethren, although these are descended from Abraham. But the one whose genealogy is not traced from them In other words, not f he's not from the line of Levi. Uh collected a tenth from Abraham and blessed the one who had the promises. But without any dispute, the lesser is blessed by the greater. So this passage is saying who was greater, Abraham or Melchizedek? Kizadek here, Abraham here. Okay Um and so w what is the Melchizedek's priest line is like Christ, so this is the an example, a type of Christ. He's a priestly king and so is Jesus. So in the uh Jewish tradition, priests and kings were separate. The kings come from the tribe of Judah, the priests come from the tribe of Levi. But this is here is a guy that's priest and king, and so it's Jesus. His name is King of Righteousness. He's not of the line of Aaron. Jesus likewise did not come from the priestly line. He's descended from the tribe of Judah. There's no record in Genesis either of the birth or death of Melchizedek. Does that mean he was not born or did not die? No. That's not the point. The point is that there's no record of the genealogy uh in Genesis. And so this is symbolic of the eternal priesthood of Christ. It says, like the Son of God, he remains a priest forever. And the summary statement in verse 24 of the chapter, Jesus, because he continues forever, holds his priest hood permanently. So the name Melchizedek, as I said, is Old Canaanite, not Hebrew. So he's a Canaanite king. He's also a priest of God most high, it says, El El Yon. The combination of these two offices in one person is not unusual in the ancient Near East. There were other places in the ancient Near East where And so the uniqueness of this combination for the covenant people becomes a sign of the Messiah who will combine these two offices Zechariah six, for example, is a messianic prophecy and it can be a little confusing, but if you pay careful attention is talking about a person that's uh both a king and a priest. So uh then say to him, uh this is Zechariah six verse twelve, then say to him, Thus says the Lord of hosts, behold a man whose name is branch, for he will branch out from where he is. And he will build the temple of the Lord. Yes, it is he who will build the temple of the Lord, and he who will bear the honor and sit and rule on this on his throne. Thus he will be a priest So this is a a prophecy of of a man who will be both priest and king. And so that that definitely doesn't fit any of the uh the historical Israel, they always had separate priests and kings. This is a prophecy about the mess coming Messiah who will be both priest and king. The importance of Melchizedek is demonstrated by the only other reference to him in the Bible, Psalm 110, which is quoted in Hebrews 5. But Psalm 110 is quoted over and over again. It's quoted in Matthew 22, it's quoted in Mark 12, it's quoted in Luke 20, in Acts 2, and Hebrew 5, as we just saw. Um Hebrews 110 says this the Lord says to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. The Lord will stretch forth your strong scepter from Zion, saying, Rule in the midst of your enemies. So there's a king. Your people will volunteer freely in the day of your power, in holy array from the womb of the dawn. Your youth are to you as the dew. The Lord has sworn and will not change his mind. You are a priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek. And so there's a king who's also a priest. So this is a messianic psalm here, 110, which is so important that the New Testament authors keep quoting it over and over and over again. In the Gospels and in Acts and in Hebrews, Psalm 110, this pat this part of Psalm 110 keeps getting uh quoted over and over again. A prophet who is uh a priest who is also a king. Okay. So the order of Melchizedek. So Melchizedek, the priestly king, is a type, a foreshadowing of Jesus Christ. He is the shadow Well, Jesus Christ is the reality. That's the point of Melchizedek. Any questions about Melchizedek? And how he points forward to Christ. So Christ Um uh what what does the word Christ mean? Messiah. So it means anointed one in Greek. Christ, Christos is anointed one in Greek. So what does Messiah mean? It means anointed one in Hebrew. So those are the same. Christ and Messiah is the same word, one in Greek and one in Hebrew. Anointed One. So there were uh there were three offices in the Old Testament that were anointed offices. What were those? Prophet, priest, and king. Prophet, priest, and king. And so those were the anointed officers. And so Jesus is described as a prophet. He's also described as a priest. He's also described as the king. So he is the anointed one, prophet, priest, and king. But he's not only an anointed one, he's the anointed one. So he's the prophet, the priest, and the king, Lord of Lord and King of Kings. And so this is the um the most important teaching of Scripture. Um and so it keeps coming back over and over and over and over again in Scripture, and this is one example of it. Jesus as uh both priest and king in in this in this case. Uh okay, any questions about that Any questions about any of those things? Yes, Greg. Point out what Jesus quotes that passage in the New Testament very passionate uh you actually see the Trinity involved there. He says this the David in the Spirit says, you know, the Lord said to my Lord So you have David and the Spirit, or the Spirit, and the Lord, the Father, said to my Lord Jesus. So so you have the Trinity uh built there in the Old Testament. Absolutely. Yep. That's a good point. So uh did you hear everybody hear what he said? So the the lead into that section of passage is uh David said in the spirit So that's the Holy Spirit. The Lord said to my Lord, that's God the Father saying to God the Son. So because all the rest of that is the Father addressing the Son in in that passage of Psalm 110. And so it's the Spirit, the Father, and the Son, all in those verses. And so it's a key passage and the New Testament authors keep quoting it over and over again. Yeah. Any other questions or comments? Yes. I really think view how it can be considered a righteous Good question. Because of all of the choices and decisions that make. I'm not saying the other obviously is But if I were to define what it means to be a righteous man, he doesn't meet any of the qualities. Yeah, so so uh th here's what I would say about that. So Lot lived some number of years hundred years or Abraham lived 175. We don't know how long Lot lived. We there's no record of his death. So But Abraham was already 75 at this time, and so he lived a long life. And we only see these very tiny glimpses of the things he did Um and so uh just think for a second, if if all you knew about David's life was the Bathsheba incident, what would we think of David Not so much. Adultery and murder. That's that's the that that's how that man's life is characterized. Adultery and murder. There's no way that's a righteous man. Um and so I I think that Because the New Testament says he was a righteous man and uses kind of that same language as the New Testament describes Abraham, that Although it's not uh it's not important for us to know for um God's plan of redemption, like some of the rest of Abraham's life because Lot is not in the line of the Messiah, um he must have repented of these sins and gone on to live a life that was characterized more like Abraham's life was characterized as a righteous man. That's my assumption. But it's only an assumption because we don't get that from the pages of scripture. And and I get it w you know, when from the very few things we know about Lot, he sounds like a a a selfish guy that that was a worldly guy and so therefore he can't possibly be saved. But the New Testament comes along and says he was a a righteous man Uh and that can be confusing to us, but uh I think that we we trust that the New Testament is right about that, and so we can only speculate that the rest of his life was characterized more by faith than these incidents, these very few incidents that we see in the Bible. It's a good question though. It's something for us to wrestle with, um to think about Some of the things that, you know, the some of the things that people that are heroes of the faith did uh which are so unsavory. Um yeah. Yes. May well have been war. Reading the next scene to ask her about how the Lord on Earth raised down heaven, rained down fire and rainstorm on earth. So it couldn't be But we can discuss that later. But another insight is it's Peter who wrote this. And Peter, we know, big failing. In fact, several failings before this. And also Yeah. So kind of knowledge would still encourage that for us. Yeah, so yeah, so the the the bottom line is is God can use us in spite of flaws, and the reason he can use us in spite of flaws is because it's actually God's power that accomplishes mighty things. and not my power. Um and the other thing is that God is faithful to forgive sins We get this throughout the pages of Scripture that He is a forgiving God. He's a merciful God. And so he forgives even huge embarrassing failures. And so if I have had a huge embarrassing failure in my life, if you've had a huge embarrassing failure in your life God is faithful to forgive when we repent of sin. He'll forgive us, and he can use us in a powerful way. Like he used David after adultery and murder. Ethically it's uh Easter believes uh believes uh God knows something about them that we cannot know Right. Any other questions or comments? Let me close us in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for the opportunity to uh to walk through and talk through uh the life of these um people that you uh interacted with in the old testament. uh the life of Abraham in particular and how faithful you were to your promises and how you are the same yesterday, today and forever, and so you will always be faithful to your promises. What a great encouragement that is, Lord. And what a great encouragement it is to know that even when we fail, uh even when we fall into temptation and sin, that you're faithful to forgive sins, and that you can still use us It's for your glory. Uh we thank you, Lord, for uh the opportunities that you give us to be useful in the kingdom and pray that through your Holy Spirit you would make us useful again. We thank you for the opportunity to worship you now in corporate worship, and we pray that it would all bring glory to your name. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.