All right, let's uh get started with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day. We thank you for uh your wonderful promises that we see in Scripture. We thank you for your faithfulness to your promises. We thank you for uh who you are and uh that you are worthy of all glory and honor and praise and worship. We thank you especially for the opportunity we have right now to gather around your word and to learn from it. We pray that through your Holy Spirit you would open our hearts and minds so that we would be able to really learn what the Holy Spirit is trying to teach us from the Word today. We thank you for the way you've designed the body of Christ. You've drawn people together from all walks of life and from every tribe and tongue and nation and language, and we become uh we're adopted into your family uh as sons and daughters of the king and brothers and sisters of one another All this is so wonderful, and we stand in awe of you, Father. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay. Um yesterday was April eighteenth, and it was the five hundred and fifth anniversary of a famous event in history. At the Diet of Worms the Diet of Worms, uh Martin Luther stood before the Holy Roman Emperor. and was commanded to recant his his teachings about Scripture And he said this: I do not accept the authority of popes and councils. My conscience is captive to the Word of God. Here I stand, and I cannot do otherwise. God help me. Amen. So he refused to recant his teachings on Scripture because they were teachings from Scripture, regardless of what the Pope or various councils said or what the uh the political authority commanded him to do, he said his conscience was uh captive to the word of God. Um and this was five hundred and five years ago yesterday. Do you remember it? I remember it too. I was way in the back. In the nursery. I think I saw I think I saw more eggs. All right. So uh today we're going to continue our studies in Genesis looking at how God worked in the life of this man, Jacob. Uh we're gonna see we we went through uh yes Bill. Four and other eighteenth of April and seventy-five Or the man is still alive. Oh a little later than that. Okay. Right. So we last time we did a few, we started into the life of Jacob, we did a few events from his life. Today we're going to do three more. Uh Jacob is actually sent away because a as a result of the events that we talked about last week. Jacob receives the promises. There's this incident where God comes to him in in a dream and gives him the promises that had previously been given to Abraham and Isaac. And Jacob meets Rachel for the first time. We're going to take a look at that today also Okay. Uh let's take a little review of last week. So we looked at the some early events from the life of uh Tacob. He uh he's first he steals the birthright. Uh Esau comes in from hunting, he's hungry, and he so he sells his birthright to Jacob for a helping of stew. We saw that um Jacob saw this as an opportunity. And Esau kind of the Bible the way the Bible puts it despised his birthright Uh and it was the birthright was a big deal in those days, but uh Esau um sort of didn't think much of it. Um Esau's uh is his has an expressive carelessness and a different attitude towards it. And in fact Later on in the Bible, in the New Testament, in the book of Hebrews, Hebrews 12, 16 tells us that Esau was an immoral and godless person. So the New Testament provides a commentary on the spiritual condition of Esau. Jacob, of course, we'll see throughout our discussion of Jacob was certainly not sinless. He was a schemer in his own right and um makes all sorts of mistakes, but he was a man of faith, the one through whom the seed of the woman would come. He was the heir to the promises of Abraham and Isaac. We'll see that play out today. Um so in the what we what we saw what we looked at last time uh in the stealing of the Uh we first the birthright and then the blessing and Rebecca comes in uh and comes up with a scheme to uh to s steal the blessing from Esau Isaac's old, he can't see very well. He tells I Esau to go out and hunt game and then when he comes back he's gonna bless Esau, so or so Isaac thinks. Uh Rebecca comes up with a scheme to replace Esau with Jacob so that Jacob can receive the blessing. Um so Isaac favors Esau. Rebekah favors Jacob. That causes some tension in the family. Um Rebecca is kind of the instigator of this scheme to steal the blessing. She comes up with this plan and she convinces Jacob to carry it out. Um Jacob has some misgivings initially, and the misgivings d are not about the fact that he's going to be lying to his father and that the scheme is wrong, it's that he might get caught That's what Jacob's worried about. Hey, I might get caught. Not that I might do something sinful, but that I might get caught doing something sinful. That's the big deal to Jacob here. Uh Rebecca tries to allay his fears by saying, Hey, any blowback is gonna be on me. She adds a couple of layers of subtlety to the plot with the the the skins of some sheep or goats onto his arms and his neck in case he tries to feel and wearing Esau's robe in case he smells can spells it up to smell him Uh and he goes into his father, he lies to him, uh, and he steals the the blessing. Um so Isaac Is fooled and gives the blessing that he thinks is going to be so he gives to Jacob. Uh the blessing is in three parts as we saw last time. Um the uh that the pro the produce of the abundant produce from the ground, um preeminence over his uh family Um and then a repeat of the portion of the uh blessings and cursings that were given to Abraham that cursed be those who curse you and blessed be those who bless you. So that was all part of the blessing that was that Isaac thought he was giving to Esau or proposed to give to Esau but came to Jacob instead And of course, all this was really in fulfillment of a prophecy that God had given to Rebekah: that the older would serve the younger Uh Rebecca and Jacob of course are especially Rebecca's he's trying to help God along with the fulfillment of this promise. God has made a promise and it's definitely going to come about, but Rebecca thinks he's going to give God a helping hand here. And just similar to what Abraham and Sarah did. Abraham and Sarah have been promised children, and they came up with a scheme to try to help God's plan along, because it didn't seem to be going the way it should be going. And in a similar fashion, Rebecca is gonna gonna help God's plan along to make sure that the older serves the younger. Um did Isaac ever realize So I think so, because Esau comes back in and says, Hey, where's the blessing? And Isaac says, I've already given the blessing. Uh and so it seems that Isaac then Isaac sees. And we'll see in today's lesson that Isaac is now fully on board with the promises going to Jacob instead of Esau. We'll see that in today's scripture. So God has made uh his He's made His intentions clear and in spite of sinful misdeeds and and behavior by those involved. God's plans and purposes come about. God's plans and purposes are never thwarted by the actions of people. Um they cause themselves harm in in the uh in the interim and as a result of their sinful behavior, but God's plans and purposes are still uh come about. They still come about Um okay. Um Esau of course is enraged by this whole thing and uh comes up with a plan. He intends to kill Jacob as soon as his father Isaac dies. And he thinks that's gonna be soon, although it as it turns out, uh Isaac lives another forty five or so years after this. Uh but Rebecca overhears or is is reported to her uh that Isaac plans that uh Esau plans to kill Jacob and so she sends him away or she comes up with a plan to send him away. All right. And that's where we left off last time. Any questions about what we went through last time? So there's this plan in place to send Jacob away. And he she uses the pretext of Um we don't want Jacob to have Canaanite wives like and and left unspoken is like Esau with his Canaanite wives. Um and Isaac agrees, and we'll see uh the result of that today. Any any questions about that? Alright, let's take a look at Genesis chapter 28. So open your Bible to Genesis chapter 28 or tune your device to Genesis chapter 28. So we're picking up right after uh Rebecca and Isaac have spoken. And Rebecca has has proposed this plan to Isaac to send Jacob to get a wife to her family. And then we pick up in Genesis twenty-eight. So Isaac called Jacob and blessed him. Notice he's blessing Jacob. He knows it's Jacob. There's no deception now. Isaac calls Jacob and he blesses Jacob. He knows who he is. No deception. He's blessing Jacob. So Isaac called Jacob and blessed him and charged him and said to him, You shall not take a wife from the daughters of Canaan. Arise, go to Paden Aram, to the house of Bethuel, your mother's father And from there take to yourself a wife from the daughters of Laban, your mother's brother. May God Almighty bless you and make you fruitful and multiply you, that you may become a company of peoples May he also give you the blessing of Abraham to you and to your descendants with you that you may possess the land of your sojournings, which God gave to Abraham. Then Isaac sent Jacob away, and he went to Padnaraam to Laban, the son of Bethuel, the Aramean, the brother of Rebekah, the mother of Jacob and Esau. So again, this is Isaac gives him instructions. So Rebecca has come up with this proposal, but now Isaac, the head of the family, gives the orders. to Jacob to execute. And he's blessing him and there's no deception here. Um He's relaying these the the decision that's been made, the family decision is to send him away and he gives and not only does he send him away excuse me But he gives the blessing and specifically the blessing of Abraham. So Jacob is to go to his mother's family to find a wife, just as Abraham sent to Haran to get Rebekah as Isaac's wife. So um it's not specific in s in scripture, but I imagine the discussion among Isaac and Rebekah included, hey, this is just like your father Abraham did. when he sent uh his servant up to my to get me to come back to be your wife, Isaac. Um and so it it was probably easy to convince him And then in verses three to four, we see the blessing that Isaac gives to Jacob. There's a direct link with God's blessing to Abraham. So Isaac makes it very clear when he's uh addressing um Jacob that what he's getting is the blessings that God gave to Abraham And so now it's clear. It's not Esau. It's definitely going to be Jacob, and everybody's on board with it, including Isaac. And remember, Esaul has been Isaac's favorite. The boys are somewhere between their fifties and seventies here. And so for many, many decades, Esau has been the favorite. But now Isaac understands that God's plan is for Jacob to get these this blessing. That may have been painful for Isaac. But he's on board now. We can see that in Genesis 28. He directly links the blessings that went first to Abraham and then to himself, Isaac, and now he transfers those blessings to Jacob specifically referencing his father Abraham, those blessings that Abraham had in Genesis 12 and 17. Also, there's some other clues in the language. He uses the name El Shaddai, God Almighty, as the one who called, uh is called on to bless Jacob. And that's the name first given in Genesis chapter 17 at the time when God revealed himself to Abraham by proclaiming, I am El Shaddai. And so it's more a powerful link to the promises that were given to Abraham now being transferred to Jacob. And of course the blessing centers on the two ideas of nationhood and land, just like it did for Abraham. So Rebecca's plan then to get Jacob to safety comes to pass, but of course, God was always going to make this happen. With Isaac's blessing and directives, Jacob travels to the northwest of Mesopotamia to the family of Rebekah. Notice the orders of the brothers in verse number 5. Jacob and Esau So there's a clear number one and number two with Jacob listed first. Jacob is now, by all ranks and privileges, the firstborn. He has both the birthright and the blessing, and everybody knows it. Of course, this is exactly as God said it would be. Uh there have been some twists and turns in the road and lots of human sin, but God's plans and purposes come to pass. God had said the older will serve the younger. And now everybody acknowledges this fact that God had said was going to come to pass. Alright, let's continue in chapter 28, verse 10. Then Jacob departed from Beersheba. And went toward Haram. He came to a certain place and spent the night there because the sun had set. And he took one of the stones of the place and put it under his head and lay down in that place. He had a dream, and behold, a ladder was set on the earth, with its top reaching to heaven. And behold, the angels of God were ascending and descending on it. And behold, the Lord stood above it and said, I am the Lord, the God of your father Abraham, and the God of Isaac. The land on which you lie, I will give it to you and to your descendants. Your descendants will also be like the dust of the earth, and you will spread out to the west, and to the east, and to the north, and to the south. And you and your descendants shall all the f and in you and your descendants shall all the families of the earth be blessed Behold, I am with you, and you will and will keep you wherever you go, and will bring you back to this land, for I will not leave you until I have done what I have promised you. Alright, here's a map. They live in Beersheba, down to the south, and he travels up to a city which used to be called Maz. And now he's going to rename it Bethel, and then throughout the rest of Scripture it's called Bethel. So he travels the first day, and he it's nighttime, so he stops somewhere. So he's gone part of the way. Now he's got a long way to go. See if Haran, all the way up there in the upper right corner. That's where he's going. He's made it this far in the first night. And he stops there to sleep at night. A couple things about the topography, I'll show you on this map. When you see in the scriptures the East, And you'll see that in the scripture coming up. It just says the east. The east is typically anything to the east of the Euphrates River. See the Euphrates River there, the blue line? Well Haran is to the east of that blue line, and so that is the east. Anything to the west of the Euphrates River is the west. That's the dividing line And so he's going to the east because he's going to cross the Euphrates River and go to the east side of it. Now the other thing that you'll notice about the topography here We talked about this once before, um that the the road that goes up uh north-south road that runs through the line of Canaan It runs along what's called the spine because in the middle there between the coast and the Jordan River is the hill country. So it's a high elevation there. And when you're going from south to north, to your left, to the west, is the coastal plain. So it goes down that direction. To your right is the Jordan River Valley, so it goes down that way. So you're at the top, and whether you look to the left or look to the right, the land falls away downward. And so you're walking across what they call the spine. And that's where he goes here. Uh okay Uh so that's the map. So Jacob receives promises, sleeping with his head on a stone, I don't know about that. Has anybody ever s slept with a stone as a pillow? That doesn't sound comfortable at all. A stone for a pillow. Anyway, uh so he has this dream while he's sleeping with his head on a stone Uh the angels of God are ascending and descending on a ladder or a staircase. As I mentioned before, all of the uh The masters of painting from the Middle Ages painted, got their inspiration from uh scenes in the Bible. And so the famous painter Raphael painted a painting he called Jacob's Dream. And that's what it looks like. It's a big stone he's had his head on. Yeah, that's a pretty big stone he's resting his head on there. Yeah. And there's the angels going up and down. It looks a lot more like a staircase than a ladder there. And of course many painters painted. Here's another one, a Domenico Fetti from the sixteen hundreds. So Jacob wakes, uh he sets the stone that is under his head up for a pillar, he pours oil on it. Um he calls the place Bethel, which means house of God. It had previously been called Luz. After that, it's always called Bethel, which means house of God. And Jacob named it that after this evening in the dream. So in his journey to Haran, Jacob stops to rest and he has a dream. The place Yes. Bethlehem uh Bethlehem? So it's not. Yeah, Bethlehem's a little bit different. Let me go back to this map here for a second. Bethlehem is you can see Bethlehem and Hebron, he he passed those on his way to what was Lenla's and was renamed Bethel. Um I think Bethlehem means house of bread or something like that. Bethel means house of God. Bethlehem, I think, means house of bread. Yeah. Okay. Alright, so uh he stops. Um because he uh he's he's gone as far as he can go on the first day of his journey. He stops, he sleeps, he has a dream Uh the place where he is this counter used to be called Laz, and after that it's always called Bethel, uh which means the house of God. Uh from Beersheba to Bethel and then Shechem is a well-known north-south travel route known as the Spine in the hill country. And this is the route that Abraham took when he first came from Haran down to Canaan in the other direction. He came this exact route. And it was a road that It was the really the the main north-south road that you would take if you wanted to go from the south to the north, the north to the south. And so uh Abraham had uh years earlier had come by that road and now uh ja and most likely the servant of Abraham when he went up to to get Rebekah for Isaac, he went on that same road. Now Jacob's on the same road And Jacob sees in his dream a ladder or stairway going up from the earth to the entrance of heaven. Angels are going up and down the staircase. The Hebrew word for angels means messengers. The angels or messengers of God were ascending and descending. So it's a picture in the dream that Jacob's getting. So the angels seem to be there specifically for Jacob as the his descendants. So Um this is a dream of course, so it's a it's a a manifestation or it's a um it's kind of a a w a dr a dream picture uh uh uh You can have a word picture or a dream picture. Here's a dream picture of the fact that angels are coming from heaven And they're doing the the messengers of God do God's bidding. And in this case they seem to be doing God's bidding uh for the life of Abraham. And I think that's borne out by the words that God says next. Any questions about this? Has this ever puzzled you before, this little past description? It seems a little bit unusual that there's these angels ascending and descending here. All right. In verse 13, within the dream, God reveals himself as the God of Abraham and Isaac. So in the dream, God speaks to Jacob and identifies himself. I am the God of your grandfather and your father. Your grandfather Abraham, your father Isaac. That's the God. That's who I am. And now I'm addressing you, Jacob, here in this dream. The promises God gives Jacob are very similar to the ones he made to Abraham in Genesis chapter 13. The land on which you lie, I will give it to you. So he's he's pretty much he's close to the center of the land of Canaan. In terms of east-west and north-south, now that he's traveled a little bit to the north. And so God says, this land here and all around to the north, south, east, and west, I'm going to give to you. And that was very similar to what he said to Abraham in Genesis chapter 13. Abraham was there in the land of Canaan. He said, This land that you're relying on, I'm going to give to you. Your descendants will also be like the dust of the earth. So what what ill image had he given before to Abraham? The stars of the sky. Um and now he says the dust of the earth. He's using these images that uh would help him to understand some huge, huge, huge number But you can't possibly count that's how big your descendants, the number of your descendants will be. And then of course, in your descendants shall all the families of the earth be blessed, which is ultimately pointing forward to Christ. So promise of the land, promise of descendants, so a nation to fill that land, and then also promise of the Messiah to come. All those promises made to Abraham, made to Isaac, now made by God in a dream to Jacob. So God had appeared to both Abraham and Isaac. He appears in a dream to Jacob. He also promises something very similar that he promised to Abraham. I am with you and will keep you wherever you go. I will not leave you until I've done what I have promised you. And so God is promising not only these things that will happen, but also promising Himself. He's promising that he will be with Jacob. Now, having that promise, does Jacob have anything to worry about? No. But does he end up worrying about things? Oh yes, he does. And so we are so the lesson here is this is we are prone to fear man. And we're told over and over again not to do that. Jesus, in fact, during his earthly ministry says, don't fear somebody that can only kill you. You should fear somebody that can also send your soul to hell, which is God alone. So that was Jesus' way of saying, don't fear people and what they can do. Only fear God. Um and so this is a a a consistent teaching of Scripture that that He God is with us and so therefore we don't have anything to fear. And yet Jacob feared. And so do we. This Theophany in a Dream, God appearance of God in a Dream, confirms Jacob as the true heir of Abraham and Isaac. So now it's clear, it's been made clear in the human terms when Isaac specifically gave these blessings to Jacob, and now God confirms it himself to Jacob. So there could be no doubt. It's all crystal clear from the in the human terms and now especially from God himself. So God himself had told Abraham, God himself had told Isaac, now God himself tells Jacob. Closing the loop, making sure there's no doubt that these promises that he's made to Abraham and Isaac now flow down to Jacob. Okay. Um so Jacob receives these promises and there are some references in the New Testament. Um there's uh particular reference to this incident uh in the life of Jesus. So uh turn your Bible to John chapter one And so this incident, of course, recorded in Genesis, taught in the synagogue, so the Jews of Jesus' time would have been familiar with this story. of Jacob's ladder, of angels ascending and descending on their father Jacob, their ancestor Jacob. And so John chapter 1, Jesus is calling his disciples, and he calls Philip and Nathaniel. uh in this this section. So uh John chapter 1, starting in verse 47, Jesus saw Nathaniel coming to him and said to him, Behold an Israelite indeed in whom there is no deceit. What a wonderful thing to hear from Jesus about Nathaniel. Nathaniel said to him, How do you know me? Jesus answered and said to him, Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you. Nathanael answered him, Rabbi, you are the Son of God, you are the King of Israel. What a bold statement by Nathaniel. Just in his first meeting with Jesus, Jesus says something that identifies Jesus as special, that he can see something. that Jesus was not there for. He was not there when Philip and Nathaniel are were interacting under the fig tree, but he Jesus tells him about something that he couldn't possibly have been there. something that he couldn't know unless it wa he was supernatural, unless he was God himself. And so just on that little evidence, Nathaniel instantly believes. and identifies who Jesus is. And this is essentially prophecy, Nathaniel's prophesying, that you are the Son of God and the King of Israel. Because right now Jesus is not the King of Israel. But he will be the King of Israel. He'll be the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords, and Nathaniel is prophesying here. Jesus answered and said to him, Because I said to you that I saw you under the fig tree, do you believe You will see greater things than these. And he said to him, Truly, truly, I say to you, you will see the heavens open, and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man. So this is a reference back to the passage we're reading in Genesis chapter 28, and it's a, it's, Jesus does this over and over again. It's a subtle hint That he's and he's identifying himself as the Messiah, as the fulfillment of the promises, because in the event where the angels were ascending and descending on Jacob, that's where God formally gave these promises to Jacob. And those promises included in you all the in your in you and your descendants, all the people of the earth will be blessed. Jesus is saying, hey, you you're seeing the fulfillment in me. That's what he's saying here. He's saying it in sort of a veiled way um w as he often did uh during his earthly ministry, but this is an early, John chapter one, very early, as he's calling his disciples He's identifying himself as the fulfillment of those promises that occurred in Genesis 28 by referring to Genesis 28 And specifically the part of Genesis 28 where Jacob received these promises, including the promise of himself. So that's John chapter 1. And then of course in Hebrews The introduction to Hebrews. Hebrews chapter 1, the first two verses The author of Hebrews puts it this way, God after he spoke long ago to the fathers and the prophets, and in many portions and in many ways, in these last days has spoken to us in his Son, whom he appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the world. And so this is the tie at the very beginning of Hebrews back to all the discussion in the scriptures about Jesus. And then, of course, then at the time of the writing of Hebrews, Jesus had then come and had fulfilled all those promises. These promises that we read in the Old Testament about Jesus, they're fulfilled in Christ. And the New Testament in all sorts of different places, um specifically brings that up. Hey, look back to those promises that were given in the Old Testament and see that Christ fulfilled them. Um and so you can see that throughout the the New Testament. Uh any questions or comments about any of that? Okay. Let's let's go we'll do just the beginning of chapter 29 here today. Jacob meeting Rachel. Genesis chapter twenty nine, starting in verse one Then Jacob went on his journey, so he's continuing on, and came to the land of the sons of the East. So what does the East mean? The east means he's crossed the Euphrates River. So he's on the other side of the Euphrates River. So the sons of the East. He looked and he saw a well in the field, and behold, three flocks of sheep were lying there beside it. For from that well they watered the flocks. Now the stone on the mouth of the well was large. When all the flocks were gathered there, they would then roll the stone from the mouth of the well and water the sheep and put the stone back in its place on the mouth of the well. Jacob said to them, My brothers, where are you from? And they said, We are from Haran. He said to them, Do you know Laban, the son of Nahor? And they said, We know him. And he said to them, Is it well with him? And they said, it is well, and here is Rachel, his daughter, coming with the sheep. Continuing in verse 9, while he was still speaking with them, Rachel came with her father's sheep, and she was a shepherdess. When Jacob saw Rachel, the daughter of Laban, his mother's brother, and the sheep of Laban, his mother's brother, Jacob went up and rolled the stone from the mouth of the well and watered the flock of Laban, his mother's brother. Then Jacob kissed Rachel and lifted his voice and wept. Jacob told Rachel that he was a relative of her father And then he was Rebekah's son. And she ran and told her father. So when Laban heard the news of Jacob's his sister's son, he ran to meet him and embraced him and kissed him and brought him to his house. Then he related to Laban all these things. Laban said to him, Surely you are bone, you are my bone and my flesh. And he stayed with him a month. So he's continued, he's finished his journey. Uh it doesn't say how many more days it took. Uh from the distance, it would must have been several more days. If he made it this little bit from Beersheba to Bethel and it was nighttime by then, that was a full day's journey. Uh it was several more full days' journey to get to Haran. And he had to cross over the Euphrates River to do it. So he's gotten there to the people of his uh to his uh mother's relatives. So the same journey that the servant of Abraham had made. uh to get um a wife for Isaac for Rebecca for Isaac. Now Jacob makes this himself up to his Uh the branch of the family that stayed in Haran. Remember, uh Tirah, uh Noah's uh uh Abraham's father and Some portion of the family uh stayed in Haran when Abraham and Lot and Sarah went down to Caden. And now that family has grown. Uh the descendants several generations. And so they're a clan up there. uh headed by Laban Rebecca's brother. And so uh i it the the Bible uses uh sister's son and uh mother's brother but who is who how would we say that in English today? Uncle, Laban was his uncle, his mother's brother, that's his uncle. And therefore Jacob was Laban's nephew, his sister's son. So uncle and nephew, that's who they are. When Jacob arrives, he approaches well, asks the shepherds if they know Laban. The shepherds say they know him, and oh, by the way, here comes Rachel, his daughter, with the sheep. Of course there are paintings from the Middle Ages. Notice the uh the European painter paints uh uh Rachel with pawn hair Very unlikely. Very unlikely that the uh Middle Eastern uh Rachel had blonde hair. Possible I suppose, but unlikely. But notice that they continue to draw their inspiration from biblical stories for the great paintings of the Middle Ages. Jacob helps water the flock and introduces himself to Rachel. When Laban hears about Jacob, he comes to meet him. He welcomes him to his home and Jacob stays for a month. So uh notice that a few days is what uh Rebecca said and now it's become a month and then it'll become twenty years. So Rachel said take them away for a few days, that was her words I s at the beginning he's gonna stay for a month, it'll turn out to be twenty years, um and no indication that Rachel is still alive by the time Jacob gets back. Uh that's the consequence of her w of of the way she did this. Um the God's plan comes about, but she misses out on everything with her son. Uh there are many similarities with the search for a bride for Isaac in in uh Genesis twenty four. So the same Rao sent to the same area to get a a So that it's not uh uh daughters of the Canaanites that they marry, it's the daughters from their family. Um the major distinction, of course, is that Isaac played no role in choosing his wife Abraham sent a servant to do that. In this case, Jacob is actively involved. The other main difference is that Abraham sent treasure with his servant. He sent Ten camel loads of gold and silver and shiny objects. So a huge treasure. And that was the bride price. In the ancient Middle East, there was a bride price. And um Abraham sent that with the servant, and so there is no delay. They see the ten camels of gold, their eyes light up and Sheo, Rebecca's on her way down to Isaac. Right? But what happens here? Jacob shows up with a staff and the clothes on his back. And is he gonna get the the the the bride? No he's not. He's because he hasn't paid the bride price. How does he pay the bride price? Seven years of work. It turns out to be the bride prize. Uh he arrives near the his destination. He sees a well with some flocks and sheep around it. There's a large stone over the opening of the well. He strikes up a conversation with the shepherds. Hey, it's how how you doing? My name's Jacob. Do you know this guy? Um Laban. And so he asks about his Uncle Laban, and he finds out that the shepherds are from Haran and they do know his Uncle Laban. The shepherds tell Jacob that his uncle is well, and that Laban's God of Rachel is coming. Uh what a coincidence. Just imagine. So uh this has happened twice now. Uh it's a multi-day, huge long journey. And Abraham's servant just happens to show up right when Rebecca comes to the at the same well at the same time as Rebecca gets there. What a massive coincidence And the same thing happens here. Jacob makes this multi-day journey. He comes to a well. He doesn't know the area. But it just happens to be the well at the same time, at the same place, as Rachel comes to. And so this is uh God's providential arrangement of events uh to bring about his purposes. Um and so they say, hey, there's Rachel coming, what a coincidence. Uh Rachel arrives, Jacob springs into action to assist her. Uh the the the stone's huge and she's not gonna be able to roll it a away, but as soon as she arrives he gets up and he rolls the stone away and starts watering her f uh the flocks for uh yes I had something to do with that isn't could be could be I don't know. Uh coincidence. Yeah. So um He's he of course he's overjoyed because he's he's gone on this journey, he doesn't know what he's gonna find when he gets there. Uh there's gotta be uncertainty in his mind even though God has promised, um that but he's he's overjoyed. He finds um has found his mother's family exactly as his mother and his father had commanded. His mother commanded him in Genesis twenty seven, father commanded him in Genesis chapter twenty-eight. Go find your your mother's family. And he arrives at this well and there they are. Here here she is. Rachel shows up. Jacob kisses Rachel, and later he kisses Laban. And so this is not a an early nuptial here. This is the greeting, the Middle Eastern greeting. Because it's the same exact thing with both Rachel and Laban. Uh obviously he's not courting Laban, so uh so this is a greeting. He's just giving the the Middle Eastern greeting. You know, the thing that they do with the kiss on this side and kiss on that side, both men and women. That's what this is describing here So he meets Rachel. Notice that the first meeting between Jacob and his uncle Laban is congenial. We shall see that that will not always be the case when we get into next week. week's lesson. But at first everything seems okay. They're they're friendly, he welcomes him into the house. Of course he's not coming with ten loads of camel ten camel loads of gold Um and it also remember, cast your mind back, that Laban was actually there for the negotiations for Rebecca. In fact, the father Nahor doesn't do those negotiations. It's actually Laban, the brother, who does the negotiations. So he knew he was there, he was an eyewitness of those ten camel loads of gold. He knew what the price was for his sister Rebecca. And so he's he's he's crafty and he's thinking, okay, I th we got we got ten camelades of gold from my sister Rebecca. Well, my daughter Rachel, I'm going to get something for her too, and I think he he works out that okay seven years of labor is going to be about equal to those ten camelids. So there's no sense of deception though at the beginning. Uh a in uh it's not evident at the time when they meet. Everything seems great. Hey my hey nephew, come on in, welcome. Get something cheap, come and stay at my house. Uh Jacob explains who he is. Laban recognizes him as a relative with the Hebrew idiomatic expression, my bone and my flesh. Now what does that go back to? Yeah, Genesis where? Genesis chapter two, when Eve was created, this is bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh. So this is a idiomatic expression in Hebrew that goes all the way back. It's another indication that the original language is most likely Hebrew before the Tower of Babel, because it's the same idiomatic expression here and there. Okay. As a result of Laban's apparent acceptance of his nephew, Jacob remains with his uncle for a month. Hey, come stay with me for a month. So a few days turns into a month. The providence of God is evident here, just like it was in Genesis 24 with Abraham's servant and Rebecca. We just talked about this, that What are the odds that after a huge long journey of multiple days that at the exact time that they show up that the person that they need to see shows up there at that same well at that same time? Jacob just happens to come to the right well at the right time to meet Rachel. This is God's providential arranging of historical events. Okay. Um we've got a lot of time left too. Um that's the end of the this this story that we want to cover. Um questions or comments? Yes. Yeah, so i i it depending on how the time is so the Bible is not really specific, so we can't tell for sure, but it seems if you back up uh Jacob's life from hundred forty seven death, hundred and thirty go down to Egypt, uh in his early nineties when um uh Joseph is born, that he's probably probably in his seventies, like early seventies, like seventy years old when he goes to this thing. Yeah, yeah. So he's not a he's not a kid. Right? He's not a teenager. Right? He's seventy years old. How old is Laban? So how old is Laban? So Laban is older w must be older significantly older, like Rebecca's age. Yeah. He was sent away to get a wife. Why do you think he they weren't he was he wasn't sent with the bride price? So that's a good question. Why was he not sent with the bride price? I I I it I think well we can only guess because Dunn said. But is it possible that there was some uh element of uh frustration or disgruntlement with Isaac that of how this was done that caused him not to send the bride pride. I I don't know. Because Isaac was uh the Bible says that Isaac was very wealthy He had lots of flocks and servants just like Abraham did. Um but he doesn't send the bride price. It's a there's a mystery there. uh that we can only speculate it. But for one reason or another he does not send the bride price. And and it seems like that that leaves Jacob in a precarious position. And whether that was done intentionally by Isaac or not, the scripture's silent. Well we can only guess But it definitely leaves Jacob in this precarious position. And of course, I think that's part of God's plans and purpose is that he be left in this precarious position because Jacob needs to be taught a lesson To be useful to God, to be the instrument that God needs him to be throughout the rest of his life, he needs to be taught what it's like to be um to be schemed and scanned Because he's a schemer and scammer. And and if if he had brought the bride price, he wouldn't have ended up being schemed and scammed by Laban And God, I think, needs to teach him that lesson, needs him to be schemed and scanned, uh, to to break him down and make him useful And so I think it fits God's purposes, but but from a human point, why why would Isaac send them up there without the bride price? But he did. Could it all and just me that um both be there for a couple days derivatively? Yeah. Right. Yeah. So I I don't know. Maybe in their mind that that was going to be a further negotiation. He was only going to go up there for a few days, meet them, and then somewhere down the line they were going to negotiate the pro I don't know. But from a human point standpoint it it is kind of curious why you would send him up there without the weapon. He had a staff in his cloak. That's about it. But don't you think that's possible that he left in such a hurry that he could not amass ten camels of of gold because his life was threatened And his mother heard that and said, Yeah. Th there is an element of rush to it that um uh that his mother is pushing, pushing, pushing go And and it, you know, we don't get to see it in scripture, but there was some sort of discussion between um Isaac and Rebecca. We get we see a little bit of what they said. Uh but it it could be that Isaac said something like, Well, if we wait a week I can put together this bribe price and Rebecca said, No, let's get him out of here, you know, he needs to go now. Uh I mean that's possible. Not in scripture. It would It seems to East Albatry was a factor in that because he made a moment he was he was getting killed. It's a shame on him that maybe if if Jacob had sent the bright advice that would have just exacerbated the problem and so on, that may have been a good thing. Yeah, it could have been. Yeah, maybe Jacob wasn't trusted to have the bride. Maybe they maybe the they they thought he might just take off with rather rather than go uh go up to a rather. That could be. It could be. Yeah, he had not shown himself to be trustworthy, especially to Isaac up to this point. It's interesting. Yeah, so Esau did not go after him at this point. Um and of course, twenty years later, Jacob is still terrified. that his brother's gonna try to kill him. We see that w played out in the passage of scripture where where Jacob comes back and he sends him all these gifts, he sends him streams and streams and streams of of gifts. Uh yeah, sort of like a pride prize. Uh to make to to try to uh mollify Esau so he doesn't try to kill him. Uh yeah, he's still terrified of that. Yeah. Remember when When Jacob was in a kennel of this, Eli I mean Esau said he said, I'm gonna kill him, but I'm gonna wait till my dad dies Yes, that's right. So there's a reason for him to get out of there in a hurry. Yes, there is. And and so the scripture seems to indicate that the people around Isaac thought maybe he was on his last legs Um it turns out he lives and and later on Jacob and Esau bury him together decades later. Um yeah. I mean after the twenty years and after Jacob comes back. After that, Jacob and Esau together uh bury Isaac when he dies. turn the last leg because you know in order to uh view the left he had to put his hand under his thigh. Yep, yep. Yeah. Yeah. Good good thoughts and good questions. Any more? We have a couple of minutes left. Yes. Um in um Genesis chapter twenty-eight. um go back to Esau and he realized that his two wives, the daughters of kings, please Isaac and his father, and so to appease his parents Thizar went the family of Ishmael and took as his wife. In addition to the wives he already had. He took I can't pronounce her name, Ishmael. Abraham's son and the sister of Beah, Hisham's firstborn son. So Esau stays with Isaac and Rebecca as long as she lives. What do you make of of Esau's staying there, staying with the wealth, staying with the family? Yeah, so he's he's trying to um He he's he's received this message that hey these Canaanite wives are a bother to my parents. Um and so he tries to do something about that by getting some more wives that maybe these wives will compensate for the bad wives I've already got. Let me get a few others. Um and he gets them from the descendants of Ishmael, so he doesn't get them from the clan up there, Haran. Ishmael is to the east and he he goes and gets uh so Ishmael of course is Isaac's half brother. So uh Ishmael is kind of his uncle And he goes to his uncle Ishmael's family and gets rhized. But the definitive word on Esau's spiritual condition is Hebrews chapter 12. um that he was uh uh uh uh I forget what the terms are, but he's a he's not a believer. He doesn't have faith. Yeah, immoral and godless. That's what the Hebrews chapter twelve calls Esau immoral and godless. And so in spite of the fact that he's trying to ingratiate himself with his parents Uh he's ingratiating himself with his parents as an immoral and godless person would do, uh, for his own benefit, in other words. Uh yeah. Yes. So is would you think that there's an analogy between uh Esau and Jacob and Cain and Abel in terms of two siblings, two brothers? One being that we one being that left? Yes. Yeah, I think there's a parallel there. Um and of course Cain actually did kill Abel. Esau plotted and said out loud, I'm gonna kill my brother. So that was the intention of his heart. Now, we'll see later on that when they meet again, he does not try to kill him. But that's the intention of his heart at the time. God does God doesn't allow it to happen. In one case God allowed it to happen, in another case he didn't allow it to happen. But yeah, there's definitely parallels there between uh a godly brother and a godless brother. And were Cain older? So uh Cain was the first one born and then Abel, yeah. In this case, of course they're twins. Esau's like a minute older than Jacob. Yeah. Yes. Oh, I have a question. Sure. Um, do you suppose that the age of back then, like say the seven year old age? He has to wait another seven years before he came to Liga. Um do you think like a seventy, seven year old back then was more like a eighty year old TK. I think that's quite possible. Their lifespans are obviously longer. Um Jacob ends up living to be 147. And at the age of 130, he stands before Pharaoh. Um and Pharaoh says, How how old are you? And he says, I'm 130, and the years of my sojourn are fewer uh than the the years of my fathers. So he he recognizes that, you know, um Abraham and Isaac lived to be 175 and 180. And here he is, kind of feeling old at 130. when perhaps they were kind of more like in their prime at 130. So yeah, I think that's entirely possible that if you look at these bigger lifespans that You y I think you have to you might have to adjust in your mind how um how vigorous they were at seventy, eighty and ninety and a hundred compared to what is typical for us. At seventy, eighty and ninety. Yeah, so yeah, so Jacob had at least thirteen kids that we know of after he was seventy. Um Yeah. So the twelve sons in Dinah we know for sure, um that he had. And Abraham had bunches of other kids after he was a hundred. Af after Ishmael, after Isaac, he married Keturah, after Sarah died. Sarah was 127, so uh he was a hundred and thirty-seven, so after he was hundred and thirty-seven he had a bunch more kids. Abraham did. So yeah, I think you do we do have to adjust our thinking in that regard for how vigorous they most likely were still in their seventies, eighties, nineties. compared to what happens to us these days when we get to be seventy and eighty and ninety. Yeah. So aside from Ketura, there are other wives, so there's Ketura. Ketura, but she had a bunch of sons. Oh yeah. And maybe daughters, but they're they're not listed, yeah. Okay, uh let me close this with prayer. Uh dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this time that we've had together around your word. We thank you for how you've revealed yourself. We thank you especially for revealing your plan of salvation uh beginning with these promises here at Genesis and fulfilled in Christ Jesus, in his birth and life and death and resurrection and ascension. uh all these wonderful things that you have purposed from the beginning of time and brought to uh brought about in your perfect timing. We thank you for all that, Lord. We thank you for the love and mercy and grace that you showed in your Son Christ and his substitutionary death on the cross for our sins. We thank you for the fact that you raised him from the dead and he sits at your right hand and intervenes on our behalf. We thank you for the opportunity we have now to worship you in corporate worship and we pray that it will be acceptable in your sight. And that um everything that we do will be will bring glory to your name. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.