Let me uh let me start us with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day that you have made. We thank you for all the seasons. We thank you for this spring season that we're in now and the beauty of your creation that we can behold. We thank you for your word. We thank you for the opportunity we have right now to study your word. We pray for open hearts and open minds. through your Holy Spirit so that we could really understand what you want to teach us from your word and apply it to our lives so we can live for you. We thank you, Lord, for your sovereignty over all of history from beginning to end, and especially your plan of redemption that you've laid out across the pages of scripture and up across the the years of history and the fact that you are sovereign over all those events so that you were able to fulfill your purposes uh in Christ Jesus. We thank you for his life and his death and his resurrection. We thank you for his ascension into heaven so that he's the perfect high priest for us. And we thank you that he is coming again. We thank you for the opportunities that you give us to serve and worship you, and we thank you for the opportunities that you give us to uh to show the love of Christ to others and to share the gospel, the the good news of the gospel with others. And we pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, so we we're on part eleven. Uh oh, my son's birthday this week and so um Happy birthday to Alex. Um it's really it's really hard for me to believe that he's gonna be twenty-seven years old in a couple of days Uh seems like just the other day he was a little kid. Today, so let's talk about what we're gonna do today in uh verse 11. We're gonna take a little bit of a detour I wasn't sure whether we were going to do this, but we're going to do it. We're going to look at Genesis 38 at Judah and Tamar. Then we'll look at a few Incidents from the life of Joseph, Joseph and Potiphar's wife, Joseph going to prison, and Joseph interpreting dreams while he is in prison. So we'll look at those things. Just as an overview of this last section of Genesis that we're doing now, this is the tola of Jacob from Genesis 37 to 50, so talking about what came forth from Jacob, uh chapter chapter 37, uh Joseph's Youth, uh, that we already talked about, chapter 38 is a detour from talking about Joseph. to talking about Judah and Tamar. We're going to talk about Joseph as a slave, and then next time we'll get into Joseph as a ruler. And then Joseph's brothers coming down in Genesis 42 and uh 42 to 45. And then the Israelites are in the this family of Jacob all goes down, 70 of them altogether uh into Egypt and that's where they are and so that sets us up for the book of Exodus because they're all down there in Egypt So last week in particular we went and did a kind of an overview of Joseph's life. He's born in Padanaram up there in Haran. Um he's a little kid when they come back down to Canaan. Uh when we pick up his story in Genesis 37, he's 17 years old. He eventually will, as we'll see today, interpret these dreams of the Pharaoh's Butler and Baker. And when he's 30, he interprets the dreams of Pharaoh and becomes the Prime Minister of Egypt. He's about 39 when the family comes down uh and fifty six when Jacob dies. He eventually lives to be a hundred and ten years old. We're looking at the family of Jacob, and Jacob has four wives. He He eventually has twelve sons by these four wives. The first four are Leahs, Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah. And then the next two are Rachel's servant Bilha's Dan and Naphtali. And the next two after that are Leah's servant Zilpa's Gad and Asher. And then the next two are back to Leah again, it's Kar and Zebulon. And then the eleventh and twelfth are Joseph and Benjamin of Rachel's. children and Rachel dies in childbirth with Benjamin, as we saw last time. So that's the family of Jacob that we're following here. Last time we talked about a couple of incidents in Jacob's youth. He's 17 years old and he gives a bad report. Jacob we see Jacob's favoritism. Uh one incident is this a spectacular coat that he gives to Joseph but not the others. And of course Br Jacob's br uh Joseph's brothers uh despise him because of the favoritism. So those Hebrew words that describe the coat uh in the book of Genesis, those Hebrew words in and of themselves have nothing to do with color. Um there's no place else but mentioned. Right. Right. It's kind of like a royal flowing robe is what it's those Hebrew words really describe. Um and so he and then he has these dreams and the dreams are obvious. It's Joseph's sheaf and everybody else's sheaf spelled out and then the sun moons and the stars. bow down to him. Um and so then that's just one more reason for uh Joseph's brothers to to hate him However, we do see a couple of things. We see that Joseph can interpret dreams. He has dreams and interprets dreams and we see that come back as a theme. And we see his father, although he first rebukes him, um he uh it's the books the Genesis says his father kept the saying in mind. So he kept in mind that Joseph had had these dreams. Um so his brothers go to another town to shepherd the flock and Jacob sends Joseph up there after them. uh to check on them and he goes from one town to another and finally finds them in Dothan. So the family is centered around Hebron And but they've they've got these enormous flocks and they have got to move the flocks around to find pasture land. And so some of the brothers are up there in Shechem. Um which is fifty miles from Hebron. Jacob sends Joseph up there. He can't find him and Shechem. He has to go another 13 miles to Dothan to finally find them. The brothers, as soon as they see him, they plot to kill him. Ruben convinces them not to kill him, uh, and he's planning to rescue him, but By the time he gets back, he's gone. Joseph's brothers take the coat away right away, the symbol of his uh uh favoritism from their father. Reuben goes away to tend the flocks for a while, and the brothers then see a caravan of Ishmaelites coming on their way to Egypt, and Judah. One of the other brothers recommend he suggests us, hey, why don't we make a little money out of this thing and let's sell them in uh to the pasting Ishmaelites. And so they do, they sell them for twenty pieces of silver Uh and then they had to plan to uh to explain it all away to their father, uh Jacob. They slaughter a goat, put some blood from the goat on this spectacular coat of Joseph's that is distinctive and the father will definitely recognize and then they take it back to their father and say, Hey look, here's the coat. Isn't this j isn't this Joseph's coat? Look at the blood on it. He must have been killed by a wild animal And Joseph buys it. And meanwhile, the Ishmaelites continue on down to Egypt and sell Joseph to a man named Potiphar in Egypt. So they continue on their caravan way down to Egypt and sell him to Potiphar down there in Egypt. So, any questions about what we saw last week? So now Joseph, 17 years old, he's a slave in Egypt, and the rest of the brothers are up there in the land of Canaan. We're going to take a little detour into Genesis chapter 38. And just to give you a little bit of background, so Joseph is 17. uh in what in the story we just did in Genesis chapter 37. When the brothers go down to Egypt and see him again, he's forty. So there's a 23-year period here. And the Holy Spirit uh inspires Moses to to take a break in the story of Joseph and um and explain the story of Judah and really Genesis chapter 38 actually fills in for Judah the whole, probably the whole 23 years because he goes to Canaan, he moves away from his family, he abandons his family, he moves to Canaan Kind of like Lot lived in Sodom, he goes and lives in Canaan. And he lives in Canaan long enough to get married have three children, and have his children grow up old enough to have to have wives of their own. So Genesis 38 essentially tells the whole story of Judah from the time when they sold Joseph into slavery to the time when the brothers are going down again to to see him in Egypt. It's it's a 23-year story of just the life of Judah And we'll talk about why would the Holy Spirit do that. Take a take just just focus on this one brother and tell his life story and not all the rest of the brothers. Okay. Um I was just going to do an overview, but maybe Should we read the actual scripture? Maybe we'll read the actual scripture. So turn in your Bible to Genesis 38. Let's read through this actual scripture. The map that you see there is the land of Canaan. You can see It's kind of small. But here's Hebron there where they're they're living. And Judah goes to the main area of Canaan into a Canaanite town. It goes to uh three different ones, Jezebel and Eneam and Timnah. But he lives for 23 years away from his family with the Canaanites. He's got a Canaanite best friend and a Canaanite wife And he has Canaanite daughter in law. Uh he's essentially kind of, you know, he's become a Canaanite. He's moved in with the Canaanites. Alright, so Genesis chapter 38. Starting in verse 1, let's read through this. It happened at that time that Judah went down from his brothers and turned aside to a certain Adelemite whose name was Hira. So he's a Canaanite. There Judah saw the daughter of a certain Canaanite whose name was Shuah. He took her and went into her, and she conceived a bore son, and he called his name Ur. She conceived again a bore son, and she called his name Onan. Yet again she bore a son and she called his name Sheila. Judah was in Chezeb when she bore him, and so Chezeb is a town right here in uh Canaan and so he's he's been there long enough to get married and have three sons. And then verse 6 works forward. So these three boys have just been born in the previous verses, and in verse 6 it says, And Judah took a wife for Ur's firstborn So he's been there long enough, he's living among the Canaanites long enough for his kids to grow up and become old enough to have uh wives of their own And Judah took a wife for Ur's firstborn, and her name was Tamar. She's another Canaanite. And Ur, Judah's firstborn, was wicked in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord put him to death. Now how wicked do you have to be for the Lord to strike you dead uh right on the spot? Pretty wicked, right? We see a lot of wicked people and the Lord doesn't always just strike them dead. Ur was so wicked Uh this son of Judah, this this uh this wonderful man Judah has a son who's so wicked that the Lord strikes him dead. Um then Judah said to Onan His second son, to Onan, go into your brother's wife and perform the duty of a brother-in-law to her and raise up offspring for your brother. So that's in accordance accordance with the law called the lever levitrate law, leverate law, which evidently i i it's later on it's incorporated incorporated into the law of Moses Uh but evidently it existed in the in the ancient Near East even before Moses wrote it into the Law of Moses. Uh but uh a younger brother had to uh marry uh if his older brother die his other well it didn't have to be older. If if uh a brother was married to a woman and he died, his brothers had to perform the duties of a husband for her. Um and so Judah does this, he sends the second horn. Uh but Onan knew that the offspring would not be his, so whenever he went into his brother's wife, he would waste the semen on the ground so as not to give offspring to his brother. And what he did was wicked in the sight of the Lord, and he put him to death also. So the Lord strikes the second son dead. Directly the Lord strikes him dead. And then Judah said to Tamor, his daughter-in-law, remain a widow in your father's house till Sheila, my son, grows up. So the third son is evidently not quite old enough to have to be married yet. So he he she he sends her back to his father-in-law's, to her father's house to remain a widow until the other son grows up. For he feared that he would die like his brothers So he thinks so this is some sort of black widow situation here where everybody that marries this woman died. Now whose fault was it really? It wasn't the woman's fault. It wasn't Tamar's fault. It was these boys doing wicked things and God killed them because they, those boys did wicked things. In the course of time, the wife of Judah, Shua's daughter, died. And so Judah's wife dies. So his first two sons have died, and now his wife died uh the Canaanite wife that he took. Uh when Judah was comforted he went up to Timnah to his sheep shear. So Timnah is another city in Canaan Uh he went up there to shear his sheep. So he's got flocks and he's taking his sheep up there to be sheared. So uh and when Tamar and he went up to his friend Hyra Hira the Adolamite, so his his uh his best buddy the the Canaanite is up there And so when Tamar was told your father-in-law is going up to Timnah to shear a sheep, she took off her widow's garments and covered herself with a veil, wrapping herself up, and sat at the entrance to a Nayum, which is on the road to Timnah. And Naem is right here between Tezab and Timnah. Uh so she sits down on the ground. She dresses up like a prostitute and sits on the ground on the road where she knows he will have to pass by. And so it because and she did this because for she knew that Sheila was grown up and she had not been given to him in marriage. So the ol the third boy was old enough to marry now and she wasn't She wasn't getting him to be her husband. When Judah saw her, he thought she was a prostitute, for she had covered her face. He turned to her at the roadside and some said, Come let uh let me come into you. So he's looking for a prostitute. He sees a prostitute and he goes after the prostitute She said, What will you give me that you may come into me? He answered, I will send you a young goat from the flock. And she said, If you give me a pledge until you send it He said, What pledge shall I give you? She replied, Your signet and your cord and your staff, that is your in your hand. So he gave them to her and went into her and she continued When Judah sent the young goat by his friend, the Adolamite, to take back the pledge from the woman's hand, he did not find her. And he asked the men of the place, where is the cult prostitute who was at Aeneam at the roadside? And they said, No cult prostitute has been here. So he returned to Judah and said, I have not found her. Also the men of the place said, No cult prostitute has been here. And Judah replied, Let her keep the things as her own, or we shall be laughed at. You see, I sent this young goat and you did not find her. About three months later, Judah was told, Tamar, your daughter-in-law, has been immoral. Moreover, she is pregnant by immorality. And Judah said, Bring her out and let her be burned. What a horrific Hypocrite, this this man, this wonderful man Judah Judas. So uh let her be burned. As she was being brought out, she sent word to her father-in-law by the man To whom these belong, I am pregnant. And she said, please identify whose these are, the signet and the cord and the staff Then Judah identified them and said, She is more righteous than I, since I did not give her to my son Shelah, and he did not know her again. When the time of her labor came there were twins in her womb, and when she was in labor she put out a hand, and the midwife took and tied a scarlet thread on his hand, saying, This one came out first, but as he drew back his hand, behold his brother came out And she said, What a breach you have made for yourself. Therefore his name was called Perez. Afterward his brother came out with a scarlet thread on his hand, and his name was called Zera. Alright, so uh what do we learn from this story? First of all, Judah is a horrific human being, right? He's terrible. He's an awful man. He he behaves poorly all the way around here. First of all, he leaves this family. He lives with the Canaanites. He marries a Canaanite woman. He has no problem searching out and paying for prostitutes. This is the character of this man, Judah. He doesn't follow the law that he's supposed to give the son He's raised these two boys that are so wicked that the Lord strikes them down. He's a horrific hu human being. So uh just to summarize the story, uh Judah Firstborn Ur marries Tamor, but he die. He doesn't just die, he's the Lord snuffs him out. Uh Judah commands Ur's brother Onan to marry the sleep uh sleep with Tamor, but she doesn't get pregnant because he He deliberately spills his seed on the ground when he sleeps with her. And so the Lord snuffs him out too because of his evil actions. Judah promises Tamar his third son, but sometime in the uh in the vague future, uh once he comes of age Tamar hears that Judah's going to Timna. She dresses herself up as a prostitute on the road. Judah sees her, thinks he's a prostitute, and sleeps with her. And of course there's a painting, because there's a painting of everything in the Old Testament, Verne, uh famous painter Vernet, uh Judah and Tamar. There she is, dressed as a prostitute, there he is doing the negotiation, giving the staff there. Um so uh Judah pledges the young goat, but he doesn't have it on him. So uh uh he doesn't have the cash on him, so he has to give a pledge that he's gonna send uh the the the payment later, and he gives things that are uh personally identifiable things his seal and his cord on his staff. Tamar gets pregnant, and then when Tamar, when Judah hears that she's pregnant, he orders that she be burnt. uh that she be put to death because she's done something immoral. Um and but she proves that he's the father of the baby by bringing out these things that he pledged. And Judah confesses that Tamar is more right than he is. So and then Tamar gives birth to twins. So the Holy Spirit inspires Moses to interrupt the story of Joseph and put this in there. And so there's got to be a purpose. Why is it that the Holy Spirit interrupts the story that we've been following to tell this bizarre story of Judah? Well, so and what happens in the story? Judah leaves his family, lives with the Canaanites, marries a pagan woman, he's trapped in this story of deceit and sexual immorality, which provides a contrast with the story we're about to read. So we're about to read about Joseph, who is who receives this extreme temptation for to sexual immorality, and Joseph resists the temptation. Judah does not. It provides a good contrast. That's one thing. It also demonstrates a development of character in Judah. It shows where Judah came from. By the end of the story, there's a turning point. He realizes his own wickedness. He starts to realize his own wickedness. And when we see Judo again He takes leadership among the brothers and he takes actions that are honorable and right. And so the Holy Spirit shows us how far Judah has come. What depravity came out of shows us what the turning point is where the where God showed him his own hypocrisy and immorality. And then we see the results later on. It ends with the birth of Judah's son Perez by his daughter-in-law Tamar. Why is that important? Perez is the ancestor of both King David and King Jesus. So this story is another important link in God's plan for the redemption of mankind. And so it just shows you that God uses people, even very wicked people, uh, for his good purposes. So uh if we follow the genealogy, Jacob through his wife Leah has a son Judah, and these are the ancestors of Jesus, but it's also this woman Tamar through whom Jesus comes. So open your Bible to Matthew chapter 1. So the very first verse of the New Testament. The very first verse in the New Testament is a genealogy of Jesus. And so Matthew chapter 1, verse 1. The record of the genealogy of Jesus the Messiah, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Abraham was the father of Isaac, Isaac the father of Jacob, and Jacob the father of Judah and his brothers. Judah was the father of Perez and Zirah by who? Tamar. Tamar, the story we just read in Genesis 38. There she is in Jesus genealogy in the very first few verses of the New Testament. Perez was the father of Hezron, and Hezron the father of Ram, Ram was the father of Aminadab, Aminadab the father of Nashon, Nashan the father of Salman. Salmon was the father of Boaz by who? Rahab, another prostitute. Boaz was the father of Hobed by Ruth. By who A Moabitus and Obed, the father of Jesse. Jesse was the father of David the king. So what does this tell you? There's only three women listed in Jesus' genealogy. And who are they? Well none well none of the three of them is a descendant of Abraham, first of all. None of them are descendants of Abraham. Tamar is a Canaanite, prostitute. Uh Rahab's a Canaanite prostitute. Ruth is a Moabites. And where do the Moabites come from? From Lot, from Lot's incestuous relationship with his daughters. And these are the three and so what does this teach us about the Lord and uh about how he uses people and um and the the the way that he can use me and you, regardless of our background, where where we came from. He he uses people that have come out of terrible circumstances, people who have done terrible things. for his good purposes. And we see that come out in this story in Genesis 38, and we see it come to fruition in the New Testament when it when we see that that the Lord has by his perfect wisdom has weaved these three women into the family tree of Jesus the Messiah. Uh including Tamar, um who Deliberately dressed up as a prostitute so she could sleep with her father-in-law. Um and the f and Judah, who deliberately saw the house and hired a prostitute. Um yeah. Okay. So great story. It's a great story of how God God's purposes are the the the thoughts of God are not our thoughts. Would any of us have thought, let's put a Canaanite prostitute into Jesus' family tree? None of us would have thought of that What it means to show that Jesus is the Messiah of everyone the Jews. I think that's a big part of it that that these three women in particular, uh obviously there was a woman involved in every single one of the generations that that's in there But only three of them are listed, and those three, none of them are Jews. None of them are descendants of Abraham to show, and I think that one of the things that that shows is that Jesus is the Messiah for everyone. Not just Jews. Yeah. Yes. When they got real mad and he said today this prophecy is being fulfilled in your hearing. And um he started they got acted real violently for war similar and he started quoting the Old Testament and he called it Naim. And um one more person that wasn't part of the literature of the Jews and everything and they got real mad 'cause he said God said um Elijah to all the widows in Egypt, not all the widows, but he such that he had a lot of widows in Egypt, Jewish widows in Canaan. A lot of Jewish widows, but God said the problem lies at Jewish um I forgot the widow's name. Well Yeah, so yeah, so there are l lots of examples uh in Jesus' ministry and in the uh the rest of the New Testament that stressed that that salvation is for everyone and and why was it so important for the Holy Spirit to uh prompt the writers of the New Testament to write that What have the Jews been told for their whole existence? They are the people of God. They're supposed to be separate from everybody else. Don't intermarry. Don't you know, they're separate. You're you're the people of God, separate, separate, separate, separate. But now we're all one in Christ Jesus. And so that's a radical difference that had to be emphasized over and over again by Jesus in his ministry and by the apostles. Yes, Richard. uh uh being so evil that they ignore uh the historical facts of the the line of the messiah. That uh that's right. Yeah But you know, that but the Holy Spirit has the New Testament start right out as first few verses are that genealogy And in Matthew's genealogy, he doesn't go all the way back to uh Adam. Uh the one Luke goes all the way back to Adam, but this one only goes back to Abraham. Um and and one of the effects of that is we get these three non-Jewish women right packed right there in the first few verses of the New Testament. Um okay. So uh let's go back to our story in Genesis. The the the author of Genesis, the the Holy Spirit inspiring Moses, then goes back to Joseph. We've done this detail to basically catch us up for the whole life of of Judah um that we've missed uh that we might miss if we didn't get this chapter thirty eight. Now that's the thirty nine goes back to Joseph so Turn ahead to Genesis 39. Now Joseph had been taken down to Egypt, and Potiphar, an Egyptian officer of Pharaoh, the captain of the bodyguard, bought him from the Ishmaelites who had taken him down there. The Lord was with Joseph. So he became a successful man, and he was in the house of his master the Egyptian. Now his master saw that the Lord was with him, and how the Lord caused all that he did to prosper in his hand. So Joseph found favor in his sight and became his personal servant. And he made him overseer over his house, and all that he owned, he put in his charge. It came about that from the time he made him overseer in his house, and over all that he owned, the Lord blessed the Egyptian's house on account of Joseph. Thus the Lord's blessing was upon all that he owned in the house and in the field. Continuing verse 6. Now Joseph was handsome in form and appearance. Interestingly enough, that's the exact Hebrew phrase that she used of Rachel. When uh Jacob sees Rachel and says that she's lovely in form and figure. It's exactly the same Hebrew phrase here, uh describing her son Joseph as handsome in of form and appearance. Um it came about after these events that this his master's wife looked with desire at Joseph And she said, Lie with me. But he refused, and said to his master's wife, Behold, with me here my master does not concern himself with anything in the house, and he has put all that he owns in my charge There is no one greater in this house than I, and he has withheld nothing from me except you, because you are his wife. How then could I do this great evil and sin against God? As she spoke to Joseph, day after day, he did not listen to her to lie beside her or be with her. Now it happened one day that he went into the house to do his work, and none of the men of the household were inside Excuse me. She caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me. And he left his garment in her hand and fled and went outside. When she saw that he had left his garment in her hand, and had fled outside, she called to the men of her household, and said to them, See, he has brought in a Hebrew to us to make sport of us He came in to me to lie with me, and I screamed. When he heard that I raised my voice and screamed, he left his garment beside me and fled, and went outside. So she left his garment beside her until his master came home Then she spoke to him with these words The Hebrew slave whom you brought to us came in to me to make sport of me, and as I raised my voice and screamed, he left his garment beside me and fled outside. So first of all take a look at the contrast between Judah and Joseph. And Judah's much older, should know better. Joseph's only seventeen, but he resisted the temptation and Judah does not. Joseph is handsome and Potiphar's wife tries to sleep with him, but Joseph turns her down. One day she grabs Joseph's garment, asks him to sleep with her. Joseph flees from temptation and leaves his garment behind. And of course there's a painting. Uh by Guido Rennie of a v a suspiciously European looking uh Potiphar's wife. With Europe European dresses dress on, and he's fleeing as she grabs onto his uh his coat there. So the biblical author returns to the story of Joseph, and we see he is subject to sexual temptation, just like Judah had been. Whereas Judah succumbs, Joseph refuses to give in. Another interesting thing we see in this passage is the phrase, the Lord was with Joseph, is used four times in chapter 39. Verse 2, 3, 21, 23, the Lord is with Joseph. So the Holy Spirit is making sure we see that as an important theme in this chapter. The Lord is with Joseph. Yeah, we're yeah, we're gonna talk about that in a minute here. So uh the repetition is to emphasize this is a key concept in the story of Joseph, that Yahweh is with them. The Lord there is Yahweh. With all the tragedy in Joseph's life, abuse at the hands of his brothers, sail into slavery, and now false accusations that land him in prison, God is still in control. He's in control of this whole story Um, and that's really clear from the way the scripture puts it. Everything is unfolding according to God's good purposes. Now, does it look very good to Joseph? From the bottom of the cistern to slavery to we'll see he ends up in prison. It doesn't look so nice to Joseph, but It's clear that God is with him even in all these terrible circumstances, and that God's plans and purposes are unfolding. So, in spite of the circumstances, God continues to cause Joseph to succeed in such a way that his master saw that the Lord was with him. It's so obvious to everybody around that the Lord is with him that even this pagan master of his said, well, there's something about this Joseph guy that uh everything about him succeeds. Everyt everything he does, everything he touches succeeds, and he's promoted to overseer of Potiphar's household, where he can be a po powerful witness to the omnipotence of God Unfortunately, being a household steward brought Joseph into frequent contact with Potiphar's wife Uh we see in verse 6, handsome informant parents, and as I said, that's the exact Hebrew phrase used in Genesis 29, 17 to describe Rachel, Joseph's mother. Then in verse 7, the temptation comes as his master's wife looked with desire at Joseph, and she said, Lie with me Pretty bold. I mean, uh we don't know what the build-off was, but this is pretty bold. She just gra she just comes to a servant in the house and says, Sleep with me. Joseph flatly refuses, which is dangerous because he's a slave. She's given him an order, and he's flat out refused to obey the order that she's given him. He takes time to explain to her why he will not comply. And he gives two reasons. The first one is he runs the entire household, and Potifer trusts him. So he says, hey, it's not right to betray the trust of my master who has given me charge of the household. But the second one is very interesting, as Ann pointed out a minute ago Uh such adulterous activity is a sin against God, he says to her. So he actually uses this opportunity as an opportunity to witness to her about The one true God. The name Yahweh, the covenant name of God, is not used here in this verse because Joseph is talking to an Egyptian. And an Egyptian wouldn't know the covenant name of God. And so he uses the generic name Elohim. uh the one that she will understand uh that this refers to God. Joseph shows himself to be an upright, moral, godly young man. Um and this is a pretty severe temptation here for a 17 year old. Unfortunately, the temptation is not an isolated incident. She keeps coming at them over and over and over again. She's relentless, as we see in verse 10, constantly trying to coax and lure Joseph into an adulterous affair. So it's not just a one-time thing. She does it over and over and over and over again, and he resists over and over and over and over again. Eventually she corners him when there's no one else around. And he has to f he has to f literally flee from iniquity and leave his garment behind. The woman now needs to arrange a cover-up for her bad behavior. First she calls the other servants, and this is very sly. So here's this Hebrew, this Hebrew, very young Hebrew man comes in And the master has put him above all these other slaves, some of whom were probably native Egyptians. It doesn't say, the Bible doesn't say who these other servants were. But there ha uh what's human nature when somebody comes from outside and is promoted above you? Jealousy. Jealousy, right? So i it it it's it would be almost inconceivable if the other servants weren't jealous. of Joseph's quick promotions to the top of the household. And so she's clever enough to get these other servants to help her with the story. She calls the other servants and blames her husband for bringing in this Hebrew and promoting him above these other servants. And so she tells both the servants and her husband that Joseph attacked her rather than the other way around. And of course she's got evidence. Here's the coat right here. She's got evidence of Joseph's crime. And so Potiphar comes home he and his wife is hysterical and there's the evidence right there on the bed of Joseph's coat there. She's got a story. The servants are all saying, Yeah, there was a big commotion and we saw Joseph run out. So the servants are telling the same story as the wife is. And so what does that look like to Potiphar? It looks like Joseph is guilty. She's she's thought it out pretty well. She's got a good frame for him. Um and of course she's didn't get her way, and so now she's trying to destroy Joseph. Alright, so then Potiphar comes home. Continuing the story in verse 19 of uh of Genesis 39 Now when his master heard the words of his wife, which she spoke to him, saying, This is what your slave did to me, his anger burned. So Joseph's master took him and put him into the jail. the place where the king's prisoners were confined, and he was there in the jail. But the Lord was with Joseph and extended kindness to him and gave him favor in the sight of the chief jailer. The chief jailer committed to Joseph's charge all the prisoners who were in the jail, so that whatever was done there, he was responsible for it. The chief jailer did not supervise anything under Joseph's charge because the Lord was with him, and whatever he did, the Lord made to prosper. So it's the same thing in prison as it was in Potiphar's household. Everybody can see that the Lord is with Joseph. So uh Potiphar's wife tells Potiphar that Joseph tried to sleep with her And he ran away, leaving his garment. Potiphar throws Joseph into prison. And the Lord is still with Joseph in prison. And the chief jailer puts all the prisoners into Joseph's care. Joseph's life moves from one tragedy to the next, from the bottom of a cistern to slave traders to slavery in a household. Now that he's in prison. He was a slave, of course, but at least his conditions had improved as he found favor with his master Um and now in spite of doing the right thing over and over and over again, Joseph's life hits rock bottom as he's thrown into prison. For something he didn't do. But once again, regardless of the circumstances, the Lord was with Joseph. The chief tailer sees the same thing in Joseph that Potiphar did. That everything Joseph does turns out well because the Lord is with him. So yeah. through Joseph in the prison to stay face because his wife uh he didn't want to embarrass her Could be. Uh yeah, could be. Uh it says his anger burned. So uh it from from that little phrase, the anger his anger burned, it seems like he he bought the story that the wife and the servants wrote. As God caused Joseph to rise in standing in Potiphar's house, so now he causes him to attain status in prison. Same thing. God's with him. Uh his circumstances are awful, but what is what's what's the one thing that he actually has? The Lord is with him. And then continuing in verse 4, so he's in prison. So he's a 17-year-old man, and he he he spends Uh from the age of seventeen to the age of thirty, he's either a slave or he's in prison. So for a thirteen-year period, he's a slave and in prison. Between these two these two events. Okay. So this is the prison part. Then it came about after these things. So then it came about after these things in the Hebrew narrative. i it it it designates the passage of time. So it's not just the day after he got in prison. He's been in prison for a while. That's what that phrase means. Then it came about after these things The cupbearer and the baker for the king of Egypt offered their lord the king of Egypt. Uh offended, I'm sorry. Uh offended their lord the king of Egypt Pharaoh was furious with his two officials, the chief cupbearer and the chief baker, so he put them in confinement in the house of the captain of the bodyguard in the jail, the same place where Joseph was imprisoned. The captain of the bodyguard put Joseph in charge of them, because he was in charge of all the prisoners. And he took care of them, and they were in confinement for some time. So more time passes. Then the cupbearer and the baker for the king of Egypt, who were confined in jail, both had a dream the same night, each man with his own dream, and each dream with its own interpretation. When Joseph came to them in the morning and observed them, behold, they were dejected. So they had this dream that was troubling them, and Joseph could tell that they were troubled. Then they said to him, We have had a dream, and there is no one to interpret it. Then Joseph said to them, Do not interpretations belong to God? Tell it to me, please. So the chief cup-bearer told his dream to Joseph and said to him, In my dream, behold, there was a vine in front of me. And on the vine were three branches, and as it was budding its blossoms came out, and its clusters produced ripe grapes. Now Pharaoh's cup was in my hand, so I took the grapes and squeezed them into Pharaoh's cup, and I put the cup into Pharaoh's hand. Then Joseph said to him, This is the interpretation of it. The three branches are three days. Within three more days, Pharaoh will lift up your head and restore you to your office. And you will put Pharaoh's cup into his hand according to your former custom when you were his cupbearer Uh then verse 16. Uh when the chief baker saw that he interpreted favorably, so he saw, hey, that guy got a good that his dream turned out great. Let me tell my dream. When the chief baker saw that he interpreted favorably, he said to Joseph, I s I also saw in my dream, and behold, there were three baskets of white bread on my head, and in the top basket there were some of it uh some of all sort of baked food for Pharaoh, and the birds were eating them out of the basket on my head. Then Joseph answered and said, This is its interpretation. The three baskets are three days. Within three more days, Pharaoh will lift up your head from you and will hang you on a tree, and the birds will eat the flesh off of you. Ouch. Thus it came about on the third day, which was Pharaoh's birthday, that he made a feast for all his servants, and he lifted up the head of the chief cupbearer and the head of the chief baker among his servants He restored the chief cup-bearer to his office, and he put the cup into Pharaoh's hand, and he hanged the chief baker just as Joseph had interpreted to them. So, Pharaoh's cup, Baron, Baker, they offend the king somehow. Doesn't say what they did, but they offended him, and he tossed him in the same prison where Joseph was. They both had dreams and J Joseph interprets the dreams. The cupbearer's dream um is that there there'll be these vines and grapes, and he'll squeeze grapes and he'll put the f And Joseph tells him the interpretation that he's going to be restored to his position. And Joseph asks the cupbearer to remember him. She says, when he restored you, so think about the confidence that Joseph has. So this is this is when he gives the interpretation of the dream longer than three days before he's actually restored Joseph talks about it as if it's a certainty. A certainty that the cupbearer will be restored, and he said, When you're restored, remember me. And of course he doesn't. Um the baker dreams of the three baskets on his head of birds eating the food out, and Joseph gives the interpretation that he's going to be hanged and the birds are going to eat his flesh. And after three days it goes exactly as Joseph had interpreted, that the Lord had given him the true interpretation of these dreams and and the dreams come true. Cupbearer is restored and the baker is hanged. But the cupbearer does not remember Joseph. We'll see when we pick it up again, it's two years later. He spends two more years in prison after this. After he tells the cupbearer to remember him The cupbearer now the is the did the cupbearer forget about this incident in his life? I think not. He didn't. But is he gonna rock the boat? He's been restored to his position, which he's lost once before. Is he gonna stick his head up and say, hey, what about my buddy Joseph? Or is he gonna keep his head down and not rock the boat so he doesn't get his own position jeopardized He's gonna do he's gonna do the cowardly thing and keep his head down until there comes an opportunity when he can benefit from remembering Joseph, which we'll see next time. Of course there's a painting. A painting of the baker being taken away to be hanged from the early 1500s by Jacopo Pantormo. Alright, so what do we learn from these uh this story here? Um so what about these dreams that keep popping up here in the Old Testament? So, uh people in church today are often troubled by these various means by which God spoke to his people in the Old Testament. He came to them in dreams, he came, he appeared to them. uh talked to them, wrestled with Jacob, all these uh strange things that God did to to contact people and talk to people and reveal himself to people. Is that happening today? If so, why? If not, why not? So people want to know what's going on here. Well, there's an answer. The Bible has an answer to that. The first few verses of Hebrews are an answer to that. Yes, it does. So uh the first few verses of of Hebrews tell us that God, after he spoke long ago to the fathers and the prophets in many portions in many ways. So in other words, in the Old Testament he spoke in many ways. He he he spoke directly to Adam and Eve and Cain and Abel and appeared in dreams and appeared in visions and talked to Abraham. Um showed up at Abraham's campfire. Um He he did all these things. And Hebrews says, so that happened in the Old Testament in many ways, in many portions, and then and then the book of Hebrews tells him, in these last days he has spoken to us in who And his son. So the revelation is complete in Christ Jesus. The fulfillment of all that the Old Testament has been pointing forward to is Christ Jesus. And so the revelation, the story of divine revelation is a story of progression up to Christ, but there is no progression beyond him. Christ is the is the final revelation of God's plan for history. And so we would not expect Now, God can do what he likes, but we would not expect, based on these first chapters of verses of Hebrews, that God is going to be walking around appearing to people in dreams and visions. Because he did that for a purpose, to point forward to Christ, but now Christ is here, and the revelation is complete. So uh the other thing that we see is it's it's very difficult to fathom. Think about the 17-year-olds that you know. Think about the 17-year-olds that you've had in your uh in your life, that you've known during your lifetime. It's very difficult to imagine any of them going through this and not becoming discouraged. But nowhere in the text does it say that Joseph became discouraged or just was in despair. you know, his brothers sell him into slavery, he's in slavery, he's thrown into prison. Um i i it it's um It's amazing that God was with him and Joseph was spiritually mature enough to know that God was with him and he didn't fall into um Despair. Um so it's an amazing story, the story of Joseph. Um and why was it that Joseph didn't fall into despair? He knew that God was with him. He saw God over and over and over again rescue him and be with him and bless him even in difficult circumstances. And so what's the lesson for us? The Lord is with us. The Lord is with us. He's promised to be with us. He showed in this one particular example of Joseph that he is with his people. no matter what circumstances they're in. So no matter what trials we go through, no matter what difficulties come into our lives, we know this one thing. The Lord is with us. Um and if the Lord is with us, then who can be against us? And so that's the lesson really of the the early part of the life of Joseph. All right. Uh we have a few minutes left. Any oh I think that's the end. Yeah. Yes, go ahead. Austin and I, we were up in New York. at this function and there was a lady that we had known her name was Rosie and she was straight up radius I mean she got you know it. And I hadn't seen her in years and I was like, whoa she said, nothing but the blood of Jesus And I went. Look, I woke and she said, I had a dream that I was at the foot of the cross under Jesus Christ and his blood was coming on my head and I could tell everybody is nothing but the bloody gene. Yeah. So do still happen. I believe that's yeah, I I s I I certainly believe that's still possible today. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I was going to say something similar to what she just said. Matter of fact, it is Muslim Evangel Evangelism major Muslims throughout the Middle East that have the dreams of Jesus Christ appearing to them and everything and many and I know some of them now They have a a a gospel ministry because of the dreams that moved them towards Christ and they accepted Christ as their Savior and now they're they're major um defendants of the faith to other Muslims. But either one Nobil Kharish. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So um i it seems to me that When when there are circumstances where um there's no other way. So in places where they don't allow the Bible to even be printed or carried or um that it's it's much more likely and much more common that people have dreams still to this day. Um and so in other words, if if if man is determined to keep the gospel out and goes through great lengths of keeping the gospel out of a certain place, that God finds a way. Uh so that the gospel gets into that place. I will say the one difficult part to Sort of address people that say, Hey I had a dream. The one thing is you didn't have a dream about the future, you had a dream about what the Lord told you in the Bible, which led you to the Lord. But do not put any stock in like putting the lottery in a week or or anything else or basing the ministry off of that. It may inspire you, but You still need to evaluate it against the Bible. That's true. That is true. That the revelation is complete and there can't be for example, there can't be a revelation that's contrary to the Bible. Uh you ke you can't have a you can't have a dream or vision that tells you to have an adulterous affair, for example. Right. Um that's not from the Lord. Uh yes. Much like my questions will be tangential to this conversation. Um the the chapter thirty-eight of adding Judith Amar Story I'm wondering as as as the common person reads the Bible today, unless you study it, you're probably not going to say, oh, this is a contrast between Jude and Joseph still obviously. Well, so uh one of the things that uh so i one of the things that hurts us sometimes is if we If we just read a few verses and we laid aside and we come back and read a few verses, and so um Verse chapter thirty-eight is right before chapter thirty-nine, and so chapter thirty-eight is about this sexual immorality of of Judah. And chapter 39 immediately launches into uh Joseph being tempted sexually. So if you just read through, it's obvious. Now, if you just read four or five verses of 38 and you come back the next week and read four or five verses of 38, and it's three or four weeks later when you get to verse chapter thirty nine or maybe never read chapter thirty nine, then no it's not going to be obvious at all. But if you read it through, um the way I think it was intended to be read through, um it uh it makes sense. But sometimes we um I think we hurt ourselves did my mic go out? Yeah batteries dead. 100% dead. Alright, so I'll we only have a few more minutes. Let me let me uh take another question here. One interesting take on the Potiphar and Joseph's situation is that um scripture says that Potiphar was angry uh when he heard the story, but you would think that Joseph being a slave if he believed completely what his wife said, that he wouldn't be put to death. He wouldn't be put to prison. And um I I just wonder that's a good point. Yeah that's a good point. Um that that certainly if he yeah, a hundred percent if he believed it a hundred percent, then y y you wonder why was there not a death penalty. And so it could be that part of that anger was for the wife. I mean if he realized that it was the wife who made it up and a as Richard suggested, he he had to kind of cover for his wife. It would be a big embarrassment to his whole household if it if it came out that his wife was, you know trolling after the the help that in order to save face he had to put him in prison but um but he didn't put him to death Right. And and ultimately why did he not put him to death? Because because the Lord was with him and the Lord was not gonna let him be put to death. And so he was not gonna be put to death. But I think from a human standpoint it is interesting that there's no indication that Potter's initial inclination was to try to put him to death. And there could be a clue in there. about who he was really angry angry with. Yeah. Okay. Alright, am I back? Can you hear me? All right. Uh Uh and we've run out of time. Let me uh let me let me close this with prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for uh what we read in your word and the way that you are so patient And you work with us even as we go through difficult times, even when uh when we have periods of disobedience, that you uh that you are patient with us and that you fulfill your purposes by and through people, even uh people who are uh do unsavory things. We thank you for your sovereignty over everything in regard to your plan of salvation. that it was your plan and that because of your mighty power, that that plan is assured. that uh that you definitely were going to bring Christ into this world, that he was going to live a sinless life and that he was going to die uh as a substitute for us on the cross What a wonderful thing that is, Lord, that you brought all of that to pass through so many different varying circumstances. And we thank you, Lord, for the great privilege of being ambassadors for Jesus Christ to those around us. We pray that you would give us the words to say when we have encounters with people around us, our friends and neighbors and co-workers and family members that so desperately need the light of the gospel. Pray that we would get opportunities to share the gospel, and in those opportunities the Holy Spirit would use us for your purposes, for your good purposes, and according to your will. We thank you, Lord, for the chance we have now for corporate worship. We pray that the songs that we sing and the prayers that we give and And the sermon that we hear would all be pleasing in your sight and would bring glory to your name. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.