Today we're going to be continuing through the um the patriarchal journey. You all have started with Abraham. I'm going to be doing Isaac, which is sort of transition from Abraham to Jacob But before we proceed into Isaac's lesson, I did want to go back And revisit some points that you all had already discussed so that it could be emphasized a little bit more the uh importance of Isaac. But before we get started, why don't we start in prayer? Well Father God, thank you for another day. Father, we are grateful for each and every day that we awake. We thank you for this wonderful day where we could remember that you are risen. You defeated death on the cross. Not because of any wrong that you had done, but because of our fallen nature. When you looked upon us, Father God, you you had compassion on your people. But you realize that for you to be a just God, we had to pay for our sins. But there was no way for you us to do that. And so like only you could do, you came up with a plan to rescue us from our own demise. You sent your son to down the cross for our sins. You were bruised For us. When they spat on you, when they kicked you, when they put you down, when they put the cross on your back. You could have spoken up, Father God, but you said nothing And for the longest time I've tried to figure out why you did not say a thing, Lord. But then I realized that you were taking our place. And we were guilty And therefore we c there was no defense. You took the brunt of it for each and every one of us. And all that you asked for returns that we put our faith in you and by putting our faith in you that we walk in a manner that brings your name, glory. This morning as we talk about Isaac, I pray, Father God, that we are able to see you in his life And that we are able to take the lesson that we see in his life and apply to our lives so that we may go into the world and proclaim you unashamedly. And profess to the world that Jesus is risen, Jesus is alive, Jesus is Lord forevermore. Amen Abraham's story, as you all know, really begins at the ending of chapter eleven. That's when we're first introduced to him officially. God shifted his attention from mankind broadly speaking to one man, Abraham, from whom he Would build a nation, Israel, a chosen people, who would be the ultimate way that our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ would come into the world Through whom all believers also receive Reconciliation. Romans five twelve. In Genesis eleven twenty seven, as we said as I've stated We see that Abraham and his father Terah, his brother Nahor and Haran, leave a place called Ur of the Chalese and they move up to Haran. But for whatever reason, they just stopped there and settled. So it's been disputed did the Lord prompt Haran to move and he just stopped and therefore he called upon Abraham to continue the journey. But whatever the case may be They stop there and they settle then, they begin to just live in that culture. But when God has a mission, when God has a purpose, He's gonna get that purpose fulfilled And so he calls upon Abraham out of Haran to go to a land that he will promise him. Abraham, from what we know, has no credentials. He doesn't have a background. We don't know if he spends time with God. We don't know how he's walking We don't know much about him. But what we do know from the scripture is that in Joshua 24, 2, it tells us that The Lord calls them from among pagans. Terah, and we'll learn later on Laban, who is part of the Abrahamic family. Worship idols. So it's possible that Abraham was exposed to the idols. But again, God chose grace mercies and his sovereign election in the life of Abraham and just calls him out of nowhere. Why is knowing this important as we begin this journey this morning? Because it reminds us of the grace of God. The same way that God chose Abraham, and we're not told again that Abraham was this great figure that was representing God and just standing against truth and Haran. He just called him out of nowhere, and it's the same way that God calls us. We had no prior relationship with him, but something began to stir inside of us. Mostly because you were hearing the word, you were hearing the gospel, and they began to preach you and convict you and eventually you submitted to it. It was nothing that you did. It was by His grace and His grace alone that you're here And Abraham is a great picture of that. Like all believers, Abraham too was chosen before the foundation of the world, as it says in Ephesians 4. 1 As you look at his life, notice that your life is similar when you first started your walk with Christ. So this is where they left from the Chaldis, which is modern day Iraq. They moved up to um Haran Mesopotamia and eventually this little area is Canaan, but the map just blows it up for us. In Genesis 12, God told Abram to leave the environment finally. So we're introduced to him in Genesis 11, but in Genesis 12 As he's in Haran settled, God comes to him and says, Yes, it's time for you to go. We don't get any pushback from Abraham from the scriptures. Abraham appears to have responded immediately, recognizing that the one true God is speaking to him. And it's in in his best interest to respond when you hear the call of God. Because God, as I state over and over again whenever I do these class Is not doing this for his benefit. When he calls you, when he speaks you, when he prompts, when he convicts you. It's for your benefit. God doesn't need us. We need God. It is at this time, as soon as God begins to talk to Abraham, that He gives him that He gives the He makes the covenant. I will make you a great nation. The Hebrew word for nation is Goim. Before Abraham, everybody in the world was just In the Hebrew text was just a goi goim, just people. But when God calls them out, he distinguishes it. Because he said, I will make you a great nation. That's why now you have Hebrews and Gentiles. Before the call of Abraham, we were all the same. And in a way we are Paul the same Christ now again. But God separated those that He was going to call for that purpose. But there's just one problem God is talking to this guy, so he's 75 years old when he calls him. I'm gonna make you a great nation. But I don't have a child. How are you gonna make a nation out of me when I don't have a child? And I know you're God and I know you know all things, but I'm kinda seventy-five. And my wife is ten years younger than me. She's sixty-five, so how are you gonna do this? From this point on after God speaks to Abraham, it's gonna be twenty-five years. God speaks to him, tell him he's gonna make a great nation out of him But it's not for another twenty-five years until that that uh promise comes to fruition. I'm just gonna read this part right here, which talks about the um covenant and the call. Now the Lord said to Abram, Go from your country and your kindred, your father, house go to the land that I will show you. So Abraham has no idea where he's going. But he's trusting. He's leading by faith. Go to the land that I will show you. He doesn't even tell him you're gonna go five miles from here, ten miles from here A day's walk from here. I am going to show you the land. All I need you to do is follow me and trust in me. I will make you a great nation We talked about the problem of that. I will bless you, I will make your name great, so that you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you, I will curse And in him, in you, all the families of the earth shall be blessed. In you and through you, Abraham All the families of the world will be blessed. And are we not blessed? Because I was um listening to Pastor Thompson a couple weeks ago. He pointed out to you all that All the ancestors of Jesus come from the line of Abraham. And are we not blessed through the line of Abraham? I would say we certainly are Then we move forward to Genesis 15. God reiterates the promise that he had made to Abraham in Genesis 12. Sometimes as we're walking through the scriptures, we forget that these individuals are just like us. They have fearless, they have emotions, they have doubts, they have fears. So God is constantly reiterating and affirming the promise that He's made to Abraham because Abraham has doubts, Abraham has fears. There's even the story of Abraham defeating Kedalamer with his group of trained men, and then God showing up to him after that saying, Do not fear Obviously, in the mind of Abraham, he was like, wait a minute. Maybe today was just a lucky day. Yes, I defeated these guys But when I go to sleep at night, are they gonna come back to get me? And Abe and God knew that Abraham was dealing with his thing. God knew what was going through the mind of Abraham. And so he shows up And says to Abraham, Do not fear. I will be with you. I just have you defeat These kings that were being paid uh that taxes were being paid to over over these years. You're not trained. Your men, I don't know um w who trained them but you're not a military. But I defeated these individuals. And so I will help you as well. And isn't that us? Forgetting to look back at what God has done in our lives? Always looking at the fear, the things that are in front of us, forgetting that We were going through the same emotions yesterday, but yet here we are today. So don't forget as you're going through the scriptures that these individuals are real people going through real struggles Years have passed now, and in Genesis fifteen, Abraham has no air seal. He comes before the Lord with a question that reveals his frustration. Lord, I have this guy in my house named Eleazar. He's been with me for a while. I've been training him. He's Uh will will he be my servant? Will he be the one that I g that I made the heir of my home? God essentially says No. I told you I'm gonna make a nation out of you. God takes Abram outside, points him to the sky, and says, Count the stars. If you are able to number the stars The number stars as a reflection of the number of offspring that you that will bring that will come forth from you. And Abraham believed God with no evidence, just his word Yet in hand, no child, no land, just his word, and a sky full of stars, Abraham believed God, and the Bible said it was credited to him as righteousness. And that statement is gonna continue to reverberate throughout the scriptures. If you believe God, if you believe in the work of His Son, Jesus Christ, and believe that You are saved by grace through faith and not of your works so that you may not boast. God will credit that to your righteousness. And you will be able to stand before him guiltless. Paul reminds us of this in Romans 4. 3. And we see the same principles in Ephesians 2. 8, in Galatians 3. 16. Salvation, justification, has always been by grace. Through faith and not of our works. Abraham is not the exception He is the earliest picture of how we are saved We then move forward to Genesis seventeen. God changes Abrams and Sarah's identities. They are no longer gonna be the same people that they were when he found them Does that statement remind you of yourself? Are you the same person today that you were when Christ found you? I don't need to see hands up. I don't need to see head shaking. That's a heart question. Are you the same individual today that you were when you said, Lord, I believe in you I believe in the work that you did for me. I submit to you. You are my Lord If you could audit yourself, you know, if you could put your old self on one side of the room and your new self on the other side of the room, would they be a mirror image of one another? Or would they be two different people because one is in Christ now Again, that's something to eat upon their own. But God changes here in Genesis 17, God changes the characters of um the names of Sarah and Abram. Abram, which means exalted father, which is kind of comedic again because He has no heir, is going to now become Abraham, which is the father of a multitude. Sarai, which was used to say my princess sorta like in a personal way. Her belonged to somebody Her now name will now be Sarah, which means princess, a name that positions her not as belonging to one person, but as the matriarch of the new people that God is going to form The coming nation, she will be part of the coming covenant. God then reaffirms again The promise, but this time with specificity. Sarah, Abraham, your wife will bear your son, and you shall call his name Isaac. Do you all remember why his name was Isaac? Do you all remember that it was not uh often time we just point to the fact that Sarah left But remember Abraham was the first to laugh as well when God first spoke to him. Because he was looking at his age. He was looking at His wife's age is like this is impossible. But later on God is gonna say is anything too difficult for the Lord So after um pardon me. God then reaffirms the promise, God clarifies Once and for all that the covenant will not pass through Ishmael, but rather through a through um God's choice. This is what happens when we're impatient and we try to help God out. We muddy the waters. God told him what was going to happen. Rather than just listening to God Submitting to him, he listens to the voice of his wife. Now, I mean that respectfully, but we've seen what happened in the garden When God gives you a command, you adhere to that command. It might be difficult, you might be standing alone, it might not be popular, but when God gives you a command And as it says in Hebrews, God no longer speaks to us audibly, he speaks now to his word. So when you're reading God's word and something is said that is that differs from that, do not be swayed. Stand on God's word. And let me uh at this time I'm sure that you you all know, but Abraham is ninety nine years old. Moving on to Genesis eighteen before we right before we get to Isaac. The Lord appears to Abraham again. And this time he gives a due date. Says in one year she will have a child. That shows the omniscience power of God. Knowing everything. Sarah overhears the conversation as we just talked about and she laughs. The Lord hears her laugh and confronts her and asks, Is anything too hard? For the Lord. The question is not just for Sarah. It's a question really for all of us that are in here this morning. Is there anything that you're going through right now that you feel it's just too hard for God? Or do you feel like God just doesn't understand God doesn't get it. Whenever you feel that way And I got this from Pastor Gabe while uh a few years ago. Put yourself or place yourself at the foot of the cross and remind yourself That there is nothing too difficult for God, number one, and that every little thing that happens in your life matters to Him The big things matter, the little things matter. There is nothing that doesn't matter about you to God. In Genesis 21, finally, 25 years, finally, the Palmer's son is here. God was not early. God was not late God was precise. Sarah says, God has made laughter for me. So now that she has this promise, child. I empathize with her. The Bible tells us that she was a beautiful woman. But at the same time, I do know that we age. And so she's probably looking at herself now, feeling somewhat embarrassed, rather than being joyful and grateful for what God has just done in her life She says God has made laughter of me. Almost it like I just want to stay in my tent with this boy. And later after we after Sir um eventually dies We see that she spent a lot of time with Isaac because of the way that he responds. He was hurt. And he doesn't get comforted again after she passes when she's um When he's at thirty seven, until he gets remarried again, which we will talk about later. We're getting ready to jump into the fun stuff with um Isaac. So as mentioned already, Abraham left Er, just before he spoke to God, he was following Haran, which was the patriarch of the father back then. Goes to Haran, they stopped there God calls Abraham away from his family to fulfill what he has uh to fulfill the um the the redemption plan where he would utilize one nation. But After traveling, after sojourning, after w being all over the place in Canaan, Abraham has no land He's living in this land. God says that this is the promised land, but he has nothing to his name. And his wife has passed. So Abraham goes to Ephron a Hittite that was living in the land and says to him, I would like to buy the cave that's in the back of your land. Now, Ephron comes and says Oh, you could buy the whole place. But he wasn't doing it because he liked Abraham and he loved Abraham. From what history says, it appears that If I may have had some tax obligations. And now that Abraham was here looking to purchase this land It's like, oh, I can offload my tax obligation on you. You just want the cave? Why don't you buy the whole land? And Abraham's doesn't doesn't haggle. We know that Abraham is a wealthy guy at that point. And he says, What is your price At first they said, Oh, you can have it. But they don't really mean that. Because if they go ahead and just take that land, later on down in the line, another family member could come, another Hittite clan member could come and say, Well Our forefathers gave you this land illegally and we want it back. This would be the true picture of Abraham encountering what is called stolen land if he were to take that gift from them So so Abraham sits there and they go back and forth and they barter and then finally it's like oh what is this 400 piece of land worth Almost if he wanted to tell them the price, but he didn't want to tell him the price, so he finds a way to like throw the price in there But from what I've read the uh the price for that land was way exaggerated. And most of the time just like we do today where we haggle, we start high, we go low, and I know none of you guys do this here because we're Christians, right? We don't haggle here. Right, you the price is the price. But Abraham thought that he was gonna have her with him, or or Ephraim thought that he was gonna have her with him, and he says four hundred four hundred shepherds or whate whatever the price was. And Abraham was just like, Okay. I just imagine the look on his face. W he's probably really excited 'cause he just got this th this large sum of money. But at the same time it's like, what is this guy up to? That he just gave me this large this large sum of money So, Abraham had traveled hundreds of miles. as stated, went around this land, finally has a piece of uh of of land where he will be able to bury his wife in the cave of Makpila The cave of Machpilah, which will be the same cave that Abraham is eventually buried in and his other descendants, Bible tells us around this time, this is right prior to Abraham going through the haglib with the Hittites, that Sarah is 127 So that means Isaac is about 37, so she has him at 90, he's still not married, and I could just imagine um the look on her face or what she's going through because finally has this baby at 90. raising this boy upright and once he hits twenty, maybe twenty-five, maybe she was expecting him to be married by then but she continues to get old, she passes away without ever seeing her son, the promised son Married. Just like us. Abraham has problems. This right here is a wonderful picture why should have one husband, one wife. Because We learned earlier that Abraham sent Hagar Ishmael away because Sarah was having some issues with Hagar. But what we rarely talk about says that Abraham, even though the Bible tells us that he took another wife after um Sarah had died, that is not necessarily a sequential order. Abraham had a concubine, and these children were perhaps born around the same time, if not before. Isaac. So Abraham getting made to pass and he knows he's on his last days. He's trying to get things in order. He's trying to Be submissive to God, do what he feels like God is calling him to do, but yet not run ahead of God. We still have responsibilities when God calls us, right? It's not just throw my hands up and don't do anything. So Abraham has Kator. Kator has Zimran, Jochan, Midan, Median, Ishbak, Shua. And his lovely bride as Isaac. What do you think is going to happen if Abraham passes away and doesn't get his affairs in order? What do you think is going to happen if indeed Isaac is younger than these brothers? And Abraham has passed away and Sarah's no longer there. There's gonna be some problems. They number one they have the same mother So Abraham's already lost right there. So the odds of them coming together, formulating the plan to overtake Abraham and steal all his inheritance is highly likely and Abraham being a smart guy. He's aware of this. So what he does is before he makes preparations to get Isaac married, because that's needed. You gotta be married. to have an error to start a nation. Before he handles that, he give he he gives gifts To all the kids and sends them away from the land just like he had sent Hagar Ishmael away to get them away From the promised land that Isaac will ultimately inherit. He also makes it known that everything of his is to go to Isaac. Almost like in a will format. Said, hey, this is the promised son, this who God has told me is gonna be the heir. This is who will get everything But those of you that have families and have dealt with this before know that it's not clean as that. Everybody always loves well let me say let me not say that way. Let me not say it that way A little bit more caring for the family comes into play after somebody dies and leaves the will. Then everybody shows up with flowers. And the person's gone. Right? Abraham acts decisively, just as he had done with Hagar, back in Genesis 21, sending them away. Remove any future clan. Genesis 25 tells us that he gives them gifts. He sent them away eastward, away from Isaac, away from Canaan, away from the inheritance. As stated, he's not being cruel. This is a strategy. This is protection For Isaac. Yes, God is going to be with him. But again, as a as a father, Abraham too has a responsibility. Not a covenantal responsibility in terms of that, because it's unilateral, but in terms of like doing everything that a father must do to get his affairs in order before he is called home. And with that With that situation settled, giving them gifts, send them away. Abraham sets his sights now on finding a bride. For his wife. Just like God sends a bride for his church. The father puts into motion the bride for the son Just like the Father puts into motion the bride for you, which is Christ Jesus. We finally get to Genesis 24 where we begin to talk about Isaac. So part the five chapters are talking about the coming son Now we're actually the son is here now. In Genesis twenty four As Abraham is coming up with this plan of succession to make sure that Isaac is protected, he calls the young man who we talked about in Genesis 15, whom he thought was going to be the heir. Eliezer. The scripture doesn't say it, but every commentary that I've been through, everybody's pointing back to this guy. He's most likely the individual. That's the servant here. Elaizar is about 85 years of age. She's been with Abraham for a long period of time. I think Abraham even says um that he was born in my household. And so he's watched Abraham. He's lived with Abraham. He's the most trusted servant. This Eleazar, he's what you would call your chief of staff. He's what he we would call your go-to guy when you need something to get done, when you don't need the ball to be dropped and you know somebody has your best um intentions in their heart, not their best intention, but your best intention That's who this alias are guys for the servant. But something strange happens. Typically when we get into contracts We pull out a piece of paper, we find a notarist, somebody signs a document, we one side's here, the other side's here, but Abraham F. the servant to place his hand under his thigh. Now the Hebrew state states that the word thigh is an idiom for his loins. And trust me I didn't want to have to say that. But that's what the word says or the the commentary says. Others view it as just Him putting his hand under the side. But regardless, it is a sacred oath. It is a promise. It is And no that says that whatever I promise here I will not break because I'm taking this oath and God is going to be the guarantor So the reason why it was the thigh is because that's where the sign of the circumcision was And there are some that states that because Abraham did have a canon, a f a physical Bible at this point, something that that him he would use as a sign or covenant would be promoted. That's just one viewpoint So this Iliaz of Damascus comes to him willingly, cheerfully. Like begging him or fighting with him, ask him to come here, please Elias, could you do this for me? It just comes. He takes the oath. No going back and forth with him And as we continue to go through our story, we'll see that Iliazar is a pretty um loyal Loyal type of guy. The same way we are to be loyal to Christ. He's a great picture, a great model for that. We're gonna get to a point where Try to have him sit down to have dinner and entertain him and he's like respectfully I don't have time for this. I'm here because my master sent me here. I got a job to do. I gotta get back. And as we get to that remember Always keep this as as we go through the life of Isaac. Remember that Isaac is fearing that he doesn't have much time to live. That's why he said Alias are out on this on this journey, on this path. Because he would have been the one to go and find a bride for his son. He wouldn't have sent anybody, but because of his age and because he's not able to do it himself He sends Aliazar to on this task. Aliazar wants to make sure that she completes the task that he completes the task As expediently as possible, but in a good way, not mess it up. When I when you think of Iliazar, think of him as like Joseph. Remember Joseph The Potiphar's house. He was over everything until he got lied upon. But Elias doesn't have to worry about that because he's living at Abraham's house and Abraham's around him, so he doesn't ha uh his reputation is good Elias are being entrusted with something even more bigger than the inheritance that he thought that he would get. He is being sent to secure the future of the covenant itself. Notice something about Abraham's faith When we get here and he's giving Ilias are the oath. Let me actually wanna read it. Oh short Genesis twenty four. So the servant is asking uh a few questions to to Abraham at this point, stating, well what if The woman doesn't come. What if this happens? What if that happens? These were things that were characteristics of Abraham in the past. Like, when is my son gonna get here Is it gonna be Eleazar? But now as he gets older and Abraham is uh speaking to the servant I'm going to start at the beginning of chapter 24. Now Abraham was old, well advanced in in age, and the Lord had blessed Abraham in all things. So Abraham said to the eldest servant of his house, possibly Eliezer, who ruled over all that he had, please put your hand under my thigh, and I will make you swear by the Lord, the God of heaven and the God of the earth that you will not take a wife for my son from the daughters of the Canaanites, among whom I dwell. But you shall go to my country and my family and take a wife for my son Isaac. And the servant said to him, Perhaps the woman will not be willing to follow me to this land. Must I take your son back to the land from which you came? But Abraham said to him, Beware that you do not take my son back there. The Lord said, The Lord God of heaven who took me from my father's house and from the land of my family and who spoke to me And swore to me, saying, To your descendants, I will give the land, I will send his angel before you, and you will make a wife for my son from there. And if this woman is not willing to follow you, then you will be released from this oath. Only do not take my son back there. So that the servant Put his hand under the thigh of Abraham, his master, and swore to him concerning this matter. One of the things that we see as Abraham is talking to Israel here, there's a little bit more confidence And what the Lord is gonna do. Eliza is worried about will this will I find somebody? Will they respond properly? How will they come with me? I'm just a Weird strange guy born in this this land that you left 65 years ago coming over here saying, Hey I'm here to get a wife for Isaac. Who are you? Who's Isaac? But A pardon. But despite the way that he's feeling, despite me perhaps feeling like Maybe I'm not this guy. He submits and he goes and he takes the oath. What we see here is what decades of walking will produce in the lives of people. Not the absence of uncertainty, but the settled confidence that the one who started will finish it So what exactly were the three things that the um that Abraham required from the servant? What were the three things Do not take away from the Canaanites. Why is that? God spoke to Abraham and told him that I'm gonna give you this land So if you allow Abraham to intermarry with this la with this with this new tribe, you're gonna potentially cause some sort of friction. Why is that? Think about it this way. I don't get along with my neighbor. I'm not saying that's me. I don't get along with my neighbor. But My son and my neighbor's daughter really like each other. My goal is to try to take over my neighbor's house and buy his house for myself I want that property. I have my eyes set on that property. But my son is in love with my with his daughter. If you allow that marriage to happen, what am I doing I'm tying and binding those families together. Does that make sense? You bring those families together and so you you you everything will be in the best interest of both the families now. You making decisions as a family because that's your extended family. And Abraham is does not want Isaac to be married with the Canaan because sooner or later they're going to be dispossessed from the land Additionally, the Canaanites worship idols and Abraham grew up in an idolatrous home. He doesn't want that for his future descendants. Abraham is probably grateful and thankful to the Lord for pulling him and calling him out and become and he knows better. And because he knows better, he's gonna try to prevent his kids from going down the same path that he came from And sometimes that is the worst advice that I've heard from parents sometimes is well I made those mistakes so let them learn as well and go through and make those same mistakes so they could grow up. Like, no. Train up your child the way that they should go. Teach them the word. If God has been gracious to you and shown you the truth and kept you from making certain um choices Teach your kids not to make those decisions. Don't let them go down the path of making the same mistakes that you made. So that's concern number one Two, the bride must come from his country, not of the Chaliz, but from where they settled in Haran. He's hoping that That his brother will be there and that they'll have kids and that they'll be able to intermarry and so he'll keep the line together. And number three, to not send Isaac back to the land from where he came from. Now, not certain if that he's talking about the Urb the Chalice with Imanda Araq or Iran, but he is He he wants to make sure that Isaac stays in the promised land. Do not do not give it up, Isaac. God is gonna bless you. Stay here and just be faithful. So Elias leaves and he heads to to um Abraham's home, Haran. When he leaves, his servant takes with him ten camels of gold of jewelry. His goal is to get somewhere and to make an offer for a potential wife, for a potential bride. It's about a 450 to 500 mile journey Seeing that camels do not move that fast or some commentators will say that these weren't camels, they were dromedaries. Um the difference between a camel's dromedary is one has two humps, one has one. They both drink a lot of water. And they're both very slow. So it so the journey could take Abraham anywhere from twenty-three days to forty-five days uh for for um for aliasar the servant to make it to run. When he arrives he does something. He sits outside the the city and he's watching the water well. He just the water well is where most of the the the women would go during the day in the evening to get water for their families. So he's just sitting there watching As he's there, trusting in the Lord, following the footsteps of Abraham, seeing how Abraham has developed his faith. He doesn't just walk in and says, hey, I'm Eliezer, I have camels full of cash, I need a woman. He gets down and he does what? Oh Lord. God of my master Abraham, please grant me success today and show steadfast love to my master Abraham. Behold, I am standing by the spring of water And the daughters of men of the city are coming out to draw water. Let the young men to whom I shall say, Please let down your jar, that I may drink And who shall say, Drink and I will water your camels? Let this be the one whom you have appointed for your servant. By this I shall know you have shown Steph showing steadfast love to my master. What a specific prayer. Any prayer words like that here? That specific? And what happens before he is done speaking or praying Rebecca shows up. I see this is a specific prayer. Eliezer has clearly been exposed to God of Abraham. He's not asking God for a general blessing He is asking God for a sign so precise that there could be no mistake in who the woman would be. The woman not only gives him water, but volunteers to water his camels as well. I need you to pause and understand real quick that watering those camels was not Let me get you a a small bucket of water and just drop it here. And I'm done. Camels required a lot of water. And as stated Abraham um El Gazar had just traveled anywhere from 450 or 550 miles to get to his destination. So I'm pretty sure these camels are thirsty. A camel is said is stated but when you go on offer these estimations because One had twenty, one had twenty-five, one had forty-five. So you pick All I know is that they require a lot of water. And she was going down into the well and getting it with a jar. Maybe It was a gallon, a couple of gallons each trip back and forth, but it was a lot of trips, a lot of water. The custom of that day required that Yes, you provide a sojourney like like a from the drink to somebody that's traveling. But it was not required for their animals. They had to take care of their own animals So Eliasar is not just asking he wasn't just asking out for a hospitable woman. He was asking out for a woman of extraordinary sacrificial go beyond uh what is required kindness. That that's the kind of kindness that would make her worthy of a wife for for uh for his master Isaac. And based on this and based on what we're seeing That was Rebecca. She was a go above and beyond type woman. She didn't have to ask him, does he want anything to drink? She didn't have to offer him to get anything for the camels. Rebecca was a beautiful woman. inside and out. The text tells us that her appearance she was beautiful inside and out. Um Hey yeah, we touch this. Iliadzor has been what I'm sorry. I'm jumping ahead of myself. I apologize. Okay, so after they speak, it um elegates are Ask her who she's from, questions her as he's giving her like a nose ring, a gold nose ring from bracelets on her. She finally identifies herself as being the daughter of Bethuel. Bethuel is the son of Nehar, who who whose aunt is also Milka. You gotta get a map. I'm just waiting off lock for you. But she's part of Abraham's family. Rebecca runs home to her mother and the women of the household inform everything that had happened. But her brother Laban spots the nose ring. You will learn a little bit more about Laban in a couple more chapters, but he spots the Nosbing and you would think that he would be happy for his sister But that's not what what makes him happy. He's he sees the goals. He's like, where did you get that from? I'm going to the source immediately. And so Laban is excited the not because of God's providence. He's excited because of wealth He greets a he finds Eliezer, he greets him in typical Laban fashion with impure motives because he's just looking to say, okay, what can I get from this guy that just gave my sister these things? Eleazar is welcome and offered a meal. But he refuses to eat until his purpose is stated. Elizabeth knows what he is put in charge of This is the mission Duke's got uh because of Abraham's age. He needs to be heading back to Canaan, but before he does, he must complete his task. He lays the whole matter before um before uh Rebecca's family, more so Laban and Rebecca's brother, Rebecca's um uh mother at the time, because the reason why you're not seeing Rebecca's father here is because the the uh history says that because he was a little bit older he was no longer He no longer had the the amount of strength that he needed. He was no longer the patriarch and so Laban is slowly stepping into that that role. That's why he's the one that's speaking on her behalf at this point He goes through explain the whole situation, explain how he how he prayed. And after he tell them the story Bethuel and Laban answered and says this matter is clearly from God. They said to Elazar, take go. She's able to go with you back to your your family, back to your to your home. He exchanges then gifts, he gives the family gifts. He could he show his back with more gifts. This So Eliazar and Rebecca get back on the road, heading home about one minute. They're heading back home about anywhere from twenty-three to forty-five days. Isaac is in the field Even though it was uh it was not funny, something that made me chuckle as I was going through this is Did you see Isaac again? after that whole incident on Mount Moriah. You realize that you don't hear from him anymore? And as I sat there, I was reading it, I said to myself If my dad had taken me up on a hill and tried to sacrifice me, I probably wouldn't be showing my face around for a while as well. But This is when he shows back up. Rebecca and Lavan Rebecca and um not Levin sorry and Eliezer the servant are heading back. Rebecca looks and sees from a distance this man. Again, this is the first time we've seen Isaac for the last couple chapters. And she inquires, Who is this? And it is told that this is my master. So this entire time we've been told that Isaac is his master. All of a sudden he realizes that this This is going to be the new person that takes over the line. This is my master and introduces uh Rebecca to Isaac. Isaac takes Rebecca. She puts the veil on. This is um is stated that this is the history of where the veil comes in because Rebecca puts the veil on and she's supposed to have the veil on before she meets her husband not be able to take it off until until they're officially married, take the veil off and go into um Sarah's tent. Now Sarah's tent has been sitting there for how long Three years. No one's assumed it. It's just been sitting there just empty. Nobody tore it down. The Bible tells us that Isaac um takes Rebecca, goes and start his his um mother's tent, and it is then that the Bible tells us, after a he again the whole issue issue on Mount Moriah. that he's comforted and he loved her Twenty years have passed. And still Isaac now is dealing with no airs Rebecca's barren. But look at the stark difference between Isaac's response and Abraham's response When Rebecca inquires of Isaac, Isaac prays. He goes to God. Genesis twenty five twenty-one simply says Isaac prayed to the Lord on behalf of his wife because she was barren, and the Lord granted his prayer. He takes then we see that Rebecca's having challenges with the Boys inside of her. Clearly learning from her husband how to deal with trouble, she does what? She inquires of the Lord And he answers her directly and says to her, Two nations are in your room, two people from within you shall be divided. The one shall be stronger than the other, the older shall serve the younger. Two nations, not just two boys Two destinies, two people. A collision course that begins before either child even draws a breath. In the ancient world everything belonged to the firstborn. The birthright, the blessing, the name, the inheritance, the firstborn was the default heir. There was no debates and no discussions. But look at how God is working. Every time we for men chooses who the heir will be, God steps in and says, no, it's that one Ishmael, no, it's Isaac. Esau, no, it's Jacob. The boys the boys arrived When Isaac is 60 years old, so 20 years, he prays to God, God opens the womb of his wife. She has uh twins, Esau and Jacob. At the end of twenty uh Genesis 25, I want to highlight a little detail. Abraham dies at the age of uh 175. Jacob and Esau now are approximately about 15 years old because the Bible tells that Abraham lives about 38 years additional after um Sarah dies We'll probably get into it with Pastor Um with Pastor Thompson next week, but it is believed that when we hear the story of of the the skew That the stew that um that Jacob wanted, the hi the the bowl of stew, it is believed that that's what was being cooked for the family at the time of um Abraham's passing because that was typically what you did in Jewish uh culture. Shut me down, Walter. Abraham is now gone. Isaac officially has taken the mantle. Abraham did his job. He set the stage. He took away the competition to make sure that Isaac would have a straight path Um, okay. Even at the games you get too many warnings, Walter. Now, we find some of the similarities in the faults of Isaac that that we saw earlier in Abraham Isaac typically when we talk about he is obeying God. But another famine hits the land, like before in the time of Abraham. Isaac is thinking of going to Egypt, but he is passing through Barar, and the Lord says, do not go down to Egypt. And he does what He doesn't go down to Egypt and we're like, yes, but he puts his wife on the chopping block. Egaroth like yeah I saw my daddy's diaries and that's what he said about mom that she was his sister, so I'm gonna do the same thing. She's my sister. And Abimelech, this is not the same Abimelech, this is like a title king, saw them caressing and being affectionate to husband and wife, um, confronts Isaac and says, Hey, I don't think brothers and sisters act like this. I think that's your wife. And if it's not, I can provide you counseling if that's how you're acting with your sister. Well, I guess they do with half sisters. So this faithful man was just rebuked By a by a pagan god. Almost there, I'm almost there. I'm almost there. Okay. So so Isaac Bill plants in that area and he remains faithful to God and he stays there and he begins to work and continue to have a relationship with God and what does God do God blesses him immensely. The Bible tells us God blesses him a hundredfold And from the uh c some of the comments I was going through, you'd be happy if you could get twentyfold or thirty fold in those days, but God blessed him a hundredfold to the point where he became more wealthy and more prosperous than the people in that area. And of course what do they do? What do people do when you prosper and when you walk with the Lord? They try to bring you down, they try to tear you down. And that's exactly what happens here So these wells that Isaac had dug earlier, um, the Abraham had dug earlier Isaac now is redigging them and hit the water supply is coming in and watering his plants and everything like that and the people are now saying, no, that's mine Isaac is such a humble guy. Even though he's more prosperous than they are, he has more money He has more power, he has more stock, everything. Isaac could crush them now if he wanted to, but every time they confront him, he just moves away He just moves away. And what it reminds me of as we get ready to close is the suffering servant. He could have defended himself He could have taken over that area. There's nothing in a pagan world that money can't buy. Maybe not in a Christian world. But in a in a pagan world, there's nothing that money can't buy. Isaac has a lot of it. He could have been arrogant, he could have taken over, but no, he humbly submits himself and moves from well to well. And again that reminds me of the suffering servant. Jesus could have defended himself. He was innocent. But he was bruised for our iniquities. He was stricken for us, and by his stripes we are healed. Next week You all will be transitioning into the life of Jacob and there'll be a little bit more highlight on Jacob and Esau. Let me close this out. Father God, thank you for walking us through the life of Isaac and I pray that we're able to take a glimpse of his life and look at our own lives and respond in the ways that we're faithful to you And acknowledge the areas that he's fallen and ask for your um for your strength when we go through those uh challenges as well. I always thank you for this opportunity to speak to your people, Father God. I just pray that The words that proceed from me are your words and the the Bible lessons that we go through are highlighted in that you're able to get glory from it, oh Lord. As we prepare to go into the main sanctuary to As one body to uh celebrate the events of today, Father God, allow us to go in there with joy in our hearts. Allow us to go in there with expectancy. Just looking to hear a word from you. Thank you for the class. Thank you for another opportunity to stand here before your people. It is in Jesus' name I pray. Amen