Alright, let's uh start with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day, the privilege we have to worship you as the body of Christ. We thank you for your word. the way you've revealed yourself, uh who you are, all of your attributes, and also your plan of salvation across history. From the beginning all the way to the end. We thank you for your loving kindness. We thank you for your faithfulness to all of your promises. We pray, Lord, as we study your word, that you would help us to truly understand what you're trying to teach us with your word, and that we would always be doers of the word and not just hearers. That we would absorb what we learn from your word and um and and put it into practice in our daily lives We thank you, Lord, for the gift of the body of Christ so that we have brothers and sisters that we can do life with together. We thank you for The fact that you've raised Christ from the dead and he sits at your right hand intervening on our behalf and we have such a great high priest. We thank you for all of these things In Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, part ten today. It goes through thirteen parts, and so we are starting to come to the end. The name of the course is The God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And today we'll be actually going on for the the really the rest of the time, we'll be talking about one particular son of Jacob, and that's Joseph. Really the story of Joseph is played out in the pages of Scripture from Genesis chapter 37 to Genesis chapter 50 With the exception of Genesis chapter 38, which is a little bit different. So today, what will we learn? We're going to talk about Joseph's youth, a bunch of things that happened to him when he's about 17 years old. Uh we're going to see these the favorite and how that uh dynamic plays out in the family, that it causes all kinds of grief in the family. We're going to talk about the dreams that he has, and we're going to talk about how he comes to be sold into slavery. So that's what we're going to cover today. Let's take a look back at what we we did last time. We looked at uh some events from the life of Jacob last time. Jacob learns that he has fallen out of favor with his brothers-in-law, who were also his cousins. And the Lord Tells Jacob to leave Haran and go back to Canaan. There's an incident that we didn't really cover about Rachel stealing Laban's household gods. which is in this part of scripture as well. So on the map, uh Jacob has spent twenty years in Haran on the other side of the Euphrates River. uh with his uncle Laban. Uh he's accumulated four wives and twelve kids uh and lots of flocks And he flees from his uncle Laban down across the Euphrates River and all the way down to the hill country of Gilead. He there's an interesting little story of him having kind of a powwow with his wives and laying out the situation for his wives, and his wives are all in They say, okay, let's go. Um and so ever they all pick up and they leave. Uh he has a three days head start, but uh Laban finds out and tracks him down into the hill country of Gilead and they have a confrontation there. However, Laban's been warned in a dream by the Lord not to uh not to be uh not to say too much to Jacob. Um and so Laban feels that he's wrong, but he's been warned by the Lord so there's nothing he can do. Um and so they end up um having this back and forth about well you you stole my dollars away and no you changed my wages they go back and forth the two deceivers have just uh both feel aggrieved um and then Although Laban's frustrated, he realizes there's nothing he can do, and he turns around and goes back up to Haran. And Jacob continues He goes to a place called Maenaum. He has a meet that there's uh angels that come to him. Just like there was angels that came to him uh on his way up to Haran, there's uh angels that come to him on the way back as well And then the final thing that we talked about last time was his encounter with his brother Esau. So it's been 20 years. He fled from Esau because Esau said he was going to kill him And Jacob is still afraid that Esau has can has for twenty years held this grudge and now he's going to make good on his promise to kill him. And so he has a scheme where he's gonna divide them up and uh send out the the the maid and the maids and their children first and then Leah and then Rachel. Uh but the one good thing that he does is he prays He prays to God for deliverance and it's an excellent prayer, uh, where he clearly tells God he's not worthy, uh, and then goes back through the promises that God has made, which is exactly what Jacob should be focusing on. the Lord and his promises. And so we see from that story that Jacob gets it. Um that he's relying on the Lord. He can rely on the Lord. Um and so they meet and uh the meeting is cordial and but Jacob still has a little bit of uh the trickster in him. Uh he he makes Esau believed that he's going to follow him south towards Seir, which is an Edom, but instead he turns west. He has no intention of following Esau. He turns west. And so you can see that on a map. So Um Esau is coming from south to north from Seir, Edom. Jacob is coming down from the from north to south from the hill country of Gilead. They meet at a place called Penuel. And as I said in the scriptures, it's clear that Jacob gives Esau the impression that he's going to continue to follow Esau down to Edom and he has no intention of doing that. He immediately turns west and goes across the Jordan River over to Shekem. Um so that's Jacob. Um so after twenty years th there's the the brothers um Jacob is still holding on to kind of the guilt, I think, that he felt from stealing the birthright and the and the blessing. But Esau has evidently let that go. Um and they're they're they're cordial. Um Jacob um Uh Jacob does the right thing, as I said before, he calls to the to the Lord, he reminds him of his promises, he he he relies on the Lord. Uh he said but he does also he also takes actions of his own by sending the gifts forward. Uh huge lavish gift forward. And as we see, the response of Esau is to embrace him, fall on his neck, kiss him, and wept. So Jacob's apprehensions and precautions were really unnecessary. Um the human ones. Calling on the Lord, that was the the one necessity. Alright, any questions about any of that that we did last time? Alright. That's it for the life of Jacob. Jacob, of course, is in this the story of Joseph from time to time But mostly the after this the Bible shifts to Joseph. So we're going to look at Joseph. And this is actually a new Toledot. Toledot is a Hebrew word that means what came forth from. And this is the last Toledot in Genesis. There are 12 of them all together. And this is the last one, and it's a big one. It covers from Genesis 37 to Genesis 50. Now we skipped a couple, if you'll notice, 10 and 11, told out 10 and 11 or uh Genesis chapter 36, and we didn't really do Genesis chapter 36 because It's a genealogy of Esau. It's Esau's genealogy. It's two separate genealogies of Esau, but they're both genealogies of Esau. It's important because the the nation of Israel, when it's coming out of Egypt in the book of Exodus, will encounter these people groups. that are laid out there in uh Genesis chapter thirty-six. Uh but as far as the story now, uh the things that we're going through now uh we're going to skip over Genesis chapter 36. And you'll see in a moment we're going to skip over Jeff Genesis chapter 38 too. Uh because uh Genesis chapter 37 is what we're gonna do today. It's about Joseph's youth. Genesis thirty-eight is a very uh interesting and unusual detour into the story of Judah and his daughter-in-law Tamar. And for the purposes of studying God's work in the life of Joseph, we're going to skip Tamar Genesis chapter 30. It's a great chapter. Read it on your own, but we're not going to uh get into it in in the class. Um and so then next time we'll pick up Today is going to be Genesis thirty-seven. Next time we will pick up Joseph as a slave, starting in Genesis chapter thirty-nine. Then Joseph as ruler, starting in Genesis chapter 41. Then Joseph's brothers, 42 to 45, the couple of trips that they make down. And then from 46 to 50, uh the people the Israel, which will become a people, Seventy people to begin with, uh are now in the land of Egypt from fifth forty six to chapter forty six to chapter fifty. So that's the rest of the study, really. So if we look at the timeline of Joseph's life, he's born in Haram, in Padden Aram. Uh he's the eleventh of the twelfth son, the last of them to be born in Haran. Um his little brother Benjamin is born when they get back to the land of Canaan. Um and so he's little when they come back, somewhere six or less, uh really. He's born during the probably born at the beginning or or sometime in that six year period where he's working for wages. He's seventeen years old when he's sold into slavery. He's twenty-eight years old when he interprets dreams for Pharaoh's butler and baker. He's thirty years old when he interprets Pharaoh's dream and becomes the Prime Minister of Egypt. He's 37, seven years later, at the end of the years of plenty. He's 39 when his family comes down to get grain. He's 56 when Jacob dies. And then he lives another 54 years after Jacob dies as prime minister there in Egypt, and he dies at the age of 110. So that's the life of Joseph. So before the events, there's one thing that happens before the events of Joseph being s sold into slavery, and that's the death of his mother. So while they're journeying from Bethel to Ephraith, and Ephraith is later re renamed Bethlehem. So from Bethel to Bethlehem, they're traveling. Rachel dies in childbirth. So she gives birth to Benjamin, and she dies in childbirth As she's dying, she names the uh the son Ben Onai. Ben means son, Onai means sorrow. So son of my sorrow is Ben Oni. Jacob is not entirely satisfied with that name. And since His beloved wife Rachel has passed away. Um he doesn't want to have that as his reminder of her. And he renames him Ben Jamin. Ben Uh son Jamin right hand son of my right hand Benjamin Jacob buries Rachel between Bethel and Ephraith and sets up a pillar. So uh why is this important? Uh this is important because Rachel is now dead. Remember Rachel is the favorite, and so what does uh what does Jacob have to remind him of Rachel? Jacob Joseph and Benjamin. And so we see that the first thing that happens is Joseph becomes the favorite. He maybe he was already the favorite, but now he's really intensely the favorite. Now that Rachel is dead. And then after Joseph is gone, he's not going to let Benjamin out of his sight, right? Even if the whole family starves to death, he's not letting Benjamin out of his sight Because that's the last piece he has of Rachel. Uh and so we see this come into we see there's a reason behind the way Jacob acts in in these uh chapters and it's because Rachel is his beloved and now she's gone. Uh so on a map you can see they they uh they came down from the hill country of Gilead, they met um Esau and Penuel, they went west across the Jordan River to Shechem. And now they're traveling south, and while they're traveling south, between Bethel and Bethlehem, Benjamin is born and Rachel dies. And so that's the whole the movements of the clan. And we pick up the story of that in Genesis chapter 37. So if you'll open your Bibles to Genesis 37, Pertunear device, the Genesis chapter 37. And here's the story of Jo Joseph. So now Jacob lived in the land where his father had sojourned in the land of Canaan. These are the records of the generations of Jacob. That's the word Toledot, Eru or Toledot, what came forth from Jacob Joseph, when seventeen years of age, so some time has passed, you know, he was six years old or something when they're making the journey down, and now eleven years is Going by. This happens in scripture a lot. You were reading one passage and then the very next passage it's eleven years later. Just keep that in mind. So he's seventeen years old now was pasturing the flock with his brothers while he was still a youth, along with the sons of Bilha and the sons of Ziltha, his father's wives. And Joseph brought back a bad report about them to their father. Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his sons, because he was the son of his old age, and he made him a very colored tunic. His brothers saw that their father loved him more than all his brothers, and so they hated him, and could not speak to him on friendly terms. Then Joseph had a dream, and when he told it to his brothers, they hated him even more. He said to them, Please listen to this dream which I have had. For behold, we were binding sheaves in the field, and lo, my sheaf rose up and also stood erect. And behold, your sheaves gathered around and bowed down to my sheaf. Then his brother said to him, Are you actually going to reign over us? Or are you really going to rule over us? So they hated him even more for his dreams and for his words. Now he had still another dream and related to his brothers and said, Lo, I have had still another dream, and behold, the sun and the moon and the eleven stars were bowing down to me He related it to his father and to his brothers, and his father rebuked him and said to him, What is this dream that you have had? Shall I and your mother and your brothers actually come to bow ourselves down before you to the ground? His brothers were jealous of him, but his father kept the saying in mind. So let's take a look at what's going on here. Who are Zilta and Bilha? So they are the maids. Zilpa is Leah's maid, and Bilha is Rachel's maid, who were given to Jacob to marry. And each of them had two sons, the sons of Zilpar, Gad, and Asher, the sons of Bilhar, Dan, and Naphtali. So when we read in this story that he went to the fields to the sons of Zilpah and the sons of Bilhah, that's Gadash, Ardan, and Mhthali. That's the four brothers that were in the field. And he brings back a bad report about those four brothers. So he's seventeen years old, he gives this bad report about his brothers. He goes he goes back, Dad, Dad, you'll never know. They did this and this and this other thing Uh so he he tattles on his brothers. Uh Jacob loves Joseph more than his uh his others. He gives him a colorful coat. All the other sons of Jacob hate him for all these reasons that that it's obvious to them so it's obvious to Joseph, it's obvious to the brothers that Jose Jacob uh prefers Joseph that he favors Joseph and they hate him for it. He has these two dreams. First one is sheaves of grain that bow down. The second one is sun, moon, and eleven stars bowing down. There's no interpretation given because there's no interpretation needed. It's really obvious what these dreams are. And as with everything in the Old Testament, there's a painting. Uh the one of the most famous painters in history, Raphael, painted a painting called The Dreams of Joseph. His father at first rebukes him, his brothers hate him, but his father kept these things in mind, or or uh it's it's a very similar phrase. This one's in Hebrew, the other's in Greek, of when Mary treasured these things in her heart. So uh Jacob at first rebukes him, but then he's he th he considers, hey uh you know maybe this is a this dream is important uh in other words. That's kind of the the the flavor of that phrase in in Hebrew. Um So uh the present section relates to the dissension and division that arise between Joseph and his brothers. Now, this div this dissension, of course, has been going on for a long time because Uh from the very beginning, uh Jacob prefers Rachel to Leah. And so there's tension among the sisters that are the wives, and that tension one would imagine would naturally spill over to the children of those those two women. And it intensifies here, especially with Joseph. And so in the first case we have the particular sons of Bilha and Zilpah, Dan, Neptilagad, and Asher, and Joseph. So there's this growing animosity and hatred by the brothers toward Joseph, and it's fueled even more by Jacob's favoritism and then the dreams. And so this section begins in 37. 2 with this mark of a tolerat, the word what comes forth from. So it marks a beginning of a section of Scripture. And that section of scripture is from thirty-seven to fifty that talks about Joseph. First of all, many happy family members. You can imagine. Yeah. Um So uh with the we pick up the story here with him seventeen, he's out in the fields with his uh brothers Dan Napl I get an asher, he brings back this bad report um about something they have done wrong. Could have been something they did to Joseph um that he doesn't like, uh doesn't really say. He just brings back something that's uh an unfavorable report something that makes the brothers look bad in the eyes of their father Jacob. Um w and we get this reinforcement that Jacob loved Joseph more than his brothers. He showed partiality to him Uh there's an example of a special coat. Now if you have a whole bunch of kids and you give a special present to one and nothing to the others, what are the other kids going to think about that? Yeah, so yeah, so yeah, the kids are gonna be thrilled that hey, my brother got this special thing and we get nothing. Um So you can just see that uh you know, Jacob ma you know, does he realize what he's doing? To some extent he must realize that he's giving special treatment to one son, but from another perspective, he doesn't realize how bad it is Because as we see, he he sends Joseph off by himself to the to the brothers. If he realized how much the brothers hated Joseph, he never would have done this. Uh so to an extent, Jacob is blind to this. He he doesn't realize the effect. the the to the real effect that his favoritism is having on these other ropes. Yes. Do you think it's at the time that his dad could also see His managerial skills. I mean he he clearly demonstrated them in Egypt, so you kinda wonder if we had any It could be. It could be. But still this is bad parenting. That's true. His wife is dead. Although he's got he's got three other wives that can tell him what to do. And you would think that the three other wives would not be happy about their kids getting s being the second class citizens, uh and that they might be prompted to say something, but we don't get it. We don't know. also Joseph as a seventeen year old is going around his brother sort of thing that's a coat I'd have. Yeah, just look at my coat and just hear my dreams. Um Yeah, I mean why did he have to tell his brothers these dreams? I mean he could have kept them to himself. But he doesn't. He I mean he goes right out to the brothers, Hey, listen to the dream I had about you guys bowing down to me. Um You know, he's he he knows that he's the favorite and he's gonna take full advantage of it. Yeah. Rebecca dead So uh R Rebecca Rebecca um Live to be a hundred and twenty seven, I think. Now can we have a legal yeah yeah just it's She's dead. Joseph's mother Yeah, Joseph's mother is dead. So yes, Joseph's mother died on the way uh on their travels as they're coming down uh from into the land of Canaan going from north to south. She dies. So she's dead. Yes. Rachel is dead. Okay, so the brother. Yeah, so so he there was three mothers in the house and so the uh in the Sun, Moon and Stars thing, yeah, the moon represents the mothers that are in the house and Uh Leah would have been the primary one. Yeah. Is Goody was naive because we needed that prophecy. We did. Indeed we did. Um Yeah, so uh we'll find in this whole story that no matter how um seemingly ignorant and stupid and sinful everybody is, God's plans keep moving forward Sometimes because of the stupid and evil things people do. So we have this special quote. The Hebrew words, there's two Hebrew words there, Kathanef and Pesseum and they mean a tunic coater robe, uh Kefineath, and Pesseum It's a little bit harder to translate, but it usually means long and flowing. There's actually nothing about color in either one of those Hebrew words. In f in spite of the fact that every English translation has something about color in there, neither one of those Hebrew words has anything to do with color. Um so it it it really means a fancy long flowing robe. I mean it is really fancy. So it would have stood out as some this is a spectacular item of clothing that that Joseph Jacob's given to Joseph and no one else. Um but it those Hebrew words actually don't have anything to do with color. Um so favoritism of Jacob for Joseph, uh quite overt, not hidden. Right out in the open, so all of his other children see that uh Jacob is treating Joseph special. Uh yes. Would that uh along pulling the road would that be uh similar to what the Pharisees had which which the extension of the road represented how It it is. It's the same um i it's the when the the description in the New Testament is in Greek. And the we have a Greek translation of the Old Testament, and the phrase is a similar thing for the flowing robes of the Pharisees in the Greek. Yeah. Yeah, it is. Um that the son, in addition to hating their brother, kind of also hated their father for being that way. favoring their brother. But the hatred is primarily directed at Joseph, because there's really nothing they can do about their father. So they hated him and could not speak to him on friendly terms So the attitude of the brothers toward Joseph is one of great animosity and discord. And Jacob definitely doesn't see the extent of it. Uh Joseph has two dreams and the Bible says that it causes them to hate him even more. So that it's already bad. They already hate him a lot. Now the dreams cause them to hate him even more. Uh that Hebrew phrase is a it's a substant what's called a substantive uh for emphasis really And it expresses continuance, persistence, repetition, and heightening of their hatred for Joseph. So their hatred is continuous, persistent, it's repeated, and it's growing. That's the idea of the Hebrew word there for they hated them even more. Joseph is quite earnest and insistent about sharing his dreams with his brothers, and then also with his father. Uh, even though he must have known that the dreams would make them angry. These dreams have a obvious interpretation and they're obviously putting Joseph up on a pedestal For first his brothers and then his brothers and his uh uh his father and his father's wives bowing down to him. Um So, uh in relaying the content of the dream, he uses these uh words for emphasis. Um this Hebrew word henna, he uses it five times in the three dr in the two dreams. Three times it's translated behold and twice it's translated lo. But it's the same Hebrew word. It's a word of emphasis to show, hey, look at this. Hey, listen to this. And behold and lo is how it's translated in the scriptures here. It's a demonstrative word to make the narrative more graphic and vivid. He's very excited about these dreams, in other words. He's not just relating these dreams in a monotone. He's very excited as he relays these dreams. That's what these these Hebrew words of demonstrative words show. The first dream is Sheevs bowing down to Joseph Sheeves, second dream sun, moon, and stars. Dreams have no interpretation because the meaning is obvious. Um the brothers respond, of course, in a vehement way, um, essentially saying they would never bow down to him because he could never rule or reign over them, this little snot-nosed kid. However, these dreams are from the Lord, as we will see. And that at the end of the story they do come to pass in great detail. I mean his brothers come and they grovel before him. They grovel before him before they know who he is, and they grovel before him even after they know who he is. when he's the he's the prime minister of Egypt and the essentially the most powerful man on earth. Um and so he later of course interprets more dreams. These are his own dreams, but later he'll interpret dreams for Uh in Genesis chapter 40 and 41 for the baker and the cupbearer, and then eventually for the pharaoh as well. Jacob is initially offended when he hears the dream that obviously involves Jacob bowing down to his own son But at the end of verse 11, we see a difference in Jacob's attitude in that his father kept the saying in mind. Now, he keeps the saying in mind, but then remember, for a quite a few number of years he believes that Joseph is dead, and eventually then he sees uh Joseph again at the end of his life. So let's continue with the story. Take a peek back down to Genesis chapter 37, and we'll pick up the story in verse 12. So we've had the coat, um special coat, and we've had the the bad report of the four of his brothers. And now we get a second incident here, starting in verse 12. So then his brothers went to pasture their flocks, their father's flocks, in Shechem. Israel said to Joseph, Are not your brothers pastoring the flock in Shechem? Come and I will send you to them. And he said to him, I will go. Then he said to him, Go now and see about the welfare of your brothers and the welfare of the flock, and bring word back to me. So he sent him from the valley of Hebron, and he came to Shechem. A man found him, and behold, he was wandering in the field, and the man asked him, What are you looking for? He said, I am looking for my brothers. Please tell me where they are pasturing the flock. Then the man said, They have moved from here, for I heard them say, Let us go to Dothan So Joseph went after his brothers and found them at Dothan. When they saw him from a distance, and before he came close to them, they plotted against him to put him to death. They said to one another, Here comes this dreamer. Now then, come and let us kill him and throw him into one of the pits. And we will say a wild beast devoured him Then let us see what will become of his dreams. But Reuben heard this and rescued him out of their hands and said, Let us not take his life. Reuben further said to them, Shed no blood. Throw him into this pit that is in the wilderness, but do not lay hands on him. That he might rescue him out of their hands to restore him to his father. So it came about, when Joseph reached his brothers, that they stripped Joseph of his tunic, the very colored tunic that was on him, and they took him and threw him into the pit. Now the pit was empty without any water in it. Then they sat down to eat a meal as if nothing had happened. And as they raised their eyes and looked, behold, a caravan of Ishmaelites was coming from Gilead with their camels bearing aromatic gum and balm and myrrh on their way to bring them down to Egypt. Judah said to his brothers, What profit is it for us to kill our brother and cover up his blood? Come, let us sell him to the Ishmaelites and not lay our hands on him, for he is our brother, our own flesh. And his brothers listened to him. Then some Midianite traders passed by, so they pulled him up and lifted Joseph out of the pit and sold him to the Israelites for twenty shekels of silver. Thus they brought Joseph into Egypt. And then the very last verse, verse 36. Meanwhile, the Midianites sold him in Egypt to Potiphar, Pharaoh's officer, the captain of the bodyguard So that's the story of how Joseph gets down to Egypt. So here it is on a map. The family is centered around Hebron. But they've moved their flocks further north to Shachem. And so Joseph uh Jacob had enormous flocks. He had such huge flocks that he could afford to give five hundred and fifty animals just as a token gift to his brother Esau. So we're talking about thousands and thousands of animals. And in order to pasture thousands and thousands of animals, they most likely had to move them around Because they would hoover down all the grass in one place and they would have to move move to another place. Um so they moved around and now they've moved the flocks up towards Shechem And Jacob tells Joseph, Hey, go off to Shechem. That's about fifty miles. About fifty miles from Hebron to Shechem. So a little bit of a journey. Fifty miles walking is a little bit of a journey. Um and he's gonna go up there, but by the time he gets there they've moved on from Shechem and they've gone to Dothan, which is thirteen miles from Shechem So they've moved the flocks a little further. And he finds out and he goes on to Dothan to meet them. Okay. So they're Ishmaelites, but they're also Midianites. What does that mean? So who who is Ishmael? Son of Abraham, so this is brother. So Isaac's brother, so this is more descendants of Abraham, but not from Isaac's tree, but from Ishmael's tree. So they're cousins, like second cousins, not first cousins, but like second or third cousins. So but they're distant relatives, Ishmaelites are. Now some of the Ishmaelites, the Ishmaelites went to the east and the south, Ishmael did. And some of them went to a place called Midian. which is on the map there, circle. And so part of the Ishmaelites were Midianites, were from the land of Midian, that area. And so these particular Ishmaelites are from Midian. Okay So, what's going on here? Joseph's and his brothers are out of town. They're in Shechem to find pasture for Jacob's flocks. Jacob sends Joseph from Hebron so he can check on his brothers and bring word back. We've seen this before. Send he sent them to s to check on his brothers before and he comes back with a bad report. And I'm gonna do the same thing At Shechem a man redirects him up to Jot Dotham. He said, Hey, your brothers have moved on to Dotham, a little bit further north Joseph's brothers plot to kill him. It's obvious from the scripture. It says it specifically that their intent was to kill him. So it's a premeditated murder. It's not he just They just you know, they got mad when when they saw him and and you know out of uh pa it was in a passionate last minute thing. It was they plotted it as he's coming, they they they hatch a plan to murder him Uh and throw him in a pit. Uh Ruben, who's Ruben? The oldest. The oldest. So Ruben's the oldest, and he convinces them not to kill him. And they listen to him. He's the oldest. He says, hey, let's not kill him. And they listen to him. And the scripture also has an editorial comment there. In addition to what Reuben actually says to the brothers, it says that what was in Reuben's mind was he was going to circle back and bring him up out of the pit and and rescue him and send him back to his father. So Ruben's intention was to rescue him And then later on Ruben is not there. He's probably off with the flocks at that point when they actually sell him. And and then he's Ruben comes back and he's not there and he's destroyed. Um so, uh Joseph's brother strips him of his colorful coat, because what is what does the colorful coat symbolize? Favoritism. Favoritism. The fact that he's the favorite, that coat is a symbol of it, and the first thing they do is what? Take rip that coat off him. That's the first thing they do. And throw him into the pit. So Reuben leaves for a little while because he's not there for the second part of this. Joseph's brothers see a caravan of Ishmaelites coming from Gilead on their way to Egypt. And Judah, then who's Judah? Son number of the Messiah. The line of the Messiah and son number four. So so Leah again. So the f the first four are all born to Leah. Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah. Judah's number four, son of Leah, who will be the line of the Messiah and the and the and the and the line of the kings. Um Judah suggests that they sell Joseph to the Israelites. Hey, we can get a little coin here. I mean if we just kill 'em, w we're not going to make anything from we can we can get s we can s put some coin in the pocket here So he comes up with this idea to sell him to the Israelites rather than kill him. And the brothers listen to him. They listen to Judah. And later on Judah will become important in the story when they go down to Egypt as well. Uh so the brothers agree to sell Joseph for twenty pieces of silver. Uh and the Ishmaelites take Joseph on to Egypt. Of course there's a painting of the brothers selling Joseph into slavery from the Middle Ages as well. Constantine Flavitsky, uh 1855 uh depiction of the brothers hauling them up out of that pit and selling them into slavery with the to the Ishmaelites and their camels there in the background. Reuben returns to rescue Joseph, but he's gone, and he tears his clothes in grief because he's gone. Because his plan was to rescue him and send him back to his father. The brothers slaughter a goat, dip Joseph's coat in the blood, bring it to Jacob. Jacob recognizes the code and assumes that the wild animals have killed Joseph. And of course there's a painting of that too, of Joseph's bloody coat being brought to Jacob by Diego Velazquez in 1630. They're the brothers bringing this coat, uh this bloody uh coat back to Jacob. Um Meanwhile the Ishmaelites sell Joseph in Egypt to Potiphar, Pharaoh's official, the captain of the guard. So here's a map again. So the Bible says they're coming from Gilead, and there's a well-known north-south road. It actually goes through Dothan. And so they would have been on the North South Road going through Dothan. Um so and they see them and they say, hey, let's make some coin by selling uh to these Ishmaelites who are on the trade route between Gilead and Egypt. Now, the things that are mentioned that they're selling, that they're taking to Egypt to sell do not come from Gilead. They actually come from Mesopotamia. So most likely they were they were coming through Gilead, but they were actually coming from Mesopotamia where they have obtained these these rare goods that you couldn't get in Canaan or Egypt and they had brought them all the way from Mesopotamia by this trade route all the way down to Egypt and there they are uh fortuitously coming along just at the right time for uh them to sell Joseph to this caravan of Ishmaelites As they go through Dothan. So the Holy Spirit through Moses now narrates the details of how the other sons of Jacob conspired to destroy Joseph. They're in the fields with the flocks, far away from their father's oversight, and Joseph is sent to check on them. So Jacob, this is a huge error by Jacob. He he he must have been ignorant of just how much they hated. So i if you think about Jacob's state of mind, he probably can't even imagine anybody really hating Joseph I mean he really loves Joseph. So can you can he imagine somebody actually hating Joseph enough to kill him? Maybe not Um but they do. Um so uh they're semi nomads, Jacob and his family would be continually moving their flocks around from one grazing area to another, and that's why um from their home base in Hebron they're uh The flocks are going up to Shechem and then build them. Shechem, where they had gone to pasture the flocks, was in the central hill country of Canaan with rich soil and abundant water. It was an important site. It keeps coming up over and over again in the Bible. It was the first city in Canaan visited by Abraham in Genesis chapter 12. Jacob purchased a plot of land there direct an altar to the Lord on the spot of Genesis thirty-three as he was going up to Haran to get his wives. That was Shechem. So Shechem for Abraham, Shechem for Joseph Uh uh Jacob and then it also ends up being the final resting place of Joseph in in uh Joshua twenty-four. When they leave Egypt, they bring Joseph's bones with them And when they finally cross over into the land after you know the forty years of wandering, they find Moses dies, Joshua brings them in. When they finally come into the land of Canaan to possess it, In Joshua chapter 24, they buried Joseph's bones in Shechem. So Shechem keeps coming up over and over again in the story of scripture Joseph starts out from head round, travels to Shechem a distance of about fifty miles. So it is possible to go fifty miles in a day. But 50 miles is kind of a long way to walk, and so it may have taken him more than a day to get up there. It's possible to do it in a day. But it's a long way to walk. In verses 15 and 17, we see that Joseph displays great persistence and determination to obey his father's command. He could have just gone to Shechem, they weren't there, turned around and gone back. Right? I went to Shechem, they weren't there, so nothing I could do. But he finds out where they went and he keeps going and tracks them down to Dokum And that's another thirteen and a half miles north of Shekah, and he and he goes there to find him. In verse 18, we find out that as soon as they see Joseph coming, the brothers plotted against him to put him to death. So it's hill country there, so they were probably on some sort of a hillside where they could see the road. They could see it to the south when when Joseph was coming, and they can see it to the north as the Ishmaelites are coming So they're probably up on some hillside. Um so but they can see them coming, as soon as they see him coming, they have this plan to kill 'em. Uh see him far enough away to have time to make a plan. So it's first degree murder. Yeah, it's definitely premeditated. Um th I mean they don't end up killing him, but they they fake his death, they end up but the whole thing is planned. It's not just doesn't just happen. Yeah. It doesn't he doesn't say something annoying when he gets there and they decide to kill him. No, they've planned to kill him as soon as they see him coming. Um The uh cohortative uh let us kill derives from a uh Hebrew word harag, uh, and that's a verb that implies ruthless violence. So they're they they are this is a bloodthirsty murder. Uh it's never used of judicial killing, the death penalty. Um it's most often used to describe a private vendetta and a a a A bloodlust killing. So that's the that's the flavor of this thing. They're really intent on ruthlessly slaughtering this kid. Uh they intend to slaughter Joseph and dump his body in a pit. In verse 21, Reuben, Jacob's firstborn, intervenes to save Joseph's life. His authority as the oldest is unquestioned when he says it, and none of the others raise an objection. Let us not take his life, he said. He has an alternative plan, which the scripture lays out. He plans to rescue him out of their hands and restore him to his father. He comes he plans to come back then. So he says, hey, throw him in the pit. And his plan is when he comes back from his rotation out in the fields, he's going to rescue him out of that pit. The first thing the brothers do when Joseph arises is strip him from the special coat, the symbol of his special favor, as we talked about before Um and then they throw Joseph into the pit, which rev is revealed later in verse twenty-four to be an empty cistern. There's no water in it. So it's a it's a p it's a place that's built to have water in it, but it it's empty And so and it's deep enough he can't just climb out of it. Uh then they sit down to eat as if nothing had happened. Throw throw my brother in a fit and sit down and have lunch And then from their their seat up on the hill country, they can see the North Road as well as the South Road, and they see the Ishmaelites coming. And they're on their way from Gilead to Egypt to trade goods. Judah, the fourthborn son, comes up with the idea to sell them to the Ishmaelites, and the brothers like that idea, and they go with it. So they pull them up out of the cistern, they sold them to the Ishmaelites for twenty shekels of silver. And so uh we actually have some um Extra biblical sources, the Code of Hammurabi, for example, that lists this the standard price for a slave as twenty shekels. And it the it varied a little bit by age, but the the prime age band was from five to twenty. You could get 20 shekels for somebody between ages 5 and 20. You get fewer shekels as they got older. Because if they were young, you could get lots of use out of them. There. So it was twenty shekels for a slave between five and twenty. Joseph is how old? Seventeen, so he's in the right band to be sold for twenty shekels of silver. Because there was ten of them. Ten of them, so they get two shekels apiece. Um not very much. But hey, it's it's more than they would get if they just slaughtered them and threw them to the pit. So they pocket some coin. Twenty shekels of silver. Um okay. So Um w what what is the application here? Um it it appears to be uh a secular story centering on the human drama of brother and brother. That's what it is on the surface. But really, what is it? If we see if we put it into context all the way up to Genesis 50, it's an example of divinely ordered or ordered course of human history. These events are all coming together To to fulfill God's purposes. Yes. The prophets and the writing was written about him. So when you look at that story, what you see is the nation of Israel's hatred against Jesus Christ and how could they have that much hate to kill their own Messiah And it then it goes on that he was sold to just by Judas. And the whole thing that you see in in that what you just described and everything, you see the whole thing outlaid in the life of Jesus Yeah, so I I didn't put it in here. Uh I've done it in this lesson before, but especially for Jewish background believers, so Messianic Jews They will absolutely emphasize the similarities between the life of Joseph and the life of Jesus Like being sold for silver, for example. Um being um being having a having their major life change at thirty Jesus started his earthly ministry at thirty and Joseph became Prime Minister at thirty. Um being um being among being one of three And having one of the three uh killed and and one one of the three saved. So Jesus on the cross between two thieves, one of the one to heaven, one of one to hell. uh Joseph being in prison with the baker and the cupbearer, one of them was killed and one of them was saved. They they draw all these parallels in the life of Joseph Um, h his brothers hating him, uh the the Jews hating Jesus, their Messiah. They they go through these and there's like fifty of them in the life of Joseph and the life of Jesus that the the Jews will Messianic Jews will go through Um yeah. Um okay uh being being uh put into the earth and brought back out of the earth Joseph was put into the earth in the cistern and brought back out. Jesus was put into the earth in the tomb and brought back out. They they'll do these they'll they'll go through these like fifty comparisons between Joseph and Jesus. Um yeah Uh so but this story is a is really ultimately about God's sovereignty over events. Um So hatred of the brothers leads to selling of Joseph into Egypt. The slavery eventually leads to all Israel dwelling in Egypt and ultimately to the deliverance of the Hebrews during the period of the Exodus. All these things are part of God's sovereign plan, and God uses even the evil actions of evil people to further his plan. His sovereign plan in history. He uses man's sinful ways and deceitfulness to bring about his own good purposes That's really the lesson of the whole life of Joseph from 37 to 50. And all these details spell that out. Now, the name of God does not appear in the entire chapter, in the entire story. So Yahweh is not there, but he's there. Right? He's there without him being named. It's really God's sovereignty that's here without him even having to be named. Yahweh doesn't appear in the story. But he appears in the story. So the writer's purpose is to encourage the reader to ask the question, why is God's name not found here? Is God not there? But the answer, of course, is yeah, God really is there. He's directing all these events, but you can't see it if you're only focused on a small part of the picture, it's really hard to see It's only when you expand out and see these events in light of Genesis chapter 50. These events are all part of the story that leads to God's intended purpose. And you can't and and people that are especially people that are in the situation it's really hard to see what God's purposes are. If if you're a 17-year-old Joseph and you're sitting at the bottom of a an empty cistern, it's really hard to see God's good purposes. to being sold into slavery and then falsely accused and then thrown into prison. You know, it's really hard to see God's good purposes when we're in the midst of a trial like that. It's only when we can see the whole picture and and when you're in the story you can't see the whole picture. So what do we have to rely on? Faith. Faith. We have to trust that God does have good purposes even for being thrown into a pit, sold into slavery, and thrown into prison. We have to trust in that situation that God has a good purpose for that. Um and we we will we may never see it this side of heaven. Or it may be revealed much later on. Yes. That's right. See them all over the place. So God's providence is really the central theme of this story without God's name ever appearing once in it. How in the world did they did those people get to Egypt? And how did they end up being in that law and so on for for all the the law of Moses and everything else? So remember this had been prophesied to Abraham A hundred years before. God had told Abraham, your descendants will sojourn in the land of Egypt. And so so did this catch God by surprise? No, none of this caught God by surprise. He had already planned this all out and actually informed Abraham that it was going to happen to his descendants. So this was part of God's plan, and he used the evil actions of evil people for good purposes. uh to to work out. Now, does that make it okay to do evil things? No, it doesn't make it okay to do evil things. It just means that we cannot thwart God's perfect plan even with with evil behavior and and disobedience and things like that. Yes. I think God humbles man. He removes all the possessions, the families, like he did with Jacob and David Joseph. So that they would realize that he is all they need. That's that's right. And so Joseph he he's uh pretty remarkable, this seventeen year old boy doesn't um he he doesn't just collapse. I mean he doesn't just um s you know, he doesn't just fall into despair and you know, end up not being able to do anything. He has remarkable faith through throughout all this, Joseph does. And God sustains him through these terrible trials that he goes through. God sustains him. And and God eventually lifts him up to a position of great power and responsibility and wealth in the end. But it would be very difficult for Joseph to see that from the bottom of the cistern. Um that this this was going to lead to him being the Prime Minister of Egypt. In human terms that's that's just preposterous. All right. Yes. And and one of the biggest things is the statement that Joseph made towards the brothers, but you intended for evil, God meant for good. That's right. In Genesis chapter fifty, after uh after we s after this whole thing works its way out, there's the brothers are still terrified of Joseph. Um at the very end of this story, they're still carrying the weight of their guilt and shame from this. But Joseph tells them Joseph has the right perspective. He says These same events, you meant 'em for evil, and God meant 'em for good. Yep. All right. Uh on that we'll uh yeah, go ahead. I'm gonna mention uh in thirty-seven on verse twenty three it does say about a code of many colors. Is that a translation there? Yep. But as a translation, the the Hebrew words there don't mention colors. Yeah. Yeah, which yeah. It's a it's a difficult word to translate, but it it the word itself typically doesn't have anything to do with colors. All right. Let me close this with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day. We thank you for our mothers. We thank you for how you've designed the family with fathers and mothers and children uh to be able to um be uh nurtured and uh to be brought up in uh knowledge of you We just thank you for how you've designed that and for our individual mothers. We thank you for your word. We thank you for what we see here, particularly about your sovereignty over all things. uh that you are really in control of events in history and you have good purposes and good plans for everything that happens and even when we go through trials and difficulties that that you have a good purpose for those things. That For those of us that are in Christ, that have been adopted into your family, that you always have a good purpose for the things, the the trials that we go through We pray, Lord, that you would help us to have the right perspective, that you would help us to understand and have faith in your goodness when we have difficulties. uh and we go through difficulties. And also help us, Lord, to help one another when we see brothers and sisters that are going through trials and difficulties that we would be there to encourage them and help them to to point them to you when their uh when their faith wavers. Help us to be a help to one another because tomorrow it'll be me that needs the help. We thank you for the opportunity we have right now to worship you in corporate worship, and we pray that all of this that we do will be will bring glory to your name, will be pleasing to you, and that your name will be magnified and glorified in all the earth. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.