All right. Let's let's start with a word of prayer. If you'll bow with me. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day that you have made, and we pray that we'll be able to rejoice in it. As we worship you. We thank you, Lord, for the opportunity to gather as the body of Christ today. We thank you for our opportunity right now to gather around your word and to learn from it. We thank you later for the chance to to worship and corporate worship. We thank you for your sovereignty over all of your creation and all of history We thank you for how you've revealed yourself in the pages of Scripture from Genesis to Revelation, and we especially thank you for your plan of redemption that's that's laid out across scripture and and played out across history. We thank you for the life, death Burial and resurrection of Christ. We thank you that He sits at your right hand and intervenes on our behalf as the perfect high priest. We thank you for your promises, Lord. We thank you for your faithfulness to your promises. And we thank you, Lord, for who you are and that we can worship you today. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. So we have come to part six. I want to uh thank Lord Fee for teaching last week while I was at the new member class. Can anybody identify, before we get started, can anybody identify this venue? Where is that? Naval Academy. Naval Academy. That's the Naval Academy Chapel, and in particular the Naval Academy organ. that you can see there. Um and on a Friday evening I had the uh the great privilege to to be there for an organ concert in the Naval Academy chapel. Fun time. Uh does anybody know what it says there in this right here in this plaque? What does it say there? It says, E Eternal Father Strong to Save, which is the the Navy Yes. Uh-huh. Turn a father strong to say yeah. It is awesome, yeah. Yes. Um I feel uh how do we call it personal they do Yeah. Yeah, it is tremendous. Uh uh we've been a number of times. It's ever it's the beginning of December every year And they've done handles messiah there in that chapel every year for seventy-five years. All right, today. So what we're going to learn today. So uh we've been going through uh we're we're following how God works in the life of the patriarchs uh in the book of Genesis from Genesis twelve to fifty. We've been following How God works in the life of Abraham, uh, and then in the w life of Isaac, and now we're going to start into the life of Jacob. So we're going to see Jacob taking the birthright in Genesis chapter 25. Jacob and Rebecca and Jacob deceiving Isaac in Genesis chapter 27 for the blessing. And then we're going to see that Esau bore a grudge and it causes Jacob to have to flee. First we'll take a look back at last week and so um when we look at the overall picture Uh we see Noah and his descendants come off the ark into the post-flood world. Uh Noah's flood sh uh son Shem, who was born before the flood He actually l outlives Abraham. He lives well into the life of Isaac and Jacob Uh and so Shem, who knew what the post f uh the the pr the pre-flood world looked like, knew what it was like to be on the ark and to live for that year on the ark knew what it was like to come off the ark and see what the post flood world was like. He was around and could have given a first person account of what the pre-flood world was like, for example. All the way down through Jacob, who we're about to study. Also, Eber, if you'll notice, So Eber was the father of Pelag, and in Pelig's day the world was divided. And so Eber was kind of the head of the clan at the time of the Tower of Babel And so when they all split off, uh it was Eber's family. Um the the the word the word Hebrew actually means the descendants of Eber And so the Eberus, the Hebrews, were of that clan. So that clan divided from the Tower of Babel. was the Eberus. And so these this whole family that we're following are this are headed by this man, Eber. And he was around uh for most of Isaac and Jacob's life as well And he would have been able to tell the clan what it was like to be at the Tower of Babel, to be building it, to have everybody speak the same language. And then all of a sudden when nobody can understand each other. He was able to tell them the first person who count of what that was like. All the way down through the man who we're studying now, Jacob. Yes. So um that's just to show um that he that there's this overlap with Jacob, uh for example. The two blue lines are how long Shem was around in the life of Jacob. about. Trying trying to line up about how that was. No, no, so the flood is all the way back um Uh yeah when when Noah's six hundred, so back, you know, when when Shem is about a hundred. Okay. Everybody see that how that falls into context there. And then we're studying this family of Tirah, and all the people in red are ancestors of Jesus. And so like the whole family is ancestors of Jesus in one way or another, except for a few. Esau is not Lot is not. And Rachel is not uh in the family tree of Jesus. And we s we studied last time Isaac, who married Rebecca, who was the son of his first cousin. So Isaac and Bethuel are first cousins. Rebecca is the daughter of Isaac's first cousin, and that's who he marries And then of course Laban is Rebecca's brother, and we'll see when he comes into the story that um That makes Laban Jacob's uncle and he goes and works for his uncle, and that makes Leah and Rachel both Jacob's first cousins and he marries two of his first cousins So in the chronology of things, how things li line up in the timeline, we have um Noah and Shem, we s we studied Isaac, and Isaac is um forty when he marries uh Rebecca. He's gonna be see sixty when Jacob and Esau are born. Um and then Um Isaac lives to be 180. Abraham lives to be 175. So he lives into Jacob's lifetime as well. And Isaac eventually dies if he's 60 when Jacob is born. Then of course Jacob is 120 when Isaac dies, Jacob and Esau. Uh so we saw there there's there's not that many events in Isaac's life that are in the scriptures, not like Abraham and Jacob and Joseph. Uh he's promised and then he's born um and Ishmael is uh As soon as Isaac is born, Ishmael is put out of the household. Uh there's the events in chapter twenty-two that we studied in the life of Abraham, uh his sacrifice of Isaac and God stays his hand. A wife is chosen for him in Genesis 24. Isaac takes Rebecca and Abraham dies in Genesis 25. Uh we're gonna uh see the and then he dwells in Gerar in 26, in chap chapter 26, and he has his test of faith, just like Abraham had a test of faith. And then he eventually dies, and there's an account of uh him dying in Hebron all the way up in Genesis chapter 35. Here's a map of uh the places where Isaac was, and so Isaac was mostly around Beersheba. Uh he did go f uh at one point down to Beer Lahiroy. Um in Genesis chapter twenty-six he goes over to Garar. So Beersheba is in the hill country Garrar is in the coastal plain, so he goes down there. And uh he does spend a little bit of time around Hebron and of course he's buried there in Mamre in the cave of Makpila Where all the patriarchs are buried. Sarah and Abraham and Isaac and Rebecca all get buried in the cave of Machpelah up there around memory. So uh just as a summary of what we did last time, Abraham asked his servant to go and find a wife for Isaac among Abraham's kin. That's back up in Haran The servant brings a whole bunch of uh brides gifts uh for the family. So if he can find the right wife he's gonna be a he's gonna give the gifts. It's in Haran, the city where Uh the family first came when the fur the family cur first came from Arab Chaldees, they s settled in Haran and then Abraham, Lot and Sarah went on further into the land of Canaan, but the rest of the family stayed there in Haran and there's been several generations by this point up there in Haran and that's where the servant of Isaac goes Uh there's an overlay of the modern countries and so Haran is right there on the border between Syria and Turkey. And that city, Haran, still exists in the northern part of Syria He gets up there, the servant of Abraham does, he prays that God will reveal who the who um the wife should be. And then as he's still praying or as he's just finishing his prayer, there's Rebecca shows up. The servant gives the gifts, uh, spends the night at the father's house She tells them who she is and and the fact that that it's obvious to everyone that God has arranged this, that it's it's God's hand. that's provided Rebecca to be the wife for Isaac. Um he explains who he is. He um They recognize that it's it's from God and they let Rebecca go. Uh then Rebecca goes with the servant. She sees Isaac in the distance. Isaac marries Rebecca and it comforts her uh him after the death of his mother. So at first she can't have children Um they're forty she he's forty when they get married and she can't get pregnant, can't get pregnant, and then finally uh they pray about it and she does get pregnant when uh Isaac is sixty. So when he's 60, they give birth she gives birth to twins, uh Esau and Jacob. Um Esau's a hunter and uh Isaac likes him and Rebecca loves Jacob uh grows up to be a man intense. Um we have an example. Uh I don't know how much uh Lorfie dwelt on this last week, but uh in Romans chapter nine There is a curious scripture about these two boys. Not only this, but there was Rebecca also when she had conceived twins by one man, our father Isaac For though the twins were not yet born and had not done anything good or bad, so that God's purpose according to his choice would Stand, not because of their works, but because of him who calls. It was said to her, The older will serve the younger. Just as it is written, Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated And so Paul, by the Holy Spirit, is using these events in Genesis 25 as an example to demonstrate God's work of election. The distinction is made uh not made because of human merit or human goodness. It's made by the mercy of God in accordance with the counsel of his will Um and the same holds true for our salvation, it's by grace through faith, and that's not of ourselves Uh Romans eight um says, For those whom he foreknew he also predestined to become conformed to the image of his son, so that he would be the firstborn among many brethren, and these whom he predestined he also called, and these whom he called he also justified. And these whom he justified, he also glorified. So everyone that he foreknew before the foundation of the earth goes all the way through to glorification. That's what Romans 8, 29 and 30 is saying. And Paul, a few verses earlier, uses the example of Jacob and Esau. as Jacob who he called and Esau whom he did not. And makes it really clear that it's not because of anything that they did or anything that they were going to do It's just because of Bethswas God's will. Alright. Um We saw that Isaac had doubts and fears And he so Isaac gets the same test as his father Abraham got. There's a famine, he goes to another city, and he lies about his wife. And so he fails the same test Just like his father Abraham failed that same test in Egypt, and he failed it in the same way that his father did. Uh he went from Beersheba in the hill country down to Gerar uh in the coastal plain and that's where he failed his test. Um and so and the Bible actually refers to the previous test in so in Genesis 26. It says there was a famine, just like the famine in Genesis chapter 12. And so it specifically the Bible links the two Um and they do this, they fail in the same way. And God reacts in the same way. He doesn't crush Isaac just like he didn't crush Abraham. He follows up um Isaac's failure with a reiteration of the covenant In Genesis chapter 26 he says, I will bless you. I will be with you and I will bless you. I will multiply your descendants as the stars of heaven, and I will Give your descendants all these lands, and by your descendants all the nations of the earth will be blessed. So it's the same pattern. Um in spite of a failure God gives uh comfort and encouragement to the one that he has chosen in spite of failure. And the failure is a faith-building opportunity, faith-building exercise. And so that's the way God works. He worked that way in the life of the patriarchs, and God is the same yesterday, today, and forever. So that's the same way he works for us. And so when when we fail a spiritual test It's still an opportunity for spiritual growth to learn from that test. And Abraham and Isaac learn from their failures and their faith. grew. Yes. I'll I was thinking about of Ram and Isaac and my cool boy. I was just wondering how, because of the pattern, how can we say today as parents share our penals and let us learn with our children. So prevent that pattern, that research pattern that goes from generation to generation. Yeah. So I I would say uh transparency is probably best. Now you'll have to um you'll have to use some wisdom and discretion about what age you would sh it has to be age appropriate. If you have a failure that's kind of an adult failure, you may have to wait to share the head with your children so they're a little bit older. Uh but um I think if if children learn to hear their parents talk about failure and to hear their parents ask for forgiveness and those sort of things. And that can set a positive example for children to to be like that, to learn from spiritual mistakes and to uh so as parents I think you can explain to your children this is what happened to me, this is the failure that I made, and they can learn from your failures. Now We see in this case that Abraham had a failure, and let's just assume that he told Isaac about it. Well, Isaac ends up with the same failure. Uh maybe he didn't tell them about it. And maybe that's part of the problem that Isaac didn't hear about Abraham's failure. and then he repeated it. We don't we don't we can't tell for sure from the scripture. But it's a good point that um part of the reason why this the Holy Spirit has this in the Bible is for us to learn from it without having to make that same mistake. So now uh we're probably not gonna be have a famine and go to the Gerar or to the land of Egypt, but We could have a situation where we have fear and doubt. And the response to fear and doubt should be to trust the Lord and not to uh take things into our own hands and come up with uh some sort of an earthly scheme when we're in in fear and doubt And we should be able to learn that from the mistakes that Abraham and Isaac made 4,000 years ago. Good point. And we should be able to teach our children from these examples as well Uh also. Yeah. Okay. So that was the last time. Any questions about uh how God worked in the life of Isaac? Before we march into Jacob. Alright, let's take a look at Jacob then. This is a little bit small. So uh if you you can download this from uh hope book and you can see it for yourself, see it on your computer, blow it up a little bit. This is all the uh the different uh uh players, the different uh people that come into contact with one another and how long they lived and how their uh their lifespans stacked up. Uh so Abraham lived to be 175, Isaac to lived to be a hundred, Jacob lived to be 147 Joseph lived to be 110. Isaac uh was 40 when he married Rebekah, 60 when uh uh Jacob and Esau were born. Um We we know what happened at what the date what the ages were in Jacob's life at the very end. So he was a hundred and thirty when he f when he appeared before Pharaoh and 147 when he lived. So the last seventeen years he was in Egypt. He He wa we have to speculate on exactly how old he was when he fled from um Esau. Uh from the wrath of Esau. Uh I looked at a number of different timelines and I looked at four of them and all four of them had a different age for Jacob when he went to Haran Uh the youngest one was fifty-seven years old and the oldest one was seventy-seven. So sometime in that twenty-year period. Uh but you'll notice from all those ages uh he wasn't a kid All right. He was between fifty-seven and seventy-seven at the time when he was stealing the uh the blessing. And and and uh And fleeing. So he was not a young boy, in other words. Um And then uh Joseph was seventeen when he was sold into slavery, was thirty when he became Prime Minister of Egypt uh and he lived to be a hundred and ten. Uh now there's some interesting things in scripture about whole uh uh the the life and death of Sarah. So Sarah was ninety when she gave birth to Isaac The Bible says she was 127 when she died, and so how old was Isaac when his mother Sarah died? Thirty-seven. Thirty-seven, right? Ninety to one hundred and twenty-seven, so he was thirty-seven. It says that he was forty when he married Rebecca. and that he was comforted because of the death of his mother. So how long ago had his mother died when he married? Three years. So he was in deep mourning for three years when his mother died And he was finally comforted at the end of that three years when he married Rebecca uh when he was forty. Um Okay. Uh and Rebecca, of course, uh seems uh it doesn't say exactly how old she was when she was die when she died, but When Jacob flees from the wrath of Esau, Rebekah is never mentioned again in the Bible And so um it seems to be that she died when Jacob was in Haran during those twenty years. Okay. Um Here's another uh layout of those uh years and how they um uh how they match up to one another Um we'll see uh as we go through the life of of Jacob that he ends up marrying four wives. Four wives. Um Notice the children of those four. So four wives are Leah and her maid Zilpah, Rachel and her maid Bilhob. Uh the first wife, the the one that uh God obviously intended him to marry, um produces Levi, the priesthood, Judah, the kingly line, and the messianic line. Those two come from the first wife, Leah, not from the one that Jacob really wanted, Rachel. Um, although Joseph of course comes from Rachel. Um but the priestly line, the kingly line, the messianic line through Leah, uh the first wife So turn in your Bible if you will to Genesis chapter twenty-five and let's take a look at the birthright. So Genesis twenty-five the birthright, Genesis twenty-seven. the blessing. We'll look at those two events. Genesis twenty-six we've already looked at because that was Isaac going to Gerar. So, uh Genesis chapter 25, starting at towards the end of it in uh in verse 27, it tells us the Bible tells us when the boys grew up Esau became a skillful hunter, a man of the field, but Jacob was a peaceful man living in tents. Now Isaac loved Esau because he had a taste for game, but Rebekah loved Jacob When Jacob had cooked stew, Esau came in from the field and he was famished. And Esau said to Jacob, please let me have a swallow of that red stuff there, for I am famished. Therefore his name was called Edom, which means red stuff. But Jacob said, First sell me your birthright Esau said, Behold, I am about to die. He's a drama queen there. So of what use then is the birthright to me? And Jacob said, First swear to me, so he swore to him and sold his birthright to Jacob. Then Jacob gave Esau bread and lentil stew And he ate and drank, and rose and went on his way. Thus Esau despised his birthright. So A birthright for a bowl of stew. So he comes in from honey, he's hungry, he sells his birthright to Jacob for a helping of stew. The plot of the Jacob Esau story given in 2523 was the prophecy that the Lord had made even before they were born Uh there will be animosity between the two brothers and the peoples coming from them and the older will serve the younger. That was the prophecy given to Rebecca before they were born. That theme is now set in motion with Esau's selling of his birthright to Jacob. Another primary point of the account is the careless and indifferent attitude of Esau regarding his birthright and the promises of God. There's a contrast in occupation, personality, and character between the two boys, which sets it up. Esau became a skillful hunter and a man of the field. Jacob was a peaceful man living in tents. And there's also parental favoritism here Isaac and Esau, Rebekah and Jacob, uh the Bible tells us. And so that never leads to anything good, uh favoritism among the parents for one child or another. Um so he Esau is the is the is the manly man, the hunter, uh, and Isaac uh favors him. So he comes in from hunting, he's extremely hungry. Jacob's cooking food and Esau demands to eat and Jacob sees an opportunity. So Jacob is a schemer, as we'll see throughout his life. Um, and he's he there's an opportunity there. He seizes it. Um trade some food for Esau's birthright as the firstborn son. Uh the birthright of course is very important in the ancient Near East. Um the one with the right uh the firstborn had preferential status in the family. Um and the way it worked was in the Engineer East was they would divide up the inheritance and the firstborn would get double. So if there were three kids, for example, the birthright would be divided up into four parts The oldest would get 50% or two parts, and each of the next two would get 25%. If there were four kids, the inheritance was divided up into five parts The oldest would get two parts or forty percent, and the next three would get twenty and twenty and twenty. So the oldest always got a double portion of whatever the inheritance was. Uh double portion of the inheritance, and it meant that when the father died, the firstborn would assume the headship of the family. Everybody else would be under that uh that man would be the head of the family, including his brothers and his brothers' kids He would be the head. Uh there are historical records from outside the Bible that demonstrate that birthrights were transferable by sale during the time of the patriarch. There's a thing called the Newsie tablet, which is a clay tablet, which has transactions on it, including a man that sold his birthright for a sheep uh on the newsy tablet. So evidently selling birthrights was a thing. It wasn't something that Jacob invented. It he i this was a thing in the in the ancient Near East and he was just taking advantage of an opportunity to say, hey, you can sell your birch right. I got this stew here. Would you like some stew for the low, low price of a birthright? So yeah. So he s he schemed and he came up with this idea that was something that was done in the ancient Near East But Jacob's a schemer. And we'll see later on he runs into another schemer, his Uncle Laban. And Jacob doesn't like it at all when he's on the other end of the scheming. He he's complaining all the time about how his Uncle Laban treats him and schemes about him. And so wha what is the Lord teaching Jacob there? This is what it feels like to be on the other end of the scheming What goes around comes around. And so he gets to see what it's like to be the one schemed against, and he doesn't like it at all. Okay. Um so Esau's reply is an expression of his careless and indifferent attitude. Uh apparently he attaches little importance to the promises of God through Abraham, Isaac and their descendants. He's short sighted and materialistic. In fact, in Hebrews chapter 12, Esau is described as an immoral and godless person. And Jacob was certainly not sinless, but he was a man of faith, the one through whom the seed of the woman would come. Uh if you'll turn your Bibles to Hebrews chapter twelve, you we can read about how Hebrews describes this event and how it describes this man, Esau. So Hebrews chapter fourteen, chapter twelve, starting in verse fourteen, pursue peace with all men and the sanctification without which no one will see the Lord. See to it that no one comes short of the grace of God, that no root of bitterness springing up causes trouble, and by it many be be defiled. That there be no immoral or godless person like Esau. Who sold his own birthright for a single meal? For you know that even afterwards, when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no place for repentance, though he sought for it with tears. So the Bible, through the Holy Spirit, can look right into the heart of Esau and judge him as an immoral and godless person. So um we can't always tell from the outside what a person's heart is like, but God can and has revealed through the Holy Spirit that Esau was a immoral and godless person. Okay. Back to our scriptures in Genesis. So that was the uh the birthright. Now let's go forward to Genesis 27 and look at the blessing. So Genesis 27 Genesis 27 starting in verse 1. This is a we'll go all the way through this uh kind of a little bit longer reading. Genesis 27, starting in verse 1. Now it came about when Isaac was old. And so some time has passed. So Genesis 25, um uh it it happens with the with the birthright And then Genesis twenty-six, Isaac goes to Gerar. Now Genesis twenty-seven, time has passed, and now Isaac is old. So now it came about when Isaac was old and his eyes were too dim to see But he called his older son and said to him, My son, and he said to him, Here I am. Isaac said, Behold now I am old, and I do not know the day of my death Now then, please take your gear, your quiver, and your bow, and go out into the field and hunt game for me, and prepare a savory dish for me such as I love, and bring it to me that I may eat, so that my soul may bless you before I die Rebekah was listening while Isaac spoke to his son Esau. So when Esau went to the field to hunt for game to bring home, Rebecca said to her son Jacob, Behold, I heard your father speak to your brother Esau, saying, Bring me some game and prepare a savory dish for me that I may eat and bless you in the presence of the Lord before my Death. Now therefore, my son, listen to me as I command you. Go now to the flock and bring me two choice young goats from there, that I may prepare them as a savory dish for your father, such as he loves Then you shall bring it to your father that he may eat, so that he may bless you before his death. Jacob answered his mother, Rebekah. Behold, Esau my brother is a hairy man, and I am a smooth man. Perhaps my father will feel me, then I will be as a deceiver in his sight, and I will bring upon myself a curse and not a blessing But his mother said to him, You Your curse be on me, my son. Only obey my voice and go get them for me. So he went and got them and brought them to his mother, and his mother made savory food such as his father loved Then Rebecca took the best garments of Esau, her elder son, which were with her in the house, and put them on Jacob, her younger son, and she put the skins of the young goats on his hands and on the smooth part of his neck She also gave the savory food and the bread which she had made to her son Jacob. Then he came to his father and said, My father, and he said, Here I am, who are you, my son? Jacob said to his father, I am Esau, your firstborn. I have done as you told me. Get up, please, sit and eat of my game, that you may bless me. Isaac said to his son, How is it that you have it so quickly, my son? And he said, Because the Lord your God caused it to happen to me. Then Isaac said to Jacob, Please come close that I may feel you, my son. Whether you are really my son Esau or not. So Jacob came close to Isaac his father, and he felt him and said, The voice is the voice of Jacob, but the hands are the hands of Esau. He did not recognize him because his hands were hairy like his brother Esau's hands, so he blessed him. And he said, Are you really my son Esau? And he said, I am. So he said, Bring it to me, and I will eat of my son's game that I may bless you. And he brought it to him and he ate. He also brought him wine and he drank. Then he Then his father Isaac said to him, please come close and kiss me, my son. So he came close and kissed him, and when he smelled the smell of his garments He blessed him and said, See, the smell of my son is like the smell of a field which the Lord has blessed. Now may God give you of the dew of heaven and of the fatness of the earth and An abundance of grain and new wine, may people serve you and nations bow down to you. Be master of your brothers, and may your mother's sons bow down to you. Cursed be those who curse you, and blessed be those who bless you. So that was the scheme that Rebecca comes up with. Isaac's old and blind. He asked Esau to hunt and bring it to him so he can bless him before he dies. Rebecca comes up with a plan. To prepare ja uh to tell Jacob to prepare meat and pretend he's Esau. He's dressed in Esau's clothes, wearing sheepskins on his arms and neck, and then he he could uh receive the blessing instead of Esau So Jacob deceives Isaac into thinking he is Esau and receives the blessing. I've mentioned a couple times there are paintings about Everything all the stories in the Bible, uh the the great masters of the Middle Ages. Uh and of course this this incident with Isaac And Jacob and and Rebecca is was painted by Giuseppe Ribero in sixteen thirty-seven. So uh let's take a look at what's happened here. Isaac has grown old, he's physically blind, he also appears to be unable to see the true nature of his son Isaac The eyes of his heart are blind to uh the fact that Esau is an immoral and godless man. Um we've s uh we didn't go it wasn't this passage, it was previous Um that he married Canaanite women, um uh that Isaac appears to still faith for Jacob, even though these Canaanite women are a f uh a problem for Rebecca and um Isaac. He still likes Esau best. So he asked Esau to go out and hunt, make a savory dish uh as a precursor to giving the blessing. Uh Rebecca here overhears the conversation and she hatches a scheme to get her preferred son uh the blessing instead. Can steal the blessing by subterfuge. She's the prime mur motivator in the action. She comes up with the plan and goads Jacob into carrying out her plan Uh Rebecca's plot includes Jacob bringing two goats from the field so that uh Rebecca can make food just the way Isaac likes it. Um and then Jacob would bring the food to Isaac, pretend to be Esau, and steal the blessing. That's the plan. Now Jacob comes up with a potential problem in this plan He's concerned that he might get caught. And then Isaac will be angry. Notice he's not concerned that he's lying to his father. He in other words, he's not concerned about sinning. He's only concerned about getting caught. The hole in the scheme is, oh wait a minute, I would be lying to my father. That's not his concern. His concern is I might get caught. He points out to Rebecca that Esau is a hairy man, whereas Jacob is a smooth man, and if Isaac touches Jacob He'll know he's not Esau. Uh Rebecca comes up with a plan to get around that. Um by um first she says, Let the curse be on me Uh and then she comes up with a plan to fool Isaac. She adds another layer of subtlety to the plot by having uh Jacob wear Esau's garment. It's probably a ceremony of robes that would smell like him. So feel like him and smell like him. She's got uh uh she's thought of the contingencies to make the lie more believable So it's a very well thought out and planned out lie. Uh she puts the skin of the goats on his hands, though in case uh uh he f he feels the hands or the back of the neck, it it'll feel like a hairy person, and she gives him the food. Uh he's now ready to go see his father Isaac and execute the plan. He goes in with the food and claims to be Esau. So it's a flat out lie. So the first thing a father asks is, Who are you? And he says, I'm Esau Lie. Right. Just a bald-faced lie. Isaac is obviously suspicious because he hears the voice of Jacob But the the voice of Jacob is telling him, No, I'm Esau. Um and so Isaac calls Jacob closer so that he can smell and and touch him. Um so he's blind, so he's gonna use his other senses But Rebecca has thought about that. Because of the precautions of Rebecca and Jacob's lies, Isaac is fooled and he thinks it's it's really Esau. Isaac eats the food and then he blesses Jacob, who he thinks is Esau. The blessing contains three parts. First, Isaac calls for God to bring forth creation's produce for his son, the dew of heaven, the fatness of earth, and abundance of grain and new wine. Second, for Jacob to have prominence and preeminence over nations and over his brothers. Peoples will serve you, nations bow down to you, you'll be the master of your brothers, and your mother's sons will bow down to you. And the third part is a repeat of a portion of God's promise to Abraham from Genesis 12. 3. Cursed be those who curse you, and blessed be those who bless you. So that's the comprehensive blessing that he gives to Jacob, who he thinks is Esau. Genesis 2523, God had promised Rebecca that the older son Esau would eventually serve the younger son Jacob. Now, God had Told her that, but instead of going to her husband and telling him, hey, God said that the older would serve the younger, she doesn't do that. She hatches a scheme um to fool him, to f try to fool him into doing what God has said should be done. They try to help God along in the fulfillment of his promise. So where have we heard that before? It's like Abraham and Isaac, like God really needs help to get done what he said is going to happen. So And so how old was uh Isaac when they were when they were married, forty? And now he's really old. We don't know exactly how old Um but if you if you line up the um the ages in the Bible, it seems like he's somewhere around um he's somewhere around 115 Um and so from forty to a hundred and fifteen, they've been married for 75 years. So this is a couple that knows each other really well Once you've been married for seven decades. How many here have been married for seven decades? Nobody's quite been married for seven decades. That's a long time to get to know each other, to be able to share with one another what's what's going on. Uh but no Even married 75 years, she's still thinking of uh instead of just going to him and telling him, hey, this is what the Lord says, she has she has a scheme to fool him instead And also, of course, notice that God used even these sinful misdeeds to further his purposes. Right? The sinful deeds of sinful people still accomplish God's good purposes. God's will prevails in spite of the sinful actions of people. And we see that happen over and over again in the Bible, and it happens here again with with this one. Uh so let's continue. Um so the what's the aftermath? So let's take a look at the aftermath of these events. why they really make the life better for both um yes J. Cop and J Cash was like, Oh my god, if this person becomes the head of the household it's just going to make our life Yep. I feel like I can make this happen, I have to do something about it. Yeah. I'm just going to eat the most important that rather than trying to Yeah, absolutely could be. So yeah, think about it in human terms. If um these these Canaanite women are are are uh are already a a bitterness to Isaac and uh Rebecca. Now if Esau, who's the oldest, becomes the head of the family then the um the daughter-in-laws are going to have all this influence, including if if it happens that Rebecca outlives Isaac then y she's gonna have these daughter in laws over her essentially, um if if Esau becomes the head of the family. So from a in a from a human standpoint, it certainly could be that Rebecca was thinking about that Hey, I don't want to be under these these horrific daughters-in-law if Esau becomes the head of the family. Um yes, that could be a human motivation for the things that she's doing here. Yep. Yeah Any other uh questions or comments? Okay. Uh let's go on to the uh to the aftermath. of these events uh at the end of chapter twenty seven. So uh if you look down to verse forty one, so Esau bore a grudge. Well I guess so He's uh he's had his uh his um birthright taken away, his blessing uh taken away now. Um You know, he goes back to try to get a blessing and Isaac says, No, I've given the one and only blessing I'm given. Uh so Esau bore rudge against Jacob because of the blessing with which his father had blessed him, and Esau said to himself The days of mourning for my father are near, then I will kill my brother Jacob. Now, it turns out Isaac's about a hundred and fifteen here. How how long does Isaac live? This would be a hundred and eighty. Right? So he's got you know, he's got a long time still. He lives more than a half a century after this. So Isaac thinks he's gonna die. Esau thinks he's gonna die, but he doesn't die right away. Uh so uh the days of mourning for my father are near, then I will kill my brother Jacob Uh and we so we see that. Th there's a long time that passes while he's away in Haran, twenty years, and he comes back, and it's only after that, long after that, when um Isaac and Esau bury uh w when Jacob and Esau bury Isaac. So his his death, although uh it it may appear imminent to several people here now It doesn't occur for many decades. All right. The days of the mourning of my father are near, then I will kill my brother Jacob. Now when the words of her elder son Esau were reported to Rebecca So some servant snitches on Esau, overhears Esau and goes and snitches and tells Rebecca, Hey, you'll never believe what Esau just said. He said he's going to kill his brother Jacob Now the words of her elder son Esau were reported to Rebecca. She sent and called her younger son Jacob and said to him, Behold, your brother Esau is consoling himself concerning you By planning to kill you. Now therefore, my son, obey my voice and arise, flee to Haran to my brother Laban Stay with him a few days until your brother's fury subsides. A few days, she says. So he's gone for twenty years. And And Rebecca is uh she uh she never comes back into the biblical story again. So um it it I I think it's a pretty strong inference that Rebecca dies sometime while Jacob's away and she never sees him again. Never sees her favorite son again, never sees her grandkids. So stay so that's the the result for her for for the scheme. Um stay with them a few days until your brother's fury's subsides until your brother's anger against you subsides and he forgets what you did to him. Then I will send and get you from there. Why should I be bereaved of you both in one day? Rebekah said to Isaac, I am tired of living because of the daughters of Heth. Uh if So the daughters of Heth, the Hittites, the ones that uh um that Esau had married. If Jacob takes a wife from the daughters of Heth like these from the daughters of the land, what good will my life be to me So she comes up with an excuse to give to Isaac for why she should send Jacob away. Um so that's that's the aftermath of the scheme that she's come up with. Um and so Esau bears a grudge. Uh he realizes that Isaac his father will soon die and he doesn't He thinks he's gonna die. His death will be followed by a period of mourning and then he's gonna kill Jacob. Um he decides that he will kill Jacob At that time, once the morning's for his father's finished. Rebecca gets wind of Isaac's uh of Esau's intention to kill her favorite son Jacob. So Rebecca comes up with y yet another plan to get Jacob out of harm's way She decides to send Jacob away temporarily to her relatives in Haran. Ends up being twenty years Rebecca needs a pretext to explain why she is sending Jacob away, so she uses the issue of Esau's Canaanite wives. Something that she knows will resonate with Isaac. Because Isaac and Rebecca are both really tired of these Canaanite wives. And so she knows this will be something that will get I Isaac's attention and will get his approval for for sending him away. She convinces Isaac that it should be a high priority for Jacob to find a a wife among her relatives and her aunt. And so this will sound familiar to Isaac. Right, 'cause this is exactly what Abraham did when it was time to get Isaac a wife. He he sent a servant in that case up to Haran, to the relatives that had stayed up there to get a wife, and so She she knows that this is something that Isaac is very familiar with. It will sound, oh yeah, that's the right way to do it. And so that's what she uses to convince him Um and so we'll pick up the story next week with Jacob fleeing for his life. Alright, so uh questions or comments about the the overview of Jacob's life and This first the first part of his life where he's living with his parents before we get to the next part of his life where he goes to live with his uncle, who's a schemer to to match the schemer Jacob. He meets his match in terms of scheming when he goes up to live with Uncle Laban. Uh so any questions about this early part of Jacob's life and how God worked? Yes. And the screen is in our own this part of COVID because already from before people were born people think that people they are not going to eat that. Yep. Then you went to my Kenanai and the made like Isaac was so likely to what was doing. But God just wanted to make things right and you But they have to be way by Twitter by C Oh yeah, so um we get an another ex we'll see another example of this at the very end uh with Joseph. So um Joseph is treated terribly by his brothers. He's thrown into a pit, he's sold into slavery, and then he ends up in prison in Egypt. And so These are horrific evil deeds that a brothers set of brothers did to another brother, to sell your brother into slavery. That's that's horrific. That's tremendous evil. At the very end, in Genesis 50, the brothers are still wrecked by guilt, and they're still terrified of what Joseph will do to them All the way at the end, when they're all old, decades and decades later, they're terrified of what Joseph will do because of what they have done. And Joseph says this to his brothers, you meant it for evil. But God meant it for good. All the things that they had done to him. You meant it for evil, so there were evil actions by evil people done for evil reasons. But but then it said, but but Joseph said, but y But God meant it for good. So God meant those same actions. Those same actions were part of God's sovereign plan. And God meant them for good. So he uses the evil actions of evil people to accomplish his purposes. And i it's the same thing here. Um it's it's very explicitly laid out with the story of Joseph But I think we can infer the exact same thing as as you're suggesting that God meant those evil actions of uh Rebecca and Jacob for his good purposes. Yes, in the back. I s I I you know uh I think you're probably r exactly right about that is that uh you know, this didn't just happen by accident. This is the favorite son and he learned from his mother. Yeah, I I think that's probably right. Yeah. Yes, great. I wouldn So there are two separate things, but I think they are connected. I think the the um the The typical thing the typical thing was for the oldest son to have both of those things. To have the birthright and then to because they are the firstborn and because they have the birthright to get the blessing Um now from the way this story is laid out, it seems like um Esau sold the birthright. And then either never discussed that with Isaac, or Isaac n kind of never accepted it. And so he was going to give the blessing to uh Esau anyway Regardless of what had happened with the the birthright. Uh they're they're connected and in ninety-nine point nine percent of the cases it's just the oldest gets the birthright, the oldest gets the blessing You know, and there's no controversy. In this case there's all kinds of controversy. Yeah. So Judging by East Law's reaction, it seems like he felt the blessing was more important than the birthright. Uh it seems that way, yes. It does seem that way. That he th that he at least thought that the fact that he had sold the birthright could be overcome by receiving the blessing. That he at least was thinking that way. That's true. That's true. Yeah. So I I think that in Esau's mind, regardless of the fact that he had sold that birthright he still had another chance with the blessing, uh to to to to put that put it right in his own mind, the fact that he would still get the uh be be the one in charge and and the head of the family. Um yeah. Yes, Richard. Maybe her uh close relative, I think it's more like a family thing. It does seem to be a family thing, doesn't it? A family trait here that repeats it from generations. Uh Yeah. So um yeah, so you wonder about Bethuel, for example. We don't know any really anything about Bethuel, Rebecca's brother, uh and Laban's Rebecca and Laban's father, I guess. Yeah. Rebecca and Laban's father. Uh but maybe he was a schemer too. Uh because both of his kids turned out to be schemers. Both Rebecca and Lavan, the kids of Bethuel, were schemers. Maybe. We don't know anything about his wife. Maybe she she was the steer. Yeah. We don't know. Uh, so Rachel yeah, Rachel and Leah. So Leah at least goes along with the scheme. Uh to appear in Jacob's tent uh when she knows that he intended to marry her sister, she at least goes along with that Um that's that scheme, that particular scheme. Yeah. Alright. Any other questions? Alright, let me close this with prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for these uh stories uh about how you work in the lives of of people, uh Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. We pray, Lord, that we could learn lessons uh from their lives. Uh the things that the Holy Spirit has caused to be recorded in Scripture, uh that we can use that for our benefit, that we can learn from their mistakes so that we don't have to make the same mistakes, that we can teach our children about these things so that they don't have to make the same mistakes. We pray, Lord, that That you would give us a spirit of joy and power instead of a f a spirit of fear. We see, Lord, in the pages of Scripture that fear is a thing that leads to doubt and uh that leads to uh these kinds of uh uh of errors that cause all kinds of difficulties in people's lives. Help us to have the faith to trust you, Lord, to trust your promises, to trust your plan. We thank you that you do have a plan and a purpose for each one of us. We pray that you would reveal yourself through your Holy Spirit to each person in the in the sound of my voice about your plan and your purpose for their lives. We also thank you, Lord, for the opportunities that you give us to share the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ with those around us, to share the light of Christ in a dark world. We also thank you, Lord, for the opportunity we have right now to worship you in corporate worship and we pray that the things that we do and the things that we say, the prayers and the songs will be acceptable in your sight, pleasing to you, and bring glory to your name. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.