Let me start us with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this Lord's day. We thank you for your glory and majesty. We thank you for your love. loving kindness and mercy and grace. We thank you for uh your sovereignty over all things that uh you have a plan uh that you're working out in history from Genesis to Revelation. Uh and we thank you for the opportunity we have now to study a part of that plan as you work in the lives of the patriarchs, Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and Joseph We thank you for revealing who you are through the pages of Scripture, who we are in relation to you and your plan to save uh people uh from sin. We thank you for uh the love that you have for us as demonstrated in Christ Jesus. His sinless life and his death on the cross for our sins. We thank you that you raised him from the dead. We thank you that he sits at your right hand. Intervening on our behalf. We thank you for all of that, Lord. We thank you for the opportunities that you give us uh to be ambassadors for Jesus Christ to the lost and dying world. And we pray through your Holy Spirit that you would give us the right words to say when we interact with our unbelieving family members and neighbors and co-workers and friends. We thank you for every each and every one of those opportunities. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. So For those of you who were not with us last quarter, so last quarter we went from Genesis 1 to 11. Now we're going to go from Genesis 12 to 50. And we're going to focus on how God is working through these patriarchs. So The first four parts are how God is working in the life of Abraham and then Isaac and then Jacob and then Joseph. And so we'll go through the pages of scripture and see how God is working uh the covenant he makes with Abraham and how he keeps that covenant. So uh just my bio for anybody, I think most of you know me. Um I was born a long time ago, well a long time ago to some of you. Uh not so long ago to some others. Um I was uh I was saved in nineteen seventy four. Uh I joined the Navy in nineteen eighty three. Um I uh I have a couple of degrees. I have a a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering. Um I've been married for 32 years to my wife Kinoko is here Um my son Alex is also here. He was born in 1999. And you can see the picture there of him as a little baby. And so he's gonna be twenty seven here in May, and so that picture's from a long time ago. Uh the picture there at the bottom is from before we were married, and uh Kinoco had some pretty long hair then I had hair, yeah. Yeah. I had hair. And uh the picture at the top is is me during the invasion of Iraq. I was I was over there. And I'll show you on a map when we get to that part of the lesson. The place that I was is is right where archaeologists think Ur of the Chaldees was. That's that's where I was when I took that picture. Um Uh it's a Humvee behind me. There's a Humvee in a tent that I was staying in uh behind me. Yeah. That was during the invasion of Iraq in 2003. So I also have a uh master's degree in applied physics with a concentration in lasers and opsics I was a physics professor at the Naval Academy. I was also the associate chair of the physics department at the Naval Academy. I retired from the Navy a long time ago. And I joined this church in 2021 and I was ordained as an elder along with uh Pastor Christopher in July of 2023. So that's uh that's a little bit about who I am. Oh and uh so I have this thing on my face here uh that you may have noticed. I uh I had surgery on Wednesday to remove a cancerous lesion from my face. So I have a hole in my face and I've covered up the hole in my face. Uh so you're welcome. Uh so let's what are we going to learn today? So we're gonna we're gonna actually start at the end of Genesis chapter 11 and we're gonna do the genealogy from Shem to Abraham. So we're gonna connect the events of uh coming off the ark and the tower of Babel to Abraham. Uh we're going to do an overview of Abraham's life. We're going to talk about God's call to Abraham to leave his home. We're going to talk about Tirah and part of his family traveling up to Haran. We'll show you where that is on a map. Abraham, Sarah, and Lot continue on From Haran, then down into the land of Canaan. They actually go all the way down to Egypt. Uh we'll talk we'll look at God's promises to Abraham, uh the Abrahamic covenant. He promised land, he promised descendants, and he promised blessing to Abraham, and we'll look at that. And then we're gonna we're gonna uh do a little detour and we're going to talk about some other places in the scripture that talk about Abraham and this little controversy about faith and works that comes up over the life of Abraham. And we're gonna see we're gonna answer the question what's going on here. So uh I mentioned the last quarter Uh so those of you who were with me last quarter will recognize this. Some of you it may be new. The book of Genesis is divided up into Toledot sections of the book. The Hebrew word tolerat means what came forth from. So what came forth from. And so we're going to be taking a look at two Toledots in the life of Abraham. The Toledot of Shem which is what came forth from Shem. It's a genealogy descending from Shem. And the Toledot of Tirah, what came forth from Tirah, and what came forth from Tirah was Abraham. And so we're this is going to be the life of Abraham is in the Toledot of Tirah. Okay Uh so we've looked at these genealogies before. Here's a genealogy that goes all the way from Noah, Noah coming off the ark with Shem, Ham and Japheth, and in Genesis 10 and 11 we saw the dispersal of people groups. descended from Shem, Ham and Japheth. We saw some genealogies from Shem Ham and Japheth. And then the genealogies of Japheth and Ham kind of peter out. The Bible doesn't talk about them anymore. And we follow one line that comes from Shem. Why is that? It's a line that leads to Christ. And the Bible is a book about Jesus Christ And so it follows one particular line, the one that leads to Christ. And you can see that in red here on this slide. Terah, who is Abraham's father. And so there's Abraham right in the middle of this uh chart. And Abraham had uh he had three different wives, uh Sarah and then Hagar and then Keturah. And he had descendants from Hagar and from Keturah, but we don't the Bible doesn't really follow them either. Why is that? Because The Bible is a book about Jesus Christ, and the line that goes to Jesus Christ is the one through Isaac. Okay. Uh so the genealogy itself, uh it's a chronogenealogy. It gives you the the age at birth of the father and then uh the sun. So Shem was about a hundred. So uh he's about a hundred during the flood, comes off the f uh ark and gives birth to Arpaxid, Ar Arphaxid when he's a hundred and he lives to be six hundred. So he lives another five hundred years after the flood. Uh and then Arfaxid sh to Sheila to Eber to Pelig and Pelig's day was the the Tower of Babel and the separation. And from Pelag to Reuz Hirag, Nahor and Tirah. And Tirah was the father of Abraham. Notice that they're still living a long time in the first few generations after the Ark are facts at 438, Sheila 433, Eber 464. And then it starts to go down. Pelig only 239, Ryu 239, Seareg 230. Nahor dies very young, 148. Very young man. Uh Tirah dies at two hundred and five, uh during the uh the after the tr the trip up to Haran. Okay, uh so that's the genealogy, and uh that we're following this line in the scriptures because it's the line that leads to Christ. So just as an overview from Shem to Abraham, Tiras, the son of Nahor, he fathers Abraham, Nahor, and Haran. So the same name. So the the second Nahor is obviously named after his grandfather, his grandfather who died young So the grandfather dies young and Tira names one of his sons after his father. And he was about 70 years old when he had these kids, and they live in a place called Ur of the Chaldeans or the Chaldees. And Ur, by archaeology, was um is thought to have been a major trading city in southern Mesopotamia, which is in Iraq today. I'll show you some maps of that later. And so it's uh the um God tells Abraham to to leave and and it but not just Abraham goes Tirah, who's the patriarch of the family, takes Abraham, his grandson Lot, Abraham's wife Sarai. And they leave and they go on a journey. They go on a journey to a place called Haran. And Tira dies in Haran at 205. Here's a genealogy of Tira, the family. And so we learn later in Scripture that Abraham and Sarah do not have the same mother. They have the same father, Tirah, but Tirah had at least two wives, because Abraham and Sarah have different mothers. We don't know about Nahur and Haran, but the uh the family tree kind of uh intermixes at various stages. So Notice that Abraham's brother Nahor, well, his brother Haran has a daughter named Milka, and his brother Nahor marries Milka. And so that's an uncle and a niece. Uncle and a niece. So it's an uncle and a niece gets gets married. And they have uh a son named Bethuel, and so Bethuel is Isaac's first cousin. Right? Nahor is Isaac's uncle, and so Bethuel is Isaac's first cousin. And so Bethuel has two kids, Rebecca and Laban. And so Isaac marries Rebecca, and that's his first cousin's daughter. First cousin's daughter. And then Rebecca's brother Laban has two daughters, Leah and Rachel. And Rebecca's son Jacob Then Jacob, Leah, and Rachel are first cousins. First cousins, because Jacob and Laban, Laban's Jacob's uncle. So that's an uncle and a nephew. And so Leah and Rachel are Jacob's first cousins. And so Jacob marries two of his first cousins, Leah and Rachel. Now, uh is that a big issue? Is that a genetic issue? It's not It's not in those days. Because um the the the human genome adds about three hundred new point mutations per generation 300. That's the rate of point mutations in the human genome. So the g the human genome is falling apart. Good and worse and worse and worse every generation But if you go back far enough, then there are very few mutations in the human genome. There are none in Adam and Eve Um and in the early generation, so who who where did uh where did Cain get his wife? Married his sister Today that would be a a a a big problem, a genetic problem. But i in those days there was only one generation to accumulate uh accumulate uh genetic mutations and so there was almost zero chance that they were gonna have a genetic difficulty with their children. There's three billion base pairs in the human genome 300 mutations makes it so it's statistically almost impossible that those mutations would line up such that it could become a problem. But as you click by the generations and add 300 more point mutations and 300 more and 300 more and 300 more, it becomes more and more and more likely if you marry a close relative that you're going to have a genetic problem with your children. But but in this these days, marrying a half-sister or a first cousin was no problem at all. And in fact, in the um i in recorded history in the Middle Ages, people were still routinely marrying first cousins and not having genetic difficulty with their children But that's not a good idea today. Not a good idea at all. Okay. So that's the family of Tira. And we'll see throughout the the story of Scripture that the the f the the uh the family comes back together. So uh Abraham sends back to Haran to his relative Bethuel, to his uh nephew Bethuel and his kids to get a wife for Isaac. And Isaac does the same thing. I Isaac and and uh Rebecca do the same same thing with Jacob. They send him to Haran to the other relatives of the family to find a wife. Okay, uh the life of Abraham. So here's a a timeline of the life of Abraham. Um and there's really a timeline for all of history where Abraham's kind of a linchpin. If you want to think about it this way, uh Adam was born about or created about uh BC four thousand, Abraham's time was about BC two thousand, Christ was at zero and we're at about two thousand. So if you think about for us today looking back to the time of Christ, that's about two thousand years. For those who were living at the time of Christ looking back to Abraham was about the same, about 2,000 years. So about the same as us looking back to Christ was Christ looking back to the time of Abraham And for those living at the time of Abraham, looking back to the creation of Adam was about the same as us looking at another two thousand years about the same as us looking back to the time of Christ. So 2,000 years before us is Christ, 2,000 years before Christ is Abraham, 2,000 years before Abraham is Adam. That's the broad timeline of history. For Abraham, he was 70 when he was called from Ur the Chaldees. He lived to be 175, so that's 105 years. So we're basically looking at 105 years of Abraham's life. Because we pick him up at the age of 70. Uh the time of the Abrahamic covenant, when he's in Haran, he's a he's about 75 And he's about a hundred when Isaac is born. So it's a 25 years, 25 years from the time he's promised to have descendants to the time he has the child of the promise Uh he's about eighty-six when Ishmael's born. Um because Ishmael's thirteenish when um w thirteen or fourteen when um when he's circumcised when um Isaac is born. Uh okay. So uh you can see the kind of the timeline of his life. And here's another timeline of his life. And you can look at this in the notes. The events of of Abraham's life, about how old he was at the time, and which chapter and verse of the scripture talks about that event. All the way down to his death in um recorded in um Genesis chapter 25, verse 7. Okay, let's take a look at the scriptures. So if you'll open your Bible to Genesis chapter 11 The very last few verses of uh the very ver last uh couple of verses of chapter eleven and the first few verses of chapter twelve. So Genes, open your Bible, tune your device, Genesis chapter eleven. Any questions so far before we look at this uh the scripture about Abraham? Alright. Genesis chapter eleven, verse thirty-one and tirah took his son Abram. Of course his name was Abram first and God later changed it to Abraham and so he's very well known as Abraham, so I'm gonna keep calling him Abraham, but but in the early part of his life his name was Abram And Sarah's name was Sarai. And God changed it to Sarah. Okay, so Tarah took his son Abram and his grandson Lot the son of Haran, and his daughter-in-law Sarai, and his son Abram's wife, his son is Abram's wife, and they went out with them from Ur of the Chaldeans to go to the land of Canaan, and they came to Haran and dwelt there. So they they didn't make it quite to Canaan on the first leg of this journey. So the days of Tirah were 205 years, and Tirah died in Haran. So he made part of the journey, and then he passed away. And then starting into chapter 12. Now the Lord had said to Abram, get out of your country from your family and from your father's house to a land that I will show you. I will make you a great nation, I will bless you and make your name great, and you shall be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse him who curses you, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. And so he was supposed to leave his his home country and his family. And so we'll see that uh the first part of the journey, his his family kind of goes with him. The whole family, the whole clan goes up there But then the the father, uh Abram Abram's father, Tira, dies, and Abram does leave the rest 'cause the rest of the family stays, but he and Sarah and Lot keep going into Canaan But the rest of the family stays in Koran. So he he does leave the family. Yeah, it could be. Although um th th he he's in the section of the genealogies where they were living around two hundred years, so I mean his f his father only lived 148, his grandfather lived 239, his great grandfather lived 239. So in the 200 range, it had been for several generations before Tira. So it's kind of going down. Well ha so how much control do we have over our own parents? Uh especially in those days when the father is the patriarch of the family. Yeah. So uh so did Abraham have the authority to order his father not to go. I I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think i this is a matter of Abram being disobedient because I don't think he had the authority to order his father not to go. Um that's my my reading of it. Um so the the whole clan though goes up to Haran um and But the rest of the clan stays 'cause Abraham sends back up to where the rest of the clan is to get a a wife for his son Isaac. Uh I saw a hand over here. Yes, Richard. Oftentimes God takes people away from the culture that they're being in with our did that here Um he he needed Abraham to get out of whatever was going on there in and Ur of the Chaldeans. Okay, and then he gives them these big promises, but these big promises are not fulfilled right away. As we saw in the other charts, it's twenty five years from this promise here, um, until Isaac is born. That's a long time to wait. uh for a promise. Think about that. Praying for something for twenty-five years or being promised something for twenty-five years and it doesn't appear And in fact, Abraham never owns any land there. Uh he owns a cave, that's it, by the end of his life. He never owns anything else there Okay. Continuing in chapter 12. So Abram departed as the Lord had spoken to him, and Lot went with him. And Abram was seventy-five years old when he departed from Haran Then Abram took Sarai his wife and Lot his brother's son and all their possessions that they had gathered and the people whom they had acquired in Haran And they departed to go to the land of Canaan. So they came to the land of Canaan. Abram passed through the land to the place of Shechem, as far as the Terebith tree of Morah. And the Canaanites were in the l then in the land Then the Lord appeared to Abram and said, To your descendants I will give this land. And there he built an altar to the Lord who had appeared to him. And he moved from there to the mountain east of Bethel, and he pitched his tent with Bethel on the west, and the eye on the east There he built an altar to the Lord and called on the name of the Lord. So Abram journeyed, going on still toward the south. And he go keeps going south all the way to Egypt, it it turns out. But notice that it's not just three people. It's not just Abraham, Sarah, and Lot It's all the people that he had accumulated. And so what's that talking about? Servants. It's talking about servants. So he's got a big bunch of servants to tend his flocks. He's got a bunch of flocks Got a bunch of servants to tend the flocks. So this is a big group. It's not just three people on a journey. It's a giant group uh of people and animals that make this journey. Probably all these are the same. That's right. They had acc accumulated in Haran, it says, um all their possessions that they had gathered and the people whom they had acquired in Haran. So not the uh people sure. Okay, well, service that Abraham had in his household was so many, and the service that Lot had in his household was so many that they had to provide separate because the confusion and conflicts that became because they both had two big full households. And it was enough people for Abraham to form an army that could beat beat four kings Right. Uh so yeah. Is enough people that he can make a army out of his uh service, yes. Uh people Yes. So it doesn't it's not clear. Um it's not clear. Um i the the Middle East at at that time um there's not a record of chattel slavery. from extra biblical records. And the Bible doesn't say it's slavery. Um so it's I think it's more likely that it was servants. Um Okay. So what are the promises that Abraham gets? So here in the first few verses of Genesis chapter 12, we have the uh the first time when Abraham has promised all these things. He's promised land, he's promised descendants, and he's promised blessing and redemption. And he's promised it in Genesis 12. 1, 12. 2, and 12. 3. But those promises the Lord keeps coming back And he keeps reaffirming those promises. Why? Why does he need to keep reaffirming those promises? Well, because years keep clicking by And Abraham has no land and he has no descendants and he doesn't see the blessings coming from having no land and no descendants for year after year after year. So The Lord keeps reaffirming those promises. The promise of land that comes again in Genesis chapter 13 and Genesis chapter 15. The promise of descendants comes again in Genesis chapter 17. The promise of blessing comes again in Genesis chapter 21 and 26 and 28 when it's repeated to his descendants. Not just Abraham, but his descendants And then there's a sign of the covenant which comes later also in Genesis chapter 17, and that's circumcision. He doesn't give the sign of the covenant right away in Genesis chapter 12, it comes much later. So this is God's promises to Abraham. So here's a map. So um The Ur of the Chaldees was on the Euphrates River in southern Mesopotamia. Um there is archaeological evidence that the what is now the Persian Gulf, which you can see right here, um Persian Gulf over here, uh that in ancient days it went much further north. In fact, it seems that Ur was probably a coastal city at the time of Abraham. said that four Earl the Chaldeans the one biblical town that you're talking about, they said the homes that they live in were um immaculate. They had a sister where they had active sisters where they was living um Yeah, it it was a wealthy trading city and it was probably right on the on the on the Persian Gulf. Um But right now it's in the desert. There's nothing there. It's a it's desert. Um it's down there south of of Babylon. And so um they traveled up the Euphrates River to Haran Um why why didn't they just travel straight across from here to here? Would it be much shorter just to go straight across? Because there's nothing but desert there. There's no water. There's no food. Um it's just mile after mile of sand. And so um they couldn't go that way. And so they followed the Euphrates River where there was water and where there was food and probably other people because there's cities Uh there's archaeological digs of cities all along the Euphrates River back that go back to the time of Ur of the Chaldees. So they would have had water and food and people along the Euphrates River. And that's why they went up to Haran first and then down to Canaan and not straight across. Uh I don't know what the name of that river, but it you're right, it is a tributary of the Euphrates uh up there. So uh as I said there were other cities from ancient times all along there that they could have stopped at. They probably hotels and s stuff like that. Um yeah. Pro maybe not. There's maybe not a motel six uh along there. But uh other people that they could have you know purchased food from and uh maybe shelter got shelter from Um and so they go this journey, they can't go straight across, so they've got to follow the Euphrates River up and then down. Um So uh the total journey from Ur up the Euphrates River to Haran is 577 miles. Um and so they walked five hundred and seventy-seven miles. Yeah. It could have gone straight to Israel anyway. They didn't know they were worth that. Well you're not going to be able to do that. Uh but Ur was a major trading city and so there was probably knowledge, at least some knowledge of the geography of the broader Middle East in Ur of the Chaldeans. So they probably had heard of the Canaanites were already over there. It wasn't like Canaan was an uninhabited land There was a bunch of people there that Ur probably did trading with. And so they probably were a uh aware of where Caden was. Oh, he didn't know that. Right, that's that's tr that's true as well. Yeah. And so so how they knew to go up the Euphrates to Haran, we don't know. Why did he go there when God so God probably told him where to go. And he so he he he goes up to her he goes up to Haran, uh journey of five hundred and seventy seven miles, which is a significant way to walk with your So it depends. If you if you if you walk ten miles a day that's fifty seven days. Um twenty miles a day. If you walk twenty miles a day, but um but if you have animals and you've got a whole household that you're taking up there with your supplies and tents and things like that, probably not marching twenty miles a day. So y i yeah, so but we don't know if they had any servants from there and we don't know what they were carrying on their backs or on their camels, their pack animals And if they were carrying tents and, you know, their their your Coleman stove and things like that, um on your on your pack animals, the pack animals are not going to move very fast Um and so i I think it's unlikely that they were like doing a forced march of twenty miles a day like, you know, a Roman legion would do or something. Um probably less than that. But um but it's not like they had um a deadline like I gotta be up there next week or something like that. So um they it it probably took some time, like a couple of months at least to to get up there. Um and it it doesn't say whether they stayed in a city for a couple of days or not on the way up there. There's uh you know, Babylon's on the way and Mari's on the way and there's some other smaller cities that are right on the coast of uh right on the um uh the banks of the Euphrates on the way up there. Um it no it's a country. So there was there was starting to be countries at this time. Um and so there was a country called Mari that was centered on that city And there was a country, Assyria, that centered on Nineveh. And even by the time of Abraham, these these original countries were starting to emerge. Okay. So then he he travels, the total is 955 miles, so 370 some miles from Haran down to Shechem. Which is the first place he stopped down there in Canaan. So the total journey, 955 miles, he makes So that's a bit of a walk. A thousand mile walk that he makes Okay. So uh here's an overlay with modern countries. Um so Ur of the Chaldees is in the southern part of what is today Iraq. Haran is in the northern part of what is today Syria. It's right on the border with Turkey. Haran is right on the border between Syria and Turkey. And uh I actually I taught this class one time years ago, and there was a a woman who was a recent immigrant from Syria who was in the class And she told me that Haran is still there. That's still a city today. It's still called Haran, and it's still there on the border between Syria and Turkey. She was very excited to see that. So uh that's what the modern countries look like. So he he went through what is today Iraq from Ur And so uh I showed you that picture at the beginning of me um and I was uh west northwest of Basra in a place called Jalibah, Jalibah, Iraq. And it's right where er of the Chaldees was. So I slept where Abraham slept. Um right there It's left here. Yeah. And and I will tell you it's it's not a lush garden spot today. I mean it's desert. Um it really is desert uh there. Um So that's the that's the uh the the journey. So he goes through uh Iraq through Syria and then from uh Syria down into the land of Canaan After that. Yeah, he may have passed through some of uh Jordan, uh modern day Jordan. As well. Alright, any questions about the geography and where Abraham's coming from, where he's going to, the fact that it was a long walk? Um the previous Yes, historical it seemed like the Euphrates went close to her own, but at least in modern day as we know sometimes river ship, but it looks like Well there's actually a tributary that goes up there. It's not shown on this map. It was on one of the other maps. Uh there's a tributary of the Euphrates that actually goes up there. So they were following part of the Euphrates River system when they went up to Iran. And I'm sure that's why people settled there, because there was a river and water available. Um yeah. Alright, so um I'm gonna spend the rest of the time taking a look at um Other parts of the Bible that talk about Abraham and use him as an example. And we're going to take it uh we're going to look at it from the perspective of faith or works, what's going on here. So if you'll turn your Bibles to Romans chapter 4 So Romans chapter four, uh the first three verses They say this, what then shall we say oh people are still turning. I'll give you a few more seconds there. What then shall we say that Abraham our father has found according to the flesh For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God. For what does the scripture say? Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness. That's quoting from Genesis chapter 15. Abraham believed God and it was accounted to him for righteousness. And then turn over to Galatians chapter 3. So Abraham not justified by works. So that he otherwise he would have something to boast about before God He believed God and it was accounted to him for righteousness. So Galatians chapter 3, Paul again uh says this, beginning in verse 5, therefore he who supplies the Spirit to you and works miracles among you, does he do it by the works of the law or by the hearing of faith? Just as Abraham believed God and it was accounted to him for righteousness Therefore, know that only those who are of faith are sons of Abraham. And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel to Abraham beforehand, saying And you all the nations shall be blessed. So that's the gospel. According to Paul, the gospel was preached to to Abraham. In you all the nations will shall be blessed. How is that the gospel? Because it's Christ who ultimately comes from Abraham and you're not a very important thing. Yes, yes. So he's talking about Jesus that Abraham's descendant Jesus, so in you, in Abraham, and Abraham's descendant, all the nations of the world will be blessed, and it's blessed through Christ. So that was preaching the uh gospel through Abraham. So then, those who are of faith are blessed with believing Abraham. So Abraham is uh credited with righteousness because of his faith. He's saved by faith. And everybody who has faith is then a true descendant of Abraham. That's what Paul's saying. Uh then we go over to Hebrews chapter eleven. So let's take a look at Hebrews chapter eleven. So we don't know for sure who wrote Hebrews. Could have been Paul. Um Yeah, it could be it could be others as well. So uh Hebrews chapter eleven, beginning verse eight, by faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to the place which he would receive as an inheritance. So by faith he left her of the Chaldees and went on this thousand-mile journey. And he went out not knowing where he was going, as Morag pointed out. He didn't know exactly where he was going to end up in this journey By faith he dwelt in the land of promise as in a foreign country. So the Canaanites lived there, and he was a foreigner there, dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob. So the same thing for Isaac and Jacob. They didn't know anything there either. It wasn't until they came back after the Exodus that they actually possessed the land. Uh so dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise. Then m verse 17, by Faith, Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac, and he who had received the promises offered up his only begotten son. So that's talking about uh the event that we're going to get to where uh Abraham is told to sacrifice his son Isaac and so Isaac he's told that his descendants will be numbered through Isaac and then he's told to go sacrifice Isaac And here in Hebrews it says, by faith, Abraham when he was tested offered up Isaac. He went through the whole thing, up to the point of having the knife and getting ready to plunge it down. And that's a demonstration of Abraham's faith, according to Hebrews chapter 11. So Abraham faith. Abraham faith. All right. Um and then uh of course we get in Ephesians chapter 2, so Ephesians chapter 2, verses 8 and 9, for by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourself. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest anyone should boast. So it's definitely faith, right? It's not works. Definitely faith. We've got all these scripture verses that says it's definitely faith. Definitely not works. So Back to Hebrews chapter 17. It's by faith. Abraham, we just read this one. So that seems pretty clear. Everything is decided, right? Faith, not works. Well, what about this? What about James chapter 2? James chapter 2 uses the exact same example of Abraham. So turn over to James chapter 2. James chapter two, uh starting in verse twenty. So James gets a little uh caustic here. He says, but are you willing to recognize you foolish fellow? You foolish fellow, that faith without works is useless. Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he offered up Isaac? Hebrews 11, by faith, Abraham, what he's tested, offered up Isaac. James chapter 2, was not Abraham, our father, justified by works when he offered up Isaac. Exact same example. It's faith or works. Verse 22, you see that faith was working with his works, and as a result of the works, faith was perfected. That's what James says What's going on here? What in the world is going on here? Faith or works? What's going on here? All right, so let's take a detour to some other scriptures to get a handle on this. So let's turn to Luke chapter 5. Luke chapter 5. So Luke chapter 5, Jesus is talking to a crowd inside a house And then something happens. He's disrupted in the middle of his talking to this group inside the house Luke chapter 5, verse 18, and some men were carrying on a bed a man who was paralyzed, and they were trying to bring him in and to set him down in front of him. So they're trying to get their friend in front of Jesus. But not finding any way to bring him in because of the crowd, they went up on the roof and led him down through the tiles with his stretcher into the middle of the crowd in front of Jesus. And so how does Jesus react to being disrupted in the middle of his talking to this crowd inside a house? So this is what Jesus does. Seeing their faith, he said, friend, your sins are forgiven you. The scribes and the Pharisees began to reason, saying, Who is this man who speaks blasphemies, who can forgive sins, but God alone? Who can forgive sins but God alone? But Jesus, aware of their reasonings, answered and said to them, Why are you reasoning in your hearts? Notice that they were reasoning in their hearts, and Jesus understands what they're reasoning in their hearts. Jesus, aware of their reasonings, answered and said to them, Why are you reasoning in your hearts? Which is easier to say, your sins have been forgiven you or to say, Get up and walk. But so that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins, he said to the paralytic, I say to you, get up, pick up your stretcher and go home Immediately he got up before them and picked up what he had been lying on and went home glorifying God. That's a great story. So let's talk about let's answer some questions about this story. In verse 20, what did Jesus see? Saw their faith, okay? And what did he do in response? Forgave their sins. He saw their faith and forgave their sins. How can ever anybody see faith? Okay. We can see it through works, but he can actually see faith. So um and the guy laying in the stretcher didn't do anything, right? But he forgave that guy's sins based on his faith. Right? The the you might be able to say, well, the the guys that are lowering him down, they were doing something, right? But the guy laying in the stretcher is not doing anything. But Jesus could see his faith. W we can't see faith. God can see faith. Look right into the heart, just like he could look into the heart of the Pharisees and and s and uh see what they're reasoning. And answer their question that they didn't even ask. Um so in verse twenty-one, what was the religious leader's objection? What did they say? Only God can forgive sins. Is that true? Yeah, that's true. Right? They were on the right track. Only God can forgive sins. Right? So there's two possibilities though. Um so e so there's two possibilities if somebody claims to forgive sins. What are the two possibilities? Either they're God or they're a blasphemer. And so what did these guys leap to? He's a blasphemer, but what was the actual truth? He is God, right? Okay. Um what reason did Jesus give in verse twenty-four for healing the man? They might know. That they might know what? That the son of man have power on earth to forgive us. Has authority to forgive sins And so we don't always get an explicit explanation of Bible in the Bible about why a miracle is done. We can figure it out mo a lot of the times. In this one it comes right out and tells us to make sure we understand that it's so that you may know that the Son of Man has authority to forgive sins, he does this miracle. Okay. So uh what does that mean? So uh so Jesus saw their faith and forgave their sins. Uh could the people in the room see the sins leaving the people that he forgave? No, they can't see that, right? They can't see sins leaving somebody. And so he does something they can see Right? He he there's a paralytic guy and all of a sudden he gets up and walks. That's something everybody can see. They can't see the sins leaving the the people But they can see. And Jesus very specifically says that's the reason why he did the miracle. He did something they can see to validate something they couldn't see. Okay. Um so let's take a look at another example. Uh John chapter nineteen. John chapter nineteen is Jesus on the cross. Um and towards the he's of course he's been tortured and he's been hanging on the cross and And then he says in John chapter 19, verse 30, Therefore when Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, It is finished, and he bowed his head and he gave up his spirit. It is finished. It's found only in the Gospel of John. The Greek word translated it is finished is to telesty. And to telesty, in common usage, was an accounting term that means paid in full. Paid in full. So it meant when you had a loan from a bank and you finished paying it, they stamped to telesty on your on your uh ledger. to say it was paid in full, to telescope. It is finished, paid in full, the loans paid. And so that's really appropriate for Jesus to say on the cross. But so what did he mean? Um he was declaring the debt owed to his father was wiped away completely and forever, uh stamped on the ledger, paid in full. Not that he was wiping away debt that he owed to the Father, rather he eliminated our debt, uh the debt of sin. Um and so, of course That's what it meant. Uh if you just look at it in English, it is finished. Well, Jesus did all kinds of other stuff after this I mean he re he he was resurrected, he walked around and talked to his disciples, he w went up to heaven, he's in heaven now, he's coming back again. All kinds of stuff he did after this, it is finished But it has a very specific meaning of paid in full. Okay. So uh let's uh turn on your Bible to first Corinthians chapter fifteen. Uh so first Corinthians chapter fifteen um is the very clearest statement of the gospel, very uh crystal clear. Um First Corinthians fifteen, Paul starts out And says, this is the gospel. Pay attention. So now I make tone to you, brethren, the gospel. So this is the only place in the scripture where he says this is the gospel and then rattles it off. And what he says is that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. And that he was buried, and that he was raised on the third day according to the scriptures. Uh in Paul's days he's writing this, what are the scriptures? Old Testament. So what he's saying is the promises from Abraham leading up to this is what the scriptures were talking about, and Christ is what all those scriptures were pointing forward to, and now it has happened. Especially Isaiah 53. It it it it mentions all of those burial, death, resurrection Yes indeed. You go use different terms as referring back to that. All right. Um So he gives the he gives the gospel. A third day he was raised on the third day. And then he goes on though to say something very curious He says later on in the same chapter, verse 13, but if there is no resurrection of the dead, not even Christ has been raised, and if Christ has not been raised, then our preaching is vain, and your faith is also vain. So if there's no resurrection, then it's it's all useless, vain. Your faith is vain. And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is worthless, you are still in your sins, then those also who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished If we have hoped in Christ in this life only, we are of all men most to be pitied. So why is it that the resurrection is so important and that without a resurrection your faith is in vain? What is that about? that Jesus Christ was thought that no one could say. Right. And so in the same vein as the parable uh with Jesus and the paralytic in John nineteen thirty Uh what spiritual transaction takes place on the cross? Sins are paid for Can everybody see that? Can you see the spiritual transaction of sins being paid for? You cannot. A human being cannot see sins being paid for, the the ledger being crossed off All you s all they saw at the time was a man dying on a cross. Well lots of people had died on a cross. Lots and lots of people had died on a cross. That's all you can see is a person dying on a cross. You Can't see the spiritual transaction So in light of what we learned from the story of Luke 5, what was necessary still? A sign we could see that verified that spiritual transaction, something that everybody could see. So what physical act did God used to confirm the spiritual transaction of the cross? The resurrection. Use the resurrection in the same way as Jesus used the uh raising the paralytic, so that you may know that the Son of Man has authority to forgive sins on earth. I say get up and walk So that you may know that your sins have been forgiven by Christ's finished work on the cross, I say come out of the tomb. Uh it's the same, uh the same idea. And and that's why Paul says the resurrection is so important. It's the it's the confirmation, the physical confirmation of the spiritual transaction. Okay. Abraham's spiritual transaction. To circle back to Abraham in the last few minutes. So by faith, Abraham obeyed when he's called. So it's he had faith. Uh but what was what was lacking though um at that point. So he had had faith, um but But what was the what was the ultimate verification of Abraham's faith in the life of Abraham? What was the ultimate His sacrifice of Isaac was the physical outward demonstration of his faith. Alright. Um the fa and so that made his faith not dead but alive And so and who was that demonstration for? Was it for God? No, who is it for? It was for Abraham and secondarily for Isaac too. But but for Abraham to have this physical demonstration of his faith, he was he was He was told for all this time that he was promised this son, then he had this son, and he was told for sure that it was through Isaac that your descendants will be numbered. And then he's told to sacrifice Isaac. And what does he do? He obeys. And he does it. And that is the work that verified his faith. Work that verified his faith, which is what James is talking about here. Faith without works is dead. Well, Abraham's uh work of obedience to God. His work was essentially obedience to God, was a verification of his faith. precepts from Genesis twenty-two, which is the chapter we're gonna have to imagine. The first time in the whole Bible that the word love is the first time the word Okay, we'll see. And the first time you were at World Cup. Yeah. So that's a it's a very key event, yes. Um According to strong dictionary, I think I uh agree says either we mean either two. Right. I think that's that's exact that's a that's right and that's a good point. It has a dual dual sense there. Okay. Any questions about any of that? Richard, yes. In in the surface, in doing the surface isn't the evidence of the space to look up. Yes. Okay. His spiritual disc so we already talked about this. Come on, um his i he couldn't see the spiritual transaction of his faith. His Um his physical action was this obedience to God and um and going up to the point of sacrificing uh Isaac. And uh so what does God do in that circumstance Uh he he stops I he stops Abraham from sacrificing Isaac and provides the sacrifice himself. Which is which is looking forward to what? God providing the sacrifice himself in in Jesus Christ. Um okay. Um the yes, Bob. It says uh because you have done this thing and not and have not spared your son, your oldest. Um and then later on he says, Can you receive all of these blessed uh all the nations of the earth because we have this two my boys. So there was a sense there was archival senses of of justification they transmitted in county justice Genesis. Genesis 12 and 15. And we use Genesis 42. And in fact, Genesis 17, verse 16, and 36. The necessity of separate works, just to walk the form means you've laid this so that I can get other people Right. Yeah, and so we'll we'll get to all of that in future lessons, but you're right, there's always a um obedience is critical Uh obedience throughout the scriptures. Obedience is critical. And that's something that we don't like to hear. Obedience is something that we don't like to hear. Abraham will pay my faith. I will bless you. Yes. Correct. Go back a few verses. And look at the context, he's telling that the works are evidence of faith. Yes, exactly right. So the works are evidence of faith Um there are the kind of the proof of faith. And Jesus said a very similar thing in his earthly ministry. Um you will know them by their fruits, is how Jesus put it Because a a bad tree cannot produce good fruit and a good tree cannot produce bad fruit, can it? Jesus asks the rhetorical question. So Jesus taught, and the disciples, of course, are teaching what Jesus taught. Jesus taught it first, and then his apostles, disciples, and apostles teach that same thing that Jesus taught. Yep, good point. Alright, so uh uh so works uh offer confirmation of faith. Um that's the point. Works offer confirmation of faith because we cannot see into somebody's heart and see the faith The only way we can see faith is by the works that confirm that faith. Okay. Um I've gone past my time. Yes, last one. Genesis 2. Yeah. So yeah, yeah, so uh I used to say all the time that uh nobody should be allowed to read Ephesians 2, 8, and 9 without also reading verse 10. Because it goes together. For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourself is the gift of God, not of works, lest anyone should boast. For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand so that we would walk in them. that it's not the radical separation of work is naked words for separation is way in the last They actually work together and they can't be distinguished. But they can't be separated. Right. So you can't have faith without works. That's the point of James. If you have true faith, it will manifest itself in works. That's the point of James. That if you if you say you have faith, but you it doesn't manifest itself in works, then that's fake faith. Our dead faith is James Pudson. Okay. Alright. So we've gone way past our time. I apologize. Let me uh let me pray Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for this opportunity to delve into your word and uh the meaning of the word. uh this idea of being justified by faith, but being saved for good works and having uh works demonstrate our faith. We pray, Lord, that that will be uh how we live our lives, that because you have saved us, because of the great love that you showed in sacrificing Christ for uh for our sins that we're we'll m we're motivated because of that uh to to do good works for your kingdom. Uh that we're spurred on uh to do those good works that will bring glory to your name. We thank you for the opportunity now to worship you in corporate worship, and we pray that it will glorify you. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.