So let's start with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, be with us now as we look at this class of the issues of uh your sovereignty, uh our free will. Lord, I uh uh use me as an instrument this morning. I hope to explain the uh uh goal, the necessity of studying this part. People are here to s to know what your will is, the will of God, the guidance of God Lord, this is foundational. I pray that uh we get this concept. And Lord, uh just open our hearts and our minds more. Lord, may your spirit uh illuminate and may it uh Just explain the scriptures, Lord. May we get a real concept of your sovereignty how much you are in control, Lord. Lord, this has been a blessing to me, and I pray it's a blessing to those that are here for this class. So Lord, we just lift this time up to you. It's in your name we pray. Amen. So on the way down, uh and I've been thinking about this. Everybody's in here, they want to know the will of God. What's the will of God? What's the guidance? I assume it's why you're taking the class. And you're and If you're like me, I'm I'm big picture. I'm like, okay, so Harry's up here teaching uh what is the uh sovereignty of God, what what is free will, what what is our part The re and I've said it before, I'm I'm gonna try and use a model that uh Mike Mooney, I don't know if he knows us. certified counselor. He invited me to assist him in a in a class uh to counsel some men. And we're using this he's using this model uh uh this this uh book that we're using and it's a good explanation because we talk about fruit, we talk about the heart all the time, and I like this. And so I'm going to use this illustration to kind of show you why we're doing what we're doing. Because at the end of the day, we we want to say, what do I do? What can I do? And we all we all know intellectually we can't do anything to write earn grace. So let's let me show you this picture. So obviously, can everybody see this? Yeah. It's it's a tree, okay? These are this is a fruit I'm sorry I can't draw the bottom tree. It looks better than it could've, trust me. Um hi. This is the trunk. We're we're not gonna deal with that today. This is uh heart or the seed, right You got your roots, I've got earth slash soil. So if it's an apple tree, it's a seed, right? The apple tree is going to produce Apples, right? Now if I want, I don't like apples and I want orange, and I go and pick off all those fruit. What's going to happen eventually? It's going to grow hopefully if it didn't I don't kill it right? It's going to grow what kind of fruit? Apple. It's not going to change, is it? Because that's the seed. Well what we're dealing with and what the Bible talks about all the time is, you know, you we see this all the time Judge people by the fruit, what's their fruit? And we'll and and we'll look at some of these scriptures. Well where does the fruit come from? It comes from our hearts. We we I intervinced last week. I talked about desires, causes, what causes us to do what we do And that's what the Bible is peeling back in all this way. What is our nature? So what is our problem in our Christian life? And this is what we talk about in counseling. These guys are trying to get rid of something, and they're trying to stop it up here. If they're alcoholic and one of Get rid of alcoholism, right? They want to stop drinking. And and there are a lot of programs, AAs, some of these NAs and all this stuff, that can get people to stop drinking What's the problem? And it touched the heart. So if you look at a lot of alcohol, there's a lot of hang oftentimes there's hanger under there Well, you know, they stopped drinking, they still got anger issues. So the problem is we do this in Christianity. What can I do? And we're what we're doing is we're up here in the fruit level Right? We're we're dealing with the fruit, we're dealing with our actions, but it's not changing the heart Look at Ezekiel 36, right? You you a lot of you know this passage. Go to Ezekiel chapter 36 Say it again, please, Ezekiel what? Ezekiel chapter 36. Thank you Somebody uh Gene was saying, Carrie you need to speak up. So if I s get that low voice, I have to yell to speak up. I don't have a booming projecting voice. So go like this. Turn up the volume. Everybody there? Chapter 36, Ezekiel? 20 verse 24. For I will take from you, I will take you from the nations, gather you from all the lands, and bring you into your own land. Then I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you will be clean. I will cleanse you from all your filthiness and from all your idols Moreover, I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you, and I will remove the heart of stone from your heart uh from your flesh, and give you a heart of flesh. I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes, and you will be careful to observe all my ordinances. This is a primary text. This is what, you know, uh John chapter three when he talks about, you know, being born again. They they oftentimes refer back to this passage. God gives us a new heart. We understand that, right? Because pretty much looking at it, I know most of you. You know these scriptures. But God gives us a new heart. I didn't wake up one day and say, oh I'm gonna change I didn't change my heart, did I? God gave me that new heart. Last week we read in first I gave you some passages in First Corinthians And you'll see this this this uh all throughout the the epistles In First Corinthians right he says in ch in verse 2, chapter 1, verse 2, to the church of God, which is a corn, to those who have been sanctified in Christ Jesus Saints by calling, with all who in every place call in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, their Lord and ours. Saints. Anybody know what saints is? What a saint is. Do you know what you know what a definite rule one is a saint? Anybody know? Say it's it's the word hagias. It means holy, separated. We are holy and separated. We're in Christ, right? Can everybody try to lend me? Yes so see a lot of blank faces. Sanctification is basically the same word, same real word. Hagiasmos And you didn't make yourself holy. You didn't make yourself separated. God did that. We don't sanctify ourselves. By working on this fruit. I mean it the fruit is the result. We're trying to, and it's our nature I want to control things, right? Uh yes. What we're gonna have to do, and this is why I'm dealing with this, why I'm dealing with the sovereignty of God and our free will, because we really got to understand Look, when I went and studied this, I I I was exposed to this in and went to Bible college, went to seminary, took all the Bible classes I could get out of there. And I went I ended up going to seminary. Please look, I look at this, but I really dig down on it. And as you know, a footnoted this book, Scott Christensen. There's a good example of spleen. If you read Luther and Augustine and all those, it's it's deep, it's heavy, and they get philosophical, you get lost. But to really understand God's sovereignty and then where our part takes up is crucial. Because I guarantee you when we get to uh following uh God's will, doing God's will, discerning God's will Well it w we're gonna it it we naturally will go back to what I can control. What can I do That's why we're spending time with this. And I think this next section, now I we last week we introduced cause. What causes things? And we talked about libertarianism, and we're going to expand on this We're going to look at the causes I think with the scriptures. This chapter will will I think gives it a a good explanation uh and it you know quite easy to follow but you you really need to grasp this and and and to like embrace it. You gotta believe it. We gotta trust in it. That's where we're going with this It it trust is actually the the doing part. So with that, I hope this illustration kind of kinda gave you a picture of of what the goal for this is. Anyway, so the assessing wives of libertarianism. So people naturally believe we have the innate freedom to choose whatever we wish. Compatibilists would argue that every choice has reasons that are absolutely determinative. Don't worry about these terms, we'll get that. Like I said, determinative, something caused this to happen. In essentially what I'm pointing to is it's really not us. We really respond to things. Libertarianism has one making choices that are random and based on nothing other than a whim. If we take away the reason, cause For what we choose, we take away the meaning of those choices. Darcy Sprole wrote, in a technical sense, nothing occurs by chance. For chance has no being and can exercise no power. It is one thing to say we do not know what causes a given effect. It's quite another thing to say nothing causes the effect. Nothing can do nothing because it is nothing. Libertarians would say that a person making a choice is the cause of that choice. To say that people are the cause of the choice does not answer what caused them to make that choice. You know, we're trying to peel this back. What is behind all this? And and think about this. Look, we have been given the eyes To understand Scripture and believe it. When you think about it, God is explaining what's going on behind the curtain, isn't he? It's spiritual in nature, really. We know who is in control of the world, who created the world. If our choices have the possibility of being cut off from our circumstances, desires, motives, beliefs, and so forth Then in what sense do we say that choices come from ourselves at all? The response of many libertarians into this dilemma is that our choices in the end cannot be fully explained. The whole matter becomes a mystery. Libertarians believe that freedom of choice with no restrictions help Christians explain some of the issues that we face. Libertarians claim that free uh that free will enables believers to have one relationship with God. Two, to make uh accountable for moral responsibility, make us accountable. And three, to keep God from being blamed for evil Libertarians view meaningful relationship, right? This is their view. In order for man to have a meaningful relationship with God, he must be free to accept or reject that relationship. Armenians reject election because in order for God to draw people to himself, he must bend their wills to him in an irresistible manner. This violates their view of God and negates them the notion of free will. Greg Boyd muses that if love if love is the goal of creation What are its conditions? The first condition of love is that it must be freely chosen. It cannot be coerced. Agents must possess the capacity and opportunity to reject love if they are to possess the genuine capacity and ability to engage in love. That's a lot. This argument it seems plausible though, doesn't it? Um I would have said myself, let me get rid of this. I would have said myself because you know, yeah, love's gotta be, you gotta be able to choose or reject it. I mean that's love. This argument seems plausible and logical on the surface, but a closer examination will reveal the fallacies of the argument. God has not programmed us as a mac in a mechanical uh fashion so that we could be accused me As some would accuse those who believe in election. Some have said that if God determines our love, then we are like a computer has been programmed to respond. Others argue that divine coercion is forcing the person to say, I love you against their will. The third condition would be a strong heart desire to love God. In this case, a person would have such a strong heart desire that they could not fathom acting in any other way. Notice that in the three scenarios listed above, the response is determined by a prior condition. The first scenario, the result is from programming of the person to respond to love. The second scenario, a person loves because he is forced by some consequence to love God against his will. The third condition the person is compelled to love out of a powerful heart desire. In this case, the person loves voluntarily And without coercion, and he does uh so as a necessary result of a determined cause It sounds locked up and commuted commuted, but think about it. Just because there's a cause that it opens your heart to do that, we respond to it Uh we talk about this, the salvation. God gives us a heart to hear. And when we hear, we're going Who could not fall in love with this? So even though God is causing this, we do choose freely And that's what we're talking about, incompatibilism. Notice that in the three scenarios listed above, each person responds to a prior condition. The first of the result the Excuse me I just read that. So libertarianism would argue that this cannot be, for it teaches that we must be free from the compelling force of all desires, motives, inclinations, passions, and the like. Thus libertarianism entails freedom from the heart Again, it's one of those things, if you really think through this, though, and you draw it to its conclusion, it's illogical. Uh you you you almost negate anything. And as you saw earlier, they they say, Oh, it's just w how does this come about i if it's not a cause? Well that's a mystery Obviously we're saying that God is the first cause. Truly meaningful relationships are compelled out of a necessity driven by one's heartfelt desire to love. True love does not act with indifference to options But with headlong devotion in a single direction. In fact, all meaningful choices spring from such a singular zeal to pursue pursue Excuse me. One choice that is clearly better than any other. In the doctrine of regeneration, God softens our hearts. We just read that, Ezekiel 3626. And by his kindness leads us to repentance, as Romans 2. 4. This produces a compelling inner desire to love him. And while this is a necessary result of God's determination, in no way can it be construed as a forced response against one's will. In fact, the voluntary nature of the response is um let me try that again. In fact, the voluntary nature of the response is what makes love meaningful Not that one could act differently, which is what libertarians are saying. Regardless of how you feel, all the uh a and and they recognize that there are uh uh uh desires, motivations, uh outside uh forces, experiences, right, that act on people But with all that, we can still a uh respond contrary to all whatever the input is They're moving away from this heart. They're moving away from the source. And of course, you know When God speaks of the heart, we are not talking about the physical heart, are we not, right? We're talking about the essence of a person. Mind, soul, will, right? Thinking, right? God says in in uh Luke, he he uh Uh talking to the Pharisees, they're mad because he he forgives the guy, the cripple who was lowered down through the roof. You remember the story? And he says Um he gave 'em he says, I forgive your sins and he talks to the religious leaders and he goes, Why are you reasoning in your hearts? So, I mean a heart is not We can't take our our current English, you know, uh definition and pour it back into uh the way they were using it back then. So it's a seat of all things. It it it it encompasses uh again the will, the soul, the mind, thinking, the intentions. Any questions at this point, but talking a lot, reading a lot. And again, for those of you yes. Oh, uh I when I think about this stuff, I It's it's helpful for me to think about uh the difference between um the things that God makes and the things that we make, uh and how how those things work. You know, like when we make something, like uh when we build a house, the only way that we can make that house stay become a house and stay a house is by forcing it too. Like you know, we have to we have foot nails in the woods. Right. That house starts to fall apart and we have to, you know, prop it up and and fix it in a bunch of different ways. But when God makes something, He imbues it with, you know, internal compulsions and inherent causal powers that it just it stays that way. Like he made water and he made water to freeze at 32 degrees. And he doesn't, you know, he doesn't stand there and say, okay you water molecules, you better line up in a crystal when it gets to 32 No, like the water just sort of wants to do that, right? And so we can only make things do stuff like that. I don't think the water wants to do it, does it? Yeah, no. Well you know, but see that's where we're and that's the fine line. Yeah. It really is Go ahead. Well I uh my only point is yeah perhaps the anthropomorphization was too far, but uh my only point is that you know when God causes us to love him, it's not he's not doing it by coercion like we would make something He's doing it by um you know changing our desires and giving us that inherent um causal power of of choosing it. Is he causing it? Yes. Yes. And that's the bottom line. And this is the hard thing to deal with because when we start to get into this, we're gonna look at evil well if we can g if I can get there we'll run out of time because and we're gonna look at evil this week and next week. And let's let's be honest, we are let's just go ahead because I know my mind would think there there's some things you look at and we're going This is your this is this is your idea? This is your you know Some of the things we'll look at will we'll explain there and we'll give you some scripture examples and we'll go, oh yeah, I can understand that. But there how many things and that's the plan that that's the other thing we're gonna look at, we're gonna go ahead and unpack this. We're planting the seed now And all this is going to build is going to be almost a recapitulation of these same ideas of God's sovereignty. I got you. We're going to talk about decree and presumptive will Decree, well, God's plan. Do we know God? That's a problem. We don't know God's plan. And that that's the thing we're going, what are you doing? And he's he goes Not for you to know. Yeah, so this caught me thinking more about the difference between like the love between a man and a woman and the love between a woman and a child. because no one wants to be coerced into a marriage. No one wants to be manipulated into like that kind of love relationship But in a sense, I manipulated my children into loving me because I carried them and they were receiving, you know, good signals that once they were born They knew my voice, they knew my smell, or they wanted to be with me, not because they had this, you know understanding of who I was and they were like, Yeah, I like her, I'll choose her and it was like they had this this innate sense that they needed Then where did that innate sin come from? Well it's from God, but what I'm saying is once they realized that I was separate from them They needed to be with me. And in the same way, once you realize that you're separate from God, you need to be with Him Because of that innate created sense that that's where you're supposed to be. And that's from God in the same way that it's it's not from us in the same way that these babies did not choose me, you know? So it's more like that relationship than the husband-wife relationship in in the coercive way Yeah, I I it there's a there's a lot of gray there and and that's the thing. I d there are gonna be parts where you're gonna go. We wanted this explained and there is going to be an area where where it's fru you know it's in the thing I want us to ex to really To grasp as much as I can. And this helped me, and with another layer of this, helped me grasp God's sovereignty. Because our nature, we take over it all take over sovereignty all the time And the more talented we are, the more gifts we have, the more things we can do kind of automatically. So that that's going to be the dilemma throughout this. And uh it's attention that's there. I said it before, um we can all uh and and then I'll move on. Work out your salvation with fear and trembling. This is in Philippians, right chapter 2. For it is God who is at work in us both to do and to will for his good pleasure. You got both sides there. And and that and that we're we're gonna get into this. And and uh as a matter of fact I was kind of looking at this more uh then I get back to this. I was looking at this for some of the things I'm preparing for when we get into diving and discerning the will of God, because I was dealing with, okay, what about the Holy Spirit? And um Yeah, and so uh it was dealing with Romans 8 and it's and it's it's you know uh those who are being led by the Spirit. Uh and a lot of people go, oh, you know, there's this inner spirit, okay, that that just kind of warms my heart and leads me. But really for decision making it's it's you know, it's it's just not there If you look in a context there it says, if you're putting to death the deeds of the flesh And so that's our part. Uh w it's not just this instant instant power that comes into HTU. It's and we'll get into that But it you know, there is our part too, putting to death the deeds of the flesh. And that helps us to walk by the Spirit because we're not being led by our flesh again. Really a lot of this is a realization. What is your flesh leading you to do? And this is what we talk about with guys in counseling. Well, I don't know, maybe you're addicted to this. Whatever. Somebody else is this is their idol. This is their thing I don't care. Either one, you need to get rid of that idol. You know I could do jail ministry. I don't care what these guys have done. They need to get rid of that idol. They need to start thinking and acting. Okay? And then God changes the heart. But you're gonna have to uh you know there are there are actions for us to do, deeds of the flesh. And that's what we'll look at when we do the will of God. Irresistible Trinitarian love. God the Father and His Son, Jesus, do not have the freedom to hate each other. They love each other necessarily because their nature and character compel them to do no other. Both willingly love with irresistible intentions And that is precisely what makes their relationship significant. So John 6. 37. All the Father gives me will come to me, and the one who comes to me I will certainly not cast out. So God's love for us stems from the fact that he loved the Son and desired to give a people to him as a gift of his love. In order to redeem us from our sins, God had to crush him God the Father had to crush the Son, right? Jesus rendered himself as a guilt offering. Hosea 5210 The father had to turn his back on his son, Jesus, in the moment of agony. The father's love for the son is beyond our comprehension, and his abandoning his son in our hour when the weight of sin was placed on Christ is even more incomprehensible. In Jesus' hour of suffering, he cried up on the cross, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? This was the only plan that would satisfy the penalty for the sins of the people and provide and provide redemption for sinners. Now think about it, God planned this, right? Is this not one of the greatest evils of all? I mean what what what people did to an innocent Holy God. It was his plan. That was the only plan that would satisfy the penalty for sins of the people and provide redemption for the sinners. God willing plan and executed Christ's sacrifice on our behalf because of the love for his son and then for us Alright, get that right. So God did this, God the Father did it for the love of the Son, and then for us. Jesus willingly gives himself as a sacrifice because of his love for the Father. And then for us. But so that the world may know that I love the Father, I do exactly as the Father commanded me. Hebrews 12, that was uh John 14, 31. Hebrews 12, 2. Fixing our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfecter of faith, who for the joy set before him endured the cross, despite in the shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God Christ made the supreme sacrifice for the love of the Father and the joy set before him. That is, that he would receive from the Father the love gift of the redeemed as his reward. The love of God is magnified when we contemplate the grace of God in transforming us from hostile enemies of God Right? While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us and uh while we were enemies, right? We were enemies to God. Who's who spiritually is dead, right? Uh, into loving children of God. The grace of God is revealed in the plan of the Father and the love in the Trinity to execute the plan of redemption unw for unwilling sinners. We weren't. We I wasn't seeking God. A lot of you know my story, I was telling you. 40, 41, 42, I was into a sinner until I came to Christ. It was a before and after. I know well what's in this. The wrath of God is what we deserve. It is not the freedom of a of arbitrary choice It causes the love relationship with God, but the irresistible love of the Godhead This is the love that throws that flows through the redeemed. God's love. We are conduits for God. Yes. Well that's the problem. We're with another big concept, aren't we? God is the whole three. Exactly. God is one essence. With three persons. Okay. You know, trying to do it. I know. Have you seen the little diagram with God in the center? It's the best we it's the best we can do. It's incompreh it's incomprehensible. How is Jesus, um while we're on this object, how is Jesus a hundred percent man, a hundred percent God? Right. And but he's one person, he's not He's not they're not commingled is is the uh th there's a technical term to use a Greek term for it when they were looking at this and uh was it council ch uh Uh count whatever. Early church fathers, they were they were really resentable at this. They're not commangled, but it's one person. W it's incomprehensible. But they are three persons And that's essential too. And and while we're on that real quick, that's another thing that we tend to do. We tend to um guide humanity. Jesus is Jesus is humanity. A man had to die for sin. Jesus is, you know, grew uh in uh wisdom and knowledge, right? He says that in Luke Again, that's that's incomprehensible. We see I I you know, we can picture in our minds A God dealing with the man and and the god saying, Yeah, you know this is gonna happen and man's going, Well I don't know you know, I I it's incomprehensible, it really is. But do not Um it's really important. Jesus was a man. That is huge for us. It doesn't bring him down as much as it brings us up to him. Oh we go over time. Time's just quick. Moral responsibility. Armenians believe that libertarian uh libertarian uh Free will is able to allow for moral responsibility. Thus, when a person does good, he should be praised for the good that he does. Likewise, if a person does bad, he should be punished for the bad things that he does. Libertarians would argue that uh Praise or blame can only be recognized if the person was able to have contrary choice in all situations. Libertarians argue that motives are not the ultimate determinative of our choices. Every act must be free F uh from motive it's it's excuse me. Every act must be free from motive per se, but from the sufficient uh power of the motive. In other words, they're saying it's it's not that it's that you're not, I'm sorry, you're not free from motives, you will have uh experiences and and influences and uh physical, um uh internal, right But regardless of all that, you can still act contrary to all that. So basically they're saying there is no cause. And you almost have to get there if if you s if you're thinking uh uh uh if we think of ourselves as autonomous from God in any way, shape or form, that's really kind of what we have to think. An argument against the libertarian theology can be seen in our Western jurisprudence, which is based on Judeo-Christian principles. Crimes are tied to the person's motive when committed, not to contrary choice. If a person kills another because of an imminent threat, the person may be found innocent. If two people get into an argument and one person kills the other, he may be found guilty of manslaughter. If a person has a dislike for another and plans to murder that person and carries out that plan, he may be charged with first degree murder. In each of the incidents, the motive determines what the charge is, not the ability to choose co uh differently We praise man's good actions because they proceed from the good intentions of the heart. We condemn man's bad actions. because they proceed out of the wicked intentions of the heart. God holds sinners accountable for the evil influences in their heart, not because of the freedom to choose otherwise The Bible is replete with passages concerning the statements, the state of man's intentions of his heart. Proverbs 16, 2 All the ways of a man are clean in his own own sight, but the Lord weighs the motives. The heart is more deceitful than all else and desperately wick sick. Who can understand it? I, the Lord, search the heart, I test the mind. Even to give each man according to his ways, according to the result of his deeds. The whole earth was flooded and destroyed, mankind, right? Because the Lord saw that that the wickedness of man was great on the earth And every intent of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. Right? He would judge for his intent Sermon on the Mount, uh Jesus shows that sin uh was from the intentions of the heart, not the act of sinning But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. David's uh counsel to his son Solomon reveals a true relationship. with us with God. As for you, my son Solomon, know the God your of your father Serve him with a whole heart and a willing mind, for the Lord searches all hearts and understands every intent of the thoughts If you seek him, he will let you find him. But if you forsake him, he will reject you forever. In the Acts and S uh uh Acts chapter eight, Simon the Sorcerer, if you remember this, Philip went down. after they were kind of scattered out of Jerusalem, uh persecution started. And Simon the sorcerer saw the miracles uh the disciples were performing and and he believed and was baptized. So we use this a lot of times in baptism to show that even the uh disciples baptized people that were probably unsaved. You you just don't know. Well I do believe Simon believed in in what in what uh uh w what he was doing. So uh what Philip was doing. So when Peter arrived and the Holy Spirit came upon the believers, Simon offered money to Peter that he might be able to perform these miracles. But Peter said to him, May your silver perish with you, because you thought you could obtain the gift of God with money You have no part or portion in this matter, for your heart is not right before God. Therefore repent of this wickedness of yours And pray the Lord that, if possible, the intention of the heart may be forgiven you. For I see that you are in the gull of bitterness and in the bondage of iniquity. So look what Peter does, he tells him, look, he says, notice Peter's response to the illegitimate offer of money to the gift of for the Holy Spirit by pointing out that Simon's heart was not right with God Peter also tells him that he's in the bond in the bondage of iniquity. Simon sinned because he was a slave to sin and acted out of the sinful intentions of his heart. So the root of the problem of sin comes from the heart. Watch over your heart with all diligence, for from it flow the springs of life. Either make the heart good and its fruit good, or make the tree bad and its fruit bad. For the tree is known by its fruit. You brood of vipers, how can you uh uh how can you, being evil, speak what is good, for out of the mouth of of that which you uh which fills the heart You speak out of that with a mouth which fills the heart. So accordingly, people are not sinners, right? You've heard this before. People are not sinners because they choose to sin. Rather, they choose to sin because they are sinners. The sinful heart is the cause of simple choices, not unfettered freedom of the will. How are we doing on time and so Probably won't get through this, but I do want to introduce this because God and evil, this this is uh uh kind of one of the things we need to go to So libertarians argue it uh if God is the ultimate cause for human actions, then we must also be the one who causes sin and evil in the world. Armenian The Armenian would argue that if God ultimately determines man's actions, then he's responsible for evil. If God is all knowing, he's omniscient, all good and powerful, omnipotent. Then why is there evil in the world? Right? So this is a question we have to deal with too, right? Roger Olsen in his Arminian Theology writes, he, God values the liberty he gave the his human creatures and he will not abrogate it even though it means sin and evil uh enter creation God permits But does not will or cause sin and evil. So the theology here would be that God allows evil to take place in order to preserve man's freedom of will. responsibility for exercising that will. So Christensen, right, he illustrates it this way of thinking that God and evil with this example There's a criminal who beats a homeless man while a police officer stands by and watches. The police officer does not interfere because he does not want to prevent the perpetrator from exercising his free will. Olsen writes God is sufficiently powerful to stop anything from happening, but he does not always exercise that power because to do so would be to rob his free and rational creature. created in his image of their distinct reality and liberty. The libertarian view does not exonerate God from all liability of for evil. For both the libertarian and Calvinist uh point of view, if God permits evil, then at some level he concurs with his existence, right? If God is all powerful and able to prevent evil, then he must have some purpose for it. Ten minutes. God's Purpose for Evil We know that God is good and cannot be tempted with evil. We also know that evil thoughts and deeds come from the heart of man. The heart is more deceitful than all else, is desperately sick, who can understand it? Let no one say when he is tempted, I am being tempted by God. For God cannot be tempted by evil, and he himself does not tempt anyone. But each one is tempted when he is carried away and enticed by his own lust. That when lust is conceived, it gives birth to sin. And when sin is accomplished, it brings forth death. Okay? God never has evil motives or intentions. Therefore we cannot think or act. Excuse me. He cannot think or act with evil. But here's the thing. It's important to note that although God cannot be tempted by evil, he can ordain evil to take place. I don't know where I'm going to end with this. Because I kind of don't want to leave you in the middle, but you have the notes and we'll we'll pick it up. To understand this apparent contradiction, Christensen uses passages from Scripture to illustrate how God ordained evil and yet not be the tempter of it. The story of Joseph shows the two sides of evil. Right? The evil proceeds out of the heart of men and God allowing evil for good. Uh the familiar events of Joseph begins right when he was rescued uh from death and sold into slavery in Egypt. You all know the story of Joseph, right? Brothers were jealous against him In some ways they had right to be. He was definitely the favorites on. Uh right, and just kind of brought about all this. They uh wanted to kill him Right? And he was rescued, they threw him in a pit, sold him to slavery in Egypt, right? Joseph goes, um Through many trials in Egypt, only to become second in command of Pharaoh. When the Great Famine struck the region, Joseph was able to rescue Jacob and his clan and bring uh them to Egypt, where they became a nation. Uh the brothers recognized evil that they had done to Joseph. But Joseph said to them, and we all know this line, do not be afraid. For am I in God's place? I love that. Most people skip over that verse. Look at what he recognized. He goes, am I in God's place? He recognizes where he is. I love it As for you, you meant it for evil against me, but God meant it for good in order to bring about the uh present result and preserve many people. This is an illustration of the action right compatibilism between God and man. His brothers' actions were meant for evil, but God permitted their actions for good. The brothers are blamed for evil they that that they committed, God purposed those events in Joseph's life as a means for the uh good result Now think about it. It wasn't random that those events happened, was it? Was it random the brothers wanted to kill 'em? And was you know, this is some of the things we have to start peeling back and we'll look at this. Any thoughts, any questions? Yeah, I saw I saw I saw some on your faces, that's why I asked. Yeah. Go ahead. Okay, yeah, well I mean I I'm sorry. Um I was just thinking like, doesn't this all stem back to the the first chapter in Genesis where Eve ate the apple and caused e I mean caused sin To um to printing everything. Right. Okay. So well we knew this and we think about this I'm glad you brought that up. When God w in a garden. I he he everybody know the garden story, right? Up uh I I assume I'm preaching to the choir. anybody now know it? Don't be too shy, raise your hand. Alright, so we know all we know all those incense. We've been over that of most of you many, many, many, many, many times So what with God's perspective? I don't know how to word this without giving you the answer. What was God's perspective? When Adam and Eve fell. And when we I assume, most of us assume that Satan was the person behind The snake, right? Can I assume that with you guys? Well has got perspective of all that. Um We don't really know that. I mean I'll kind of like what he specifically says to Adam and Eve in the curse. and the promise of a future redeemer. Like I don't know that the Bible necessarily gives what God's perspective was. Okay. So let me do this. Uh let me read this to you. Now, and I want you to take the two and put these together. You're gonna have to you're gonna have to think through this and draw a conclusion. No easy way to do it. Blessed be the God Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who is blessed with every spiritual blessing. This is Ephesians 1 in the heavenly places. Verse 4, just as he chose us in him, so God chose us in Christ, right? before the foundation of the world, that we would be holy and blameless before him in love. God chose us in Christ before the foundation of the world. So what was God's perspective Probably good at questions. Asking good questions is an art. What was got perspective of all of this? Huh? So you knew it was gonna happen, I'm pretty sure. Okay, that's one layer. Give me another layer, a deeper layer. What? Yeah, this are free will. I wasn't thinking that but they did have a choice, didn't they? They did choose, didn't they? I think quite uh I'm not sure if you're asking a question like that. It's not a good question. God God knew it. And if God chose us from the foundation of the world in Christ Was it fate that brought it about? It was his plan. He planned it from the beginning. The reason you brought it up because really that this is this is the what he just mentioned was Bob, right? He just mentioned the foundation for all the sin that he allowed to enter into the world right there, didn't he? It's all a manifestation of the same thing Are you saying like for the ultimate good uh going to grade? I mean it is that That's where we're going. And really, that is the over thank you, because that is the overarcher overarching answer to this. And it's It's not that satisfying in some ways. What more explanation that God didn't give it? But God allows evil, God ordains evil for a greater good. And if any of y'all took Rob's class, I'm using the same author He when he wrote What About Evil or I forget what the question was. Same guy. Really good. Uh I he takes these concepts and does a great job. I mean He he doesn't candy coat it, he boils it down though, so it's readable. Um But yeah I see one one more aspect of that is it wasn't just for greater good, it was for greater glory. So God did this for his own glory. Right. You know, and that's another thing, and we're out of time, but that's another thing we can unpack. Uh well we talk about glory if we glorify God The the re one of the real basic simple things, glory, we made glory with the halo and the Ugh, you believe this, you know. But the the glory just means to talk good about somebody It means the st and I read you the Ezekiel passage and really if you read the context of it, what he's saying is They're in uh Babylon and he's going, you guys are in Babylon because you were supposed to make my name great, you were supposed to glorify it, and you made my name mud to all the nations. That's why you're in captivity. But if we glorify somebody, we have to be speaking the truth about them, right? I can puff some I can puff somebody up and say, Oh, you're this, this and this or somebody can say that to me and I'm going, that's not really true. I might like it, but that's not really true Well, y we can also say things about God that are not sh true, and that's not glorifying God Well pick this up. Well we started this and this part and then and then what was was scheduled for next week Uh God's sovereignty will also deal with this evil, okay? Uh yeah. Because we these examples are good. God meant it for good. Oh yeah, we see how it worked out for Joseph. But let's face it, there's a lot of times we look in life we're going, This is good? You how how we how is this good? There's some very I tell you. Say, how can that happen? How can that be good? It's it's one of those mysteries. Heavenly Father, thank you so much. Lord, I pray that um uh we see uh the sovereignty of you. Uh again, I thank you for the blessing it's it's been on me. I pray this is a blessing to everybody else to uh wrestle with this and to deal with uh your sovereignty because you are a good God. You are a merciful God. You are a God who loves You are not a God who who uh is pleased that that really no one should perish, even though people will be separated from you. You're not a God who who likes to punish the wicked. Uh you say that in Ezekiel eighteen. Am I happy to punish the wicked? Do right. Do good. Be a blessing. That's what you want. Lord, we know who you are. We don't understand Lord and comprehend there are things in your plan that your decrees that we do not know. But Lord, you have revealed a tremendous amount to us. May we stand on the decrees and uh the perceptive will that you have uh given us in your word, Lord, and it is Complete. It is finished. Lord, we have all we need for life and godliness. Lord, we lift up this hour to come and worship you corporately. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I know for