Okay, uh good morning everybody. Ready or not, we kinda need to start on time with these classes. We only we have to stop it. What time is it? Ten thirty? I know. Don't go by it? No. It's pretty close. Did you change it? Well, I don't have to worry about the hour. So I get the minutes. So let's open in prayer. We have to stop in an hour. It goes by. Let's pray and I'll kind of go over the intro to the class Heavenly Father, Lord, we just want to lift up this time. Be with us, Lord. Help us tackle this topic, Lord. It's your word. Lord, the Men that I've uh consulted with, uh these godly men, Lord uh me uh the the concepts of of uh uh free will and uh following God's will Lord, it's an area that uh we have uh uh much gray area, shall I say. So Lord, give us some uh clarity. Lord, give us direction Lord, use me as an instrument, Lord. May your word come through. It's about Jesus Christ and uh it's him. It's it's not about any of us So Lord, may we focus on Him. May we uh examine our lives. Lord, oftentimes the will of God starts with us. Uh where are we in in that walk, in that journey So Lord, uh, that's our prayer for this this quarter, uh, that we would uh come closer to you. It's in Jesus' name we pray, amen. So with this class, I kinda want it to be interactive. I I I want questions. Uh uh I was uh I was talking with somebody before class. What motivated motivated me to do this class? And it was actually w one of the things that kind of got me was my son. My one son uh was at a church, it was it was kind of going liberal. He got frustrated and left. Um and then he went to a church that was very structured, shall we say. And so and he was asking me all these things about uh uh talking about God's moral law and and what is it uh You what is a requirement? You know, I said, Well we're not under law. Because what about God's moral law? And so the problem is is is how we define all this stuff And it's really uh God's moral will. And that's what we're gonna kinda look at. Um the other thing was is that Having had this, I uh I was listening to a uh radio program with Chuck Swindon, he was doing it on the will of God And Swindahl's a good teacher. Uh I liked it. So I kind of got some of the material. I looked at it. The problem was it still it was it was just broad. It just didn't answer the questions I know a lot of you have. What is this will of God? I need something deeper. There's these these areas So um I looked at John MacArthur. He has a he has a small book on it too. Same thing. I said I knew there's going to be questions that I that I want answered or that I want to dig into uh that's just not here. Uh a lot of this material we're all gonna be familiar with. You guys I know I'm talk speaking to the choir, so to speak. I know you guys n have scripture. But Th there's some principles in here I really want us to get, and that's what I want to focus on. And that's we may not I may not finish all these lessons every time, i especially if we're interacting. I want interaction, but again, because of time restraints, we all know what can happen with conversation. Let's keep it focused. We we need to stay on, you know, w what is the topic. Another warning, we're not really going to get into application at first. I'm going to have we have to really bear down on on We're doing free will. Why am I doing free will? Because this is the thing with the little bit of teaching I've done, interacting with with uh some of you in this church That's the other gray area. Okay? God is sovereign. I mean, yet we have choice. We have a will. Work out your salvation with fear and trembling And then it goes, for it is God who is at work in us both to will and to do for his good pleasure. So how do you how do you reconcile these things? And that's what everybody deals with. And if you're gonna do the will of God, that's what you're gonna be fighting with. Well okay, so is it, you know, well, I just put my hands up and let go like God or, you know, do I uh We fall off on two paths, don't we? We fall off on legalism or liberalism. Anything goes, and there's there's extremes to that. That's the difficulty. The point is we need the grace of God to do to walk right in that center path because of our nature and everything else. And that's what we're going to probably find out more than anything. We're going to find out individually w what is my nature and how am I working with God. Because really we're all different. We all have different gifts. Right? We have different learning styles. For those of you who don't know me, I'm a late bloomer. I didn't come to faith until I was about 40, 41, 42. I'm not good with time. I remember the day when I when I realized that God just kind of opened my heart and I'm going, wow, this is true. It was that just like that. It was like this is true And I I was already saved, so I went through a you know, the ritual of having a little prayer or whatever, but um, you know, yeah, and my life changed. I know a lot of you come from from different some of you were were saved at a young age. My children were saved at a young age and I'm thinking, how in the world can you accept God? You don't even know not you don't know you don't know you're a sinner, you don't even know what it is. Uh so you know God works differently. We we learn differently, we we have different gifts We need to be you throughout this class we need to look at this. We're going to look at some of these principles. Today I'm going to leave you at a place where you're going, this is not We're going to talk about really the liberal side or the libertarian. Okay, we're not going to we're not going to get to the other side. We'll we'll look a little bit about that I'm going to give you some principles, some definitions. This work, if you have the notes, I've got it footnoted This is based the free will section is based on uh Scott Christensen. Uh What About Free Will? He's the one, if any of you took uh uh Rob's class on evil uh uh w you know why is there evil. Uh same author. Uh he's good. I like him. Uh you know if you read some of the classics like uh um Jonathan Edwards or or Martin Luther or th they're difficult, they're wordy and they get you know, they get really kind of philosophical Christensen does a really good job with explaining this, but not you know it's it's not lightweight. He it gives you the meat to uh this topic. So with that, let's dig in. So there are two biblical truths that Christianity embraces first. God is sovereign and controls in some sense all that happens in time, space, and history, as well as the events of human lives. The second is humans are responsible moral beings who have freedom to choose the course of their lives. Now so the question many wrestle with is uh how can God be in control and yet humans have freedom of choice? So some Christians believe that since God is sovereign and man has free will, that God must limit his sovereignty over man for man to freely choose. So uh this is a form is what uh is referred to as Arminianism. Uh it's after the teaching with Joseph Arminius. I give you the date, uh he's 1560, 1609 1609, Christians who embrace Calvinism believe God's sovereignty determines what transpires and either limits humans' freedom or denies it altogether. Our view is that uh there is a way to reconcile God's sovereignty and humans' freedom. And that's what we're going to wrestle with. And we're gonna have to look at some of the deep things of this. Um uh it it was it's enlightening. Um I you know, I I went to seminary, I I really didn't uh bear down on this subject Certainly uh the seminary I taught was uh Reformed, Calvinistic, whatever you want to call it. They believed in predestination. It was their doctrine. Uh but nonetheless, I we're going to go a little beyond that. Most born-again Christians accept God's control over the universe and events in history. When it comes to it to believing God who is in control of our choices and actions, many see a form of free will. Where the individual has independent choice over all or most of his decisions. We tend to think God's sovereignty has little to do with our personal choices. And that's we're gonna there's a there's a thing we have in our head we agree with and then there's a thing we do while we do it. A lot of what we're going to look at is what we really do. So what we really do is what we really believe, right? Uh you're going to find the the areas that uh which side you fall on So biblical compatibilism. Get some good words in here. So the theology of compatibilism recognizes God's sovereign choice for each human Yet each person freely makes his own choices. Each person makes his own choice, except in the case where a person's choice are determined by forces outside themselves. So it's it's it's that he it's it's saying it's both sides of the thing. God is in control, he's sovereign, and yet he doesn't force us. We actually choose. And we're going to unpack this and go, this is we're we're going to be repeating ourselves and going over this and trying to go to different layers Uh yeah, and I was just gonna do that. Okay, let's say uh somebody comes uh we'll do a cop show, right? Somebody comes into your house, uh breaks into your house uh has your family hostage and t says, you either go rob this bank or I'm gonna or I'm gonna kill your family So that you you might do something that it could be uh a natural thing, right? Uh I want to go to the beach today. There's a hurricane out there, you know, maybe I better not do it Uh you know, so there are natural forces too that that uh but you know so and that's the thing. How free we'll look at this, how free our choices are. We'll we'll look at this in a minute Biblical compatibilism, and this is a direct quote, says that our choices proceed from the most compelling motives and desires we have. which in turn is conditioned on our base nature, whether good, saved, or evil, unsaved. The more voluntary and unconstrained our choices are made, the more freedom and responsibility we have for each of them. I'll give the that was this is a uh uh uh an early definition. I'll give you a more uh a fuller one. But again, we're this this is the issue here. The compelling motives, the desires. Okay? That's what we're going to see as we go forward, as we make choices. Okay? It's gonna what it what are the motives that that we make them on. It's not well we'll see, it's it's not nothing. And and that's where that's where you're gonna see uh uh The libertarian view has has some real difficulties to it. So this is libertarianism. So this is libertarianism teaches that uh for people to have free will Determinism, in other words, some cause, something that that that causes you to think in a certain direction or or have uh uh through God's exercise of his divine decree of all things is not compatible. Okay? So this so let me continue on. I think it explains it. Libertarian uh freedom of choice comes about when we have the ability to choose contrary to any prior factors that influence our choices Including external circumstances, our motives, desires, character, and nature. And of course, God Himself If these prior influence influences decisively determine choices, then the freedom and responsibility of the choices are hindered. You can see where this is going. Really, logically, it th you it doesn't make sense. Okay? Some there are causes. There are we make we make decisions To look at this, we're almost making decisions with uh a vacuum. We we could just do whatever. And like if we look we're going to go over this, it will really start to emerge. So the libertarian view of free will puts limits on God's sovereignty concerning the choice of hu uh humans make. Compati compatibilist view man's free will And maintains God's sovereignty over all creation as well as maintaining freedom of choice and responsibility for his choice. So here's the definition for compatibilism. The biblical view that divine determinism is uh compatible with human uh free will. There is a dual explanation for every choice that humans make. God determines human choices, yet every person freely makes his or her own choices. God's causal power is exercised so that he never coerces people to choose as they do, yet always choose according to his sovereign plan. People are free when they voluntarily choose according to their most compelling desires, and as long as their choices are made in an unhindered way. While God never hinders one's choices, other factors can hinder people's freedom, and thus their responsibility. Furthermore, moral and spiritual choices are conditioned on one's base nature, whether good or evil, i. e. regenerate or unregenerate. In this sense, one is either in bondage to his or her sin nature or freed to a new spiritual nature. So And I hate to get ahead, but really, so what's happening here? Um, and salvation Okay, and we'll look at this, but I know some of you are asking questions. This seem this seems like a bunch of technical things we're getting. You've got the notes. You may want to read through this and pick out these phrases. But in salvation, do we choose God? Are we the first to choose God? After he chooses us. So how does how does what so what happens? I'm jumping ahead, but I know that if I don't I'll probably I'll probably lose you guys because This just seems like a bunch of technical mumbo jumbo, but think about this. What are the key phrases? Causes. Is there causes? Are there first causes For anything. The the libertarian has to take those causes and say, well, there are influences in my thinking, my desires. But I don't have to respond to this. I can do otherwise. So does God, do we choose God? I this this is my simple I love this. This is my simple one verse. Uh answer to kind of uh election so we s how we speak. It's uh Paul is in it's Acts 16, 14. Paul is is over in Macedonia and uh He's uh preaching to the people and he goes down to the to uh I think it's a river is it and um He's looking for people that are uh praying, assembling, you know. What a woman named Lydia, Acts 16, 14, a woman named Lydia from the city of Thyratar a seller of purple fabric, a worshipper of God, was listening and the Lord opened her heart To respond to the things spoken by Paul. God is the initiator in this and this, right? But she does respond, doesn't she? It's her choice. You're Yeah, we we're gonna do what we desire. And that's why we need to look at ourselves, because we're gonna do what we desire. Now there's a lot of causes. Some of the things that's where we talk about where is where is God involved in this, where are we involved in this? But where you we will do what we desire. That's what is is he talking about here. That's compatibilism. God opened your heart. I know for me when I said, wow, this is true. Right? And and uh uh I was uh praying, I was getting ready to pray to God. It scared me. I said, man I make this prayer my life's gonna change. It scared me. I said, I don't know. And I said, No, I didn't uh but I just for a second I said, Well, this is what I'm looking for. There was a lot of things that happened before that, obviously. I've been reading through the Bible and I'm like, where's God? Where's God? Where's God? But it scared me because I said, man, how much this is my life's gonna change But it had already changed. I just didn't wasn't aware of it. But did I readily accept that? Yes. I desired that. And that's well that's basically I'm probably jumping ahead, but that's basically compatibilism We think we have a lot more autonomy than we do. And yes, we're going to learn a lot about this. We think way too much of ourselves, people. We all do. It's our nature. You've got to admit it up front. It's blocking you. What what I think I'm autonomous in is what's blocking me. And that's why I really wanted to pick this subject, because what is God's will? Well, see it's right here in Scripture, but the thing of it is is that we're oh you're gonna find out how much you're in the way. Any questions? Any any thoughts at this point? Are you tracking with me? Am I totally lost you? So, libertarianism, free will debate. The theories of free will The theories about free will are broadly put into two categories, okay, uh referring to either compatibilism or incompatibilism. The incompatibilist says that freedom and responsibility are incompatible with determinism. Determinism refers to the idea that all things that occur in our world are necessarily and causally That's a key word. Determined by prior conditions, thus giving prior conditions only one outcome could possibly take place So is God, you know, that's it, is God in control? So we live in a cause and effect world uh where gravity and other natural constants are necessary For life and existence. No one really argues with these points. But when we consider freedom for our choices and ability to determine our destinies, there's a lot of disagreement. There are two different groups that hold the incompatible theory. Hard determinist and libertarians The hard determinists hold that human choices are causally determined by incompatible with human freedom and responsibility, which are regarded as illusions. I have seen some people that are Calvinists basically kind of kind of take this path. In other words, they're saying everything's determined. Uh we we really don't have freedom of choice. It's just an illusion. And it's that's th there's another word they use for that. It's kind of fatalistic, in other words You know, th there's there's no choice, no will on our part. Again, you're looking at that that you know uh uh Okay, uh libertarian and determinism, it can be how far down that slope it can be, right? This is the hard that we're looking at the extreme cases. Uh so Say some Calvinists I think go too far. They make things legalistic. And you'll see that kind of emerge in their churches and in their doctrines. They don't make rules, extra rules Rules that aren't in the Bible. Come like the Pharisees, right? And it's a safeguard, but you know, no, you it It's God's grace. It's a relationship. It's not a religion, right? We we talk about that all the time. Um the secular determinist believes, right, human acts and choose choose uh and choices. Oops. As a result of environmental factors, genetics, brain chemistry, psychology, sociali social conditioning. Of course we know that. We know the secular well the reason they did it is because of of this. And these are influences for sure. So the opposite side of compatibilism is liberalism, who profess that uh Our choices cannot be causally determined by forces outside of our control, and that would include God The compatible compatibilisty determinism is compatible with human freedom and responsibility. So we recognize God is in control, but we are responding, okay, our desires to that choice. Human moral responsibility is recognized by all Christians and is taught in the Bible, right? So we look at that. So contrary choice. Libertarians maintain that people can make a different choice contrary to the one they actually made. If a person chooses to do something that is evil That person also has the ability to choose what is good instead. A person that does not like spinach can uh choose not to eat it, can choose to eat it A person who can choose to do what he wants to do, but can easily choose to do what he doesn't want to do. Libertarians are not concerned with the specific reasons why someone does what he does, where compatibilists are much more concerned with the reason they do what they do. There is uh a function behind this. And and obvi the the obvious one, let's go back to it. We looked at this. Saved and unsaved, right? When you're saved, what happens? Did things change? Some of you were young. I was old. Trust me. I had night and then day. Darkness, light. I mean, it was 40 something. I had been practicing this for years Um what happens is you, you know, God put these disasters on my heart. And and I was following them I wanted to do them. I didn't want to do them before I trust me, I did what I wanted to do before. Right? I did it I do jail ministry, right? Why do those guys end up in there? Well, the reason I did it, right? Why'd he do it? Because they wanted to do it. And that's a hard one, but that's what you get that's where it's at. Uh let's see. Libertarians recognize the reason they're so often often behind our choice uh excuse me. Libertarians recognize the reasons that are often behind choices, uh both internal and external. So they they recognize reasons. Their what their issue is is causes. What caused it Uh y you and you you you only you can't get away from it. Um people have desires, beliefs, motivations, values, tastes, restrictions such as laws, certain behaviors physical limitations, physical restraints from outside, etc. Nevertheless, the will has the strength to overrule our inner dispositions. This is according to the Libertarian Jacob Arminius stated that humanity enjoys a freedom of uh from necessity. Whether this proceeds from an external compelling cause compelling or from a excuse me a nature inwardly determining absolutely to do one thing. Armenians believe you have to have this free choice. You did you know, and and that's That's where libertarians fall on the same side. You you you know, we have the choice. You can do whatever you want. People are also affected by external conditions such as education, parenting, uh persuasive arguments, culture, social media. Yeah. Uh the company you keep, friends, uh uh freedom according to the act, uh contrary to those dispositions, right? Um They they're what they're saying is is that you can you can do whatever you want uh disregard to to any of these causes. It's important to realize The libertarians distinguish between reason and cause it. Again, it this is a major point, yes. So is there a one for like the Decisions aren't always like one or the other. Like people have a limited ability to choose some choices, not other choices. If there's some kind of like direction they're going that's determined, but they can choose like where in the valley they they go. Yeah, exactly. Like uh if I open up the cover I can choose a red cup or a blue cone. Right. Right. Yeah And and we'll we'll again w right now these if you notice it's repeating what what we're doing, we're laying a foundation. This is not the fun part, but without a good foundation you need to sense and build. house is gonna fall down, right? We have to start to grasp these concepts. Okay? Uh And and the the the you we will look at this, you know, you you this is where we start to move into the grayer areas. of and especially with uh what is the will of God? Am I following God's will? Am I following his guidance So yeah. So let's see how we're doing on the time. Yeah, we're going all right. So the Armenian theologian Olsen agrees that God is sovereign and exercises his control over events. through his strong persuasion and influence. He also states that the that rational creatures have the power to resist the influence of God. It's bold. This power was given to them by God. The conclusion then is that God cannot be in control of our actions while at the same time We are in control of our choices. Armenians would say that God could control our actions, but he chooses not to do so. And that's you know, I guess what a lot of people would say was, you know, of course you're probably begging the question, well, how how can bad things happen and how people make these choices, you know That's what we're getting to, right? We're gonna get to the sovereignty of God and and we're gonna be looking at that. Um is he out of control? When somebody does something, is God surprised by it? You know, and it's funny, but y when you're in the midst of it, these are the basic questions you keep having to ask yourself We uh I uh I did um uh First Corinthians fifteen last week for uh uh Christopher Green and it was um There was uh that one verse in there, uh being baptized for the dead. I said look, there's about there's a whole bunch of of uh interpretations on this. The one one uh commentary I read said there was thirty. That was written a while ago, so it's probably more right. The point is is that okay We know obviously even scholars can't agree on the answer, but you know what it isn't, right? And that's somewhere a lot of times that's where to start. You know you're not being baptized for the dead. Does baptism save you? No. So sometimes instead of asking the questions, really, what is it? Go sometimes with what you do know. You you've got God's word. What it what we know it is not. It's huge. It answers a lot. W if evil happens and God allows it is is, you know, the guess the basic question is how can it be a good God? We know he's a good God We know that a that his plan is is ultimately for good, right? But you forget that when you're in the midst, and that's that's the thing. Sometimes you have to remember, where am I? W what is you w what can I say this this is not? Sometimes it's a process of elimination So the conclusion is that God cannot be in control of our actions while at the same time we're in control of our choices. Armenians would say that God can control our actions, but choices not so This applies to salvation. Armenians recognize that God's grace is necessary for salvation, but not sufficient. That's big, isn't it? God, so what they recognize God's grace, God's grace does work on your hearts. He opened up Lydia's heart right to hear We re recognize that, but it's not sufficient. Alright? Because grace is an important element in this theology, but it does not guarantee salvation unless the sinner cooperates With the power of his choosing. Classical Arminiism believes that a person who is saved can lose his salvation if he does not persevere in the grace of God. Perseverance. What's what's uh what's what would you say perseverance is? We hear this a lot. I'd like to throw these out because we a lot of times we throw these Theology. Theological words, yeah, but we don't always perseverance. Not giving up. Being determined. Well uh what is I should say what is perseverance of the saints, of the believers. the end. Yeah. Um You can't lose your salvation. Right. It's so c so you kinda can't keep unpacking. You can't lose your salvation, but persevere to the end. Why? Because God's the one who's in character salvation. Yeah. And that's what he says. Look, he says You see it oftentimes if you persevere in your faith. So, you know, we we gave you the gospel, it says it a lot of times in the letters. He says, well, if you persevere in your faith True believers persevere because I fall off the cart, right? When I get back on? No. God keeps us there And and y this is what this is what the the theology talks about. God is keeping us there. God is keeping the perseverance. And you'll see that. For those who persevere, how do they why do they persevere? Because they're saved. Was that uh 1 John, they went out from us? Because they weren't really of us, right? Right, you're gonna you see some people you say wow they started off really good. What happened to those people? Yes. So it feels like we're talking about two different things making them one thing. Because as a believer who's persevering in the grace of God, I have the opportunity every day to sin or to not sin Which seems inherently different than that first moment of salvation. Right? Like that that that point where I was unsaved and then I was saved is not the same as whether I'm going to act in my anger or not. So my question is why are we sandwiching these together as if they're the same thing? It's like Armenians are saying Armenians are saying it really depends on you. Right, but my choice to act in anger does, right? I have I have the opportunity to sin or not sin, and I have the freedom to not sin because of my salvation, not the same thing as that moment of regeneration at all. Right. But so what's gonna happen is we're jumping ahead, but um because you're talking about maturity, uh you're talking about sanctification. And and ha uh sanctification is uh and and that's why we really want to look at doing the will of God. Because as we do the will of God, as we practice this, God's word will sanctify you. So our will is to do the disciplines and do the work. Prayer Immersed in the Word? And we say this all the time, but okay, how how how how much are you really digging into the Word? It will change your life. It'll say, Ah look. When I don't do it or I'd I find myself drifting When I do do it, sometimes it's like it's overfilling, it's overwhelming. There's so much there, it's like I can't even contain it all When I was studying for this and going through all this scripture, it's like, you know, this is this is one of the reasons I like to teach, because y you're just immersed in the word. I'm looking at this for hours. And it's like it changes you. Well, so we're out there with Armenians trying to change ourselves. I'll be a beggar, I'll do this. I'll be loving, I'll be kind, I'll be patient. No, you won't. You won't. I can't. I'm a conduit. That's it. God runs through me. If I hook up to the other kind of, which obviously we can still do, which is why we're jumping ahead, you're talking about walking in the flesh. Okay Let me finish this. Maybe we'll get we'll get back into that question. But yes, that's kind of where we're going. We're going to have to lay the foundations You're gonna have to really buy into God is sovereign over everything And trust me, um you know, I most of the time hopefully. Yeah, but if you're going to your daily life You'll find yourself thinking, I'm not well, I'm not acting like God is sovereign right now. I'm in control here. That's why I want to we want to go through this. But we really need to see it. And especially when we get the evil and some of that. You're telling me God is sovereign Yeah? Over everything? He's not looking and and he's not looking down the road and saying, oh wow, look, this is this is what happened So libertarianism draws their freedom of choice of view from a biblical text. that seems to indicate that people have uh an alternative choice from the commands of God. Joshua said to the people, here's some of these texts that they'll use. If it is disagreeable in your sight to serve the Lord, choose for yourself today whom you will serve, whether the gods which your father served, which were beyond the river You know what river he's talking about there, right? It's the one b uh yeah, no, it's the one back in uh Egypt. You know you hear that now, river to river? That that's good that's that is that is what Israel's land is supposed to be. It's from the river of Egypt, not not the Nile. But it's from the uh I'm not sure I can't remember the name of the river, but it's from the uh Western River in Egypt to the Euphrates, river to river. So he's talking about the river. This is the gods back in Egypt. Or the gods of the Amorites in whose land you are living. But as for me, my house we will serve the Lord. If it is disagreeable, if you want to do that. Right? And so the or you know, libertarians are going, oh you got a choice, you can you can decide. So if one is to read this verse without knowing the rest of Scripture, it would certainly indicate that one chooses what's agreeable to the liking. He can either choose God or reject them according to their will. The passage that contained whosoever have led many to believe that humans have a choice of salvation, right? For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life. Revelation 320. Behold, I stand at the door knock. If anyone hears my voice And opens the door, I will come into him, and he will dine with me, and uh excuse me, I will come in and dine with him and will uh will uh I will come into him and will dine with him and he with me. Again, it looks like, okay, whoever Right? But we you know, we know from this church and and from uh uh you know the doctrine here, we believe in election Then means that God elected you, choose you And it isn't, it is a let me finish this and let me if I have some time So the Bible also speaks of resisting God's commands, right? Stephen witnessed uh the Jewish leaders, right? You remember that when he was um In Acts chapter 7, you men are stiff-necked and uncircumcised in heart and ears and are always resisting the Holy Spirit. You're doing just as your fathers did So not only do they resist God, but also the voice of the Holy Spirit. They did not keep the covenant and refused to walk in his laws. Again, right? Looks like they're their total choice, their freedom. But my people did not listen to my voice, and Israel did not obey me. So I gave them over to stubbornness in their heart, to walk in their own devices. Oh, that my people would listen to me, that Israel would walk in my ways. Psalm 81. Sounds like he's begging for him, isn't it? But you know that's the heart of God. That's that's the neat thing. And even though a majority of people, right, will not be saved, we also know that God wants all people to be saved. It's not his not his desire It is his plan now. Jerusalem, Jerusalem, who kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to her. How often I wanted to gather your children uh together, the way a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, and you were unwilling, right? This is Jesus, child polymetry, right? He's going up there, they're gonna praise him, he knows they're gonna reject him in a few days. So So God desires all people should repent and all people should be saved and come to a knowledge of truth, right? 2 Peter 3. 9 is all people uh shall repent and be saved, 1 Timothy 2. 4. Uh both of these uh speak to that. He wants it all. From these and other passages, libertarians believe that God never forces or causes anyone to conform to his desires. God risks rejection in order that whoever believes must accept freely. So to get back for a second, jumping ahead to uh look at 1 Corinthians to Michelle's Last verse, First Corinthians chapter two So Michelle was talking about, you know, um So for a safe, we have a new heart and all this, and yet we go back and we sin, right So if you're familiar with this and you should be with this chapter because Paul says, I didn't come to you with a bunch of heavy speech. I came to you uh we have the m we what he says is he you know you uh well verse twelve. Uh now we have received not the spirit of the world but the spirit who is from God so that we may know the things freely given to us by God. Things which we also speak not in words taught with human wisdom, but in those taught with uh by the Spirit, combining spiritual thoughts with spiritual words. But the natural man does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him, and he cannot understand them because they are spiritually appraised. But he who is spiritual appraises all things, yet he himself appraises no one. For who knows the mind of the Lord that he will instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ. But then look at ver look at chapter three. And I, brethren, cannot speak to you as spiritual men, but as men of flesh, as infants in Christ. I gave you milk to drink. Not solid food, for you were not able to receive it. Indeed, even now you are not able to receive it, for you are still fleshly For since there is jealousy and strife among you, are you not fleshly? Are you not walking like mere men? So that kind of is your answer there. Yeah, they're saved. They have the mind of Christ, but they're acting like infants. I got we'll finish with that. I got saved Went to uh a Bible college because uh Laura and I, if you knew my wife anyway, we were going to a church we grew up in, totally lost Good news gospel, that's all they got. Everything was good news. God is love. So I went to uh Washington Bible College in was going to take Bible classes 'cause I I wanted to know the word. I needed somebody to to teach it. I couldn't I I was reading and reading and reading through it. I'd I'd gone through a couple of programs with that church Um but you know, now I needed somebody to help me unpack this this stuff. So I went over there, took a took a bunch of classes. Um But I was just and I I was getting fed all this stuff and I was learning it, but I was a brand new believer. I was immature. I you know it takes a while to walk this stuff out and to really start to trust it and believe it and to act on it. That's when you really grow Understanding is just like huge. It's all through here. We need to gain wisdom and understanding of this. But then, you know, then the the real a understanding comes when we act on it. Gotta act on it. We gotta practice it. And you gotta dig into it. I mean, I am so glad for some reason I you know, I I thought I w grew up in the Sun Saved Church, I thought, well I'm gonna go to seminary, I'm gonna come back and These guys are lost. They don't know anything. I you know and I did. I knew a a tr it's amazing. As soon as I got saved, I knew I knew more than the pastor in some respects. And this guy had been to seminary. Because he didn't believe it. They're blind, they're lost. Of course I get to seminary and I realize, wow, these guys that are saved, they know a lot. So, you know, uh it was humbling, uh but it it did. It opened up The neat thing is it opens up doors for you. You go through the door of theology, you get you out go walk through, and there's like this universe out in front of them, you go, wow, there's a lot here You go through the languages, uh, the Bible classes and everything, and you walk through the doors and you go, wow, there's a lot here So it it humbles you and it opens up to you, you know, how much is there. Uh y you've probably heard the saying and we'll finish with this. The more you know, the more you know you don't know, right? You realize, oh wow, I didn't know all that. Uh But that's we're going to try and and gain these. Next week we're going to kind of turn the corner and and start to look at the other side of libertarianism. Okay? But again The thing that I'm bearing I want to bear down on and that that we're really going to see is God's sovereignty over all things. And then how compatible how we choose according to his sovereignty We do have choices. We do act on what we desire. We and it's in When you start to really look at your life and you start to peel that back, and that's what we need to do. You need to look at your life and say, this is not the comparison game. That is the worst thing for a church Horrible. You know, look at your path, your your walk, okay, your maturity, where where uh I'm going. It's too easy to to uh uh compare and to to be jealous. And you saw what they said. They're jealous and strife, you know. Um that's probably one of the I grew up I was talking to Kayla earlier. I said, Are you from here? I I grew up in this area. I was born and raised here. My dad worked in the governments. I'm a Washingtonian. Uh I know I'm familiar with all the federal government stuff. Um but this area has w one one idol. It's not r it it's it's There's a certain amount of wealth here for sure because we have such a a large middle class, but there's another idol that most people don't really put their finger on. It's and it's the idol of knowledge. Think look at all the degrees in this area. People have A a four-year degree, a bachelor's degree is a high school diploma nowadays, right? Now we got masters, doctorate. Have to be careful. Um it can be an idol. You want to be the smartest guy in the room. And this area is full of this. We got a lot of this around here. A lot of you guys are are well educated. Um But uh Be humble. Because that pride and all these things are what get in the way of us following God's will. We block ourselves. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this uh this time. Lord, I pray I didn't preach to him too much. Heavenly Father, uh I I hope we get these concepts, Lord. You are a big God. You're huge. You're in control of all of of of everything. Or C. Sprole says there isn't an atom or a molecule that's that's uh renegade and out of place. You know it all. Lord, we want to abide in you. We want to grow in you. We want to see what your will is. We also need to know what your sovereignty is. where you are sovereign and we respond with our desires, our hopes, our wills. Lord, mold us, change our hearts to desire you. to desire God uh to glorify you in all we say and do. Lord, we will do that as we walk in your way. We lift up this time of of uh uh corporate worship. We ask you, Lord, uh to bless those. Uh we we uh ask Lord uh for the baptism uh candidate uh Lord that um uh you would bless him uh even in this this um ordinance or w or whatever we want to f refer to it is Lord is his uh confession of faith uh to the congregation of Hope Bible Church Lord, we thank you. It's in your name we pray. Amen. So they're like holding the dog by it, it's all dog thing with I mean not even water. You're trying so hard, but you're wondering But uh I think that was like headbutting like a black. You know, you're a board and fair too. Yeah, so have a OM Well it's a hundred percent. Yeah. Yeah. Like oh, right. I don't know if it's something like that. Exercise last week's exercise in like the nineteen thirties. Um we're fully funding Mountain Horlake and I already decided. I will make that one. I was like, somewhere. I mean you could write my phone. I know I've written a flight. Something she could have liked it, she could have killed it by the way. I'm not sure what they're working on that. I don't think we can finish it. They already figured it out. And yeah, so long as it can be the facts were going to find It's not like a role right