So if anyone wasn't here last week, um yeah, we're we're going through um a whole unit on God's design for manhood and womanhood and marriage and sex. And so we went through manhood and womanhood uh months ago, a couple months ago. Um and then we started on marriage uh several weeks ago and we've been working through this outline and answering four questions basically. Uh and we spent the majority of the time so far, or all the time so far, on the first question. What are marriage and sex and how are they related to each other? You know, what what how does the Bible define marriage? Um and you know, and how does how does sex go along with that? Uh so who remembers what marriage is biblically? Like what's the one word? If you had to use one word to define marriage, what would you say? Yes. Covenants, yeah. Right. So yeah, so what is a covenant? It's a it's a binding promise, right? A binding promise between two parties, two people. Usually in the Bible we see God making covenants with with humanity. Uh but a covenant is also something that can be made between two people. So this is all this is all review. And so we talked about uh some of the covenants that God makes with people like the Abrahamic covenant and the Mosaic Covenant and the new covenant that Jesus made with us Um so marriage is a covenant like those covenants. Um Scripture says that explicitly, but you can also see all the different aspects of covenants showing up in Genesis 2 where it describes the first marriage of Adam and Eve. Um so why does that matter or what what does that imply about sex then? What's the function of sex in the in with the understanding that marriage is a covenant Yeah, sex is the sign and seal of the covenant. Remember, all covenants have some visible sign uh that happens over and over again that um affirms and seals the covenant and it's a reminder of the the permanence and the seriousness of that covenant relationship So, right, like the Abrahamic Covenant had what sign? Uh no that was the Mosaic Mosaic Covenant. Circumcision, yeah, circumcision was the sign of the Abrahamic covenant. Every male descendant uh of Abraham got circumcised as a reminder of God's promise to Abraham to bless him with descendants and with land. Hey hey Josh. Um Yeah, so and then the Mosaic Covenant had the Sabbath as a sign. The new covenant that Jesus made with us has a sign called The Lord's Supper, yeah. Lord's Supper or communion or um yeah. So that that's the sign, the ongoing sign that we do we do it every month. The early church did it every week. Right? Uh but it's an ongoing, recurring, visible sign of that promise that Jesus made us with his body and his blood. So sex serves that same function with marriage, right? It's the ongoing sign of that promise, that relationship, that covenant called marriage. Um and so that's all review. We went over the the three purposes of marriage and sex. Number one, to unite man and woman, the two image-bearing halves of God, uh of God's image in in mankind, to unite man and woman in lifelong companionship That's purpose number one. Uh purpose two was was to fulfill God's commands together. Good morning. Um to fulfill God's commands together. Remember God commanded his first command that he gave to Adam and Eve was what? Uh what was the the first command that God gave to Adam and Eve? Um well that might actually we don't really know chronologically what Yeah, I think the first one that's found in Scripture at least is be fruitful and multiply, right? Because that's in Genesis one, twenty-eight. Uh God blessed them and said, Be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth and subdue it. So um You know, and God we saw how God intended for marriage and sex to be the way that Adam and Eve, that humanity fulfilled that command to be fruitful and multiply. Um so that's purpose number two not not just uniting in companionship, but also being fruitful, multiplying, fulfilling God's commands together. Uh purpose number three of marriage was to picture God and his people, right? To show to serve as a metaphor, uh an extended image of God and his people. And so we read Ephesians five where Paul compares the relationship of a husband and a wife to the relationship of Yes, Christ and his church, exactly. So those are the those are the three purposes of marriage that we talked about a couple weeks ago. And then last time we went over some of the, just a few, not all, but a few of the characteristics of marriage and sex. And we saw that marriage and sex in involve or require complementarity, right? All three of those purposes require differences between men and women Um we we also saw that w a characteristic, a fun fundamental characteristic of marriage is fidelity Right, and we read Matthew nineteen where Jesus was talking to the Pharisees and they were asking about divorce. Is it okay for a man to divorce his wife? And what did Jesus say? Right. Yeah, he said, um, have you not read that he who created them from the beginning made them male and female? And said, For this reason the man shall leave his father and his mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. So he quotes Genesis, right? This is an important sort of sub point about Jesus is that anytime you ask like what would Jesus do or you're asking about Jesus' ethic, what did he teach? What moral standard did he have It's always exactly the same as the Old Testament standard. He didn't come to abolish the law, he came to fulfill the law Right? He was not preaching a new law of God. He was saying, Here, I'm going to show you the heart and the substance of the law that you already have in the Old Testament. So it's it's significant that he quotes Genesis and he appeals to God's design in his answer here, right? He says, uh from the beginning Um he says, For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. So they are no longer two but one flesh. Therefore what God has joined together no person is to separate And they said to him, Why then did Moses command to give her a certificate of divorce and send her away? He said to them, Because of your hardness of heart, Moses permitted you to divorce your wives. But from the beginning it has not been this way. And I say to you, whoever divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality, and marries another woman, commits adultery So we use that text, among other things, to illustrate that a characteristic of marriage is that it's supposed to be faithful, right? Fidelity for the entire life. Uh lifelong faithfulness. And then a characteristic that kind of goes along with that, number three, was uh exclusive intimacy. Here we're on page near the bottom of page three in the outline. Exclusive intimacy. Um so we see in the Genesis account that Adam and Eve had had intimacy sort of right off the bat, right? The Adam says, At last this is bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh. Um You know, the the bone, the very core of of your body, right? You can't get deeper than bone. Um and He's saying, This is bone of my bones, flesh of my flesh. She's the same substance as me. We're intimate in that way. And then two verses later, it says, And the man and his wife were both naked and were not ashamed Um so there's clearly intimacy between Adam and Eve in the in the first marriage, and God designed for that to be a good thing and and to be a good characteristic of marriage. Um he also designed for it to be exclusive. That kind of intimacy was only to be between husband and wife and not to be shared with anyone else. Um and you know we saw that in the last passage where Jesus is talking about um adultery and sexual immorality. Uh but there's a lot of other passages in scripture that condemn adultery and sexual immorality and any kind of sexual intimacy outside of marriage between a man and a woman And that's because this intimacy that God designed in marriage is supposed to be exclusive. And then finally we talked about uh another characteristic of marriage openness to children. Um Openness to children in the sense that um you know although God doesn't choose to bless every marriage with children, uh and not Uh and and we don't have necessarily a duty to have as many children as we possibly can. Um when we get married and when we have sex in marriage there's a it's fundamentally an invitation for God to bless that union with the fruit of children. Uh the Bible speaks of children as a blessing. And um it's not the kind of uh to to say to God, we're gonna take your good gifts of marriage and sex and we're gonna um, you know, sort of stiff arm you and put up a wall that that says we're not ever gonna have children out of that, uh, that is against God's design fundamentally. Um And we talked a little bit last time about like what are the nuances of that when it comes to like um birth control or like choosing how many kids you want to have. Um And we said there's there's sort of a heart motive question behind this. Um, you know, it's not again the command is not just to to have as many kids as you possibly can in a marriage. Um God doesn't just want population growth, he wants godly offspring. So there's there's a sense in which each husband and wife have to decide, um, you know, how many kids do I want to have in such a way that I can train them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. Um but it doesn't change the fact that uh you know, when when a husband and wife come together um in in marriage, um, you know, they may they may decide Like this is not a time when when I want to have more children right now, but if God chooses to bless that act with another child Um there is in marriage a fundamental openness to that, right? Like an acceptance that, okay, God, you know what's best You chose to bless this act with uh with a pregnancy and with a child, so uh you know, we're gonna accept that. Okay, so that was all just review of where we we got to last time. So any questions on the stuff that we that we've uh already covered up till now? Uh okay, so let's go on. So, you know, it's great to talk about God's design, and I sort of wish that we could just stop there. Um but We live in a fallen world, you know. Genesis doesn't end at chapter 2. It goes on in chapter 3 when um when Adam and Eve disobeyed God's command and it brought the principle of sin into the world. And we know that that wasn't just it wasn't just a single act of disobedience, right, that resulted in in external consequences. That action of Adam and Eve disobeying brought internal consequences as well. It changed our very nature, right? It changed human nature such that ever since then every human being who's been born has not naturally sought God. Right? They nobody has a desire to seek God and do good anymore. Um and then it also sin also brought consequences to the whole of creation. In Romans it says the the creation was subjected to frustration or to futility. And so, you know, things uh God's good design started to get corrupted because of that sin that got brought in um in Genesis 3 And so God's good design is now sort of winding down and gets distorted and corrupted both intentionally by humans who who misuse it, but also um just by like breaking down in nature. Right? Our bodies break down. Um we don't our bodies don't work uh quite the way God intended them to in the beginning. Uh so We have to answer the question how has sin affected God's design for marriage and sex? And you know the basic answer is the same as the answer for how has sin affected God's design for anything. Sin has distor distorted but not invalidated God's design. So we need to be careful and how we analyze this and pick apart how um How God's design still shines through, but how how in other ways sin has distorted it So there's a lot of ways we can still see God's design today, but some of the distortions a in fact I would argue all the distortions that sin uh puts on has put on God's design for marriage and sex is that can fit into this category here. Uh so this is point A on page four. Sin separates what God has joined together and it joins what God has kept. separate. Um all right, so uh I would argue that all sin in this area of marriage and sex separates what God has joined and joins what God has kept separate. You can understand all all of the sin in terms of those categories. Uh so for example, like sexual activity outside of marriage Um and that includes sexual activity in the mind, uh, right, as Jesus made clear. Jesus said um in Matthew five, I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. So Jesus again brings this principle to bear on us that God doesn't just care about our external actions like what we do uh with our bodies, he cares also about our heart and our motive. Um but so adultery is not just an act that you do with your body, it's an act that you do with your mind and with your heart But adultery is wrong because it separates what God has joined together. And it joins what God has kept separate. Right. The thing that God has joined together is the husband and wife. So adultery separates that. It breaks that covenant bond that's supposed to be lifelong and exclusive. Um and then it joins together two people who have not made a covenant before God. Um so one of so one category uh so adultery is is one of those fundamental categories for sexual activity outside of marriage. Adultery means, of course, a married person who has sex with someone they're not married to. But there's another category that Jesus and the rest of the Bible uses to describe sexual activity outside of marriage, and that's the Greek word pornea. uh which refers it's basically a catch-all that that means any kind of sexual immorality besides what God designed, which is sex between a married man and woman. So for instance, Jesus says in Matthew 15, For out of the heart come evil thoughts Murders, acts of adultery, there we have that first category. Other immoral sexual acts, which is that word pornea, so everything else. that is sexually immoral. Thefts, false testimonies and slanderous statements. These are the things that defile the person. So again, the heart, his his emphasis is on the heart, not just on the outward behavior. Did you cross a line or not No, it's it's more about what is in your heart, what is your heart seeking? Um yeah, so these these two categories capture essentially all sexual sin, adultery, um, and sexual immorality being everything else. So that would include stuff like lusting in your heart, or pornography, um, or premarital sex, or premarital physical intimacy that doesn't even uh progress to the point of sex. Um all these things would fall under That word pornea, which both Jesus and Paul use to condemn sexual immorality. So God has a high, high standard. Uh, but I would argue that that that standard could be summed up as um, you know Uh God has what God has joined together, let no man separate, and what God has separated, let no man join together. Um so divorce would come in under this heading too, right? What does divorce do? It separates what God has joined together. That's what that's what Jesus said in the passage we read a few minutes ago. This would cover homosexuality too. What does homosexuality do? Yeah, yeah, it it joins what God has kept separate. Uh you know, God God has has in his design said that um Men and men should not come together in sexual union. Women and women should not come together in sexual union. So sin joins what God has separated. Here's another one that's a little bit trickier. What about abortion? I would argue abortion falls under this heading as well. Can anybody think how There is anatomical separation from a medical standpoint, but there's also joining together of my choice. So putting together thoughts like God has to be separate. Okay, right. So like I'm doing this because of my intuition. And whatever reason that So yeah, like the elevation of of personal autonomy up and against um what what God's design entails, right? Uh you mentioned something earlier, right, the the the physical anatomical separation. We shouldn't overlook that, right? The you know abortion separates uh a a developing baby from the womb of the mother, which God designed to be like a nurturing, very safe place uh to bring that baby to maturity. Um but also I think, you know, what a So God designed um marriage and sex and childbearing to go together, right? What um And abortion itself doesn't necessarily separate these things, but what uh what I'm driving at, I guess, is um What I've seen a lot as a as sort of a rationale behind um people who support abortion is um the the attitude that uh comes out of the sexual revolution of like the nineteen sixties and seventies that we should be able, as human beings, to take this thing called sex and to just use it however we want without consequences. Right? That is that's kind of the fundamental attitude of the sexual revolution. Um is that that sex is just uh a thing that our bodies do. It's an appetite like eating or drinking. Um and we, you know, there's no reason why we should have to um keep it together with childbearing, right? There's no there's no reason that sex should have an inherent connection with uh with pregnancy or with childbearing. I think Yeah, I saw uh I mentioned this last time, but um probably the the place I saw this articulated most succinctly was on a sign that was held up by a protester at uh pro abortion rally. And the sign said Um consent to sex is not consent to pregnancy. And um so that's the separation, right? That that is someone separating what God has joined together because absolutely in God's design sex consent to sex is consent to pregnancy. That's that is an absolute scriptural principle Uh anywa anyone who has sex um got is supposed to be a married couple who is open to the blessing of children. Uh right, so it's it's a thoroughly modern and thoroughly unbiblical attitude that says we should be able to separate sex from childbearing. And I think I think abortion is kind of the fruit of that of that worldview, that attitude. Um you could also add like childbearing outside of marriage. This might be like the the opposite of abortion. You know, there are there are some um, in our society who would say, you know, I want to have children, but I don't want to do it in the context of marriage that God designed Uh right. I think it was popular among celebrities in maybe a couple decades ago um to say, Oh, I you know, I want to be a single mom. Like I want I want to have a child, but I don't want to get married, right? Um I don't know if that's quite as popular anymore, but it represents a separation of what God has joined together. Right? He joined uh the the act of childbearing to marri to the relationship of marriage. And the world has tried to separate that in many ways. Um so you can go through a lot uh th there's there's a lot more sexual sins that that haven't been listed here, and that's not the point. The point is not to provide a laundry list of everything that could go wrong, but just to illustrate that this is what sin does, right? Sin's entire aim is to unravel God's design by separating what he's joined and by joining what he's kept separate. Um so why why is this such a big deal? I mean Um you know the the Bible certainly talks about sexual sin a lot. It talks a lot about adultery and sexual immorality, um, sexual purity. Uh Christians certainly talk a lot about uh sexual immorality and um you know our our most people in our culture would say Christians are like obsessed with sex, right? They're obsessed we're obsessed uh with these issues. Um really we're just reflecting uh God's design and God's priority that he places on this, but why is it such a big deal? Why does God place such a high priority on um sexual uh sexual morality. So I would I would argue that um You know, this is a question because m a lot of people think that God, even a lot of people in the church, a lot of Christians, think that God cares about our souls But not so much about our bodies or what we do with them. Right? Have how many of you have encountered that attitude? Even in the church Right? God cares about our soul. That's what's really important, is our soul, our spirit, uh our body, not so much. Like that's gonna pass away, whatever. Um you guys think that's a biblical attitude No. And before we read the the big passage of scripture that I've got here, why not? Why is that not a biblical attitude? I want to see if you guys have been paying attention to the the last few months of uh like when we were talking about John. So we belong to Christ just because of being a creation. Yeah. That's right. Our body is a temple of the Lord. It's a thing that He has made that is good, right? It's not like our bodies are evil. as the Greeks actually thought, uh, back in in the days of the New Testament. The Greeks thought that the body was a prison for the soul. The body is fundamentally evil, and the goal is to have the soul liberated from the body. Right. And that that thinking kind of infected the church and had to be corrected by Paul and the apostles. Um but Really, you could go back to Genesis and realize that God made our bodies. Our bodies are good, right? He designed them to be good. And He owns them, right? Our we don't belong to ourselves. Uh Aaron. I think in line with justice I think one of the things to remember is What what was the difference when God created everything and what was the difference when God created mankind? So for the former, God just spoke it and it happened. Uh-huh. Let there be like boomlight But then when you made man, you took the time to put together dust and you breathe life into it. So there's also the the distinction. Yeah. That's a great point. I I hadn't thought of that actually. That's That's really good. Yeah, the fact that God took the time to form man's body out of the dust and to form woman's body out of the rib, you know. Yeah. Yeah. Everything is there too. Right. I was just gonna add, like, you could also do kind of like a reverse engineering of why values are important in revelation or Those of us who provide our bodies are promoted to glory. Yeah. If our bodies were really that inconsequential then by being promoted, but that also raises the question of the case. Why would God bother with the resurrection if our bodies weren't important? That's an excellent point. I mean I think that's a point that's overlooked even by a lot of believers, right? We we talk about Death as if like we're gonna go to heaven when we die, which is true but also temporary. Right? We die Uh we are when we die here, we're absent from the body and present with the Lord in heaven, but that's not our final state, right? After We're waiting there until Christ comes back and consummates world history. And then what happens immediately after that is the resurrection of the dead. when we're reunited with our body that's been promoted to glory and we come to reign with Christ on earth. So so it's not Um it's not just that we go to heaven when we die, it's that we go to heaven in order to come back. Um And I think God would ha there would be no reason for God to bother with the resurrection of the body if our bodies weren't important to who we are And in fact, you know, this is really the view of all of Scripture. All of Scripture uh treats the human being as a unit, right? A united body and soul. Um it doesn't say it doesn't target the soul and say like, you know, the soul is more important. Um it doesn't target the body and say the body is more important, it's only what you do. It targets both the body and the soul, right? The the heart attitudes and motivations that work themselves out in bodily actions. Um Good. Great. Uh so with with that in mind, let's read a particular passage that I think illustrates this teaching really powerfully and that's first Corinthians six, thirteen through twenty. Uh copied it here in the outline, so I'll read it. Um but the body is not for sexual immorality, but for the Lord. And the Lord is for the body. Now God has not only raised the Lord, but will also raise us up through his power. There's the resurrection. Do you not know that your bodies are parts of Christ? Shall I then take away the parts of Christ and make them parts of a prostitute? Far from it. Or do you not know that the one who joins himself to a prostitute is one body with her? For he says the two shall become one flesh. There's quoting Genesis again. Uh but the one who joins himself to the Lord is one spirit with him. Flees sexual immorality. Every other sin that a person commits is outside the body, but the sexually immoral person sins against his own body. Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God, and that you are not your own, for you have been bought for a price. Therefore glorify God in your body Um so the passage uh sometimes it's hard to get the flow of Paul's argument because he often argues cyclically Right, he introduces a point and then he comes back and y and recapitulates the point, um, which is not sort of what we're used to in modern English. Um So if I could summarize the point that Paul's making here is uh I would say Paul's point is that God did not just redeem your spirit. Which he did. He didn't just redeem your spirit. He redeemed your body as well. Uh when you are saved, God doesn't just save your spirit, he redeems your body. Um first of all, Christ bought your body with his blood and made it part of his. He didn't just buy your spirit or your soul, he bought your body as well. And that's in verse fifteen and twenty Um, so Christ bought your body. Number two, the Holy Spirit lives in your body. And there's verse 19. The Holy Spirit uh is is dwelling in your body, which is a temple Uh and then number three, God will raise up your body at the resurrection, and that's verse fourteen. Alright, so um your body is not just this sort of dispensable temporary thing. It's God God has eternal plans for your body. Um so Paul's point the implication that he's drawing here is that when you commit sexual sin, you violate your own body, verse 18, which is really God's body, verse 19, and you try to unite Christ together with sin. So that's what's going on in sexual sin. You're violating your own body, which is actually God's body, and you're trying to unite Christ with sin. So that is the answer that I think scripture gives to why is sexual sin a big deal? Why why does it spend so much time talking about it and why do we as Christians seem to be obsessed with this topic um in the eyes of our culture. Any any questions about that or um comments or even I don't know, pushback. Any objections? Um I just wanted to know what the research that was really insightful. I think if you look at the resurrection though just singularly as the topic itself think the argument for the value of our bodies would be secondary to the resurrection just pointing to the power to God's power over death. Um and and um and then I was thinking there's argument, yes, absolutely supporting that was worth it. Resurrection. Yeah, that's a that's a really good point. I mean the yeah, the primary aspect of the resurrection is a demonstration of God's power uh to save. Um Yeah, and it's it's more of a secondary implementation that that he cares enough about our bodies to to actually do that. Um Yeah. This might be a tension, but I just remember this really, really bizarre argument that I heard most of the time there was the question about should Christians be plastic surgery? Oh. It was like the vast majority of plastic surgeons surgeries are for purely physical appearances, cosmetic appearances. So the question was like chip or should be plastic surgeons. You're all kind of on the body the way it wasn't supposed to be designed and silicone everywhere. Uh-huh. Um yeah, that's an interesting question. And full disclosure, my dad is a retired plastic surgeon. And and he is a Christian. Um yeah, and so I think Um, it's not just a question that you run into with plastic surgery. It's a question you run into with with sort of any profession that deals with the body. Like you could talk about should Christians be m uh makeup salesmen or makeup uh artists I guess, you know, 'cause like that's cosmetic. Um cosmetologists, there you go. Should beauticians or or whatever. That's altering the physical body to um, you know, make it more look more beautiful. Uh so I think there's however, uh I would probably just from my from my dad's experience and from like all the the he he used to show me show us uh like the before and after talks for um when he would give uh academic talks about um plastic surgery. So I think a lot more plastic surgery is actually reconstructive than than we think it is, right? So there is there is some plastic surgery that's purely cosmetic, purely aimed at uh you know, improving the appearance. But there's a lot of plastic surgery that is um about taking something that has been deformed, a bodily structure that's been deformed, and putting it back to what God designed it to be. So like my dad um used to do a lot of hand reconstructions uh when we lived in Chicago, people would would like chop off their fingers in industrial accidents or in woodworking. And my dad actually has some pretty cool pictures about how he reattached fingers to the hand and then he did this thing called a toe to thumb transplant where he took the person's big toe and put it on the where the thumb used to be. So now they have an opposable thumb, uh which You know, so clearly that's that's on the the far end of the reconstructive versus cosmetic spectrum. But there's also stuff in the middle that I think you know, like stuff like varicose veins, which are pretty painful um and not just unsightly or um yeah, we don't have to get into all the different sorry go ahead. Uh pretty easy. In yeah, in the men's group. Yeah. In this day and age wondering what is the role covered. Mm-hmm. Yeah, what is what is God's will for my life? God, what is your will for my life? Well Be saved, right? Obey the gospel. Second, um walk in a manner pleasing to him, including abstain from sexual immorality. Yeah. Now people when people ask that question they mean like who should I marry or or like where should I live or what career should I choose? Um and there's there's a lot of wisdom from scripture that you could apply to those questions, but God's primary revealed will for us has to do with um obeying the gospel and walking in a manner pleasing to him. Yeah. Um yeah, and I would say that uh you know if we Th this this can be a very heavy topic and it can really um convict a lot of us, myself included. You know, if we go through this and we talk about uh for example lustful acts in the mind. Like who among us is not guilty of that? Uh right. And I I just want to reiterate something that I said a couple of weeks ago. I I don't stand before you as an example of someone who lives up to God's standard in this area. I'm not an example of of like biblical perfection with respect to sexual ethics Uh I have plenty of my own sin in this area. But I'm also here to tell you that the Lord provides victory, right? He gives grace to those who are humble, to those who humble themselves and ask for grace. And his strength is made perfect in your weakness and in my weakness. So Um, you know, this is an area where you really need to come to the Lord and cry out to him for his grace, for his power uh to to do what is right. And he can and he will give you victory uh over this kind of lust and uh sexual immorality Yeah, and we're we're going to talk more about that actually in just a minute. Um because we have to go on to the third question. How should we walk? How should we walk in this area? uh with respect to God's design for marriage and sex. Um now most of you in the room are not married, right, so that looks very different uh the way you walk versus the way those of us who are married are to walk. But really the point of the Bible uh in this area is that as Christians we have only two options Uh we either have the option of lifelong faithfulness in marriage to one spouse or celibate singleness. Right? There's no other option. There's no third option that allows us to um you know fulfill sexual desire apart from marriage. Uh and I think it's it's worth making that clear and explicit, uh, is that these are the only two options. Uh and you you can see that from scriptures like Matthew 19, where Jesus says, uh And I say to you, whoever divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality, and marries another woman, commits adultery. So there's option one, you know, lifelong faithfulness in marriage It has to be lifelong. It has to be one man, one woman. So the disciples are surprised. They don't like that option very much. The disciples said to him, If the relationship of the man with his wife is like this, it's better not to marry Because remember they thought like the Pharisees, they thought that Moses commanded them to issue a certificate of divorce and send their wives away. So they thought, well, okay If my wife ceases to satisfy me at some point I can just divorce her and marry somebody else. But Jesus is saying, No, you can't do that and and be pleasing to the Lord. Uh marriage is lifelong faithfulness. And they say, wait a minute, that's really hard. If the relationship of a man with his wife is like this, it's better not to marry. And he said to them, Not all men can accept this statement, but only those to whom it has be been given. So he basically says, Yeah, that is you know, if you if it's been given to you to accept that, then that is the better way. For there are eunuchs who were born that way from their mother's womb, and there were eunuchs who were made eunuchs by people And there are also eunuchs who made themselves eunuchs for the safe sake of the kingdom of heaven. The one who is able to accept this, let him accept it. And I don't think that he's talking about when he says uh eunuchs who made themselves eunuchs, he's not talking about um physical castration. He's not talking about self-mutilation. He's talking about those who have denied themselves um the option of being married. Uh some people choose celibate singleness for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. uh the one who is able to accept this, let him accept it. Right. So I also to be clear, I don't think this is the majority of people. Right? The majority of people God is not calling to singleness. But God does call some people to singleness. And and we should recognize that and affirm that that that it is a good thing. But we also have to be really careful that we don't put that calling on somebody that God hasn't given the calling to. So there are the two options that Jesus presents. Lifelong faithfulness in marriage versus celibate singleness, like a eunuch, right? You know, that that that's what implies the celibacy about the single miss option. Um also you can look at First Corinthians seven, eight and nine, where Paul says Uh he says, But I say to the unmarried and to widows that it is good for them if they remain even as I am. And he was single, so he's talking about being single. But if they do not have self-control Let them marry, for it is better to marry than to burn with passion. So that there he presents two options. He's like Uh okay, if you're in this situation, you're a widow, or to an un or you're an unmarried person, try to remain single. But if you can't, if you burn with passion, then it's better to marry Alright, so that that what he says there kind of implies those two options of lifelong faithfulness and marriage versus celibate singleness and the middle is excluded. Um okay, questions about that Yeah, seems pretty clear. So how do I choose, right? That's the question that is before most of you. Um since you're not married yet. you you have to choose, right? You have to choose whether you want to uh devote yourself to celibate singleness in the Lord or whether you want to pursue lifelong faithfulness in marriage. Um so I think the first thing from the scriptures that we just read is to ask yourself, can I accept singleness or do I burn with passion? Right. I don't uh y like I said a minute ago, I don't think God calls most people to singleness. I think he calls most people to marriage, and he he gives that calling partially through desire Right. Desire is a is a big part of how God calls people, not just in in marriage, but also in in like choosing a career or choosing what ministry to serve in. You know, he leads people by desires that are aligned with his will. So if you have a desire to be married, that's probably God calling you to be married, um, and not calling you to be single. Uh you know, so you really need to ask yourself, can I accept singleness? You know, is that is that what God's calling me to? Um And you know, Paul contrasts that with burning with passion. So if you burn with passion, it's probably not your calling to be single. But I think the second principle, probably even more important, is Uh if you're choosing between celibate singleness and lifelong faithfulness in marriage, you have to be strategic about which one is going to allow you to glorify God better. Alright, so looking at the singleness option, you can ask yourself, would I use singleness as an opportunity for single-minded devotion to the Lord? Or would I use it as license to live selfishly? Right? Because I think just looking at my own life, I tended to use when I was single, I used singleness as kind of a license for selfishness. Right. I I lived in a college dorm, uh, with a bunch of other guys and like never did laundry and didn't clean up anything and um just played video games all the time Right, so I was not really using my singleness as an opportunity for devotion to the Lord. Uh so if you're choosing singleness, make sure you're choosing it not Just so you can be like free of commitment or responsibility, make sure you're choosing it so that you can actively use it for service to the Lord. Um and not everybody is is sort of given that gift, right? I certainly was not. You know, this is this is underscored in 1 Corinthians 7, 32 through 35. Uh Paul says, But I want you to be free from concern. One who is unmarried is concerned about the things of the Lord. So he he's presuming singleness because for the sake of devotion to the Lord, how he may please the Lord. But one who is married is concerned about the things of the world, how he may please his wife. And his interests are divided I say this for your own benefit, not to put a restraint on you, but to promote what is appropriate and to secure undistracted devotion to the Lord. So if you're pursuing singleness as a calling, that should be your reason, right? Undistracted devotion to the Lord. And you have to sort of reckon with your own heart, is that really why you're pursuing singleness or are you doing it um you know for some other reason that might be selfish On the flip side, if you're looking at marriage, you need to ask yourself, are you seeing your marriage, your future marriage, as a way to self-sacrificially represent Christ in the church? Or are you seeing it as a means to fulfill your dreams and desires? Right. I think this is probably the bigger issue in uh in most of our hearts. Like, you know those of you who who are who have decided, yeah, I'm probably gonna get married when I um when I reach that time. Are you looking at marriage as something that's going to fulfill your dreams and desires? Because that's the wrong way to look at it. Uh that's not a scriptural view of marriage. Right. I I think there are many ways this could manifest. Like I know for me as a as a guy I was looking forward to marriage as like the uh the place the arena where I could finally get my my sexual desires met. Um that's a really bad attitude to carry into marriage. Um because it's it's fundamentally selfish and it actually is uh levies a lot of expectations that are uh pretty unreasonable. Um but I know also for for women You know, a lot of women look forward to marriage as sort of the the the happily ever after, right? The the end of loneliness and and the um the sort of satisfaction of of that desire for deep intimacy and companionship. Um and that doesn't come right away. Right? So so there's a lot of disappointment that results if you carry that that expectation, if that's your purpose for seeking marriage. Rather, you know, our purpose for seeking marriage should be as a way to glorify God by painting this picture of Christ in the church. Uh look at Ephesians 5. Uh but as the church is subject to Christ, so also the wives ought to be to their husbands in everything. Husbands, love your wives just as Christ also loved the church and gave himself up for her. So, future wives, are you looking at marriage and thinking, oh, okay, this is going to be a great opportunity for me to subject myself to my husband and show the church's faithful devotion to Christ? And husbands, future husbands, are you looking at your future marriage as a way to oh this is gonna be a great way for me to lay down all my interests and desires and sacrifice myself for my wife to show a picture of Christ. I mean not many of us are thinking that when we look forward to marriage, but but that's what that's the mindset that we should have right when we're evaluating, are we called to marriage? You should be looking forward to marriage as a way to glorify God. And yes, it will bring a lot of joy, right? Yes, you will there will be that companionship and that intimacy and um You know, including sexual intimacy. But it's not gonna come right away, and it's gonna take a lot of hard work and self-sacrifice to get there Questions. I know this is a big big topic, probably in a lot of your minds. It certainly was in mine. I remember I was in college and I was uh listening to my um Bible teacher um that you know he was also my my chemistry advisor. Uh he was teaching on this and he quoted that that verse in uh First Corinthians where it says, It's better to marry than to burn with passion. And he said You guys, if you're burning with passion, you're not called to be single. And at up to that point I thought, like, huh, maybe I am called to be single, you know, and so I heard that and I was like Oh, okay, and not. Um But then I had to he you know, he didn't just stop there. He then went on to um talk about scriptural sexual ethics and kind of the expectations that um young men and women bring into marriage that uh that can be really destructive to a marriage. And so I ha there was a lot that he said in that lesson or in that series of lessons that opened my eyes and and made me sort of question and get rid of those expectations. Um I am actually planning he recorded those and so we're planning I'm planning to have us listen to them. Um after after we get through this outline. Uh it was very helpful for me. Very helpful for for like resetting my expectations so I didn't carry those damaging things. into our marriage. And I hope it'll be helpful to all of you too. Yeah, I think we have time for another question or two. I think I think this belief kind of like natural buildings reflection. Mm-hmm. It's like We're also called to be the love that God loves and obedient. So it's not it's not just follow obviously it's not just follow an obedience feel like it. Otherwise there'd be no command to follow obedient. So um so but as we follow against our nature in obedience and in becomes by God's grace, uh not just under his view 'cause I have to but it He also changes changes our desires to align with his align with his own. Um but it's easy. It's easy to forget that we're not just called to obey God, we're also called to love them. So you want but now you're asking me to actually love this is not just following. Yeah. Yeah. But Find a grace and have a little smooth one. Yeah, that's so important. And it's so different from like any earthly standard, right? Like, you know, the the government doesn't care about our heart. It's just like obey the law, right? Um but God He doesn't just want our outward conformity to his standard. He wants us, like you said, to love what he loves and to hate what he hates. He wants our hearts to be on board with his standard and and to Um, yeah, he won he wants our hearts to be aligned with him. Um and I think it's really like getting the nuances of that of that interplay between external obedience and and heart motivation, it it takes so much thinking and so there's like so many ways to go to go astray with that. Um right. It's w what we might hear that and I have done this in the past and say like, oh well if my heart's not in it, I might as well just not obey. But you know, that's that's not right either. Right? I think I think um the way I would put it is like Sometimes we do need to force ourselves to obey. Like, um grudging obe or you know, obedience by effort is is sometimes a necessary part of the Christian walk, but it's never the end goal Right. God never just wants us to stop there with with outward conformity that our heart really isn't in it. He always wants us to be progressing and moving towards loving what he loves and hating what he hates. So so this standard with respect to sexual immorality um and and Christians only two options, it might seem like really burdensome. And just be encouraged that God is in the process, if he saved you, of transforming your heart. Right? It will not always seem burdensome Um you messier it gets easier. It does get easier as you walk with him and as you depend on his grace. You start to love what he loves. You start to hate what he hates. You know, for men, if if you struggle with lust, um it may seem impossible to look forward to a time when you hate what God hates and stop loving sin May seem impossible, but it is possible. It does get better. As you walk with the Lord, he will change your heart to hate the sin that he hates and to not take delight or pleasure in it anymore. Does that make sense? I think it will be in so long. So I'm more like It does clear up some of the gray areas. Like even the questions are measuring three or why those three things like that. Yeah. Because those questions are questions about actions and questions about lines. Whereas when you have the heart attitude following where God leads you, you're not thinking about so much the line. Yeah. You're just thinking about Yeah, about his his heart, right? I think Pastor Gabe put it really well in a sermon series back in the fall. Um he said that Fearing the Lord is about valuing what God values. It's not so much about looking in Scripture for a list of do's and don'ts. It's about understanding God's heart and valuing what he values. And that I remember when he said that, like a l a light went on in my brain, and ever since then I've I've kind of been thinking about things in those terms and it's it's just very helpful Uh to me at least. Yeah. God is just a killer. God just The key is from enjoying it. Right. God wants you to God loves it. He wants you to enjoy to his fullest. means it has to be in the right context. Mm-hmm. The second thing is preventing colossal collateral damage. Yeah. situation. Uh being enslaved by pornography, the deeper you go, the harder it is to do that. from dam damaging himself. Yeah. That's an excellent point. Yeah, God is not a killjoy. Uh remember he made sex as part of his good creation before the fall. He designed it to be for pleasurable companionship, uh, in addition to procreation. But, you know, he sets up his standard not just to um to keep us down, he sets up his standard as the way of life. Right? We're reading through Proverbs with our family right now and um You know, in Proverbs the emphasis over and over is on like, you know, there's a way that seems right to a man, but in the end it leads to death. And that's what Jeff is talking about here is like if we just pursue our own way, whatever seems right to us, especially in this area of sexual immorality, it leads to death, it leads to huge problems, huge pain and heartache. Um if we follow God's way, it seems hard. at first, but it actually is what guards life. You know, it's what it's what guards our heart from which flow the springs of life.