Uh Jeff and I uh we're probably gonna be doing slightly different things. Uh 'cause I really want to do um a series of lessons on topics like manhood and womanhood and marriage and sex. And that's that's kind of the the burden that I've had for uh the last few months to do. But I'm kind of drawing material together from a whole bunch of different resources and and so like I don't have a lesson plan uh fixed for the rest of of the time right now. Um So that makes it really hard for Jeff 'cause I can't just say like, here you go, Jeff, teach this outline. Uh so he and I are probably gonna be, um teaching on different subjects when we teach. Uh so but like for my portion of things going forward, um, I'm gonna I'm gonna be doing uh these topics so we're gonna look at um in the first Today we're going to look at God's design, and today specifically we're going to focus on manhood and womanhood. And then uh it'll probably take us like two or three weeks to get through God's design for man and woman. But then um we are going to go to marriage and sexuality. And I want so today and in the next couple of weeks as we're going through God's design for manhood and womanhood, we're not going to talk a whole lot about marriage, which You know, it first seems kind of weird because like um you know they they are often the two topics are often associated with each other, but I think it's really important um that we uh look at God's design for man and woman even before uh and and outside of uh marriage before we look at marriage itself, right? Because we are men and women before we get married. Right? Uh n none of you are married right now, and um you yet you are still men and women and God calls you to live biblically as as men and women. So I think it's important um to discuss God's design for the two sexes uh before we even get to the relationship of marriage. Uh but we are going to do Next, God's design for marriage and sex. And then um and then I would want to uh start going into um specific applications. And I want to do things like um sexual ethics. And by that I mean like how how do we deal how do we as Christians handle our sexuality? Like how do we deal with things like lust or uh pornography or like how should we think about um and set our expectations for sex in marriage uh is Is premarital sex really wrong or really a big deal to God? That kind of thing. And my old uh Bible teacher and chemistry advisor, James Tour, he has uh a six-part series on these topics that was really good that uh Jennifer and I both heard when we were in college. And I think it really helped us set our expectations in a in a much better way than uh we would have otherwise going into marriage. So I want to go through that six part series with you all and listen to it together and discuss it. And then I also want to talk about Uh dating and marriage You know, because the world is talking a lot about this, uh and we have to talk about it in the church, right? Uh w we have to we have to look into the scriptures and see what what God's design is for these kind of things. Um I also want to talk about um roles in The family and the church, you know, because there's a big debate in the church these days about you may have heard egalitarianism versus complementarianism. You know, what Um what is the nature of the relationship between men and women in the church and in the family? Does uh does the husband have a position of authority in the home? Do men occupy positions of authority in the church exclusively? Um those kind of questions. And then of course I want to go over Homosexuality and gender ideology. Which under gender ideology I would put like transgender, non-binary, um the kinds of things that uh you know the these together would kind of span the LGBTQ plus spectrum. But I want to save these for last, right? Because I think you know it's easy to sort of see this as like a a world problem, you know, and and kind of throw stones out there. But there's a lot of stuff where we need to clean up our own house first, um, in the church. And There's a lot of things that we in the church struggle with more up here. Um and and you know, Jesus says to remove the plank from your own eye before you take the speck out of a brother's eye. So I think it's good to look at the issues that we mostly struggle with and then but it is important also to discuss kind of the world's deceptions and the world's lies. So this is kind of my basic outline, basic plan for the next um, I don't know, probably four to six months. Yeah, what's going on? The children's classes are getting crazy. So um does anybody have you know any any questions about like the general the next um four to six months of material. Anything anything that um any additional stuff you would like to see or anything that uh I guess makes you uncomfortable or you or you're worried about after after hearing this outline? Okay, it's okay if not. I mean you can continue to I'll leave this outline up there and you can keep asking questions. But today I want to jump into God's design for manhood and womanhood. Okay, so uh grab this handout and we're gonna start right at the top here There really are four questions we need to ask when we're looking at biblical manhood and womanhood, God's design for men and women. We need to start with what is the meaning of manhood and womanhood. Uh this is, you know, it's it's easy for us to tell in this class who is a man and who is a woman. So the bare fact of manhood and womanhood is is Pretty straightforward and simple. But what does it mean? You know? Is that difference uh just a trivial thing that only applies to our bodies? Or how deep does it go? What does it actually mean to be a man as opposed to being a woman or vice versa. So that's the one that's the question we're going to spend the most time on, because that's uh what God's design is really about. That's where that's where scripture is uniquely capable of informing our view here. Um but then we also want to ask how has sin changed manhood and womanhood? Um you know the effects of the fall are profound, uh, but we need to be careful to distinguish what sin has distorted about God's design from what is very good in God's d original design. Uh third, how should we live as men and women? You know, because we can't go back to the Garden of Eden. We can't go back to being naked and unashamed with each other, right? It's we live in um in a fallen world, but we are redeemed people, saved by by grace. So how do we live out manhood and womanhood as redeemed people? And then finally, what are the world's counterfeits of manhood and womanhood? It's important to identify those false things that the world puts forward as like this is the ideal man, this is the ideal woman, or this is how um men men and women should relate to each other So that's those are the questions we're going to answer. And we're going to spend the most time on question number one. And these questions, they correspond to these large font numbered bullets here. So bullet one answers question one. The meaning of manhood and womanhood essentially is that God created men and women as equal yet complementary image-bearers. Okay, so equal yet complementary image-bearers. So we are going to go to the book of Genesis because that's really the first place to go when you're looking at God's original design, uncorrupted by sin. So you guys know the fall happened in Genesis 3. That's when Adam and Eve first sinned. So we have two chapters of the Bible entirely devoted to God's very good design before any sin entered the world. Uh and it's not the only section of the Bible that talks about God's original design. Uh there are other parts of the Bible that do. But it this is the the the clearest uh you know and most most concise um section of the Bible that talks about God's original design. So that's where we need to go. And as we read these passages Uh I want you to look out for two strands of thought. There's our equality as men and women, and there's our complementarity as men and women or are profound differences that uh that match with each other. So let's see, can I have someone read Uh Genesis one, twenty-six through the end of the chapter Okay, Aaron. Then God says, let us make mankind in our image, according to our likeness, let them rule over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the sky, over the livestock, and over all of all the earth, and over every calling being that calls me. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God he created them. Male and female he created them. God blessed them, and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply. And fill the earth and subdue it. And rule. Over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the sky and over every living thing that moves on the earth. Then God said, Behold, I have given you every plant, building seed that is on the surface of the earth, and every tree which has fruit building seed, it shall be food for you. To every animal of the earth, and to every bird of the sky, and to everything that moved on the earth, which is like, I have given every green plant for food, and it was so. And God saw all that he had made, and behold, it was very good. There is evening, there is morning, the sixth day. Yeah, so we see day six, the the apex of God's creative work. Um after he creates male and female together, both in his own image, he declares it very good. That's the first time he uses very in front of good. So now, and then in verse 2, it kind of rewinds a little bit and zooms in on that sixth day of creation. So let's read Um Genesis two, four through nine, uh, and fifteen through twenty-five. Can I have a volunteer for four through nine? Okay, Alex, and then for fifteen through twenty-nine or twenty fifteen through twenty-five. Anybody? Oh you okay, Max. Alright, go ahead, Alex. Okay, next. Go ahead. The Lord God took the man and put him in the garden of the day to work to execute. And the Lord God commanded the beast, saying, You may surely be of every tree. of the garden, but the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat. For in the day that you meet of it you shall show you that. And the Lord said, It is not good that the image be of them. I will make him a helper for his thing. Now out of the ground The Lord has formed every beast of the earth and every word of the heavens and brought them to the men to see what he had done. And whatever the man called every living creature, that was it. Man gave names to all. But all the birds of the heavens that we used to be for Adam there was no there was not the heaven. So we work out that you should just only find while he's got super. These ribs composed of its place with flesh. And the rib that the woman had taken from the man, he made into a brought her to the main. Then the man said, This is that last point of my bones, the flesh and flesh. She shall be followed with him because she was taken out of him. Therefore, the man shall leave his father and mother fast to his wife, and they shall be comfortable in life. And the man and his wife will both think her life Alright, thank you. Yeah, so this is God's design here. And w what we see in God's design is two primary components. The first is equality between men and women. And uh we see equality in a number of ways, right? Uh back in in chapter one, verse twenty seven, um it shows that God created both male and female in his image. It says, and God created man in his own image. In the image of God he created him. Male and female he created them. So uh both men and women bear God's image equally. Um and the implication there is that both are necessary to display God's image Um that uh you know when when Adam was alone, God called it not good. Right, in Genesis two, did you catch that? That was the only t that's the first time that God has said something is not good. And it wasn't because of sin, it was it was just because it wasn't complete yet. Adam was not complete um without without his wife. Without the man was not complete without woman. So they are both necessary in order to display God's image to his creation as he intended. Um also they're equal because they're both made of the same substance. Um so this is the main point in chapter two, like when God uh says it's not good for the man to be alone. Let me let me find a helper suitable for him. And suitable for is probably better translated as um corresponding to. It's not just someone who will fit the bill, but you know, someone who will exactly complement and correspond to all of Adam's strengths and weaknesses. And so he brings the animals out, right? He forms the animals and brings them to Adam uh to be named. And um at the end of that whole process n no suitable helper, no helper corresponding to Adam was found. He was basically showing Adam, hey, none of these animals are of the same uh substance and essence as you are You need you need a helper who's of the same essence and substance as you. And that's why when um God presents Eve to Adam, he says, At last this is bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh, right? This is this is my Bone and flesh, this is this is a being at last who is the same substance as me, the same kind of of person as me Aid. Um so that speaks to the profound equality between men and women. We're of the same bone and flesh. Um, and we're destined for unity Right? Uh in in verse twenty-four of chapter two, God says, they shall become one flesh. Um And that's possible because of the equality that we have, the equal way in which we bear God's image and in which He has made us of the same substance. So they're also equal because both are responsible for carrying out God's commands and both are necessary to carry out God's commands. So look back in in Genesis 1 and verse 28. Look at the command that God gave. It says, God said to them, both that is, both the the man and the woman God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth and subdue it, and rule over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the sky, and over every living thing that moves on the earth. Hey Jeff. So God didn't just give this command oh I uh God didn't just give this command to Adam. He gave it to both Adam and Eve. So they're both responsible in uh in a sense to fulfill the commands of God. Now, we'll see later that God deals with Adam particularly as the representative of his household and and holds him him accountable uh when both Adam and Eve sin. But it's true that the command is given to both of them. So they're both under that responsibility and they're both necessary to carry out the command. How do we know that? Could Adam fulfill this command alone? No, he can't be fruitful and multiply by himself. Right? And that's that's the way God made it. So another yeah, another testament to the equality and the equal necessity and worth of men and women Um so let's see. Uh another uh evidence that we see of the equality of men and women is not specifically found in Genesis 1 and 2, but in in the rest of Scripture, but I wanted to include it here. And that is that both masculinity and femininity are derived from God's nature. Um, you know, it's not like only masculinity is is from God and then femininity is something else. No, both are derived from God's nature. And we can see this uh throughout scripture, really So for masculinity, it's pretty easy to see how uh God displays masculine traits and ascribes masculine characteristics to himself. He uses the title of father. He uses male pronouns throughout scripture. He portrays himself as the husband of Israel. says uh Jesus Christ is the husband of the church, Christ is the bride of Christ, the church is the bride of Christ. Um but you know even more deeply than that uh we see all three persons of the Trinity, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, taking the initiative in interactions with humanity, whether it's taking the initiative to inspire scripture or taking the initiative in drawing someone to salvation And as we're going to see later, taking the initiative is a fundamental component of masculinity. So that's a more subtle way in which God presents Himself in a masculine way, taking the initiative. Similarly, we're going to see that leadership, protection, and provision are other fundamental components of masculinity. and God uh certainly makes clear in in the Bible that He is the ultimate sovereign authority, the ultimate protector and provider, and so that's that's another way that he uh sort of ascribes masculine characteristics. to himself, but he also ascribes feminine characteristics to himself in Scripture. And this is This is a little bit harder to see because it's a little more rare. But for example, look at Isaiah forty-nine fifteen. Uh and it's copied right here in the notes for you. Can a woman forget her nursing child and have no compassion on the son of her womb? Even these may forget, but I will not forget you So that's God talking about himself and comparing his uh nurturing and compassion to that of a nursing mother. And he's saying I'm even more nurturing and compassionate than a nursing mother. So that's that's using a a female analogy and and feminine characteristics uh in in God's description of himself. Uh similarly, if you look at Matthew twenty-three, Jesus, uh he's coming up to Jerusalem. He's he's about to be uh he's about to go through the Passover week where he gets crucified. Uh so he's about to experience the rejection of the Jews. And he laments over the Jewish people and he says, Jerusalem, Jerusalem, how often I wanted to gather your children together, the way a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, and you were unwilling. So, yeah, Jesus uses the the the metaphor or the simile I guess of a mother hen, you know, of this the a female image to describe his again nurturing and compassion um his his patience and pity on Israel. Um and also finally the the Holy Spirit in uh several places in scripture is called the helper or a helper. And it's using that same word as in Genesis 2, uh when God wanted to find and create a helper corresponding to Adam. So uh that is that is a distinctly feminine characteristic that uh that is ascribed to the Holy Spirit. Now there's a the there's a big warning and caveat that we have to bear in mind when we're talking about these things, and that is that in Scripture God only ever presents himself as male. Alright, he never presents himself as female. So we must never make the mistake of calling him a woman, even though femininity is rooted in him Right. The the point is not to say that, oh, you know, you can call God a she or her, you know, that would be heresy. Um the point is to say that um masculinity and femininity both derive from the character and the nature of God. Um any any questions about this? Any any other uh questions about about the equality between men and women as seen in God's design and the rest of scripture? I think it's the second time I uh fall into this idea. Um yeah the first time I fell into this idea was um God has and God's nature that is too feminine and True masculinity. I didn't understand that. Yeah, it's a little bit counterintuitive that that true masculinity and true femininity can both be found in God's nature But yes, that's because he's he's infinitely beyond our comprehension. He's not limited in the ways that we are. But it it almost has to be true, right? Because both men and women are created in the image of God. Yeah. That's right. Yeah, so if feminine woman bears the image of God, uh therefore there must be something feminine in in the nature of God to to bear, right? Um Even though, you know, we should with scripture insist on on the the priority of God's self-presentation as male and and masculine. It's it's it's kind of a tough thing to keep the right balance on Yeah. I think we try to impose a picture of either like a guy or a girl physical guy's fear. God is very rather than trying to get some dismal image of his male. So God is a male, that means he's got short hair and much hair are but but that's not true. Character, it's the attributes. That's not the uh the attributes of the character that are described as female or male, but not necessarily physical individual. Right. Yeah, very important to remember that God does not have a body. He is spirit. Um and it's It is it is that that spiritual reality that's in view here with the masculine and the feminine What do you think the significance of uh what Jesus looked like is that you know, him saying, if you've seen me, you've seen the Father. Yeah, so I don't think that in that statement he's referring to his physical appearance. Um I'm sorry? Like the way we Yeah, yeah. Um because you know you put it together with other statements. He who hears my words hears the words of the Father. Um i you know, he he sees I do only what the father shows me to do, right? So when he's saying he who sees me sees the Father, he's not saying He's not saying like, oh, you finally know how long the father's hair is or like what color his eyes are, right? He's saying um uh he's saying you if you see the works that I do and you hear the words um that I speak and if you see the way that I um that I love others and the way that I uphold the truth, you have seen the Father. You've seen what it means for um uh for God to live out um the his his design with other humans. Hey good morning guys. Um grab a handout if uh If you haven't gotten one yet. Yeah. So um I mentioned this way back then, but I've also heard the argument where God actually makes man. How can it be evil if evil is good? Like if it was truly equal then the creation of both would have been in the same manner and like when I heard like an argument against like the two shall become one. But what if it's like seventy five percent male and twenty five percent female? So Because like that makes also one systematically. So like I guess what is the proper response? Okay. Um The question the question was, um, you know, so there are there are various arguments like um, you know the manner in which God created Eve, uh by taking a rib from his side instead of making her like he did Adam out of the dust, does that suggest anything about inequality between man and woman? Um or or, you know, the uh idea of becoming one flesh, does that necessarily have to mean equality or could it mean that the one flesh union is like three quarters male and one quarter female. Um I think let's take the first one first because it seems like the more the more serious argument. Uh Yeah, the I think the mode uh of creation, the fact that it's different, uh, scripture does place emphasis on that But when you see um this is skipping ahead a little bit, but if you turn in your outline to page um Yeah, it's page three. It's it's like Roman numero four. Uh differences are created by God, not constructed by culture. Here's here's a place where Paul looks at the original creation of Adam and Eve and draws a lesson out of it. Okay? So he says, But I want you to understand that Christ is the head of every man. This is quoting 1 Corinthians eleven. And the man is the head of a woman and God is the head of Christ. For man does not originate from woman, but woman from man. For indeed man was not created for the woman's sake, but woman for the man's sake Therefore the woman ought to have a symbol of authority on her head, because of the angels. However, in the Lord neither is woman independent of man, nor is man independent of woman. For as the woman originates from the man, so also the man has his birth through the woman, and all things originate from God. So there's two strains of thought here in Paul as he's referencing the original creation. There's the one strain of thought where Yes, um God made man first, and he made woman second. He made woman from man, so woman's derived from man, um, and woman was made to be uh man's helper So that is true, right? But there's also this other strain of thought, which is um interdependence. Neither one is inter is is independent of the other Man is not independent of woman because man is born through woman. Woman is not independent of man because woman came from man originally. So it's this it's this emphasis even as Paul is looking back on the Genesis account, he sees both the equality and the difference, right? He sees both the interdependence and the relationship of headship and and um helpership. So I think that would be how I would respond to somebody who brings up that thing. Like the mode the fact that the mode in which God created Eve is different from the mode which God created uh Adam is not to show inferiority, it's to show interdependence. Um and then for the you know the one flesh thing, uh You know, I'd say that's a that's a place where you have to you have to get straight like your your principles of exegesis Um, like, how do you actually draw meaning out of a text? Do you do you read a text and do you just like let your mind fill in whatever meaning you want from it? Because who would read a text that says um they shall be joined together and and become one flesh and say, Oh, that's an unequal union? You know, that's seventy-five percent of one and twenty-five percent of the other. Yeah, it's technically possible, but it's clearly not what the text is saying. You know, the simplest reading of that text is that two equal parts are being joined into one unity. So so that's an exegetical question. That's a question of how you handle scripture properly. Have you guys heard any other like objections or you know supposedly scriptural objections to male-female equality. And we're talking equality of essence here, right? Not uh not sameness. Which we'll we'll get to differences in a second. Alright, let's uh Let's move on to differences then I think. Because there is this this profound equality that's very clearly present in Genesis one and two and God's original design. But there's also this very profound complementarity, these differences that uh that match up with one another in men and women, and this is evident in God's design as well here. And so I've identified sort of three major subheadings of these differences here. We're at the bottom of page one of the outline again Uh so we have different callings. Men and women have different callings. We're called to different ideals, different um responsibilities as men and women. And we see this um in a couple of ways. Uh so so basically the me the calling for men uh that we see even in God's original design is that men are called to be servant leaders. Servant leadership. That's that's the the phrase I want you to think of when you think of a man. Like that is what we are supposed to be as men. Uh women, this is what you're supposed to look for in a man. Uh a servant leader, one who leads but but for the good of another So and we see this in a couple of ways. Uh first of all, God did create Adam first, and we see, you know, Paul puts some weight on that fact uh in later in the New Testament that God created Adam first. Um so that implies uh a sort of headship and and representational role that Adam has uh over over the human race Second of all, Adam named his wife. Right? So this is uh remember we just read in Genesis 2 that um God said, let's find a helper corresponding to Adam, and he created all the a animals and brought them before Adam. And what did Adam do with the animals? He named them, right? He named them. And um it's think that's significant because earlier in in Genesis 1, God had given Adam authority over the animals, and and so naming them was kind of an expression of his benevolent rule and authority over them. And he also named his wife. Now I am not at all and a scripture is not at all implying that women are uh a different species or like an animal or whatever. That's not the implication here. Because this ca he name Adam names her in the context of saying, at last this is bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh, right? So the context is clearly equality of essence. And yet the naming there implies a level of benevolent authority that Adam has over Eve. So the naming, there's also teaching that goes on. And this is not explicit in Genesis 1 and 2, but you we can infer it from Genesis 2. 16 and Genesis 3, 2, and 3. So in Genesis 2. 16, um God gives Adam the command. What what command does he give? Not to eat Yeah, the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Right? So that that's that's the one tree that they can't eat from. And he gives that command to Adam before Eve was even created. Right, so that uh Eve was not around to hear that command. Um however in Genesis 3 We see the serpent coming along, and the serpent comes and tempts Eve and says, Did God really say that you can't eat of any tree in the garden? And Eve says, No, just the the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. We can't touch it. And so she knows the command somehow, right? So we can infer that Adam was there teaching and instructing her in God's commands. that God had given him before creating Eve. So Adam had that that teaching role over his wife even uh before the fall that that sort of teaching authority was not a consequence of sin. It was part of God's design. We also see that God dealt with Adam as the representative of the human race. Um even when both he and his wife had sinned. So in Genesis three, eight through eleven, after Adam and Eve had both eaten the fruit. Um Adam I mean Eve Eve was tempted, Eve ate first, then gave some to her husband, and he ate too. Uh so they had both sinned, they were they both realized they were naked Uh they heard God walking in the garden and they hid because because they were afraid. And God called out, and who did he call for? He called the man, yes. He called for Adam. He called for Adam. Why? Yeah, because Adam was the leader, right? He he was holding Adam accountable as the representative over his family, his household. um and even the entire human race at that point. So uh it is significant that God dealt with Adam as the representative. uh because it it implies male headship in God's design. So uh these are all pieces of evidence that um that male headship, male servant leadership is present in God's original design before sin. Right? And we see we see that Adam's leadership here before the fall is not harsh and unloving. You know, he's he's um He rejoices in the equality of his wife with him, right? Bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. He clearly clearly cares for his wife and is teaching her to obey God's commands. So this is not a dominating authority, this is a servant leadership. So John Piper summarizes it this way. In uh a book called Recovering Biblical Manhood and Womanhood. Now this is a compilation of of chapters that were all written by different evangelical scholars and I would highly recommend this book to you all. You can actually download it for free. Uh if you look on the last page of these notes, uh there's a link for where you can go and download Recovering Biblical Manhood and Womanhood for free. I would definitely recommend that you all go and just read the first chapter The first chapter is written by John Piper and it just sets out this vision of what biblical manhood and womanhood can look like and should look like. And his goal in that first chapter is not so much to argue that this is what Scripture teaches, although he he does draw it from Scripture, but to say Look, this can be beautiful, right? The relationship that God designed between men and women can be a beautiful thing. And I would I would really encourage you to read it. Um But he here's how he summarizes masculinity in that chapter. Uh this is bullet E here at the top of page two. At the heart of mature masculinity is a sense of benevolent responsibility to lead provide for and protect women in ways appropriate to a man's differing relationships. Okay, so this he's talking about the the heart attitudes of mature masculinity. And he says it's a benevolent responsibility, right? It's for it's for the good of women, it's for the good of other people. It's not a self aggrandizing or authoritarian uh attitude. And it's a responsibility, not a right. Uh you know, mature masculinity does not assert its dominance and um right to to make decisions. Uh but It takes on um the responsibility to lead, protect and provide for women as a charge, as a solemn duty. Um and this leadership, this protection and this provision is is sacrificial. It's servant leadership. It's uh not it is neither dominating nor is it passive So that's that's God's design for man. Um and you know we could probably spend like an entire uh quarter on talking about God's design for man and woman. But I want to pause here and take any questions about God's design for man before before we finish with God's design for woman. What does dominant look like? What does dominance look like? Um so dominance I would say would look like um In in the extreme case, physical abuse, uh, you know, a man using his physical strength to to control and hurt uh his wife or or a woman. Uh Because you know, he's using something, hid the the strength that God has given him in order to um not to protect and provide for and lead, but in order to selfishly take something and hurt hurt a woman. Uh so that's the extreme case is is abuse. But I think dominance there's a s a spectrum of of sinful dominance on on the part of men. Men can be sinfully dominant when we um insist on our own way, when we we sort of seize our our prerogative as leaders in the home to say, well it's my way or the highway. Uh you know, I'm not gonna I'm not gonna take your opinion into account. Um I think there's Uh y there there's a whole spectrum. There's myriad ways in which in which dominance can show up uh in men. And I think a lot of times, men, we don't realize that we're being domineering. You know, because we we don't realize um how we are using our positions of either physical strength or um uh or or sort of implied leadership and initiative selfishly. Um what am I thinking of? I guess like you know, when when when you're dating, uh if you if you as a man approach a dating relationship as as just two equals kinda having fun. Um and you know, you you get uh sort of in the heat of the moment and let things go too far, right. That is you not guarding uh the woman who you are who you are dating. And we're gonna talk a lot more about dating in you know in a future future lesson. But um you know, it's easy for men to to sort of be selfish by giving up or abdicating a responsibility to lead with the woman's best interests in mind. Um and we we probably wouldn't think of that as as a dominating thing, but it is certainly a selfish thing because we have a responsibility to use our strengths to to protect women. Um response to E I know um from the past question to Um it's like the so-called progressive feminism movement doesn't make sense because feminism itself is promised by the other work Um but I've heard often in arguments that the the fact that like this inherent truth and they just they call it truth, which is ironic that say, you know, women need this protections, leadership, and fear from it. That itself suggests that women, A, can't protect themselves, B can't lead themselves, to can't look after themselves and then they point to the obvious facts like well look there's strong female leadership and like there's single moms who obviously some of them have great outcomes with their children so like how can you say like this isn't inherent truth if there's not examples of women to justify by themselves and not fan. Uh huh. Or like I or they'll like point to the obvious truth and issue in our in the world that yeah there are men who fail to um biblically uphold this responsibility of getting resolved in uh single parents uh homes and whatnot, they like they're like, oh look, even the man can't even fulfill these things. Like, why should we female us have to abide by yada yada yada. If man can't be trusted and we have to trust ourselves. Yeah, so there's that's uh great to bring out there's this sort of bundle of objections that come from um yeah, from either egalitarian Christians who kind of have have a a a feminist bent or either from the um the feminist camp in the world. Uh and yeah, I guess I would pull two specific objections out of what you just said. Um number one, isn't it inherently sexist to say that that women are um let's see in need of protection, uh in need of provision. Um and I would say no, it is not inherently sexist to say that. Uh saying that For example, recognizing that in general, on average, men are physically stronger than women. That is the average man is is physically stronger than the average woman. I know there are some women who can who could beat me up, that's fine. But in general saying that there's that d difference in strength does not imply anything about superiority or inferiority, right? Because um you know, women are stronger in some ways than men, uh not physically, but you know, certainly in general relationally, uh, that they're uh women are are better at creating and maintaining relationships than men are. Um You know, and so there's all these different ways there's so many different axes on which we could measure strengths and weaknesses, so many different columns, or so many different rows in which we could place uh strength in a male column or strength in a female column that, you know, it's almost impossible to just to say to make like blanket statements. Um You know, actually Piper deals with this in in chapter one of of uh recovering biblical manhood and womanhood, uh and I wish that I had um could quote his response, but I would encourage you to go read it. Uh but anyway, the the point is that um yep, men are stronger in some ways, women are stronger in other ways. the the differences do not imply anything about inferiority or superiority. Um and I think you know the burden is on the the feminists and the egalitarians to to demonstrate that it actually does, right? That that you should take a difference and interpret it as inferiority or superiority Um, because they haven't proven that. They haven't shown that. Um the the second objection that I would that I would sort of pull out of w what you said is um Men don't do a good job in our fallen world of protecting, providing for, and leading women. And and Some women, even a lot of women, rise to that challenge of leading, protecting, and providing for their families without a man around. Uh That is true. It is true that a lot of men fail to be mature men, and it's true that a lot of women have to step in to masculine roles. that does not make it good. Uh that does not make it um right. And Piper also deals with this and in his first chapter. He says he tells a great story. He opens with a story of his mother and father growing up and he says, you know, I saw my mom. Uh Z first of all he says, My dad was a was an itinerant pastor. You know, he was traveling all around preaching and so he was gone a lot. So his mother, John Piper's mother, had to do a lot of the work around the house. And he said, you know I grew up seeing my mother as a strong woman. You know, she was strong enough to like w lift wheelbarrows of dirt and um you know, put up a fence and and clean the entire house and take care of everything on her own. And But when my dad was home, she rejoiced that the leader was back, you know, she she shouldered the burden Um, but she was so glad uh to be back under her husband's leadership and protection and provision. And when he came back into the house, you know, like it was clear that he that he was the benevolent leader You know, he would take the family out and choose what table to sit at and he would call the waitress over to pay the check and you know, like the these were the times when his mother was happiest even though she had to exercise that strength and take over a lot of the um manly responsibilities when her husband was gone. So I guess in response to that objection, I would say that, yes, sin has distorted um God's design and made it harder to live out God's design and ha and has made it necessary in some cases for women to take on these roles that should be for men. But sin does not invalidate the beauty of God's design. God's design is still infinitely more beautiful than anything the world could come up with, including feminism Yeah, so definitely read that first chapter. It's it's really good. It touches on a lot of these things. Well, you know, I don't know that we'll actually have time to get to um God's design for women yet today, because I do want to reserve some time to uh to pray together.