Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your blessing, for your grace, your mercy. Thank you for this beautiful day. Thank you for the warm weather. It's chilly in Indiana. Lord, uh thank you, Lord, for the time we got to visit, uh see our grandbaby and um uh what fun it is to uh uh uh just see the joy and the uh the innocence and the the the life of a a a young child, uh an infant. Um And also, Lord, uh blessing to be able to go home and let the parents take care of. Lord, uh, we do thank you. Uh we ask you to lift up this time. Um Let us consider the uh scripture we will go through. Uh let us discern. Uh let us uh be uh uh taught and and to remember context is everything in your word. Uh uh n not to take verses out of out of context or just in isolation, Lord. Oftentimes w we don't realize um uh w what your true uh primary meaning is in in your word. We thank you for your word, Lord. We thank you, Lord, that we believe in it that w that uh we accept it, that our eyes have been opened to it, that we have understanding because of your spirit, um which we're are going to be talking about today, your spirit, the illumination you give us, Lord, that Uh in First John he says, we don't need anybody to teach us. We have the Holy Spirit inside uh to help us, to guide us So we thank you for that gift. Lord, we lift up this time. We uh just lift it all up to you. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. All right, so uh we started this. Well not really, but we just opened up the door last week. So we're talking about uh Following the obedience of God. I put up that little um and I think a lot of you didn't get it. Um See if I can find anything new right. Well, throw that one away. Just away? Yeah. A little bit. Anyway, you see a circle, another circle, and a down. And I don't think I fully explain this. Because I'll refer to this right in the beginning part of the this this is the world. This is God's revealed will to us, right? Um you know, God hates divorce. God uh don't don't murder. Uh love your neighbor, right? The the command that we get. It's not a secret, it's not We and we can we talk about this. It's not a secretive will, the things that are revealed to us, the things that God is sovereign, he's in control of all things But we don't know what that plan is. It's not revealed to us. We kind of discover it. This dot is what we are going to kind of work with today. This is what Um Freeson says it's that individual will. It's that God has spoken to me. You ever had somebody say that to me? I just felt like God spoke to me. This is what he wants me to do. Um the Holy Spirit. You know, I've I heard a bo it's that individual, specific will for God. And um A Q people can use it for mundane things. Um when I say mundane, you know, which car should I buy? I felt I felt really good about buying this car. Um What we're going to do is we're going to say, you know, we we don't buy into that. God has given us really wisdom. You want to know what car to buy? Research it. Find out. There's a lot of people tell you which cars will last, which ones don't, especially now Uh back when I first I was um I was an auto mechanic. I opened up my own shop eventually. Um but back in the day when I first got into it There really wasn't good information out there, you know, but now you have uh groups that uh uh inform you, you know Uh the longevity of this car was really good. This car, it breaks. Um That's wisdom, okay? But then I just wanted to point that out because the next what we're doing now is The Holy Spirit talked to me. I've got a uh I've been led by the Holy Spirit. We talk about that. Okay, so so we're gonna unpack that today. What does that mean to be led by the Holy Spirit? It's and obviously you you you know we're not gonna talk about it's not God's Holy Spirit gave you Uh he does convict us of things. We do feel guilt w when when we uh trespass his law, but it's not specific Leading, guiding, I got a premonition from God kind of a thing. Um so let's get into it So Friesen spent several chapters in his book discussing the belief that God has a specific will for each individual and is to our benefit to discern what that will is. Friesen categorized this decision making process for this view as follows. And this is what he's saying. He's saying this is what people believe. I d Frieson does not accept this. He says uh he thinks it's erroneous So the premise for this kind of belief is each uh for each of our decisions, God has a perfect plan of will. And in fact he probably does, but we don't know it necessarily, right? You use logic, you go into things, and then um Yeah, sometimes you you you you deal with what's what's there in front of you. We don't know uh specifically. The purpose, the goal of a believer is to s to discover God's individual will. find the dot, which is okay, which is that diagram I showed you, to make decisions in accordance with it So in other words, God has this perfect husband, wife for you and you have to discern if it's the one and you know you see people you ever see people get locked up with decision sometimes It's like sometimes decisions are kind of like close, aren't they? They're not against God's will. I mean I could choose this or I could choose this. Choose one of 'em. You know? I if if you know it doesn't violate God's thing. I think people sometimes get locked up. Well, is this the right thing? You know? And again I I get it. Let's face it, we all have different personalities. Um I confess I I'm one of those let's jump in and see what it is. Okay, there's others that like they want to know all the facts, and that's good too. But at the end of the day Okay, choose it. Whatever you're gonna do. Do something. Sometimes people can get uh what is it analysis, paralysis? You ever heard that term thrown out there? You know, it's like, okay, move forward. You you've done the research. Process. The believer interprets inner impressions and outward signs, which the Holy Spirit uses to communicate God's individual will. It's i it's a feeling, it's impressions, it's it's outward signs, it's the Holy Spirit. He communicates with my with my will So what is a proof of that? The confirmation that one has correctly discerned the individual will of God comes from an inner sense a peace or an outward successful result uh for the decision that's made. And that's what we're going to kind of look at. One of the things we are going to look at is the peace of God. Okay? We're going to look at those scriptures And I want to kind of move so we go through them because I think I've worked them through. And if you have questions, please jump in. Let's wrestle with it. Uh the belief that God has a specific will that you must discern can only be determined by subjective knowledge. It's subjective. We're, you know Y you can't qualify it or quantify it. The seeker uh of this guidance is denied an objective source uh for verifying that they have discovered God's specific will in that situation. The method of discerning God's will must be abandoned for minor decisions in everyday life because um uh there are not enough hours in the day to seek his guidance. And and I put in here when I thought about that, it's we we do want God's guidance, but I I put in parentheses, specific will for my life in all things, right? Uh, you know, what is the will? I have to wait for a for a feeling, for an omen from God God's given us a brain and and a logic and he's given us his word. You want wisdom? Read through Proverbs Uh and it takes work, he says, look search for wisdom like silver or gold. Uh you know, it it takes effort Right? You have to dig for silver and gold. You don't just find it anywhere. Um and I I have to be careful. Laura and I were were Well before we were saved, I don't know. We just had this we had c conservative kind of logical views. We oftentimes looked at the people like, don't they see the logic? Have they thought through the process of this? And it dawned on me Okay, before I saved, this was a gift from God. You know, I can't take credit for this. God's wired us with with with different uh attributes. Some people just um don't think through things. Uh they don't I I like to take things apart and say, okay, what's gonna happen if I do this? And I did this before I was saved. So it had to be from God, right? I mean it's it's again we have different personalities. Those who believe that finding God's exact personal will for their life look to the leading of the Holy Spirit, a text that is often used to look for God's specific guidance. for their life and and decisions is Romans 8. 14. So why don't we turn there? Because I'm going to be jumping around and I'll refer to some of these. You can look in your text. Okay? Say 14. For all who are being led by the Spirit of God, these are the sons of God. Okay? Well, some will use this as a proof text that the Holy Spirit will guide believers by an inner impression into the ideal will of God for their life. So what we're going to do is we're going to look at the context here. So the context of this passage does not allow for such an interpretation. There's no indication that this passage is addressing daily decision making. This passage mentions nothing about inward impression for decision making, nor does it Nor does the immediate context speak of such a uh an impression. There is also no indication that the leading by the Holy Spirit is referring to guidance for the individual will for each believer. So Paul is not addressing the individual will of God. Rather he's teaching on a righteous living Freeson points out a series of contrasts. Okay, so uh from Romans 7 to 8. They don't turn to Romans seven, but I'll read you the passage. We're we're pr we're pretty much gonna be in eight. Um course seven's only a page away, right? For the good that I want to do, I do not do, but I practice the very evil I do not want. Alright? So this is good versus evil. Now we're looking at contrast here, right? The good that he wants to do, he doesn't do. He practices the evil he doesn't want to do. Right? The good I want, so it's good versus evil. We're going to look at all these contrasts. The law of sin and death versus the law of spirit and life. Look at Romans 8. 2. For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set you free from the law of sin and death. Okay? He's showing us uh and again remember he's talking he's talking to believers now, right? So this is our position. This is who we are in Christ. We may not feel it, think it, believe it, know it, but this is our position, and that's what he's telling us. So these are the contrasts. Life according to the flesh versus life according to the spirit. For those who are according to the flesh, set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who are according to the Spirit, the things of the Spirit. Romans 8. 5 Okay, being hostile to God versus pleasing God, right? Uh we're looking at uh we're gonna read a passage uh eight uh six and seven For the mindset on the flesh is death, the mindset on the spirit is life and peace. Because the mindset on the flesh is hostile towards God, for it does not subject itself to the law of God. For it is not even able to do so. So the one is not able to do so. What kind of person is that? What's that? A non-believer or a gre greedy, you know, person who's just obsessed with um things that we can obtain in the physical world. Because he's not even able to do so. Okay. Um right? So that's that's you know, it's a constant. Yes, we do fluctuate back and forth, and that and that's what we've been kinda talking about, will of God. We're we're looking at this. Um and we're gonna s we're gonna see that as we move on in in this particular set of notes. Uh but yeah, it's a non-believer versus uh and again it's his position it's his again uh I think next week if I can put it together I kinda wanna do a overview and it's a lot of of Romans 5, 6, 7, and 8. Because it's an overview. It's the big points. We get lost in the woods on on Romans when we get into the detail and sometimes we miss the big picture. Uh but I that I that's my hope. Hopefully I can put it put it together. So it I uh if it makes some sense. Um if not we'll we'll look at the uh we'll start to transition pr and do the pursuit of holiness So being saved versus unsaved, right? However, you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. If indeed the spirit of God dwells in you. But if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he does not belong to him. Again, we uh W we go over this all the time when I do baptism class and I'll ask 'em a lot of times, you've been raising the church. I say, Well what do you have if you're saved? What's the one thing you have? What is the one thing you have once you're saved? He has a spirit. You don't have the spirit, you're not saved. I don't care what you profess, what you say. Right? And because a lot of people believe they're saved. They've been raised in a church. They go, Yeah, I believe that. But it's not a saving faith, is it? No. But they do believe it. Uh you know, we we take them to a passage in uh in Acts. Um uh I can't I'm kinda drawing a blank. I think it's Simon who's so many of these common names. The magician or Philip goes up up there. And he's witnessing to these people and this magician, this guy's a sorcerer is what he is, and he believes He believes Philip. He sees these these signs going on. But as you read through the chapter, you find out he's not really safe. Because when Peter shows up he goes, Yeah, let me buy this this thing you do. Peter goes, No, you you you know, y you're you're Tells him basically you're an unbeliever. But I honestly think is Simon thought he believed. He believed in what he saw. And that's what you have to differentiate. If you don't have the Spirit, it's not it's not a it's not a salvation from God. It's not faith in God. The final contrast in the context is 814. And 814 is living according to the flesh versus putting to death the deeds of the flesh. For if you are living according to the flesh, you must die. But if by the Spirit you are putting to death the deeds of the body, you will live. This passage has nothing to do with individual decision making. It's speaking of doing the moral will of God. You see that v uh uh uh in in all through this this section All right, the leading of the Spirit is by God is not an emotional feeling impressed upon the believer to direct the decision making. Rather, it's describing what life and the Spirit would do in making moral decisions according to the Word of God. As in 813, we are putting to death the immoral deeds of the flesh and pursuing the righteous deeds commanded by Scripture. It's only possible uh through the power of the Holy Spirit. But we were slaves, we were slaves to sin How the Holy Spirit guides us is not revealed in this passage. The goal of the leading is putting to death the sinful deeds of the flesh, obeying the moral will of God. Uh Romans eight four. So by the requirement of the law, uh excuse me. So that the requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the spirit. Yeah, uh this is Griffith Thomas. This uh uh it's got a great little uh exposition on Romans. According to the Spirit, verse 4, shows that the very Spirit who gives life is also the standard according to which the life is lived. And thus, day by day and moment by moment, the Christian is enabled to live by principles as taught and led by the Holy Spirit. So let's stop for a minute. So we are putting to death the deeds of the flesh. How are we doing it? By the spirit. It's easy to move through that. It's a and see, we're we've been wrestling with this kind of throughout. Um, you know, what is law, what is walking by the spirit. And The thought that was coming to me as I was meditating on this was um the law is Trying to put the and we see this a lot of times in counseling when guys are trying to actually uh quit the thing that they're ins they're uh enslaved to and bondage to Uh and they're trying to do it, you know. It's like, okay, I'm sick and tired of this. I want to stop. Right? I mean that's what happens. I mean, really, when you get sick and tired of something is when you're when you're gonna move Right? 'Cause we talk about that too and and the Bible talks about it. We tell 'em scripturally. We are double-minded. We are. It's kind of like, well, you know, I I do want to do uh you know all God's will, but I kinda like this over here, you know what I mean? And you're trying to bring it along with you. And you're double minded. You're trying to you're trying to do both. They have to get sick and tired of it, but they're trying to do it in the will. I'll stop, I'll stop, I'll stop. But here's the thing. We don't understand sin. We've been we've And this is why I want to go through Romans, Romans 5. We we inherited That sin nature from Adam, right? We didn't sin the way Adam sinned. We inherit, that's our nature. We gotta understand that. That's that nature, that flesh, that old man. Put off the old man, you see. And really, we're not commanded to put off the old man. That happened the moment we were saved Okay? That's what happened. We died. We were baptized with Christ into his death. We died spiritually. But if you're trying to do it by just saying, I'm not gonna do this anymore, it's not gonna work. So how do you walk you gotta walk how do you walk by the Spirit? You put to death the deeds of the flesh by the Spirit. It's a relationship. If you go with a law, it won't work. That's what he said. That's what he says in Romans 7. Right? He tells them he died to the law and he gives them that marriage thing. And a lot of them take oh this is a thing on marriage. No, he's teaching them about the law. That woman is free when her husband dies. You have died to sin. You can't do it by the law You have to seek the Spirit. And the problem is, and that's why you see churches when they start to get real rule-oriented, they're sneaking back into the law. It won't work. Those of you who were here, you saw that that video, and I've given you the link. If you go back to those notes, I gave you the link to that right underneath the title. on that message. Uh it was when uh John Street, the video we saw, gave you the link to that. There's a lot in there. I've looked at that several times and it's just He gives you a lot and you if you think about it. You're we're we have to change the heart. The heart is the head. It's it's directing the body. You can't you have to change the heart. If you're trying to deal with the law, it's all external, which is what John was saying. I don't want guys to stop drinking Oh I do. But if you and AA, NA and these other things can get these guys to stop drinking. But they're usually angry. They they have all the same heart characteristics as when they went into it. The things that caused them to drink. Drinking's just it's uh they have a term for it, gear to your choice of medication. You know, uh drugs. Different people do different drugs. It's their choice of medications what it is. Some people are hyper and they love marijuana. It it flattens their brain out Other people are laid back and they like rocket fuel, cocaine and amphetamine, stuff like that. The point is you need to change your heart, your desire. And that's what happens when we get the Spirit. If you're going to put to death the deeds of the Spirit, if you want to change your heart and look W I'm talking the major things which are easy to see, alcoholism, drugs, this and that. It's but you know, once you stop that, then you realize, oh I got anger problem. Oh, I'm impatient. Oh, I'm not loving. Oh. And that's the thing we're dealing with here, right? O level. I'm not really loving I love to be loved, right? That's pride. That's that's I'm loving to get something in return. Um So does that make any sense? That little sidetrack I just took? Mm-hmm. Did I re Yeah, I did read you this. Did I read you this? No. Huh? I did. Yeah, yeah, you didn't read it. You got you got your Holy Spirit number six. So again, these are I've given you the notes. Uh Griffith Thomas and some of these other guys, I mean he says a lot in a short amount You really have to think about it. Read some of these things. Go over them. I gave you the notes Everybody who's in here is registered. You can get the notes on the file. You should be in your hopebook. You can go down the Will of God. You can go into there. It'll bring you to that page. You'll have files. Click on files. I have to find out. For some reason they changed something and I'm having trouble loading this one up. I d I don't know what I'll talk to Karen about it, but I'll get it loaded Romans 8. 13. Paul is giving the reader the process by which life in the Spirit is to be lived. That is putting to death the deeds of the flesh. The believer is not in the flesh But the flesh is in him. Right? That's what we're putting off. We're putting off these old nature habits. We have a choice now. Before we did not. By the Spirit. So we'll get to this. It's prayer and supplication. You n you need to be talking to God. Um where'd I leave off? The sons of God are those who are are Or the uh, let's see. The sons of God are those who by the Spirit of God put to death the deeds of the flesh, right? Romans 8, 15, and 16. This is another verse people use who believe for an individual will. But you have not received a spirit of slavery leading to fear again But you have received a spirit of adoption as sons, by which we cry out, Abba Father. The Spirit Himself testifies with our Spirit we are children of God. So Paul is writing about our position in Christ by way of salvation. When we become God's children by regeneration is referring to relationship in union with our new nature. in Christ. When the Spirit speaks of adoption, it is referring to our position and privileges. Thus regeneration Concerns our nature, our condition, whereas adoption concerns our position and privileges. Okay, regeneration. Moment we're saved Read Ephesians 1. You got a whole list right there in chapter 1, 3 through 14. This is who you are. Immediately. Right. Immediately, right out of the box. When we realize, and this is why we we we study the scriptures, we understand who we are, this is our position and privileges A lot of times we don't realize what we have. And that's why w you you study the scripture You can be saved, but you you you can also be again we talked about this. I mean your maturity level is just it's gonna grow As you learn, understand, but also as we walk and practice it, that's when you really start to comprehend some of this stuff. You gotta test it out In verse 16, Paul writes that the Spirit testifies with our Spirit that we are children of God. The Spirit testifies with our Spirit, not to our Spirit. The Spirit testifies to God, the Father, alongside of our testimony that we are children of God. Galatians 4, 6, because you are sons of God, God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, crying, Ah the Father. It's i again, uh um I told you this before, a lot of commentaries. Um they say uh Galatians is a little Romans. There's there's a lot of overlap between Romans and Galatians This is the same as Romans 8. 16, where the Spirit who dwells in the believer is the one crying out to God on our behalf. Excuse me. Thomas writes, it is one of those absolute facts of the Christian position which are independent of our particular emotions Or sentiments at any given moment, and as such, it constitutes one of the most precious reality and assurances of our relationship to God Freyson writes that our crying out to God as Abba Father is the result of the Spirit taking the objective word of God and convicting our inner spirit that the word is true. So what he's saying there in that passage is a lot of times, and I thought this for a while, that God's convicting me I'm a child of God. Really what he's saying there is that the Spirit is crying out to the Father that we are children of God on our behalf. It's pretty cool, isn't it? Yeah. Because sometimes he may look at And say, is that one of my children? You sure? No. That's that's me. But y The the Spirit is crying out on our behalf. This is a child of God. It's incomprehensible. We don't really comprehend that. But this is what God's doing for us. Galatians 5. 18 is another text used for those who advocate seeking a mystical guidance, the Holy Spirit, to discern light choices. The context of the passages does not speak of the internal leading of the Spirit. So go ahead and go to Galatians 5, and you can kind of look at this. I have it here, but it's always good to Again, notice the ki wa we did this in Romans and look at the context here. What's this what's What's the issue he's dealing with? What's the pri there are there's a primary message in Scripture. There's uh there's many applications Uh uh you have to be careful about the application. But but what is the primary issue he's dealing with? Always go with the context. Um for you were called the um To freedom, brethren. Only do not turn your freedom into an opportunity for the flesh, but through love, serve one another. For the whole law is fulfilled in one word, in the statement, You shall love the Lord, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. But if you bite and devour one another, take care that you are not consumed by one another. But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not carry out the desire of the flesh. For the flesh sets its desire against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh. For these are in opposition to one another, so that you may not do the things that you please. But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. And verse 18 is the verse someone will take and say, oh yeah, well I'm being led by the Spirit I know guys should do this because the spirit's leading me. In verse 13, we read that the Galatians are being reminded of their freedom from the law But not to use the freedom to fulfill the desires of the flesh, right? But to unselfishly love one another. Verse 14 declares the law of God is fulfilled when love for others is demonstrated. Verse 15 warns about being consumed by each other as we rule over each other for our own selfish desi uh gain or desire desires. 16. The solution to the desire of the flesh to walk by the Spirit, the battle between the flesh and the spirit is stated. Believers must realize that although they have been saved and are indwelt by the Spirit of God, there remains an old nature which seeks to satisfy itself. The phrase, so that you may not do the things that you please, right? Harkens back to Romans 7. 15. where Paul confessed that he was not able to obey the law by his own means under the law. Again, Galatians 5. 18. But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. You are free from the law, no longer a slave to sin, for you have died to sin. Romans 6 This is the same message as in Romans 6 through 8, where Paul is revealing the new position of the person in Christ. True believers, right? They are no longer slaves to sin, slaves to sin under the law, the Holy Spirit now residing in us. convicts us of sin and also enables the believer to resist the desires of the flesh and walk in accordance to God's commands Being led by the Spirit is not a text to be used for individuals to seek inner guidance for what car to buy or job you should seek. Again, we know the parameters for that, especially for a job. Is this am I going to have to compromise God in this job? And let's face it, that's probably in a world system One of the things we have all the time is a compromise. If you're in a a well it can be all kinds of compromises. You work for uh an institution. Uh my son worked for uh a uh grocery store and they want him to wear a gay pride thing during the gay pride month Um he was fined every month because he wouldn't get a COVID shot. Um yeah, and then there's there's uh businesses to make money. Um Again, I will work in the automotive business. Uh there was, you know, sales, sales, sales. What are your numbers? Are, you know, uh profit and loss. Uh and and of course there's pressure to to succumb to those kinds of things. Uh there's all kinds of pressures that We know that and those are the difficulties we have to f to follow this life in in a world that's flowing, right? That's what he gives us wisdom for. But there's you know uh in this case what he's talking about is really He's talking about their relationship with one another, isn't he? If you seek and devour. I I didn't save you guys and put you in a church uh to devour one another. Um we have to recognize we still have that that We see it in church. We sa I mean, you know, it is frustrating. We go, ah, I'm in church. I didn't expect that. Um you know, but but it's It's okay, that's that's what we're trying to that's what we're trying to mature to, to become godly. Uh we have to recognize that that sin that is is powerful. Uh uh you know, and he says in Romans, look w if you sin you're you're a slave to whatever i if you give your members over uh to the flesh, you're a slave to that. Right? We become slaves to righteousness. Uh and and that's kind of why to why I want to pick through Romans, because there's these big themes in there that we often miss by going through all the details. We get lost in the woods. John s uh six, uh sixteen, excuse me, twelve through fourteen This passage is often to use to support the belief that God leads believers and the inner man to all areas of life. Therefore, we should be diligent to listen and follow the inner leading of the Spirit. I have many more things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now. But when he, the Spirit of truth, comes, he will guide you into all the truth. For he will not speak of his own initiative, but whatever he hears, he will speak, and he will disclose to you what is to come. He will glorify me and he will take a mine and he will disclose it to you. So the phrase he will guide you into all truth is seen as that encompassing thing. You know, I heard from God, I know w well you know exactly what to do, right? Um again, I think this is kind of laziness sometimes on our part. uh not to gain wisdom and to do the work and and uh discern. Uh uh God has given us that will The phrase, He will guide you into all truth, is seen as encompassing all knowledge. If that were the case, the Spirit would be seen as leading each believer in making decisions not specific to in Scripture. Think about that. It means all knowledge, all truth, right? Not just scripture. Jesus was speaking to his disciples, and the truth he is speaking about must be the spiritual truth. Uh no one believes that the Spirit leads believers into all truth, math, science, etc. Right? We don't um we don't we don't have that guidance. Um The promise was made to the apostles. The Spirit would bring to mind what Jesus has taught and may have pointed to the revelation that they were to receive in writing scripture, right? He could be talking to that. I'm going to lead you into all truth. Remember, the Bible, New Testament, is yet to be written. There is no hint that uh Jesus is referring to an inner impression for guidance for believers in decision making. The application for believers is that the Spirit illumines the Scriptures and guides us into the truth. The Word of God is revealed. And I have that that's uh first John 2. 27, you don't need anybody to teach you. You have the Spirit residing in you Um and it's illumination. Remember the natural man cannot see this stuff. He doesn't understand it. He can't understand it How we doing peace and fi. Alright, guidance in and peace, right? Some people say, well, I felt a peace about it And making difficult decisions. Uh it is wise to pray and seek God's will before deciding what choice to make. Many believe that God will give them a settled inner peace which will guide us in making a correct decision Uh since peace is one of the uh fruits of the Spirit, some teach that Colossians 3. 15, let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, uh to which indeed you were called in one body and be thankful. There's a Philippians passage 4. 7. Bless you. And the peace of God, which surpasses all comprehensions, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus, right? Philippians 4. 7. These texts are used in decision making. If the Bible still will examine the context of the passages, discern that neither of these texts are referring to decision making. In Colossians chapter 3, Paul exhorts those in Christ to think of things in heaven where Christ is, not on earthly things. Do not walk as you once walked in anger, wrath, malice, abuse of speech. No longer lie to one another. There's verses 8 and 9. Believers have been renewed. There is no longer Jew or Greek circumcision or uncircumcision, barbarian, scythe, slave, freemen, but Christ is all in all and in all. Verse 11. Now believers are to put on a heart of compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness, patience, forgiving each other, and beyond all these to put on love, which is a perfect bond of unity. So, let the peace of Christ ruin your hearts to which indeed you were called in one body and be thankful. So the peace of Christ in this context is referring to inner p not inner peace, but uh for decision making, reminding the um The remainder of the chapter speaks of what it gets into, husbands and wives, husbands love your wives, etc. uh relationships, parents and children relationships, slave and master relation relationships. The the text and specifically verse 15 has nothing to do with individual decision making He's talking about the church. Get along. And reminding them, as you read this, we're convicted, right? You know, as we as we go through those lists real quick, you know, uh y you think of it, you go, Yeah, I was angry. Yeah, I did not speak to that person well uh, you know, etcetera, etc. And then also being reminded, oh yeah, I need to love these people. Uh again It's a it's a moral will. Uh once you decide you want to do it, then you better then that's when you better team up with the Holy Spirit to enable you to undo it. Uh it's both. It is a discipline and our part is I need to be thinking on these things. Uh I'm gonna finish with that if I have time, that Philippians passage. Um I think I can. Uh Philippians uh 4-7, again, it's it's not uh it doesn't concern inner peace that believers can experience as they think and practice. Maybe I better read this Philippians' passage concerns the inner peace that believers can experience as they think and practice with their minds and walk focused on the Lord Jesus Christ. The context and elements listed in the passage concerning the inner peace of God in no way direct towards feelings of peace as it concerns decision making. The peace of God, which surpasses all comprehensions, will guard your hearts and minds. Paul begins in chapter 4 by expressing His love uh and joy in the Philippian believers and how he longed to see them. He dresses uh the dishearten uh There's harmony between uh Urodia and Syndeche and asked them to live in harmony. Remember, he said there's a dispute between them. He asked uh his faithful follower to uh address these two. Uh and both these women were were instrumental in in uh helping form that church. He gives them credit for that Uh in verse four we read the command to rejoice in the Lord always. There is disharmony and opposition. It is opposite of peace and joy. God wants us to have joy in him, uh, but uh we must One is bad enough to obey the commands of the Lord. This begins a list of five traits that a believer needs to obey in the Spirit of the Lord to experience love, joy, peace. Rejoicing is to be the believer's inner response to all experiences life, whether good or bad. So we are to be sad, right, and mourn when tragedy strikes and takes our happiness, but the inner person is to have joy in the midst of trials Again, the believer is to be gentle, which is described as reasonable, forbearing in spirit Friendly in disposition, nonviolent, lacks a mean uh a mean, vengeful spirit Uh, if they have no peace with God, they can have no peace with others. Yeah, it's true. I mean, you know, when you've been wrong, it's it's really hard to get over that, you know Um, I've been wrong. You know, I I need I need to get the right done right. Yeah, and um I may need to help this along. Uh yeah, it just is. You know, y it's hard to let go. Uh again, give it to Christ. It's his. Let him have it. We he tells us that, right? Vengeance is mine. Really it's a relief. Really I I I have this saying in my mind, you know, um and I've said it to people, it's kinda crude, but I said, you know When something like that goes on, I'm going, you know, this is not my problem. This is God's problem. It is. It's his problem. It's not mine. It is Take it. I don't want it. And it's true because it keeps you peace too. You're not, you know, staying on the you know. Right. Oh yeah. Just kind of keeps that peace Yeah. And and we've all we've all played that r record, you know, and it goes over and over. It's like Again you gotta get sick and tired of it. I'm tired of thinking of that. Okay, it's the same thing. I'm done with this. You take it, God. It's your problem. Think about it, it is. That's we're resting on him. Be uh Be alert, the Lord is near. The presence or absence of inner peace uh will be in direct proportion to one's awareness of the presence of Christ. According to a guy, if you you you have the notes, you look at it, it's Robert Grimacki. I I gave you that it just um I gave you the full footnote. Robert Grimacki is a guy he taught at Cedarville, he taught Greek for years. Good guy. It's another one of these guys. He has these small commentaries. Okay? They're short, they're they're concise, they're to the point, but he grasps um spiritual spiritual wisdom and knowledge and and can can give it to you on a a layman practical level, but it's deep Okay, it's not shallow stuff. I recommend them. He's got several of them out there. If you uh Google it, you can find Grimacki, Robert Gromacci. Good, very insightful. He's a good teacher. So do not be anxious or worry about anything. Having a care and concern for things is not a bad habit, right? Paul was concerned. If you look at it, he was worried about the churches, right? You see that in a lot of his letters. Uh he planted churches, he was worried about false teachers and person personality conflicts that would arise. um uh concerns about work, relationships, family. It's a it's a normal part of life, right? But at the same time Use wisdom. What can I do to take care of this? The rest is up to God. That's the hard part. This is all I can do. I can do what I can do and I'm responsible to do what I can do. Uh you know when you're parenting children, I mean, come on, it's like Herding cat sometimes, right? You give 'em your best lecture and I used to say to Laura all the time, said that was a really good lecture. Too bad they didn't get any of it. 'Cause I you could see them man, they were like Their eyes again blank on the listen to me. His mind's out. He's just waiting so we go, Oh, are we done? You're right, I'll do it. Maybe. But in everything by prayer and supplication, thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God. Notice the contrast in this verse brought out in the adversive, but Worrying believer will fret and try to use logic and reasoning in difficult situations, but the person of faith will petition and lean on the Lord by prayer and supplication. This is Grimacchi. Four concepts of prayer are set forth as a divine remedy for a troubled soul. Number one, the requests are specific petitions addressed to God. If a person needs wisdom, he or she should ask for it, right James. Specific petitions. I mean a lot of times we pray, you know, world peace. Which isn't gonna happen, right? Or, you know Blanket, fix this. Try and get specific. Okay, what is it what's troubling me? What Lord, this is what I'm thinking. I know it could be wrong, but this is what I'm thinking. You know, pray specifically. I've heard that from a lot. Um and and I I find myself all the time with these general prayers. Um prayer is a general invocation of God in which believers give their adoration and worship. Okay, you're you're reckoning when you we we really hit with petitions and and uh uh you know honest prayer, okay, we're finally trusting in God. These Yeah, you ever you know, sometimes you pray for a meal or something. It's kinda like, Lord thank you for the meal and I can't wait to start eating. I'm gonna get through this. And it's like, you know, it's that's not a prayer But when you really pray, you're trusty you're at that point, I got nowhere else to go. That's a good place to be. Because that's where God is. You you've got nowhere else to go. Supplication refers to the desperate cry for help arriving from need. Again, it's just said, desperate. I can't fix this. It's your problem, you handle it. All prayers must be accompanied by thanksgiving. Believers must thank God for the answers in advance, for his loving concern, and access into divine presence. through Christ's meritorious work. When believers have joy within, gentleness around, and prayer above, they will experience peace. When believers have joy within, gentleness around, and prayer above, they will experience peace. And that's what he's talking about. Not like, oh, I got a peace about buying that car. Believers have positional peace with God. Romans 5. 1 The moment we are saved, we are enemies. We were enemies of God. Now we are sons of God, right? And that's the peace he's talking about. The peace of God will guard our hearts and minds if we continue to abide. And abide means to remain, right? To stay. If we abide in Christ. We have our position in Christ and we must maintain our practice in Christ. If we are disobedient to God, words and commands, we will not experience inner tranquility. The believer must abide in Christ and allow him to manifest his character through us, all right, through us and through our inner life. And again, when I say there you're you're you're not going to feel an inner thing by the Holy Spirit or anything else, I don't mean to take that in all respects. I'm talk we're talking about for specific decision making. God fortunately does convict us of sin. That's a blessing. Look, before I was saved, look I there was things I would do and yes I knew they were wrong. But there were a lot of things that I said I didn't even know. You know, you you get into the word, into Christ, you're raising the church, you you're really There was things that I r uh I was doing it's like I had no problem with at all. I had no conviction whatsoever. Once you get saved, you have that spirit, you y that's what the sp the spirit convicts you to say, mm, something's not right about this. Right? Kind of pricks your conscience or something. That's a blessing. It's a warning. It's a it's a light on your dash, right? No oil. You're gonna you're gonna burn your engine up. Stop Uh you know warning lights are good. Don't put a piece of tape over the warning lights. Believers have positional peace with God. Uh the moment we are saved, we are enemies to God We are now sons of God. The peace of God will guard your hearts and minds if we continue to abide and remain in Christ. I've read all that, haven't I? The believer must abide in Christ and allow him to manifest his character through us and through our inner life. Finally, Paul, this is the last thing. Right, Paul listed this is in that Philippian passage and we looked at this finally, brethren. Whatever is true Whatever is honorable, whatever is right, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is of good repute, if there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, dwell on these things. These things you have learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. Think about that. And again, I said this before in another class. Um this is where I've read this. Whatever is not true, whatever is not honorable, whatever is not right, whatever is not pure, whatever is not lovely. Whatever is not of good repute, if there is no excellence or anything worthy of praise, don't dwell on these things. And I think you'll find if you listen to that one, you'll catch yourself I boy, I grow on these things. Those thoughts can come, but you have to say, uh, no, I'm not thinking that. One of the key verses in in in Romans and I and I I'll do my best to 'Cause I don't want to butcher it. If I if I say I'm going to give you an overview and I can't sum it up, I mean, you know, it's I I Romans 6, 11. Right? Romans 6. Right? What shall we say? Shall we continue in sin? And grace may increase, may it never be Do you not know you die? Those of you who have been baptized uh into Jesus Christ have been baptized into his death. We're no longer slaves to sin. But then in verse 11 he says, even so, consider yourselves to be dead to sin, but alive to Christ. And that's what we're that's what I'm trying to say here with this. What you've got to cons what we consider on, as a man thinks, so he is, right? Um the whatever proverbs that is. Um Start to start to pay attention to to your thought process. And especially when you when you see those negative ones creeping in there Is that from God? Is God telling you He might convict us of sin, but is He telling you negative things about yourself? Is there anything that's not God So it's the world, and I would say it's a servitory, it's the flesh, our own nature, the world system, it's pounding us And the devil, right? The the author of the world s system, the the god of this world. I find that that that when I'm aware of this, how often I I would would think on this stuff. I go, Stop that you know. They phew, shut it down. And and you know, when I first started doing it you find yourself going with these thoughts longer and longer. But the same thing the guy who's trying to get over uh the thing that's uh um the habit, the the thing that's enslaved to 'em. As y as you you know, th those those temptations come like this. But as you get better, they get stretched out and they get further and further apart because you get better at at putting to death the deeds of the body. So think those thoughts and think on cr and to say, okay, what does God got for me? He wants me to be conformed in his image. I can't imagine that. I'm so far away. I mean really if you're honest, you think, wow, you know I Yeah. That's what God Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this time. Thank you, Lord, for your spirit. Yeah. It has woken us up to uh even consider this stuff. Laura, when I was unsaved, you y uh I and I'm trying to uh relate this to them. I this stuff was not even on my mind at all. Laura, we know what the major uh uh sins are. What we don't know is Just how holy you are. We need that vision, but we need a vision almost, but we're not ready for it. Like Paul w taken up to the heavens. uh or or Isaiah when he when he's in the throne room of of God. John when he saw the the glorified Christ in his vision, uh he sees the holiness And how separate we are from that. Lord, we have been separated from the world. We are commanded to be holy as you are holy. Lord, let us have that vision. But Lord, you you are not condemning us. You you want us to become conformed to the image. You're working with us, Lord. Lord, may we put down this pride, this stubbornness, this disobedience. Lord, may we hear, even though we fail. We we we get up, we do it again. We get up, we do it again. Lord, may we walk in a direction towards that holiness, that light. You rescued us out of that domain of darkness. Let us be reminded of how dark a place it is. We see it in in those who aren't saved in in the the blindness of the world, Lord. Um Lord, we we were born into that, but you rescued us. So Lord, let us l worship you in this next uh uh section lord this next period of time. May we worship you corporately. May we feel the fellowship and and the joy and the praise and the song. May we hear your word and be reminded, Lord, you are such a good God. You are holy and righteous, Lord. Thank you. It's in your name we pray. Amen. The fire of the one pay again.