So so we've been doing the w the will of uh we know we're going the will of God, but we really haven't been been doing that right we we're doing sovereignty free will and so really what I want to do I we we're in a transition so I want to talk to you with you guys about what you got from the first part. Um and especially uh the video I showed last time of What were your thoughts? Any questions? Um the reason and I I've talked about this and I think we'll see this. Because really if you look at your notes, uh you're gonna get a f uh we're gonna be drinking out of a fire hose. It's just full of verses, right? And I don't know about you, but a lot of times I've taken classes over the years, and they're good. You you study them, you do them, and then you move on to the next class. And it's kinda like, well, you know, there was a lot of good stuff there and if I'm not practicing it or doing it I would we could just go through this and read these verses and all, but you know, um so that's why I showed you w what we did because it comes to decision making and and the will and and all that. So any feedback, any thoughts on well what about last week's video? What you think of it? I really liked it. Yeah. What was the big what was the big gist of all that that he was talking about? Yeah. And and really that that's what we're s seeking, right? And God's gotta do it. And we uh before that, the week before that we did compatibility Anybody remember what compatibility is? What are the two tensions we're dealing with with compatibility? I remember well and and God's word. And God's will. Right. His sovereignty, right? So God we saw that God is is Nothing happens that's out of his control. Right? And that's a hard the hard one to swallow right there. We really don't You know, I kind of comprehend it, but you know, let's face it, there's a lot in my life I see where it's it's you know, it's hard to live like that 24-7, right? But so God's in control, but yet yet we have this will. And so we talk about compatibility. Well, how do we choose if God's doing everything? That's always the same thing. So I think the best analogy is the one I've heard is the the kind of the farmer analogy. Right? Where And we I had a little experience with this. When we moved into this property, it was this grape Unfortunately to build in Howard County you have to have three acres. So we got three acres and it's practically full of grass. And so the bottom part was just like scrub and this and that and I I had them cut it down and And and the the guys that were uh kept telling me, you know, really what you need to do if you want a some grass there, you really need to kind of just kill everything, churn it up and replant So I did that and You know, we we did we did the hard work. We had guys that that we had a guy that that that turned it all up for me. Um um And but Laura and I we li I asked the guy, I said, Well man, there's a lot of rocks in there and he goes, sh should I be taking those rocks out? And he goes, Well They grass ain't gonna grow for the rockies. So we work like dolls taking all these rocks out of we we and Well the thing I'm trying to get to is we we did the work. We did we did what we could. We plowed it. Uh I seeded it. Um and I did it during the the all the guys I talked to in the grass industry to go you never see it in the spring because it just it grows up and then it dies But there was no rain in the fall. So I said, I had this one spring that was raining. I said, well, I don't care. I'm gonna plant grass. And and fortunately it rained all summer. I guess the point I'm trying to make is we did the hard work. We planted the grass, but God grew it, right? I I couldn't control that. There's no way you're gonna water that much. You know? You can't. And that's kind of the farm analogy, right? God is sovereign. But he's not gonna plow the field for us, and he's not gonna plant it, he's not gonna fertilize it, he's gonna leave all that stuff up to us. And they think that's the tension with compatibilism But then if it didn't rain, it didn't rain. Right? I'd have had planted all that grass, threw all that grass out there and it wouldn't have grown. So, you know, then you gotta accept what it is. I I uh does this make any sense? Mm-hmm. And this is a hard thing because w we can we can go through all this scripture But if you know, if we don't apply it, if we don't yeah, I had something happen this this past month Monday last Monday when I well yeah, Monday when I uh went up to the jail. Um they there's small groups. They they've made it so that you can only get certain people. Yeah, they all have to go to a chapel. We used to get forty sometimes fifty guys in there I actually like the smaller groups because a lot of the guys were showing up and some of them were different you know, rowdy and they they disrupted the ones that wanted to do learn something. But um anyway there's a few guys And this one guy, man, y you you could tell he when he first came in he goes, this is so and so and and the and he was a there was a correctional officer there and they're kinda arguing. I thought, Oh Lord So yeah, and this guy, you know, his tattoos all over his arms, his pants are rolled up, he had tattoos all over his legs So we're talking about this this um you know w w what you have to do to really get out of out of these habits. You know, you don't call 'em addiction. Some of 'em aren't addicted to it But you know, they're gonna go right back to it. They can get off of it, they're not like total ass. But it's it it it really is kind of addiction in its own way. But um So anyhow, we were talking about this and I said, look, a lot of you guys when you transition out, because the the few guys over there really wanted to change. You know, you could tell. I asked him. He said, yeah. He says one guy says, look, when I get out of here, I don't want to do drugs anymore, and I know it it's going to be a a a battle. So this so I said look the problem is a lot of times we're double-minded. We want the the consequences and everything else to change. But you know, we kinda wanna I'm not gonna control it this time. I'm not gonna drink as much or you know, see you're double minded. You know? It's what James said And this one guy said, the United States looked on, I said, Will you know any of you? Double mind. The guy with tattoos goes, no. I said so I I pushed back on him again. I said, you you're not gonna do it and he goes, absolutely no. I I know there's a problem, no And I'm thinking that's what you're looking for. You can give them all the information in the world until they have a will that says, no, I'm not doing this. He may fail. But those are the kind of people that go, all right, I failed. I'm gonna you know I'm gonna go back, I'm gonna try it again, I'm gonna stop again And really when we're doing the will of God, that's kind of what we're looking at. Do we have the will to want to do it? You know? And I To show you what I'm talking about drinking from a fire hose, turn to Philippians chapter 4. We're not gonna do this today. It was something I've been doing for a message that it's uh uh future. But look at Philippians four. And because I'm talking all the time, I'm gonna have is I'm gonna get a volunteer to read Philippians four, verse four. Through verse nine if somebody would. Go ahead. Philippians 4, 4 through 9. Yes. Okay. Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I will say rejoice. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. Let your requests be made known to God. and the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if there is If there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, think about these things. What you have learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. I think I'm talking to the choir here. Everybody familiar with that passage? You've read it before. We're looking at what? Five, six verses here? Yeah, there's like nineteen things to do in this passage. I mean come on, I could spend a month on one, right? And he says practice these things And this is about what we're what we're about to get into. We got all these things that we can do But we gotta practice it. And you know, come on, let's be honest. It's it's it's um it it's hard. It's it's hard to be diligent and especially with something that's not I I always liked shooting pull and I went ahead uh and got a p another pole table. I got one eye and It's blurry. Okay, I have no depth perception. You think, what in the world, Carrie, you go and try to shoot I used to be pretty good at it. But I just wanted to do it. There's something about it. I mean when you when you sink a ball, it's kinda like it's like target shoot, man. You hit a target and it's kind of a blast, you know? So when you look at this and and and and when the when you know now that there's so much stuff online and you can look at these videos and how they how these guys train You know, you watch these guys and they're like I mean they're just like boom boom boom they're just shooting balls in. It's like they're not taking any time at all and you think, man, how do they do that? But if you watch, one of the things they do Their cue looks like like a machine. It it's like it's like perfect. And so I was watching this one video and it's guy this guy was sh uh you know uh they have these training things these schools you can go to and these these guys will I mean they're tense and like they'll do it for eight hours a day for like four days in a row And one of the things they have this guy to have him do is is this one guy he's he i is hitting the cue ball, I call it center ball. You want to hit it right in the center. No spin, no nothing. You gotta find the center They shoot this they have these guys shoot this ball into this pocket and and they try and h hit it high. They had to do it a thousand times That's a that's practice. You gotta and wh why does he go to that school? Because you need somebody to tell you to do something like that to push you to do it and somebody who can do it and demonstrate it, right? We're gonna get into all this and if if we you know, we need to find groups, you need to find uh people, you need to find something to go through with this with somebody because Number one, it's a lot more interesting and you feed off each other. But number two, you know, we need each other to push each other. You know, if somebody it we'll we'll practice something like that to shoot cue balls and balls into a pocket But well we do that kind of diligence and I'm talking to me. I mean the reason I teach in this class, you wanna learn something? Teach it. The reason you know, we need somebody to push us. And if we want to go to the next level, you gotta have you gotta get pushed. And it's about maturity. I mean, I look in my life and there's a lot of places I I need to buck up, you know what I mean? And and and take this seriously. It's for God's glory, but it's also for our good. If I want to be the person I want to be, I don't want to be some teenager when I die, right? You know, emotionally. You've seen that too, haven't you? You know, I I had an uncle that was kinda like maybe maybe young twenties when he was seventy something. You know, it's just And it spiritual maturity. I didn't come to faith till late. You know? And it's it's this is the thing and I guess this is a long intro and a a and and But w without it, we're just gonna run through these. We can go through the this text. If you look, I got eleven pages and this is nothing. This is just a sample. Mm-hmm. And he there are more that that we could do. You know? But if if I if I work on one that you know, that's that's better than none. Really work on it. So with that intro, Heavenly Father, we need prayer. Lord, uh uh we need a desire. We need that fire. We need that diligence. Lord, we also need community. That's why you um have assemblies. You you call it we call them churches We're we're supposed to assemble together in the body. We're supposed to build each other up. We we need to listen to each other when we're down. We don't need to fix each other, Lord. Your word, your grace, your mercy is what changes our heart. We saw that in uh when John Street um we heard his lecture, Lord. Thank you for men like him, uh who are leaders, who who can uh Exposit your word and and get to the essence, Lord, of this Christian wall. Uh Lord, uh We just ask, Lord, now, that you would be here, that you would, again, lead us on, give us his desire, give us his motivation Because Lord, you want us to become conform to the image of your Son. You want us to pursue holiness. And and Lord, number one, we gotta see you. Uh as as uh we read earlier uh the quote from uh The theologian, Lord, that really we need to look at God before and see you, your holiness, your sovereignty, who you are. before we really look at ourselves. We we we need that measuring stick. So Lord, that's our our prayer, that's our hope. Lead us on. It's in your name we pray. Amen. So let's get into this a little bit. So we're now doing God's will. This is uh These are the things God wants us to follow. And of course we just look at a whole list in the Philippians. So when we speak of God's will in scriptures, right, we use two terms Uh there's God's decretive sovereign will and God's moral perceptive will. Uh God's decreed of sovereign will is secret and his uh perceptive moral will is what revealed in the Bible, right? Uh decretive is just, you know, God is sovereign. Things are gonna happen the way they happen. Um well God brought Laura and I together, you know what I mean? And we look back and you can see how he used the steps to bring uh us together for for a marriage Uh we see how bad things happen sometimes and we go, okay, it's not good, but okay, God's in control. A lot of times we can look back over those things, hopefully we can, and say, Okay, I see what good came out of this. So now we're really looking at God's perceptive moral will. There's a bunch of names for it. But it it's what we just read there. Rejoice in the Lord always, right? Um there's another view of God that is uh uh circulated by theologians and Christian believers that postulates that God as an individual will for each person. We've kind of been going over this all along. It assumes there's an ideal life plan God has for each person Uh the key to decision making is to discover what that plan is. In order to learn God I don't have heard this from people. You know, God has a perfect husband or wife for me. Um yeah. And he's not gonna tell you. You're you're gonna you're gonna look back and you're gonna go, yeah. But there is, and we'll get into this because I labeled this God's will through wisdom. Um and that's kind of what uh really what this is. Okay? I told you about planting the grass. I just had a feeling to plant that grass in the spring. I it was raining. I saw a bunch of rain coming on the forecast. I mean you need water to grow grass. Grass loves water. It's it's it's ridiculous plant. It's you know. But Was I you know was I right? I don't know. It turned out I got lucky. It rained all that summer, but you know, we're good you have to use wisdom. There's another view God's plan for each in order to learn God's plan for your life, you must figure out how to discern how God is specifically leading and guiding you. on the right path in each situation. So the scriptures don't give instructions on how to discern God's individual guidance. But they do emphasize God's moral will. And this is from Freeson. We're going, I've I footnoted it. Look at the footnote number one at the bottom of this page You'll see the book that we're using here. Uh okay, we were I were I was basing most of my uh uh knowledge on the other one, on on sovereignty and free will, on Christensen's book. Now Gary Friesson has written and he covers sovereignty of God in his book and he covered kind of free will. But he you know, again I I wanted something a little deeper because we this is what we run up against all the time. Is that decision. So what is God doing? You know what I mean? Uh but again, uh y you gotta If you're farming, you gotta prepare the ground, you gotta plant the grass, you gotta fertilize it, you gotta God gonna do that for us, and that's that's kind of where we are So God's commands we must obey. This is from Friesen. Where there is no command, God gives us freedom, responsibility, that's a big one. Um it's one of the things that's r we throw out there, but a lot of times we s we see uh we're not taking responsibility. So we have the freedom to choose, responsibility to choose. Where there is no command, God gives us wisdom to choose. And that's w that's kind of where most of this text is gonna go, because it these are uh the commands that he gives When we have chosen what is moral and wise, we must trust the sovereign God to work all the details together for good. Again, just because we chose correctly doesn't mean we're going to get the outcome. And God is sovereign sometimes. Failure is a I hate to say it, it's good for us Right? Why is there, you know, trials and evil in the world? We talked about that because it's God's The best mode God have for his created creatures to see his sovereign glory, his attributes. Right? Without evil we wouldn't we we would not get a clear picture of good That's the theology. And and I have to agree, it's it's gotta be right, because we know God is good. If he's allowing on this, we know he's good. The scriptures have numerous commands concerning God's will and the obedience or disobedience of those who practice or refuse God's will. Nearing the conclusion of Jesus' Sermon on the Mount, he warned the religious to practice role-keeping while neglecting God's commands. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father, who is in heaven, will enter. And then I list some other scriptures, Romans 2. 18. Paul condemned the Jews who thought they were righteous but broke the law. And no And know his will and approve the things that are essential, being instructed out of the law. God's will was revealed in the law. This is not God's sovereign will, which cannot be known. Right? It's got and it's not God's individual will Which is revealed in the law. This is God's moral perceptive will, which is made known to believers and unbelievers. In the law God revealed his moral requirements to all the Jews. Fulfill the law. You you know your uh I don't have to go over this. I think I know you guys. You you know the Old Testament, you know how they brought the sacrifices You'll know in Isaiah he said, look, I'm tired of your sacrifices, I'm tired of your festivals, because you're not honoring me. You're going through the you're going through the motions, but it's not about me Yeah. Uh and you know it's funny, I talked about this when we were uh teaching doing Leviticus, you know, people had to really look at it like Okay, they brought the sacrifices, they brought the lamb, they they did the blood, you you go through all the rituals, it's all described there. I said, you know, I said Does the Lamb just fix the person? Does it cure the person? Does it save the person? No, it's it's that that the big word we throw out there, God w was was accepted it is propitiation. If God didn't accept it, right? It's the the the sacrifice is is is right. It's all for not. Right. And if you don't believe, the whole point was it was a it was a not a word picture, it was a it was a physical picture of atonement, right? Uh substitution. That innocent lamb was dying for me, but if you don't get it, you know, and it doesn't touch your heart, which is what John 3 was talking about last week The outward following rules is no benefit at all. So finally, brethren, we request, we request and exhort you in the Lord Jesus. That you receive from us instruction as how you ought to walk and please God just as you actually do, and you excel still more For ye know the command uh commandment uh we gave to you by authority of the Lord Jesus. For this is the will of God, your sanctification. That is, that you abstain from sexual immorality. Sanctification, again, I I always like to throw this out, uh, we throw these words out. What is what is the definition, what is the simple definition of sanctification? Well the process of being made whole blade by God's righteousness. So first we're justified when we accept Christ as our Lord and Savior, but then the second piece of That process sanctification where we become more like Christ and then the third is glorified when we're finally without sin in in heaven. Right And so so holy is is an another word for holy, a simple word for holy races, then apart. Set apart. Separated. And in d in this sometimes just think of those simple terms, you know what I mean, what it actually is. You're separated. We were in the world. We were being separated from this world system It's huge, it's big, it's it's uh this world system is totally corrupt, is it not? Uh God is holy. Holy is separated, it's totally different, he's totally pure. And uh one of the things I'm I'm um working on is um doing a it'll probably be two classes on holiness. Uh so it'll be a quick overview, but there's some great little studies on you know uh uh pursuing holiness. And there's a couple of guys out there that are right on this two good books, uh Bridges and and uh Ryle. Uh but, you know, again it's another thing to pursue. It's it's another thing to real you know Both of them talk about this. If you really want to get into this this Christian walk, then these are some of the things you you really need we I need to pursue Paul goes on to list the things Thessalonians should abstain from, write things they ought to do in chapter 5, pray without ceasing, rejoice always, etc. So practice your morality in love. Jesus replied to the question, what is the greatest commandment? He answered and he said Uh to him ye shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind. This is the great. And foremost commandment, the second is like it, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. When these two commandments depend the whole law and the prophets. Right, so uh Freyson quotes uh uh for one of the seminary professors, I love this line. Do you really think about it? The law is what love would do. You know, we think of the law as like, oh man, a whole bunch of this, do this, don't do that. Right? You know, um I'm jumping ahead, but some of these thoughts come to my mind. Um one of the things I was looking at is uh uh uh they were talking about the law and some of this Especially when you look at Ovidia, some of the picky things, you know, how precise they had to do things. their diet. Right? God was separating them from the world. They had that special diet. Uh uh and if you look at the process that they um uh the priest had a part of the sacrifice, the the the uh person bringing the sacrifice actually killed the lamb. There's all these processes. They had to sprinkle it such. And you think Well what is it about doing all these rules and and and you know uh and even like some of our obedience? And and w what the author was saying is we're looking at it from the wrong thing. We're looking at it from like, what do I do? Is it worth doing For the God who made these roles? Is it is my devotion, my worship, worth doing it for the God who did this? Instead of uh you know, a lot of times we can uh I do it uh uh guys that are coming out of uh uh you know, uh trials or habits, substance abuse or whatever. They look at it as a victory. I'm gonna get victory over this You know? But it's so cu oh the the only thing I'm trying to point out is how prideful and how it's me, uh me, I got me out front instead of God. It's so quick to do. But instead of doing instead of saying, is this God worth doing this for him? That's a that's a mind shift for me, I assume it is for a lot of us The nature of God's moral will. The moral will conforms us to the character of God. And that's that's what John Street was talking about, you know, heart change. It's that it's that uh analogy. We can do the commands. We can be obedient. But, you know, and then God's got to bring the rain. God's got to change my heart. God changes my heart. God's gotta do it. You know? And and when when we recognize that, we turn this over, and what'll what you what it will do? It'll humble us and get that pride out of the way, and then and we've given room for God to work. Isn't that what the uh Old Testament Jews were doing? They were bringing uh sacrifice and pride. Oh, I did this, I got a nice lamb, all right, you know. And lamb caused me. That's a lamb. God's command uh of his will for us uh are the expressions of the character of God. Peter's quotation of Leviticus 11, 44, 45, you shall be holy, for I am holy. captures the essence of life of the believer. As we practice this in our behavior, we are obeying the moral will of God. God's children are to manifest the family likeness by obeying the Father's will. Therefore, be imitators of God as beloved children. Ephesians five one. Yeah, it's and we talk about that, you know, we we went to many of you were at the wedding last night and uh w we get back into uh uh you know, the husband and the wife and and the relation w uh with each other. Uh but really starts it off. Um It's for freedom Christ set us free. Therefore keep standing firm. Do not be subject again to the yoke of slavery. Behold, I, Paul, say to you, receive circumcision of Christ. There's no benefit And and I testify against every man who receives circumcision, that uh under obligation to keep the whole law. You have been uh Severed, uh you have been severed uh from Christ and you are seeking to be justified by the law. You have fallen from grace. And he talks about being subject to one another And that's it, right? We need to be subject to God and subject to one another. Think of others as more important than ourselves Without salvation we can't do this. Without God's Spirit, there's no way. I wouldn't want to. I didn't want to. I did for many years I didn't want to do any of this Genesis 1, 26 to 31, we were created to be image bearers, to rule over the earth as stewards for God. Satan tempts Eve to s uh saying that eating the fruit would make her uh like God, but she became like Satan and rebelling against God, didn't she? She d you got her to do just the opposite. You didn't become like God, you became like the enemy. And of course God knew this, right? Um this was the plan all along. In our redemption, we will ultimately be conformed to the image of God by His grace. 2 Peter 134. Seeing that his divine power has granted to us everything pertaining to life and godliness through the true knowledge of Him who called us by His own glory and excellence. For by these he has granted to us his precious and magnificent promises, so that by them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world by lust. And I believe I I haven't looked at up I uh if I believe that's epiphumia and and epithumia can be used both ways It's it's it's a strong, really strong, it's a passionate desire. So you can have the uh you know, Jesus said the same word. uh you know I desired to to drink this cup with you guys. I desire to come back and drink it again. Um i it's a very strong desire If it's our desires, and John showed that last week, right? If it's out of our desires and our flesh, it will have a bad result. Right? If it's if it's for Christ, if it's for desiring God and we're doing it for him, it can have a good result. So but with this Knowledge. We have this all the time. God's God's number one will and and in this church, uh again I'm preaching to people that already do this. You come to this Bible church, one thing we do is we really know the Bible, don't we? And we work on knowing the Bible What it's God's God's book. Instruction manual. If we don't use this Focus on that. And it's hard work, right? You've you've I know some of you guys have uh gone with something, you think I wanna know this, you gotta wrestle with it, you gotta dig You might have to go to other uh books to find out, okay, uh how do I how do I get them what's the meaning of this word? I know what it is in English, okay? Y'all have binds Any you all know what I'm talking about? Vines? Great. I love it. They use it on a seminary level. It's it's English. It gives it to you in English. One of the things I like about it, if you use a Greek Lexicons give you small definitions. What they give you is References to where that word was used. And so you look that up and you see how it was used in that context A dictionary will, like Vines, will explain it to you. And Vines is good. He's he's recognized. Uh he's a good Greek scholar But the other thing I like is is it gives you an English and it'll show you the different Greek words that could that we use to ad uh and uh The English Bible interprets different Greek words uh to have the same English word. Does that make sense? As multiple Greek words, they might say Um, you know, I don't know, love. Right? Or, you know, um heart. Um uh Or it's pretty much Cardia, but it has different and it also gives you the different meanings, a different range of meanings, you know. Uh it's not like uh our language has has multiple words for different things. And older language is heart. It means heart, mind, soul, will. That's your basic. And and there can even be more inferences to that. Um so yeah, you gotta dig. We need to understand. And and it's on us. But it i you know I I have a yeah I I pray that you get a desire to do that, to want to know. Again, that's one of the things Be obedient. Um oftentimes uh we have to go into things and the desire comes later, right? Just force yourself to do it sometimes, then you go, oh glad I did that. All shamear quote. So we know it's author the Bible, we're going to talk about it being authoritative. I want to read you the classic scripture that you Many of you probably know, you memorized at one time. If you've forgotten it, you probably knew it at one time. Um the Lord was tempted, he used Scripture, right? All scripture is inspired by God profitable, it's good for teaching, for reproof, right? For correction. Training in righteousness, so that the man of God may be adequate, equipped for every good work. Yeah, yeah. Sometimes uh reproof, sometimes uh it it convicts us, doesn't it? You read it and you're going, Yeah, yeah, I don't do that, I don't measure up to that. Um It it trains us. It's the instruction manual. And we know the other verse, right? The Romans 12. Do not be conformed to this world. But be transformed by the renewing of your mind, right? We are being we know we're being bombarded with media now, we are being bombarded with with training bad training. Uh just you know, the media with with the you name it began it. Music, news, whatever. Uh it it's so It creeps in. You don't think it does, but it creeps in. It can kind of uh break down that that barrier wall, can't it? You know? Uh look at how we've transformed in our society where We have changed a lot in the last fifteen years, have we not? It's been it's been rapid change. I d I'm old enough. I remember the sixties. Back in the sixties we had turmoil, but things were a lot more stable. There was a lot more unity. Now there's fractions, divisions, there's all kinds of thoughts and pretty much I mean it wasn't that long ago, you know, we didn't know what gender we were. I mean Hopefully I can s we have somebody in the Supreme Court who didn't know. Think about that. Well. Sure she wouldn't say. We have stated that the moral will is an expression of God's character, so we would expect his moral will not only to have an outward expression, but also an inward reflection. of their character. And that's what we talked about with the heart. The imperatives of God's moral commands touch all aspects of our lives, our goals, attitudes, motives, actions And as we get, as we get programmed with God's Word, as we get that in there, it will change us, right? God's word is alive and active, sharper than any two-edged sword. God's Word directs our purpose, process, and product. All these commands shape our beliefs, perspectives, and our reality of life. Um that's that's a big one. There's a lot to get caught up in. And God's good. I mean, He's blessed us. A lot of us in there are blessed with uh I mean we live around third world countries. I don't care who says w they're in bad shape here. We are not in bad shape here We don't even know. Uh, you know, I remember talking to missionaries, you know, uh and uh over at our seminary and they went they were You know, one of the things that capital was kind of small, but one of the things they always tried to do when they got people to come They wanted them to return. If they came from Africa, they wanted them to go back to Africa. And you know, once they get over here it's like, man, I don't know You know And one guy was saying, you know, you go back to Africa, you these people don't eat every day. They sometimes have to skip a day. We talk about skipping a meal Mm-hmm. Right? I remember hearing the one time these missionaries uh they were over I can't remember, I it was either India or um China or someplace and uh a bunch had showed up for this conference and more showed up than than uh had registered, didn't have enough food. They said, No problem. We just fast one one day and and uh the other day we'll leave. We don't think that way do we? Where's the next where's the where's the closest McDonald's? Yeah, or anything, you know? Um Yeah. So God's moral commands are the means for glorifying him. And it's you know, again, we talked about this worship Our goal of glorifying is general by nature and that encompasses many of our actions, and I would say all of them, really. Uh many of our moral commands involve um how we treat one another Uh Romans 12, 3 through 13, Paul lists gifts of believers received through God's grace. These gifts are to be used in serving, teaching, exhorting uh devoted to brotherly love, honoring, contributing to the needs of one another. And again, we're talking about love again, right? To demonstrate love. And we really want it to be seep into be that inner desire motivation Not like, well, I guess I gotta do it. Uh our primary goal is to glorify God in all things. Whether then you eat or drink or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. You know, 1 Corinthians 10 31. Also, since uh for this uh since uh uh Paul also prayed for the Colossians to please God in all things. For this reason also, since today we heard of it, we have not ceased to pray for you and to ask that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will and all spiritual wisdom and understanding So you'll walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, to please him in all respects, bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. I mean, do you see the essence of this? You need to know, you need to be trained. Knowledge, spiritual uh wisdom, uh be filled with it, uh, understanding And so it's a result, you know. You see the clause there. So as a result, you'll walk in a manner worthy. Because then it gets in there and it does, it changes our hearts. That's a beautiful thing, isn't it? Um God does it for us Uh but it comes you know, it comes with mining, you know. We uh mm we try and teach one of the uh Uh books that were following for for the guys of the jail is guided by uh uh counselor named Welch And anyway, w his perspective is is to get these guys to look at who they are, what they're doing. try and do it without guilt. Don't shame yourself. Kind of do almost like an out of body experience. What do I do? Because you know it's a cy you know you get into a cycle. How did you do it? Usually it's the same steps. It might be little different modes, but you usually end up on the same path on the same thing with the same result. So one of the things they want to do is again, have 'em aware of of what they're doing and um uh you know j uh again just just To now start to think in godly ways. Okay, here's another way to think. This is the way you think. You know, different cultures in in in different areas. People get trained up on this stuff, and it's hard to break those habits. A lot of us uh we got the major stuff in in a Bible church like this. We take it for granted, but I mean these guys in the outside and um Uh we were talking about to these guys about um you know how uh sex came up, sexual purity, that kind of thing. And uh they were talking about uh uh you know, some of you we've been married and and we said, you know, I've been married and you know, uh I said I I certainly had uh well when I first got married it was unsaved. I certainly had bad thoughts and all that. You know, but uh yeah, I never cheated on my wife and they're going, Well how long you've been married? And I told 'em Thirty some years? I'd have to figure it out. I think it's for I think it's portion thirty-eight of thirty-six. And they said, no way. Now we laugh at that. I'm not kidding, they went over this. No way. And they were like, come on. And and we stayed on this for a while. The only point it's not so much that okay for good they're bad. That's not the point at all. They have they have training if you're in a culture sometimes and you're immersed in that You don't understand. No big deal. Yeah, and it does, it breaks down the barriers, you know. You know, Carrie feel I forget where it is, but as a man thinketh, so he is. That's no pure word. Yeah, and and yeah and the proverbs, yeah. And it really is and we and we take this for granted. I give you these extremes because it's so easy to see But look, there's a tangent, we're doing the same thing, only our stuff becomes we uh we've got we're not drunks and we're not you know, but but our when we talk about holiness, okay, let's give it our sharp line Okay, and we're starting to approach that. We're doing the same things. Maybe we think it's more subtle than than what they're doing. Because you know when you're doing that kind of stuff you're getting the consequences, you know, it's kinda hard to hide. You know. They're in jail number one. Yeah, and yeah women always know. You you're you're gonna get the re and that's the thing you gotta teach 'em. You what you sow, you're going to reap. And God tells us that, right, in Galatians. Look, God's not mocked. Whatever a man shows, that's what he'll read. Try you remember the name of the book by Welsh? The one that you're using in Britain? Crossroads. But it it it's actually um Uh I it's based on a book he did, Banquet in the Grave, I think it is. Oh well. Um but but the uh mic turned us on to it and and I like it because it's it's not just a simple twelve step program. It tried to get 'em back. But again the same thing. Number one, it's always the same thing. Denial. What are we denying that we do? And you've got to have The strength, the desire, the boldness to go and just walk to that place and say, What am I doing? And the problem is when you look at that, you like want to shut the the first thing we want to do is we want to shut down. Well, uh, you know, and I'll be better, I'll do this. No, look at it Because it's 1 John 1, as as you bring it to the light, God heals it. We're trying to heal it ourselves. They're trying to heal it themselves. We're doing the same things. Bars is subtle, but you know, we see people that are impatient. Me? You know? You do you judge people? We do we judge people all the time. Have God put that on your heart and you look at it and you go, Wow, I judge a lot. You know? And it's This is keeping us from God though, guys. It's for God's glory, but it's I don't want to do this because it's hindering me. And I I want more I don't go I don't tell him, you know, this is the one thing we can be gluttons on. You can feed on God all you want. It's a good thing. Yeah. You know, and think about it, that's why we have cravings. Epithumia, desires God put those desires in it. Sometimes you get in these Christian things and they want you to become, oh, be careful about emotions. Well where do emotions come from? God. I mean we're supposed to get angry. It's a warning light, right? When somebody does something that that's that's uh horrible, we should be angry. Well we do it anger, that's that's where we need to be godly. Let me I got two minutes or so. Let me just finish this. As you can see, again this is a list. Look at his list. We're gonna run through this. Okay? But and these are the things. And and not only just kind of meditate on the scriptures, but while you're there, park on it for a minute What was the context? What's he talking about? Um, you know, if you do Bible studies, you know, really the historical thing. Who w he's writing to an original audience They the original hearers, how did they hear it? What was the what was the context that was in it And that's that's kind of a elaborate study sometimes. It's how you really have to flesh that out. You have to go seek it out. But at least kind of think about it. Number one, what groups he talking to, especially Jesus Is Jesus talking to a large group? Sometimes you miss it, okay? Is he talking just to the disciples? Why? Okay, so you you start asking those questions. I mean if you really want to learn the Bible, ask the questions, why is he doing this? Uh now what does it mean? Why is he doing this? Where is he doing this What's he doing? It's amazing. Ask questions. And you you you won't necessarily get the answers, but you will be surprised. It will just it'll broaden your your scope of the scripture So, love versus lust. Well, I'm not going to just read this right now. We don't have any time. Okay, so you've got the notes? We there we're gonna look at this again next week. Even if we go through it next week and you you look at this, you're gonna see all these passages. Um and we'll just run through it if we want to. But it is, and it's wisdom. Look at the categories. These are um Freyson has look at the um headings and kind of think through some of those. Um you know uh Why is he giving us these scriptures? Um and and uh and then whatever one that you read on, that you meditate on You could stay there for a week. It's it's not important if that's more important than just rushing through and saying, Wow, I've read all the scriptures. But this is God's will, and it definitely has to do with wisdom, our wisdom. And our wisdom is gonna is gonna give us the the decision making. And it and if and I'll repeat this because this is the thing. Just because we use good wisdom and and we make a decision that that uh You know, it there was no bad judgment in it, let's say. No we weren't we weren't doing something we knew God didn't want us to do, uh w we knew it was in his commands, his guidelines, that kind of thing. But it didn't have the outcome we wanted. Well, that may have been our path, right? God is sovereign. And then there's again the hard part. Okay Like James, count all joy. Why would I count it joy? Stop and take note. Why am I in this situation? What does God want me to learn? That's hard. Heavenly Father, thank you for this time. Thank you for your word. Thank you for your grace, your understanding. Thank you, Lord, for the this body, this church Thank you for the blessing that many of us got to witness yesterday, a uh a wedding of of um believers. Um Lord, uh I've s uh you've had me witness many Uh secular weddings, uh totally different, uh Lord. And it's such a blessing to see uh uh believers come. It's uh it was also a blessing, uh Lord, to see how uh your grace uh uh those believers uh in Jesus Christ, how it um it it just kind of um eliminates culture And that we saw Joel, who is from India, and many of his uh family and friends uh from India and their cultural garb And yet um throughout all that we saw uh our commonality. It's Jesus Christ. And this and the seeing uh believers in all this uh Lord is such a blessing Lord God, thank you for the blessing of of uh leading me to jail ministry because it's the same thing. Uh when you look beyond, when when we finally get off the surface, there's not race, skin color, there's not um rich or poor, uh there there's not different ethnicities. There's not um different sexes, Lord. There's there's there's Jesus Christ. We see that. We have this commonality. And and it's so It's such a blessing to see your grace work through people, Lord. And I thank you for that. So Lord, we lift up this time of corporate worship. And may we worship together. May we feel a body that's unified and singing to the Lord. So Lord, we thank you. It's in your name we pray. Amen. Oh money we sacked The photo of that