Um yeah, so we've been going we've been going at our at our own pace through this outline, which is good. I want to spend as much time as as uh is necessary on this stuff. And So we've been, for the last couple of weeks that I've been teaching, we've been going over this question, what is the meaning of manhood and womanhood? You know, we all um we can all identify each other as male or female, but what does that mean? What is what does the difference actually mean? Um and so that's that's of course the biggest question and the one we've been spending the most time on. And Um we said, basically, it means that God created men and women as equal yet complementary image bearers. Right, so we've been focusing on these two aspects of equality between men and women on on a deep spiritual fundamental level, um and yet profound differences between men and women And you know, we spent a lot of time defining what those differences are. And so first we went over the different callings that God gives to men and women. And um who could sum up uh what what God's calling is to meant for to be a biblical man, a godly man Servant leadership. Servant leadership, yeah, that's that's the phrase. Um and and you know, so if we can unpack that phrase, like what um what is the servant aspect? Of servant leadership. I mean, service, right? Like uh as as men, we are supposed to use our um God given strengths and our position of leadership in order to serve, uh and especially to serve women And that is that's God's calling, you know, God never gives somebody authority for their own sake so that they can use it selfishly. God gives authority so that it be it can be used for the benefit of those under authority. Um Jesus himself demonstrated this principle when he washed his disciples' feet, right? Um he said You call me master and teacher and that and you're right to do so, but look what I'm doing for you. I'm washing your feet. Uh so that is the picture of leadership that God gives in Scripture. That's the picture of leadership that God calls us to as men. It's a leadership characterized by service characterized by seeking the good of those under our under our leadership. Um and doing the hard, even dirty jobs that that requires. Right, so um you know, always have that in ma in mind, men, when you're looking um to y your current roles as as leaders and and to your future roles, like if you plan to get married. Um That that's the kind of leadership that God calls you to is servant leadership, emphasis on the service. Who can summarize um God's design for mature femininity. Which we went over last time. Perhaps one of the women. I wasn't here. Neither of you are here. Um Paige, you want to try it? I'll um Hey good morning. Uh huh. Yeah, nurturing helpers. So um Yeah, so this is this is what we find in God's design in Genesis 2, right? Even before sin and and the fall, even before sin entered creation. God designed Eve to be a helper corresponding to Adam, right? Um and whereas masculinity expresses itself in a disposition of of leadership and protection and provision. Mature femininity expresses itself as a disposition of affirming, receiving, and nurturing strength and leadership from worthy men Right. Not all men, not not uh uh you know, men who lead in a sinful way, but those men who lead in a worthy way. And so those are those are the different callings that we have as men and women, uh and that those are the di the different um ideals and uh designs that God has called us to as men and women. He's but that's not the extent of our differences. We don't just have different callings. Last time we talked about how God gave us different bodies to um carry out those different callings. Right. And and we didn't spend too much time on it 'cause it's actually pretty obvious, right, that God gave um men the bodies to to uh work and and protect and provide and he gave women the bodies to in particular bear children and and nurture those children. Um So we didn't spend a whole lot of time on that, but um that's not even the extent of our differences either, right? He gave us different callings, he gave us different bodies suited to those callings. Um But do our differences just stop at our bodies? Right? Uh you know, a lot of people think this. A lot of people think that, um, sure, men and women have, you know, some some different body parts, but we make too big a deal out of it. Right. We we we put too much emphasis on those differences. That's what they think. Um what what do you think is the the biblical view of that? Do is the difference between men and women a big deal or not a big deal to God? Big deal, how do you know? Well there is something to that, right? I mean that um yeah, do you does God do th there's this touches on um sort of a fundamental debate in in our culture today, which is like there's a a um a big group of people who would say that um our bodies are accidents Right? Uh is particularly arguing from an evolutionary point of view. They would say that since we evolved, our bodies look the way they do just at in order to enable our survival and and and sort of function as a species. And, you know, we should transcend all that and um that shouldn't matter for like how we relate to each other now that we're out of that kind of survival phase of our species existence. Um so those people would say that that like There's no inherent connection. There's no there's no real integrity between our body and our soul. Right? That um that our body's an accident and and our soul, you know, we can just make of ourselves what we want to be. But is that the biblical view of body and soul? No, what's the biblical view of body and soul or body and spirit? When God is knitting someone together in in his mother's womb, does he take, you know, an empty body and you know just like dump a soul into the body? say like okay here you got a human. No. No. There's no in scripture there's no division. Uh there's no there's there's no essential division between body and spirit. You can't have a human being without a body uh or without a spirit. When when God is knitting us together in our mother's womb, He's knitting together both a body and a spirit, right? Both a body and a soul And we can see this as we look to our future as well, right? You know, what what is our future? How are we gonna end up after we die? In glory resurrected, yeah. So we're not gonna go to heaven and be disembodied spirits hanging around God's throne worshiping him. That's not our ultimate end state. Our ultimate end state is to be resurrected in glory with a physical body that's united again with our spirit. And we're going to be living in a new earth uh that is that is part of a new heavens and a new earth. But we're going to be living physically on the earth in physical bodies praising God and worshiping Him. Right, so throughout from Genesis to Revelation, there's this integrity, this unity that God has created between body and spirit uh which our our age, our culture is attempting to deny, right? They they want to deny this integrity between body and spirit, but scripture um assumes it, presumes this integrity between body and spirit. Why do we bring all this up? What does that have to do with with the difference between man and woman? Well Yeah, it has a number of implications, right? One implication is that like if God created you with a male body, that means you're a man. It doesn't it You know, God does not uh you know mix and match. It doesn't you can't have a male soul and a female body or vice versa. So that's one of the implications that we're gonna discuss more when we when we get to the sort of um contemporary gender ideology. Another implication is that If God created men and women with uh with very different physiology, with different bodies, and if there's a profound integrity between body and spirit That means that he also created us with profound spiritual differences, differences in our natures, right? Our differences don't just go as deep as the body, because there's no such thing as you know, just as deep as the body when it comes to a human being. Um another way to say this is or another another way to see that our differences go deeper than our body is that um is to realize that God is spirit. Right? It says that in in John four twenty four, when Jesus was talking to the Samaritan woman at the well, he said, God is spirit and he's seeking um people who will worship him in spirit and in truth. So God is spirit. He's not a bodily being. Um and yet God created male and female to represent his image. Right? And and both male and female are necessary to represent his image. So there must be something spiritual about the distinction between male and female that represents God as spirit. Right? It's um it seems unlikely that he would uh create male and female which are both necessary to represent his image only with bodily differences, right? Because he doesn't need bodies to represent who he is. He's spirit. Um So these are uh these are arguments from scriptural principles. There's no there's no like one verse that you can point to that says, you know, men and women are different in ways that go deeper than the body. Uh but it's all it's all kind of underlying the whole biblical worldview and the biblical view of men and women and how we as humans represent the image of God Um so what are these these differences are not just in our bodies and in and in you know, like the hormones that we have. Um there are also differences in in our temperament, in our relational dynamics, and in our our moral duty, right? Like God gives different commands to men and women Um particularly in the New Testament. And he wants men to act like men and women to act like women. And so all of this should uh make us uh really consider our differences not just from a physiological point of view and a biological point of view but from the point of view of spirit and soul. Um but it's true. They God wants men to act like men and women to act like women And John Piper summarizes it this way. Remember we've been relying heavily on his uh first chapter of recovering biblical manhood and womanhood, which I would still encourage you all to go and download for free and read. He summarizes it this way. Gender is not mainly a biological fact. It is mainly a matter of personhood and relational dynamics. And later, God designed our differences and they are profound. They are not mere physiological prerequisites for sexual union. They go to the root of our personhood. Um so this next point is that uh here we're on We're on page three of the outline, uh, Roman numeral four, right? Our differences are created by God. They're not constructed by the culture or or you know socialized into us by our uh environment or by the way we're taught as young people. And You know, this is this is in contrast to um you know some would in our society would say that uh gender is a social construct, right? That um Boys and girls really aren't that different, but they become different as they're raised in this society that that pushes these expectations on them. In other words, like girls are girls are the way they are because we give them dolls to play with, and boys are the way they are because we give them trucks to play with. That that's that's sort of a an oversimplified um representation of this theory that gender is a social construct. Um And, you know, it's pretty easy to falsify that idea. It you know, especially if you have kids, you just kinda look at um your your sons and your daughters and y uh, for us at least and for all the people that we've talked to, we didn't even have to teach our sons to be you know, boy like and we didn't have to teach our our daughter to be girl like. Uh they they just naturally gravitated towards uh these things. You know, for our sons uh for one of our sons when his brother was gonna be born. We gave him a baby doll just to you know, like practice holding the doll. And and he played with it like a like a truck, you know, he would like throw the doll. And um 'cause he's a boy. And When our daughter was born though, like before she could even talk and explain before she could even recognize the difference between men and women, she was going around uh with her stuffed animals like cradling them in her arms and caring for them and you know she just started playing so differently than her brothers uh before she could even consciously absorb this distinction that is supposedly a social construct. Right? Um so it's easy to falsify that that view from personal experience, but scripture also uh contradicts that view that gender is a social construct. Uh because if you look in the Bible at the different commands that that God gives to men and women Um those are grounded not in uh the culture, right? It's not like men you should behave this way because the culture expects you to. It's Men, you should behave this way because this is how God created you from the beginning. So for example, if you look here in the outline at 1 Corinthians 11, um This is a passage uh that we're not gonna like fully exegete today because uh it's it's kind of complicated. Um but one thing that does come through clearly is is how a different command to men and women is grounded in the created order and not in culture. In First Corinthians eleven, Paul is talking to the Corinthians about um public worship and and preaching and prophesying in front of a congregation. And he's saying men and women should do this differently uh prophesying in front of in front of a congreg congregation. Men should do it with their head uncovered, either by a hat or long hair. Women should do it with their head covered either by a head covering or by long hair Um and why does he say this? Does he say it because it's because um the Greeks would be offended if you didn't if you did it some other way? No, he says he grounds it in God's original creation. Uh so read with me in verse 3 But I want you to understand that Christ is the head of every man, and the man is the head of a woman, and God is the head of Christ. And skip to verse eight. For man does not originate from woman, but woman from man. For indeed man was not created for the woman's sake, but woman for the man's sake Therefore woman ought to have a symbol of authority on her head because of the angels. However, in the Lord neither is woman independent of man, nor is man independent of woman. For as the woman originates from the man, so also the man has his birth through the woman, and all things originate from God. So we have here from Paul sort of a nuanced explanation of this dynamic that we've been emphasizing from the beginning of the class, which is um Differ profound differences uh with equality. Right? He's saying there's a difference here between men and women Men in God's design are given the positions of authority, and that should be reflected in how we present ourselves before the church. However, it's not This uh dynamic of authority that's given to men does not imply any kind of superiority on the part of the man. Uh that's what he's saying in the last half of this passage. There's no independence. It's not like man is independent of woman and doesn't need her. It's interdependence, right? The first woman originated from man But ever since then, every man has to be born of a woman. And so there's this complementarity with interdependence that Paul is emphasizing here. But what comes through clearly is that the differences between men and women and the the different ways that God expects us to act are not grounded in our culture. They're not cultural constructs. They are part of God's very good design. Or consider the next uh verse, First Timothy two, twelve and thirteen. Here's another one uh where Paul grounds a commands to m uh different commands to men and women in the created order. He says, But I do not allow a woman to teach or exercise authority over a man, but to remain quiet. For it was Adam who was first created and then Eve. Um so again we're not going to like fully exegete this passage. He's not saying that women need to remain completely silent and not say anything. He's just saying that women or it should not have teaching authority over men in the church. Um but where where does he go for justifying this command? Right, does he say, you know, women shouldn't have teaching authority because that would totally offend the Greeks and the Jews. No, he doesn't say that. He says, uh Adam or he says, for it was Adam who was first created and then Eve. So he goes back to the pre fall creation and he says because God created Adam first and gave him the authority even in his very good creation, that's why we should um follow that design and reserve those positions of teaching authority for men in the church. Okay, so I know those are uh those can be hard passages and Uh we're not we don't have time or I didn't plan to deal with like all of the implications today for those passages. We are going to go through, Lord willing, in another lesson when we talk about complementarianism and and um different roles for men and women in the church. I do plan to do a more um thorough uh exegesis of these texts, but um anybody have have questions before we move on from that? Yeah. Hm. Okay. Yeah, I would say that uh what's operating there is uh something called the naturalistic fallacy. Um if any of you have heard of that. It's um basically The fact that you you can't look at what exists and get to what should be, right? You can't get ought from is. And that's because uh you know, God's original very good design um doesn't just exist today uncorrupted, right? It's been it's been changed by sin. Right? When sin entered the world, it wasn't just like Adam disobeyed God and now their relationship was broken. It affected all of creation, right? It affected our human nature. We now have uh a sinful nature that we're born with even before we have committed any actual sins. Um and it also affected the rest of creation. Uh Romans says that creation groans, you know, and and was subjected to frustration because of that first sin. Uh so I would say that like You know, while i if we were still back in God's very good design, then the general pattern of uh masculinity and femininity would hold true with no exceptions Right? But because we live in a world corrupted by sin, uh sometimes there are exceptions to the pattern, right? Sometimes there are um boys who are born with uh perhaps a you know uh a lack of that of of that natural of um natural uh predisposition towards masculine things and they want to uh to gravitate towards feminine things and and vice versa. They're uh so we're all born with these different predispositions, somewhat uh which are sometimes the result of the effects of sin. But the general pattern still holds really clearly, right? I think uh so what the the fallacy that's operative here, I think, in the um the people who would point to these counterexamples as evidence that there's that it's a social construct is they're trying to argue from a few rare exceptions to a general rule. And you just can't do that. Right? Like the the the general pattern, um, despite these exceptions, is still really obvious, right? And um so you without resorting to the assumptions of your world view, you can't tell whether that general pattern comes from um society, social construction, or from God's innate design that's working itself out in people's natures. Um so Uh you know, I think science, like just uh observing what is, is not sufficient to get to answer that question of, you know, where does this difference come from? You have to either look to You have to look to Scripture because, you know, that's that's where we draw from for the foundation of our worldview. They're not looking to scripture, they're looking to their own worldview. Um and they're seeing sort of what confirms their own assumptions in the data. Because that's what people do, right? We look at data and we all see what we want to see. Sorry, that was kind of a rambling answer to that question, but does that answer Okay. Yeah. Right. Children need to be trained in how to be men and women of of the Lord, right? Like we we shouldn't just let kids go off and do whatever they want and just encourage them to do what they want. Like scripture is full of warnings against letting children just get their own way. That's that's a way to ruin a child. You know, a children who a child who gets his own way is a fool who's destined for destruction and hell. Like we can't just take our children's innate predispositions and treat them as good and and honorable. We have to actually train them in how to be biblical men and women according to what God has made them. And that's not going to come naturally to them. all the time. Like I have to train my sons to uh to want to lead and take initiative, even when they don't want to. I have to train my daughter to uh practice having a gentle and quiet spirit even when she doesn't want to. Right. Um so yeah, there's a huge role in our parenting as um as godly stewards of our children, teaching them and training them how to be men and women of God. Even a uh even sometimes against their natures And I'll just mention briefly that uh scripture treats uh sex as something that's innate from birth and not something that's learned. Right? You look throughout the scriptures, um you see that uh, you know, children and even infants are referred to as he or she. You know, it's like it's just very clear that that this baby is is a male baby or a female baby. It's not like you know, the the authors of scripture are waiting around for this child to reach the age of accountability and decide what gender they are. I mean it's it's Sounds absurd, um, but it needs to be pointed out these days. Right, hey, warning. Um and You know, there's no there's no real hint even in scripture of the possibility that someone could could discover that they are a different gender than what their their body is. And this gets back again to what we were just talking about, the fundamental integrity of body and spirit that our culture denies but that the Bible always affirms. Right. Our our bodies and our spirits, they go together. They were made, they were knit together by God in our mother's womb. Uh so we we should not separate what God has joined together like that. That's that's what our world wants to do. It wants to take these things that God has joined together and and pull them apart. Um well yeah, so I mean my my point my point was more about like pre sin, prefall God, I I believe, created us with different um you know different masculine and feminine personalities and characteristics and and relational dynamics that go deeper than just our bodies Right, that that was kind of the only point I was making uh with that. But it's true I would also say that, yeah, after the fall men because of our differences, uh, men and women respond to um the effects of sin in the world differ with with distinctively masculine sins and distinctively feminine sins. Right. And we'll talk about that in a minute. Um But yeah, I was so we g we do have to be careful with like saying that there are these talking about the profound, especially spiritual differences between men and women. I don't want anyone to interpret this as me saying that we are like d different essences or different uh you know, different uh creations, right? We're still humans. We're still all equal. We still all represent the image of God. We still have this fundamental unity as brothers and sisters in Christ. Um You know, but but there is this profound difference that goes deeper than just the body, right? And that means it goes to the spirit as well. Um so I think that's a good question to segue into the next part, which is like how can these profound differences coexist with ontological equality, w you know, with essential equality between men and women. How can there be profound differences, especially differences that result in um a dynamic of authority and submission? How can there be that uh with two fully equal beings. Right? Our our modern mind s says that has to be impossible Right. Like there was even a Supreme Court decision that says separate is inherently unequal. Um and you know, is that is that true? Uh well with God And it's not that is not the case, right? What God um gives us the most profound illustration of how differences and even authority and submission can coexist with complete equality. And that illustration is the Trinity itself. Um so the Trinity is remember this doctrine that we've got The Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, they are one God. They have the same essence and the same character. And yet they are three distinct persons Right? That doesn't mean they're human beings. You know, to be a person just means that you have your own thoughts and you make your own decisions and you have your own affections and desires. Right, so that's true of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. They um the Father has his own thoughts, and the Son has his own thoughts, and the Holy Spirit has his own thoughts and they have different thoughts and decisions and affections and desires and emotions. Um so they're three distinct persons, but they all have the same essence, the same character I was actually just talking about this with my son at the breakfast table this morning. Uh he was asking about the Trinity. And um To understand the Trinity it's useful to contrast it with polytheism, right? You think of the Greek gods like Zeus and Apollo and Hermes, right? Those are three persons, you know, they don't exist, but like pretend they did. Um those are three persons. Is that a Trinity? No. Why not? Yeah, because they don't have the same essence, right? They don't have the same character. They argue. They fight against each other. Uh, you know, the Greek gods were always were always fighting and um, you know, humans were getting caught in the crossfire and horribly mistreated and stuff. The the Trinity does not disagree, does not fight among itself, right? Because the Trinity is united by love because they have the same essence and the same character That's how they can be one God but three persons. Anyway, that's a tangent. The main point here is that there are three persons and they're all equal. The scripture is full of affirmations that The Son, Jesus Christ, is equal to the Father. And the Holy Spirit is treated also as fully God, fully equal to God, placed alongside the Father and the Son. So there's equality within the Trinity, equality of essence, but there's also authority and submission within the Trinity. How do we know that, for example, Jesus submits to the authority of the Father? He died on the cross, right? That was the ultimate act of submission. What did he pray in the Garden of Gethsemane before he went to the cross? Not my will, but your will be done. That is submission in a nutshell. That was Jesus the Son submitting to his equal, God the Father. Um and the Holy Spirit does the same thing. Remember the Holy Spirit, um, first of all, the Holy Spirit is called the helper, right? The paraclete, which is the same word that is used to describe Eve when she's created as a helper corresponding to Adam. So the Holy Spirit is the helper and it says that that he pre proceeds from the Father and from the Son. Uh you can read about that in John sixteen, thirteen and fourteen. So the Holy Spirit um submits himself to the will of the Father and the Son, even though he is their equal. Right? So the Trinity gives us this picture um at the very highest level of creation. I mean not even creation, at at beyond creation, in the Godhead, a picture of how um equality of being and essence can perfectly coexist with profound differences, even differences involving authority and submission. Right, so um you know so it is a hard thing to hold in our heads. It's a hard thing for our us to wrap our minds around, but we need to do it. And you know, we we should do it by thinking about the Trinity, right? We and we should remember the Trinity and and remember that uh as men the fact that we have authority, uh or you know, the the fact that God has reserved for us positions of authority does not mean we are ontologically superior. Um And it in fact it should humble us and make us uh look to how we can how we can serve like Christ. And then for women, um this doctrine of the Trinity should uh reassure you that uh you know even though God has uh called you to a role of being a helper and and submitting it in different contexts to male headship and leadership uh that does not imply in any kind of inferiority at all. And you can you can also look to Christ and how he submitted perfectly to his equal the Father. So yeah, our understanding of the Trinity will will really help us live out how we're supposed to uh live out biblical manhood and womanhood. So look at look at this uh verse Philippians two five through eight, which I've copied here in the outline. This this is the ultimate picture of um faithful submission by Christ to the Father. Have this attitude in yourselves which was also in Christ Jesus who, as he already existed in the form of God, did not consider equality with God something to be grasped, but emptied himself by taking the form of a bond servant and being born in the likeness of men And being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, death on a cross So whether whether we are men or women, this is the example we need to look at and emulate. Jesus is equal to the Father, but He didn't assert his rights as an equal person in the Trinity. He didn't grasp on to his equality and say, No, I don't have to go to the cross. I'm my own God, you know? Like I he could have said, I have the right to refuse this extreme uh t trial or this you know, this extreme humbling obedience. But he didn't. He didn't grasp onto his equality with God. He emptied himself, he let go, and he humbled himself and became essentially a slave And he submitted to obeying God the Father, and he submitted all the way to the point of dying on a cross. So I think, you know, for all of us, men or women, there's we need to we need to keep looking at this example of Christ, keep having that same attitude that Christ had, of not asserting our rights, not as not asserting uh or grasping on to the things that we've been given, but instead emptying ourselves and humbling ourselves and pursuing this kind of uh servant leadership that goes to the cross if we're men, or this kind of um this kind of trusting submission uh as as women All right, questions about about this any of this, like the doctrine of the Trinity, uh equality and difference. Okay. Um yeah, well let's just briefly, or you know hopefully briefly, move on to question number two. All right, so we spent like three weeks talking about question one We're not going to spend three weeks on question two probably. Um question two was what has sin done, right? Like how has sin changed manhood and womanhood? So we answered what was God's very good design, what's what was his original design for manhood and womanhood? But as we already mentioned Like sin has changed everything about God's design and and has has um corrupted things and subjected God's design to frustration in in in the creation So the answer that I would give to that question of how has sin changed manhood and womanhood is that sin has distorted God's design in certain ways, but has not invalidated God's design. Um and this is important an important question to answer because there's a big segment of the church who would say that um who would recognize yes there are differences between men and women, even differences that that affect our relational dynamics of like authority and submission, but those differences are part of the curse that came after the fall. So, you know, they're not part of God's very good design. Uh and particularly when a woman becomes a believer and is saved, she is liberated from the need to submit to, say, her husband or to male authority in the church. That is the position of uh egalitarianism And and it says that, okay, it's based on this idea that um authority and submission uh within marriage and in the church uh as a male-female dynamic comes from the fall and is part of the curse But that's just not true. Um it's not uh a faithful reading of Genesis. We saw a couple weeks ago that um that uh in God's design before the fall in Genesis two, God created um Adam to be the leader of his family and the authority uh within his family. Right? We we saw that in how or I I guess I'll open that up to you guys. How how did we see that God gave Adam the authority even before the fall? Yeah, so he gave Adam authority generally over creation. Um that's right. So what did what did Adam do uh with the animals in Genesis 2? He he named them, right? And he also named Eve, his wife, right? Uh he didn't name her Eve until after the fall, but he named her woman. That is not implying that she's an animal. Adam still has the authority to name his wife. He still has the authority to teach her God's commands. Remember we saw that last time? Um Adam was the one who taught Eve the commands not to eat of the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Adam was created first. Remember, Paul uses that fact to say that women should not have positions of teaching authority in the church, the fact that that Adam was created first. So that must mean that Adams creation first uh places him in a position of headship and authority. Um so all these things were before the fall, right? This dynamic of of loving authority and helpership uh in marriage and between a man and a woman existed before the fall. Uh and it's not a result of the curse. Right? And and we see that in how the the rest of the curse affected creation. You know, in all uh when God cursed uh gave gave those consequences for the fall to the serpent and to Adam and Eve, um He didn't introduce any new dynamics into creation with those curses. Um rather he took things that were already there in creation and were supposed to be good and made them difficult. Right. So we see that with work, for example. Right. Um God w after Adam sinned, God said to Adam Cursed is the ground because of you, with hard labor you shall eat from it all the days of your life. So does that mean work is the result of the curse? No, how do we know? Yeah, Adam was working before, right? He was til uh it says in Genesis two fifteen, the Lord God took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to cultivate it and tend it. Right? So Adam was working before the fall. It's just that After the fall his work became what? Toilsome, difficult. Yeah, it produ the ground produced thorns and thistles for him. And Um throughout ever since then, throughout human history, men have been responding sinfully to those difficulties of work And you know our sinful responses tend to come in one of two extremes. We're we're either workaholics or we're lazy. We either idolize our work or we uh shirk our responsibility Um it's the same thing with with childbearing. Right? Uh when when God came to Eve after she had sinned, he said, I will greatly multiply your pain in childbirth. In pain you shall deliver children. Does that mean childbirth is an effect of sin and the fall? No. Right. God gave Adam and Eve the command to be fruitful and multiply before before the fall. It's just that the thing that was supposed to be a joyful act of obedience to God became something painful and difficult. Right. And just like men respond sinfully to work, women also throughout human history respond sinfully to childbearing Um in in two extremes, right? Either avoidance of childbearing or idolization of children. Right? There are uh some women would say like, oh, you know, I don't wanna uh I don't want to ruin my career or ruin my body so I'm never gonna have children. Um and some other women sort of make their lives entirely about like um their children and and see their entire fulfillment in raising and and bearing children and neither one of them is God's ideal. Uh but it's the same thing, you know, uh with with headship and helpership, uh authority and submission. uh between men and women. That's not something that came about as a result of the fall. It was present as we just saw before the fall. Um it's just that the fa what what sin did was take something in God's very good design that was supposed to be harmonious and beautiful and made it difficult and combative and full of conflict Right. So when God comes to um to Eve uh in Genesis three after the fall, he says, Yet your desire will be for your husband, and he shall rule over you. So the curse is not male authority and female helpership or submission. The curse is that it now becomes um a competition Right, a combative thing, uh full of conflict. And just like we men respond sinfully to the curse on work and women respond sinfully to the curse on childbearing, men and women respond sinfully to this curse on um their relationship with each other. Right? Men respond sinfully at the extremes of one extreme of domination where we take our authority and we assert it um aggressively and uh in a dominating way. And then the other extreme for us is abdication of our leadership responsibility. Right, and and uh for women uh the the dynamic or th what uh the sinful response, sorry, to um the difficulty in this male-female relationship is on the one hand usurpation, like that attempting to take on the authority that God has given to the man uh and assert herself over the man uh versus uh manipulation or you might call it enticement to sin, right? Staying within that sort of submissive role but but trying to lead from below into uh into sin. And we we see that a lot in in Scripture. So there are male sinful responses to this curse and there are female sinful responses to this curse. And they both occur on these on these kind of uh spectrums defined by these extremes. And so that is what SIN has really done to our uh relationship as men and women. And just uh we're gonna go pray in in a second here, but uh I just want to illustrate this with a personal story. Um From last week on Friday we went down to to D C to see the cherry blossoms and go to the Museum of the Bible. And you know, we kinda packed probably too much into the day. Um and so we were we were walking from the Museum of the Bible to the title basin, which is like, I don't know, ten blocks or something. It's it's kind of far. Uh for F with three kids. Uh and our kids were like tired and our our four year old daughter was cranky and not getting a nap and everything and so But like I'm the leader of the family, right? So I'm trying to like lead our family on to this this uh new thing and then this experience that we all wanted. And um, you know, there's just a lot of complaining and I'm I'm like, oh this is so painful, I don't want this. God, you made a mistake putting me in charge of this family. Like, why did you do this? Well, I don't want to be the leader. This is terrible. So I was essentially, you know, in my heart, like shaking my fist at God's design. and saying, God, your design was bad. You you made a mistake because I'm not supposed to be in charge of my family. Now, I repented after that. You know, the next day I was like, wow um I was rebelling in my heart against God's design. And that that actually puts me in the same category as like an LGBT activist. Right, who who shakes their fist at God's design and says, Your design for men and women is bad and oppressive and we need to overthrow it. So the same sin exists in my heart Right? Um and I would imagine it exists in all of your hearts too in some form. I would encourage you to watch out for it. Right? Be on guard against that kind of sin. Guard your heart and watch over it. And um And when you find yourself subtly rebelling against God's design, repent of that. Right? Repent and say, God, you are wise, you are good, your design is good, even though I don't like it, even though I don't feel like it's good. Help me to feel the right way about your design. That's what I had to pray for myself, and that's that's what we all have to pray when we when we rebel in our hearts against God's design