Well through the years I've watched my share of sci-fi movies. When we are in a lighter mood and talking to some of you, I know some of your favorites. Science fiction fascinates many people I think maybe because it employs God's gift of imagination to try to project alternate or future possibilities. A lot of these sci-fi movies focus on some future cataclysmic event. There's Independence Day, if you've seen that, the invasion of hostile extraterrestrials. Face American Pride. There's the Transformers. Deep Impact is a comet curdling toward Earth with devastating consequences. The day after tomorrow, environmental damage plunges Earth into a new ice age, and so on. You maybe have a favorite flick and um Maybe even one when you watched it it unnerved you a little bit as you thought about, hmm, maybe that could happen. Would that happen? And you maybe even did some research on it I don't think you and I as believers need to be concerned about this planet's future, though. Unlike non-Christians who don't have a base, they don't have an anchor, they don't really know the future, we do. And we know why the future is the way it is. We can rest assured where they cannot rest assured. None of the scenarios that they say might happen will actually transpire. That's right? I can predict that right now. They'll never happen. They never have happened, and they're not going to happen. Unless someone does a a movie on the book of Revelation and then it will not be sci-fi. It'll be real. As plausible as their scenarios seem to them They still have to remain in the realm of fiction. For God, our Creator, has given our planet a universal and unending promise of guardianship. He did it to stabilize and regulate the world in which we live so that we could have peace and security. If there is one future event we should fear, it is not nuclear annihilation. It is not global climate disaster. It is not the explosion of a super volcano somewhere in the middle of America, ending all life. Rather, it is the unleashing of the wrath of the Lord Jesus Christ, the wrath of the Lamb, as described in Revelation upon the whole world. Book of Revelation is as dramatic as it can be, and it is indeed true. Our world, believe it or not, is preserved from a worldwide catastrophic event until there is a worldwide catastrophic event that will not be man-made, it will be God's final and fiery judgment. And Genesis chapter 9 and verses 8 through 17 lays down God's guarantee. It's really what it is. It's a beautiful passage that guarantees the stability in present life. And we're going to read it and learn some lessons about the Lord and life as well. Genesis nine and verses eight through seventeen. Then God spoke to Noah and to his sons with him, saying, Now, behold, I myself do establish my covenant with you and with your descendants after you. And with every living creature that is with you, the birds, the cattle, and every beast of the earth with you, of all that comes out of the ark, even every beast of the earth. I established my covenant with you, and all flesh shall never again be cut off by the water of the flood. Neither shall there again be a flood to destroy the earth. God said, This is the sign of the covenant which I am making between me and you and every living creature that is with you for all successive generations. I set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a sign of a covenant between me and the earth It shall come about when I bring a cloud over the earth that the bow will be seen in the cloud, and I will remember my covenant, which is between Between me and you and every living creature of all flesh. And never again shall the water become a flood to destroy all flesh When the bow is in the cloud, then I will look upon it to remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is on the earth And God said to Noah, This is the sign of the covenant which I have established between me and all flesh that is on the earth. Maybe as reading that you are hearing some recurrent themes. And we're going to get to those in a minute. Just a little bit of review about the book of Genesis itself. Really, Genesis is the only book anywhere in the world today that accurately informs us the details About how all things began. It's common sense that if someone is going to trust in a religion or some faith of some kind, they should trust in one that's comprehensive That tells us what happened in the past and what will happen in the future. Many people turn to religions like Buddhism and jet yes, even atheism, which is really a kind of a fate And those are very they're not comprehensive religions. They can't tell about origins. They can't give us meaning for life. They can't project into the future. They're very limited in what they actually can say and do say But Christianity and Judaism relies on the truth on this precious book, the only book in the world that it accurately informs us the details about how all things began. Think about that, how precious this book is. We pointed out before in the series that Genesis It was written so that it would be believed. Even though people talk about the first eleven chapters and relegate it to myth, it's not myth. It was written to be interpreted literally and historically and something to be believed. In its pages, we read of the creation of the world, the beginning of humanity, the beginning of marriage and the meaning of marriage, the beginning of sin and judgment and death civilization and many of the technologies that we wonder how did they began did not begin through the evolution of man, but we're told here how it began. We're also told of a cataclysmic event in Earth's past, this global flood. And all of that is recorded here in Genesis. Previously, if you look back at the end of chapter 8 and then the beginning of chapter 9, we also studied That as man stepped off of the ark and into the new world, God promised there would be provisions for man. He made sure that life would continue. He judged life in the old world, but now he made sure it would continue in the new world. Noah and his family and the animals, they disembarked from the ark and God provided for them We also noted that at this time in human history, God instituted, and it was strategic that he did it at this point in time, the death penalty, as a just penalty for those who would kill innocent human life. And also, because he instituted the death penalty, he started and began, many believe, the government as a deterrent to the development of violence and sin. Remember, in the world Pre-flood, it was filled with violence. There were very few checks and balances on the violence of man, and so God instituted the right of human government to take life. And of course, if they can take life, they can regulate commerce and they can regulate other things as well. So God didn't want the post-flood world to be like the pre-flood world, and this was something new that he instituted here. Unlike the false reasonings of those who oppose the death penalty today, the death penalty is mandated not only here, but also in God's law, in the law of Moses. And keep in mind whatever imperfections there are in the death penalty today, those same imperfections would have been in the uh hands and in the lives of those who would have to execute it in times past because it's sinful people that God gave this right to. And sometimes they get it wrong, unfortunately, but God nevertheless instituted God was saying that guilty life now, that is, life that took the life of another, was to be ended. It was to be taken The innocent life was to be valued. It had to be valued, and the only way to value it was life for life. The equality of that. It was life for life, and later Moses would extend that as God talked to him and said all the rest of that. Eye for eye, tooth for tooth. Someone has said, if you live by eye for eye, everyone will be blind. That's not true. The person that takes an eye should lose his eye. Not everyone takes an eye, not everyone takes a life. And those who do take a life, their life should be taken. It would act as a just penalty if it was administered equally and without prejudice. Human life has dignity. It has dignity beyond any other life. Why does it have dignity? Because it's made in the image of God. It's the only life that is made in the very likeness of Almighty God. And so it must be valued and protected. It is not the guilty life God protects. It is the innocent life God protects. Now, today in this passage we're hearing more about God's provision for and protection of human life. It's really the theme. of chapter eight and chapter nine. The life that steps off the ark, how is God going to set up for them so that it will go well with them? We hear in a categorical sense here that God will protect, God will preserve human life. And not only the human race, but But the animals as well. And this is a fascinating part of it. Never again will God destroy the world with a flood. By implication, if there were twenty other ways the world was going to be destroyed and human life was going to end, this wouldn't be much of a promise. Oh sure, he's not going to destroy us by a flood, but we'll be hit by a comet and we'll all die anyway, so what's the big deal So by implication he's saying I'm going to preserve human life, and that extends to all the fears and imaginations of other ways the world might be destroyed. No, that's not going to happen It will happen in the end times because God has spoken when that will happen, how that will happen, why that will happen, but it'll be an act of God in the truest sense of that phrase. What we learn for ourselves in a passage like this that is not giving us any direct application, and so we wonder what benefit do we derive from a portion of the Word of God like this that is not reminding me that we need to be thankful or reminding us to abstain from sexual immorality or some of those obvious kinds of applications that we need to be reminded of in the Word of God. When we come to something like this, what we need to do is take a step back and see that what we're reading here is that God's in control Everything that's going to happen, everything that would transpire in human history and on the planet, how man would interact with his environment, everything that covers everything down here. God would be in control of all of it and God would guarantee it would go forward Since he's in control, since he preserves life, that gives us some stability, and surprisingly, it also gives us a knowledge of his goodness that we can take to unbelievers. And I'll talk about that in a little bit So God is in control, and we learn this lesson by studying these characteristics of what we're going to call, or others have called, the Noahic covenant, that is, the covenant that God made with Noah. And there are four main characteristics of this covenant. That will be our outline today. Four characteristics of the Noah covenant that teach us about God. And this passage really is a covenant section. You can see that quite clearly in verses 9 and 11. It makes it very clear where God says, I am establishing my covenant. The first characteristic of this covenant is that it was unilateral. And you could jot that down. It was unilateral. God uses the word covenant here, and he uses it for the first time in the book of Genesis. Some people believe that there was a covenant before the Noah covenant, and they believe it was a covenant with Adam or the Adamic covenant. Done in the Garden of Eden because of the way God had arranged the the way he would interact with man in the garden. But there is nowhere in Genesis 2 or anywhere around there that specifies that that arrangement God had with human life in the garden was a covenant. That language is not used there And there is a sign that God gives in this first of all covenants with Noah And there was no sign of any covenant given with Adam. So it's likely this is the first covenant that God made with mankind And the covenant comes, you may remember, after a time where Noah got off of the boat and he worshipped how important worship is to God. He worshiped God, he made the animal sacrifices, and he received instruction God gave instruction, that is, to Noah. In other words, God was in relationship to Noah, and in that relationship, he now makes a covenant with him and his posterity and the animals that are really under his rule as well. And he repeats the information that he gave just prior to this, but he adds more information, and he takes the promises that he gave and he solidifies it and gathers it into a solemn covenant That he wants to be remembered, that he bases on his own character that he will keep it, so we'll learn to trust him. And so this covenant becomes a solemn promise from God. Want to ask what is a covenant all about? Why are they important? The word covenant in Hebrew is berit, and um it's kind of similar to a vow or to an oath, but not exactly the same A vow is a pledge or an oath that we would make in a religious setting or having a religious character. You might vow to God, something that you promise to keep. An oath is similar, but it's usually directed towards other human beings, and so we we put ourselves under oath as a solemn promise, such as in legal proceedings. A covenant is a solemn contract or an agreement between two or more parties that bind them in some common interest or some common responsibilities in which promises are made and stipulations are required. Covenants are actually very important and quite abundant in the Bible. You cannot study the Bible seriously without tackling these covenants that are in there and trying to understand how do they relate to us, what do they actually mean. By the way, much archaeological evidence has proven that the ancients practiced covenants quite a bit. It was important to them, and being a person of your word in a covenant was very important as well. Now we can't study the life of Noah fully without noting that God did make a covenant with him and with his descendants. And that this is, as far as we know, the first covenant that God made with any man. And then we need to figure out what does it mean and why did he do that. In fact, if we were to look and take our eyes beyond Genesis 9, 10, and 11 and go into chapter 12, 13, 14, and 15 in Genesis, we'd see in chapter 15 that God made a covenant with Abraham And he cut the covenant actually by with animal parts, and it was a dreadful but very important time in Abraham's life. And that covenant applied to Abraham's uh descendants, Isaac. And to Jacob and uh the nation of Israel was in covenant with um with uh God as well. But so is the book of Exodus with the Mosaic covenant, that is, the covenant that God made through the mediator Moses. And then in Leviticus and Numbers and Deuteronomy, there's much covenant language there tied in with the Mosaic covenant Then there's the Palestinian covenant made in the Book of Deuteronomy and the Davidic covenant, obviously associated with David, that is begun in 1 Samuel but it's ratified in 2 Samuel. And then it's even explained and sung about in the Psalms and in other portions of the Old Testament. And it goes on and on, including the writing prophets. And then you come to the New Testament, and what is a testament but a covenant? And so all of the New Testament is about a covenant. You and I are new covenant believers, and we're under a better covenant, the book of Hebrews says. than the old covenant. We partake of the Lord's Supper, which is the sign of a covenant we are in with God, the new covenant. So knowing the covenants provides a framework for understanding your Bibles and understanding God's plan throughout Scripture. And how you fit into it, and how the church fits into it, and what the church is supposed to be doing in this age under this covenant If you've ever read all the way through your Bible, you may have had difficulty figuring out how does it all fit together. You see a storyline, but you're not quite sure how it all connects. Well, the covenants provide the skeleton of Scripture, and most everything else in the Bible hangs on these covenants. They will give you greater understanding of the overall plan of God. and allow you to rejoice as you see God stick to his word, keep his word, and fulfill what he intended to do. Now in the ancient world, as is true now, covenants came basically in two types. There were bilateral covenants and there were unilateral covenants. A bilateral covenant meant that both parties or more than two parties, had responsibilities. I'll do this if you do this. And they would meet and they would each have responsibilities and the covenant could be broken on either side. A unilateral covenant, on the other hand, amounted to basically an oath or a promise on the part of one person. The Noak covenant, as you may have read here and picked up as we read it It is a unilateral covenant, not a bilateral covenant. Because, notice again, it's only God who speaks Noah says nothing. In fact, we've been noting as we've been studying the life of Noah that he really doesn't talk a lot. He does things, but he doesn't really say too much. But here only God promises what he is going to do, and he says, I will establish my covenant. In fact, he's emphatic about that if you look at verse 9. Now I, behold, I establish my covenant. That is really emphasized. And he calls it not my covenant not our covenant, but my covenant. And even the sign of the covenant, he says: the bow in the cloud is my bow. Following God's statements, no action on the part of Noah is required. It's not asked for. There's no response at all that is recorded. There's no assent to it that Noah is asked to do. So this covenant amounts to a solemn divine promise that God is making to all of mankind. Coming from God at this exact point in human history served as an incredible, reassuring guarantee for the human race. You have to try to envision what it would have been like to have been Noah or one of his sons or one of the women on the ark, what they went through, and why God spoke this at this exact time. They say that people are are changed by witnessing a powerful act of nature. When they're right up close to a terrible tornado, maybe their home has been torn apart and they were in it and they survived. It changes them forever. Or even worse, a hurricane, which is a you know a thousand times stronger than a tornado, and they decided they would have a hurricane party and and hang out, you know, by the seashore and the rest of us are watching on news and thinking, were they crazy? And they go through it, they come out the other side and they're like, Oh we'll never do that again. It changes people or an earthquake, a a severe kind of an earthquake But those were small fish to fry compared to what happened in Noah's day. Very small. An entire globe was engulfed in water above the mountaintops. Think of that. Every piece of vegetation on every hill was wiped out. Every person drowned. The entire world was obliterated, was liquidated, literally. And they saw and they felt it. They smelt it. This was a horrendous destruction. They were up close It was not a adventure ride. It was not alternate reality. It was what happened right in front of them. They knew it. And so every creature and every person who stepped off that ark, the last living people and animals on the planet. did so after witnessing the greatest cataclysm ever. And there is no sci-fi movie that could compete with that reality. I think we can all agree when they stepped off that arc, it was not like they were just bounding and skipping off of a cruise ship after being in the Caribbean. No one going through that could be anything but shaken to their core. And so the Lord is repeating this again and again. I'm telling you this because this shows you how historical this is. It matches the actual life situation. Look at it again. Chapter 8. 21 even says it. I will never again destroy every living thing as I have done. That's emphatic. And then Genesis 9, 11, and all flesh shall never again be cut off by the water of the flood. Neither shall there again be a flood to destroy the earth. Genesis 9, verse 15. Never again shall the water become a flood to destroy all flesh. Listen, they needed to hear that. They needed that reassurance. Sometimes we need that reassurance as well. We need to hear too that God is in control. We're not worried right now about a worldwide flood But we are worried about other things, what will happen with our country, what will happen with our lives and our economy. Maybe some people worry about some kind of a germ outbreak or virus, a killer virus We need to hear that God is still our God and He still is sitting on His eternal throne, right? For believers in Jesus, we need to be reminded all things work together for good, to those who love God, to those who are called according to His purpose. We need to hear that. God swore to them back then that they would never need to worry about their children or their grandchildren or the generations To come after that, once they were off that ark, there would never be a need to build another ark. Yes, there would be many local floods. We believe even an ice age that followed the flood, not preceding it. Upheavals, earthquakes would happen because the tectonic activity started with the moving of the plates that were associated with the unleashing of the waters under underneath them But nothing approaching even one hundredth the size of what they had in Noah's flood. Life was promised to go on. And the seasons were promised to regularly turn for the crops and the provision, as we learned in chapter eight Human life and animal life was emphatically promised it will continue and multiply and spread over all the earth, and nothing will stop that from happening. And of course, it would be very misleading and a meaningless promise if all of life were to get wiped out some other way besides a flood. by zombies or by germs or comets or alien invasions God has kept his promise, has he not? Are we not all here? There's seven point some billion in the world today. I think he kept his promise There are plenty of people in Australia, in South America. There are people in Asia, all over Asia, North America, Europe, Africa. Even on the islands, there are people. Even on Antarctica, there are people down there. Probably more penguins. But God has preserved his promise through over 4,000 years of human history. We're told in Ephesians 2 verse 12 concerning another promise of God. What God had promised, he was able also to perform. Now we come to the second characteristic of this Noah covenant, not only unilateral but universal. This covenant is universal. It is called the Noic covenant, but it could be called the Universal Covenant or God's covenant with all mankind. The wording of the covenant leaves no doubt that the intent was to be a covenant with every living, breathing thing in the world. A universal covenant. Notice again at the end of verses 9 and 10. With you and with your descendants after you and with every living creature that is with you. And then even specifies that in the broadest categories, the birds. the cattle and every beast of the earth with you, of all that comes out of the ark, even every beast of the earth. But what could be clearer? Also the statement in verse eleven, he says, all flesh. At the end of verse eleven it mentions the protection of all the earth. Again, verse twelve, between me and you and every living creature that is with you for all successive generations. Also at the end of verse thirteen. Look at verse fifteen. Between me and you and every living creature of all flesh. He just he just beats this drum again and again. Verse sixteen. between God and every living creature of all flesh that is on the earth. So if you go to the moon you're not covered. Before in verse in chapter 6, way back in chapter 6 and verse 17, God swore that all breath outside of the ark would perish, and he kept that promise too. Now he's reversing that arrangement and saying now he swears all life and breath outside of the ark will live and not perish. Guaranteed. By the way, another proof of the Bible's divine inspiration for over 4,000 years and counting, how would they know that something like this would never happen again? They would have no way of knowing, but God guaranteed it Also, another proof that the flood couldn't possibly have been a giant local flood, or none of this would have any meaning whatsoever. It just makes a mockery of the text to call it a local flood. It was spoken to Noah, to Noah's sons, and to their posterity. It was not for one family, but for the whole family of humanity. Including us. Every generation afterwards. All men. This is the covenant God made with us. Also the covenant that God has made with unbelievers who are outside today and not worshiping him. Or who are worshiping nature rather than him, or a false God rather than him. They enjoy this world without a worldwide cataclysm. They get to enjoy it every single day, despite sci-fi imaginations. They enjoy it because God promised and guaranteed it for them as well. And please notice, as maybe you did, this covenant God made is with the animals as well. It's one of those fascinating biblical facts. If someone came to you and said, true or false, God made a covenant with animals, what would you say? I would never make a covenant with an animal. I'm not gonna make any covenant with my dog. You know. I'll give him a piece of bacon, maybe. And if I choose not to, I'm not. There's no promise that's gonna come there in between God made a covenant, a solemn promise to the animals. This is fascinating, isn't it? In this way, animals are tied to man The animals are not viewed separate. He's not making this covenant with the animals apart from man, but as he makes this covenant with man, he extends it to those that are under his rule, and that is the animals who have breath in their lungs. They are under man's sway, and so he includes them, he gathers them under this covenant, and says, This promise is for them as well This doesn't mean that there will never be an animal that becomes extinct. It means that the animals as massive groupings will continue on. And indeed there have been. The cattle's still here, the birds are still here, all the major classifications of the animals are here, including the reptiles. Dinosaurs were reptiles, remember that. The animals are part of God's care. God actually enters into covenant with them. They are God's creatures as well. He made them He invented them. He now provides for them. By the way, I think that Jesus was hinting at at least the effects of the Noah covenant in Matthew 6. 26. In the Sermon on the Mount, where he told his disciples, Look at the birds of the air, that they do not sow, nor reap, nor gather in the barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them He's still taking care of the creatures, you see. It's not that they never die, it's that as class uh animals, he cares for them. Back in chapter 9 and verse 5, it says that God both holds any animal responsible for killing an innocent man and then requires their life to be taken if they do. If an animal killed a human being, God actually had a law killed the animal. And now he makes a covenant with the animals. They are beneficiaries. Yes, animals are part of our world, and yes, God has a plan for them. Scripture assigns a measure of dignity to them, albeit below that of humanity, far below that of humanity. Animals, we are told, will still be part of the millennial kingdom in the prophecies in Isaiah. During the thousand-year reign of Christ on earth, animals will be there and they'll be much more peaceful. In Jonah chapter three, very interestingly, the king of Nineveh, Jonah was to preach to Nineveh, and he did. He decided, he told all the people to dress in sackcloth, and he said Put all the animals in sackcloth as well so they can participate in the repentance. Citywide repentance, including the animals. It's pretty amazing. I mean, an angel talked through Balaam's donkey, right? Jesus rode into Jerusalem at the time where he was presenting himself as the Messiah of Israel, the long-awaited Messiah of Israel. He came on the foal of a donkey. Ravens kept Elijah alive through a severe famine by bringing him morsels of food. A bear fulfilled prophecy by tearing some insubordinate teenage boys. That's a good passage to use, parents, whenever the young guys are getting out of line. Dogs licked up Jezebel's blood to fulfill prophecy. Samson used foxtails to light a field fire and cause a conflict with the Philistines. A great fish spit up Jonah in the direction that he was supposed to go as a reminder, not to Tarshish, go to Nineveh. And of course, ants teach a lesson on hard work in the book of Proverbs. A worm attacked Jonah's shade plant so that Jonah would learn a lesson of compassion that God had on the lost. We're told that when the Holy Spirit descended on Jesus after his baptism in the Jordan, he came in the form or the likeness of a dove. And then of course a lamb is that which provides the sacrifice on Passover and on and on. Clearly, after Noah, animals would be part of The story of the Bible. And God preserved them so that that story could be told. So the Noah covenant is universal, man and animals. And listen to this, none of the other covenants in the Bible are universal. The others are for select groups, either for the nation of Israel or the church or Abraham's descendants. And so the Noah covenant is unique. It's the only universal covenant. All nations and all peoples benefit from the goodness of God, even today, because of this covenant Every day people wake up and they stretch and they pull their curtains and they let the sun shine in and they get their cup of coffee and then they head into their day to do what they want because of the stability in this world because of this covenant God made. This covenant really is the basis for a biblical doctrine, the doctrine of common grace. Some have denied the reality of common grace, but common grace is real, and it is a doctrine of the Bible. Common grace is undeserved favor from God that He bestows on all creatures, not just believers Man does not deserve a world that is protected by God, but God provides that world for man nonetheless This common grace is valuable for us as believers, for it leaves us a testimony to the nations of God's goodness. And that testimony of God's goodness coming out of this covenant undergirds our evangelism and our witness to the world. We are preaching a God who loves, and we have standing behind us a world that is the example of God's loving and generous provision. When we preach the gospel of Jesus Christ, we say that He's a patient God and a kind God and a generous God and a giving God. Anyone then can look around us and can see the evidence of that if they're willing. They see his common grace. They know that there are good things that have happened to them. They breathe the air, they're under the sunshine, they have rainfall on their crops, and that gives evidence to the reality of the gospel. And leads people to salvation. In fact, no less than the Apostle Paul, a great evangelist, relied on the Noah covenant and the goodness of God to accomplish this very thing in his evangelism. In Acts chapter 14, in verses fifteen through seventeen. There he preached a living God who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and all that is in them In the generations gone by, Paul preached, he permitted all the nations to go their own ways, and yet he did not leave himself without witness. In that He did good and gave you rains from heaven and fruitful seasons, satisfying your hearts with food and gladness. He kept you alive. He has been providing for you all the way along. And Paul reminded them of this and said, and now he sent his son, the Lord Jesus Christ, also, to win you back to himself and to pay for your sins. Common grace helps lead sinners back to repentance. In Romans two, verse four, it notes that very truth. The kindness of God leads unbelievers to repentance. So this is a universal covenant to move men to repentance along with keeping them alive so they can view the kindness Now the third characteristic of the Noah Covenant is that it is unending. It's unilateral, it's universal, and it's also unending. And this really just goes with the universal part. It's to all generations, never again will God cut off and destroy the earth with waters. Verse 11. This is God's commitment to the new world. Every generation of parents was privileged to pass on this promise to their next generation It could be twenty generations, fifty generations removed from Noah, but they could still look at their children and say, don't worry, life on this planet will continue and will always continue until the Lord Jesus Christ returns from heaven. It was the security blanket. It allowed everybody, even the generations removed from this that never witnessed the flood, but heard about the flood. Even maybe they thought it might be just a myth, but they heard about it and they wondered, and allowed all of them to build their families and to build their family clans and then build their nations and then build their civilizations and their cities It would undergird all of that, this promise of God. As they spilled all over the world, they took the story, though it got distorted in different places of the flood. and of Nu or Noah, and they told about the boats and about the animals, and often they would pass this on that God made a promise that life would continue And so they built their homes and they built their forts and their obelisks and their castles and their towers, and they had this confidence. The world would not be destroyed. For the promise was unending, way, way off into the future. Noah would be able to be fruitful and multiply as he was told to be. Nations would be allowed to be formed as they were fruitful and multiplied. Of course, there was the stirring of the languages, and that helped the nations to divide up and uh to spread out all over the world Then Abraham was chosen and Abraham was called into the promised land. He would be allowed to do that as well. The nation of Israel then would be formed and then delivered out of the land of Egypt The times of the judges and the united and divided kingdom of Israel would come and go, and God would work through all of that. There would be the time of the deportation, the Babylon, then Israel restored, then those four hundred years of silence between the testaments. And then the first century would come with Christ and his apostles and the birth of the church and the launching of the gospel, and now 2,000 years of church history. And man being given time to develop technology and all of that also to fulfill prophecy. And there would be no worldwide flood There would be nothing that would even be close to that. There'd be nothing that would resemble that. So that all of that could happen. This covenant undergirded everything else that was going to happen in the plan of God on this planet. We're even told in the future when Christ returns, He's not going to come back and have to land on a boat. The world is going to be dry land. He will reign over the world, Psalm 2 tells us, from Jerusalem, from Zion, on dry ground. Because God is in charge, and God will not allow this world to be destroyed. Psalm 93:1 says, The Lord reigns, he is clothed with majesty. The Lord has clothed and girded himself with strength. Indeed, the world is established. It will not be moved. It can't be destroyed. There won't be any supernova that destroys that blows up and ruins this planet. God will keep his promise. God will keep the waters at bay, and God will keep life on the planet here. We never come to a time in our lives where this promise is nullified. Moses' law and the Mosaic Covenant did not cancel this. Jesus' work on the cross did not set this covenant aside Even Peter, when he was speaking of the end times, compared this covenant, the destruction of the flood, with the destruction in the end times. In fact, just turn there briefly to 2 Peter in the New Testament And um verse chapter 3 and verse 3, 2 Peter 3, 3, and just see how he ties the past world with the present world, and what lays in between there is this reality of the Noah covenant. 2 Peter 3 and verse 3 and then following. He writes there, 2 Peter 3:3. Know this first of all that in the last days mockers will come with their mocking, following after their own lusts. You see? Right there Uh Peter knew all about Bilmar. He's right there in verse 3. Mockers following after their own lusts. Not not logic. Verse 4, and saying, Where is the promise of his coming? For ever since the fathers fell asleep, all continues just as it was from the beginning of creation. Verse 5, For when they maintain this, it escapes their notice that by the word of God the heavens existed long ago, and the earth was formed out of water, and by water, through which the world at that time was destroyed, being flooded with water, but by his word the present heavens and earth are being reserved For fire. Reserved also means preserved, right? They're not going to be destroyed before that fire hits And they are kept for the day of judgment and the destruction of ungodly men. There is not going to be another civilization somewhere far out there that gets to judge this planet We ourselves will not get to judge this planet. God will bring the judgment fire to this planet. It's his creation It's his prerogative. They couldn't end it before. They can't end it now. This is his plan and it won't end. And the Noah Covenant is is the stability between the water and the fire And that's a long, long time, and that's where you and I live. Although I think we're closer to the fire than the water by now. It's just my thought. But I think that's what it is And this is beyond even the millennial kingdom, the thousand-year reign of Christ on earth. Alright, now we'll come back to Genesis 9. The fourth and the last attribute here is that it is unmistakable. This covenant is unmistakable. I had to come up with a U word, so I did unmistakable. The covenant was meant to be clear. There wasn't supposed to be anything kind of hazy to understand about this. God appointed a very prominent sign for the covenant. The term sign actually has been used before in Genesis. It means a token or a pledge or some kind of an outward mark It was used in Genesis 1. 14 concerning the stars and the moon and the sun as signs for seasons and things like that. It was used also interestingly in chapter 4, verse 15, as the sign that was put on Cain. So that at that time his life would not be taken. That was prior to this pronouncement here in Genesis 9. Here, the outward sign is attached to a promise, so that all will remember the covenant promise. Now If we were reading forward and we were going to talk about the Abrahamic covenant, we would see that after God made the covenant with Abraham, a couple of chapters later In chapter 17 and verse eleven of Genesis, there was also a sign that was given to the Abrahamic covenant, and it was the sign of circumcision. And the sign was very important to God because it showed you keeping the covenant When the covenant, the bilateral covenant, was made with Moses, the Mosaic covenant, there was also a sign given for that covenant, and it's described in Exodus chapter 31, verses 16 and 17. The sign of the Mosaic Covenant was keeping the Sabbath on the seventh day. That's why we don't keep it, because we're not under that covenant. That's why we're not Seventh-day Adventists. We're not under the law. We are under the new covenant, and there's a different sign for the new covenant. The old covenant had the sign of the Sabbath. There also is a sign for the Noah covenant, and it is the what? The rainbow. A sign only has meaning when it's connected to an explanation about the sign. And so God has given this explanation in His Word to make sure the meaning of the sign is grasped and is remembered. Here, the sign is clear and it's prominent. The rainbow in the cloud, way up high in the sky. When the clouds of a storm would pass by, often deep storm and dark clouds, cumulolimbus clouds. Usually on the back side of the storm they would look when the downpour is over, the sun would have come out, and they would see this very bright and cheerful and colorful rainbow. And remember that bow is there, so you remember my covenant and my promise. I will never, never let the flood or any other thing destroy the world again. We call it a rainbow, but it could be called a promise bow. It could even be called a sunbow because the sun was coming out. It is, of course, related to rain, but it means the rain will stop. The water will not ever be allowed to win again. God will keep the waters at bay. Ha ha ha. And the bow was placed way up in the sky, and it was placed between heaven and earth. Why? Because it shows that's where God made it And so heaven now has a promise with earth that heaven will never allow those clouds to flood this earth. It reminds everyone, God is faithful. Of course, we know the science behind the rainbow now. A rainbow happens when light is reflected and refracted and dispersed in those water droplets. And as they are spread, they are separated and bent into the different colors that become clear. And this is spectacular It's up in the sky. It's a spectacular kind of a sign. In fact, if you're outside in the summertime and there's a bright, beautiful rainbow, everybody stops and they start pointing to the sky and they get their binoculars out and their cameras and they say, Look, look It's unmistakable. It happens also all the way around the world. Everywhere where there's a thunderstorm, you can see a rainbow. If only people would remember what it's there for. But people are prone to forget the things God has said. How much they need to hear the preaching of the Word of God to bring those who are deceived back to truth. Or God calls it my bow, my bow in the clouds. It's from Him, it's for His promise. He put it in the clouds That makes it even more a divine sign because God's presence is also very often associated with the clouds of power. When Christ returns, he will return. The Psalms speak of him being clothed in the clouds and writing on the clouds. Clouds are so suitable as a place for such a grand and far reaching sign. They're high above and lofty, and the clouds are often white and pure, and then the sun comes radiating through the clouds, and it just looks divine, doesn't it? And that gives the sense of the power of God far above us, and then the presence of God streaming down toward us The bow, you know, is an instrument of warfare, and many of the pagan religions in ancient times pictured their gods as gods of warfare with a bow and with arrows and shooting the arrows, even the lightning bolts being considered the arrows. And they came to make war. But here, this bow has no arrows with it. It carries the idea that God is there as the defender of peace and tranquility. As we've studied in Genesis, I've tried to point out that the straightforward and the natural way of reading these events is that they're meant to be understood as indicating things that were happening for the first time. I do believe that only after the flood were there rainbows up in the sky. There may have been bows on the earth with light hitting the mist that used to water the ground, but not up in the clouds. The easiest way to understand the source of global rain for all those consecutive days is that there was this water canopy, and we've mentioned this in earlier messages. No rain on the earth before the flood, no storms, no tectonic activity, very, very long lives that people read now and they have a hard time believing. Many physical differences of the world that then perished compared till now. And that's the natural reading of the text here as well. That is what has been happening when God speaks here in early chapters in Genesis. He's initiating something new, something he's not done before He puts the fear on the animals, that was new. The death penalty is instituted, that is new. He sent the flood, that had never happened before, and on and on. I believe the sign of the rainbow was brand new. I think it would seem rather inconsequential if the rainbow had always been in the clouds, and now God was just attaching a new meaning to it Imagine having a ring on your finger, men, and you always wore the ring from the time you were a child, and then you get married and you just tell your wife, Well, I'm assigning new meaning to it now, it's my wedding band. I'm not sure it would be quite as meaningful to do that. Besides, the idea that there was always a rainbow before this time is largely advanced by those who advocate the local flood theory and not the universal flood theory, which we've already shown from the language of Genesis is impossible. The new sign of the rainbow is for us to remember this one lesson: God will never destroy the world in water again. Of course, give perverse men enough time, and they will pervert all things holy, will they not? And they will turn the divine rainbow into a rallying cry to thumb their nose at God and defend sexual perversion. It's far more noble to stand for the things of God than for sexual perversion. Tragically, the rainbow is no longer associated with the holy promises of God. But that does not mean we should stop speaking it or declaring it, right? We stand for God's truth and we ask God, help us in that proclamation. Help us to be bold, help us to be clear in all the truths of Scripture. It is tragic and ironic that when God told men, I'm gonna destroy the world in a flood, you better repent of your sin. Men did not believe him. They did not seek his help. They laughed at his word and they died. Now that he has told them that he will not flood the world again, they keep trying to invent some way in which the world will be destroyed. And they again don't find any comfort or assurance in God's promise. They just speculate about the ways God is not in control and what may happen to planet Earth. Neither do they fear the fire of God that God says will happen again in the end time. Unbelievers are blind. Unbelievers do not have understanding. Unbelievers pervert all things that are good. But we hold to the truth. It's part of our stewardship to hold to it and to proclaim it and to dispense the truth to others. Oh, how we need to be those who trust in God We need to be those who study his word and understand it and get it straight and don't misuse his word or twist his word. We need to be those who preach it. We need to be those who pass it on. We need to be those who stand on the promises of God, but we need to be those who, once we hear the promises of God, are willing to live based upon the promises of God. It's not good enough to have Orthodox doctrine We can't just have orthodoxy, we have to have orthopraxy. We have to go forth and live in peace and confidence that the mission of the Church will go forth even under this Noah covenant as well as the new covenant We need to have peace and confidence in the sovereign reign of our God, that He's working through human history and that He will bring His plan to a conclusion. It's in that umbrella, in that confidence, under his banner, under his love, under his protection, that we go forward and we live our lives and we proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ. Christ. And as we do it, once in a while, and maybe you'll see one this summer, there's a rainbow that comes somewhere over our heads. And if we do and we're stuck with some crowd out there and they're all pointing to the rainbow, maybe, just maybe, you'll have enough courage. to turn them turn to them and say, Do you know why that bow is in the clouds? And you'll tell them about a faithful God, a good God, and then maybe God'll let that turn into an opportunity. For you to talk about the gospel of Jesus Christ. And wouldn't that be wonderful? Father, we thank you for your faithfulness We thank you for the inventive ways you've worked in human history. We thank you for this inspired record that we know what happened in the past and in the future. And here we are in the parentheses and between and you protect us and love us, and you're working your good purposes for mankind and for the church, and even for us individually, Lord. And we know you even protect our families. We didn't really talk about that today, but you protect our families as well. And we give you thanks today. And we have worshiped you and we've heard your word now, Lord. Help us to go forth in that confidence and in that peace. For Christ's sake, Amen