The nation of Israel is often in the forefront of world news. Now you're Bible-believing Christian, so that doesn't shock you. But if you were to look at the world and all the nations of the world and how big they are and how many people are in them, why would this tiny slither of land the size of New Jersey, be the center of world news in the year 2018 and beyond. The modern nation of Israel is currently celebrating their 70-year anniversary, 70 years as a modern nation from the signing of independence back in 1948. Seventy years they've been a modern nation, despite incredible, incredible hostility toward them from all their neighbors. Really, the nation of Israel is a miracle nation, a miracle of God's providence, we would call it Miracles of God's providence occurred in the Six Day War back in nineteen sixty-seven. If you take time to look at how They were opposed by all of the surrounding nations with greater armies and greater equipment and how God confused the enemies almost in biblical proportions you could see God preserving that nation and doubling the size of their nation and even having them recapture Jerusalem when they themselves were preparing for utter annihilation from surrounding nations. The nation of Israel, even today, is unlike any other nation. It's the only nation in the history of our world to be torn off of their land. scattered away into all of the other nations of the world for a period of 1,800 years and not having access in any um formal or political way to their own land, hated and persecuted in almost every place that they went, enduring a Holocaust And then to come back to their exact same boundaries to reconstitute as a nation and to live there again. It's one of a kind. There is no other nation like the nation of Israel. The origin of the nation of Israel even speaks more to its uniqueness. It goes back to the year 1406 or 1407, the year that Joshua conquered the land, some 3,400 years ago. God dispassed d dispossessed greater nations to make room for the nation of Israel, a nation of slaves that were coming into that land. under Joshua and then the judges and then the kings. They dwelled in that land. The southern kingdom was able to dwell in that land until the year 586 or 587 BC They were there for 820 years. But then, due to their own sin of idolatry, they were deported to Babylon, and they were there for some 70 years. Then when God moved the king to allow them to return, they regathered in various waves back into that same land again where they dwelled for some 550 more years. under the rule often of empires greater than they. Until after the days of Jesus, when the Roman general Titus sacked Jerusalem destroyed the temple and then carried the Jews off the land again. And then again at the time of the Bar Kotpa rebellion ending in 135 and 136 A. D. , they were permanently ripped off of their land, removed from their land, because they were just troublemakers to the Roman Empire. But they're back on their land again. Back there again. And there's really even more amazing history to this. Their history has roots even further back than Joshua. Seven hundred years prior to Joshua, Abraham walked in the land of promise, as it was called. He sojourned there. He pitched his tents. He was told that he and his descendants would have that land forever. In Genesis chapter 12 and verse 7, it says, The Lord appeared to Abram and said, To your descendants, I will give this land That's four thousand one hundred years ago. People want evidence that the Bible is true. That was four thousand one hundred years ago. How would anyone know they would still be on their land today back then? That was when nations were much, much smaller in population. They were still in the formative stages of who they were. And yet this promise was clear to Abram, and it was emphatic, and it was repeated many times throughout Israel's history, such as Exodus chapter 32 and verse 13. Remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, your servants, to whom you swore by your soul yourself, and said to them I will multiply your descendants as the stars of heaven, and all this land of which I have spoken, I will give to your descendants, and they will inherit it forever. Forever God promised that land to the nation of Israel. To call the nation of Israel special is a gross understatement. I once had a relative that said to me, There is no way the God who is the God of all people would ever choose just one nation as his own. That's what he said to me. And I said, but that's exactly what God has done, and God is God, and he could do whatever he wants to do. In Deuteronomy chapter 14 and verse twelve Verse 2 it says, For you are a holy people to the Lord your God, speaking to Israel. And the Lord has chosen you to be a people for his own possession out of all the peoples who are on the face of the earth. It's exactly what he did. He didn't choose the other nations. He chose the nation of Israel. And the reason God chose Israel is that all the other nations went their own way, following after not him, but idols. In Acts chapter 14 and verse 16, it says, In the generations gone by, God permitted all the nations to go their own ways. That's Paul preaching to the Gentiles. Then God sovereignly picked this one nation. It was a very small nation. It was a weak nation. It was a nation of slaves, and he chose it to be his. He chose it to be his, and he said, I will make my name resound to all the other nations, to every part of the entire world through this one nation. I will give my law through this nation. I will send the Savior of the world through this nation And that's what he did. In Deuteronomy chapter 7, verses 7 and 8, it says, The Lord did not set his love on you, Israel, nor choose you, because you were more in number than any of the peoples. For you were the fewest of all peoples. But because the Lord loved you and kept the oath which he swore to your f forefathers The Lord brought you out by a mighty hand and redeemed you from the house of slavery, from the hand of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. God is the one who established Israel as his nation. And God will never abandon the nation of Israel. He has promised the future of the nation of Israel. The prophets spoke about the near future, and they also spoke about the far future. And it made it about as clear as anybody reading the Bible would have it. I don't know how anyone can read this verse and not understand that God will never abandon the nation of Israel. Jeremiah Chapter 31, verses 35 to 36, by the way, in the context in which he promises the new covenant that will come for the nation of Israel. It says this, thus says the Lord, who gives the sun for light by day, and the fixed order of the moon and the stars for light by night. who stirs up the sea so that its waves roar. The Lord of hosts is his name. If this fixed order departs from before me declares the Lord, then the offspring of Israel also will cease from being a nation before me forever. He said, as long as you look up in the sky and you see a sun and moon and stars, as long as the ocean is stirring up storms, you will know Israel will be a nation in my sight. It will endure that long That's about as clear of a guarantee that you could have. The theme of Israel as a nation actually starts in the book of Genesis and it's carried all the way through to the end of the book of Revelation. Did you know that Israel is is formed in Genesis and is still spoken of in the book of Revelation. You cannot accurately understand your Bible Unless you understand God's purpose for the nation of Israel. I want to say that again because there are a lot of Bible teachers that don't believe what we're teaching. Today. So I'm going to say it again. You cannot properly understand the Bible you have in your hands the story of what God is doing as he reveals in the Bible if you do not understand the special role and place and program God has for the nation of Israel. How incomplete and even skewed Your understanding or my understanding of Scripture would be if we didn't understand the centrality of the nation of Israel, the promises that were given to this most blessed of all nations. The distinction between Israel as a nation and the spiritual nation of the church, so to say, that we are today. God's different program for the church than he has for the nation of Israel. even the future of the nation of Israel in God's prophetic program. Let's just recount this again. Israel was the nation that the patriarchs were promised. Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Israel is the nation to whom the law of God was given. Israel was the nation that wrote the scriptures. Israel is the context of most of the biblical history that you read. Israel was given the prophets. Israel was given the oracles of God. Israel was the nation that God chose to fight the battles for to help. And I think that's still going on, even in nineteen sixty-seven. We have evidence of that in our own our own generations. Israel's kingdom was promised prominence over all of the other kingdoms and all of the other nations in the entire world. Israel is the one that gave birth to the King of the Jews, the Lord Jesus Christ. Israel is the land where Jesus grew up, where he performed his miracles, where he was crucified, and where God chose for him to be raised and even ascended into heavenly places. Israel was where the church was born. Israel is the origin of all of the apostles of Jesus Christ and their teachings. Israel as a nation is taught about in the New Testament as well as the Old. Israel is where the Lord Jesus Christ will visibly return at his second coming. Israel in Jerusalem is where Jesus will reign as king and sit on the throne of David and rule over all the nations of the world for one thousand years and then beyond, even into the new heaven and the new earth. Yes, God has a plan for the nation of Israel to rule over all other nations. Because God also has a plan for all of the other nations in the world as well, into the future. Did you know the nations themselves, and people forget this theme in Scripture as they're reading, but the nations themselves are a major theme throughout Scripture? The nations were God's idea, God's creation. God thought of the idea of having diversity in nations, and God forced the creation of the nations. In Acts chapter 17 and verse 26, Paul was preaching, and he said, God made from one man every nation of mankind. That one man was not Adam, that one man was Noah. Because this all happened after the flood when they got off the boat and God told them to spread and they did not spread. Remember that? And God had to confuse their languages The core of a nation is its distinct language. Many times people think that the core of a nation is its economy or its government or its military, the way they arrange things. It's not The core of a nation is its language. And the languages of the world were formed at the Tower of Babel, where all of the tongues were confused by God. So Babel is the genesis of all of the nations of the world. For where people could communicate, those same people could work together. And where they could work together, they could build buildings together and streets together and monuments and anything that they would want. And then they could form society and develop a distinct culture and have their own expression of art and their own way of education. And all of the rest that goes with the nation, but it starts with the language. God made the nations, and He has a purpose for the nations, not just the nation of Israel. Nations besides Israel are in the prophecies of the Bible. In fact, God promises to bless some of those nations even into the millennial kingdom. The Church of Jesus Christ in this age is tasked with making disciples of all the nations because he has a plan for all the nations. When you turn to Revelation chapter 5 and verse 9, it actually shows that people are saved out of all of the nations. It says, every tribe and every tongue and every people and every nation. Why? Because they're going to populate this millennial kingdom and all the nations will be represented. Jesus prophesied in Matthew chapter 24 and verse 14, the gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in the whole world. as a testimony to all the nations, and then the end will come. What is the gospel of the kingdom? That there is a king who will rule over all of the world, and he is a Jewish king. And that has to be proclaimed to all the nations so that all of the nations will bow before the king of Israel. God is saving people out of all of the nations. Jesus is proclaimed among the nations, it says in First Timothy chapter three and verse sixteen Nations will populate the millennial kingdom according to Revelation chapter 20 and verse 3. And also according to Revelation chapter 20. and verse 8. Also in Matthew 25 and verse 32, Jesus gathers the nations before him when he returns and he judges those nations. Did you know, and all you need to do is read the last two chapters of the Bible, Revelation 21 and Revelation 22, did you know that even in the new earth there will be nations that are there? So today in the book of Acts, we are hearing in Peter's sermon and inspired explanation. of important truths about the nation of Israel. That's what we're going to focus on this time and next time as well. You can open in your Bibles to the book of Acts in chapter 3. Verses 17 through 26. We pick up in the middle of Peter's sermon. You can read the previous verses for yourself. We talked about them last week. But we pick up in the middle of his sermon where he makes a transition right in verse 17 of chapter 3. And now, brethren, Peter preaches, I know that you acted in ignorance just as your rulers did also. But the things which God announced beforehand by the mouth of all the prophets that his Messiah would suffer He has thus fulfilled. Therefore, repent and return, so that your sins may be wiped away. In order that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord, and that He may send Jesus, the Messiah, appointed for you. whom heaven must receive until the period of restoration of all things, about which God spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets from ancient time. Moses said, The Lord God will raise up for you a prophet like me from your brethren. To him you shall give heed to everything he says to you. And it will be that every soul that does not heed that prophet shall be utterly destroyed from among the people. And likewise, all the prophets who have spoken, from Samuel and his successors onward, also announce these days. It is you who are the sons of the prophets, and of the covenant which God made with your fathers, saying to Abraham, And in your seed all the families of the earth shall be blessed. For you first, God raised up his servant and sent him to bless you by turning every one of you from your wicked ways There's so much in here we won't get to all of it this week. Well as I said we pick up in the middle of Peter's sermon after such a strong charge against the Jerusalem dwellers, the leaders of Israel, the Jews, really it extends to the entire nation that charge in verses eleven through sixteen. Peter knew as he had experienced before back in Acts chapter 2 when he gave his first sermon that these unbelieving Jews, God may pierce them to the heart. to the heart. The Holy Spirit may work again very powerfully. And he preached to them and he just told them about what they had done in crucifying the Messiah. He knew that they would be wondering, so now what do we do? Now that you have charged us with killing our Messiah, what is there for us to do? After such a heinous crime is all lost. Is there any hope for the people of Israel? And so right here at verse 17, Peter shifts directions, and he begins presenting a prolonged portion about Israel's proper response to the news about Jesus as Messiah and what God plans to do for the nation of Israel. From Peter, we're going to use this text and we're going to pull out five truths about the nation of Israel. That's our outline. Five truths. about the nation of Israel. And I think this builds up our faith because as we see that God is faithful to his people, we begin to tie all of Scripture together and we see it's just a wonderful story that fits together, the story of our world. That people in an educational institution like this are not going to be told, but you're going to know it. You're going to understand it because you listen to God's word. So we'll just jump in and see how far we get. First truth. Israel acted ignorantly in killing Jesus. That's verse 17. Let me repeat that. Israel acted ignorantly when they killed their own Messiah. Look at verse 17 again. And this is really important. And now, brethren, I know that you acted in ignorance. Just as your rulers did. Remember, this is the large crowd gathered, very excited about the healing of the lame man, a profound miracle that could not be denied. a a true suspension of all normal natural laws. No one could deny it. It was amazing. So he has the average rank and file kind of guy that has gathered around him and he's preaching this to him and he says, I know you acted in ignorance. Now notice that Peter speaks to the brethren here. He is not talking to the Christian brethren. He's talking to his Jewish brethren. Peter and John were what? They were Jews, right? They were part of the nation of Israel. They're speaking as a believing remnant of Jews inside of the larger unrepentant and unbelieving nation. And he's speaking of their evil actions to bring them back to God, to have them repent and to have them return. And the evil actions that he means here, when he says, I know you acted in ignorance, he's referring back to verses 13 through 15. Remember that. They that he they were charged with four crimes. They turned Jesus over to the authorities. That was sinful. Then they disowned him in the presence of Pilate. Pilate wanted to re release him, so that was even worse Then they called for a murderer to be released instead of Jesus, which added insult to injury. And then worst of all, they're the ones responsible for crying out for his crucifixion, thinking they were doing a righteous act. Those actions were murderous. Those actions were wrong. They were unrighteous. But Peter says here, and he concedes really here, that their actions were done in ignorance. That's kind of shocking, I think, sometimes you read that. They were done in ignorance. The apostle, in other words, here is setting a bit of a softer tone than he had in his preaching when he preached on the day of Pentecost. They did what they did in ignorance. Now this this requires a little bit of thinking. What does he mean in ignorance? Does that mean that the Jews were not guilty? No, it doesn't mean that. Does that mean that the sin wasn't really all that bad? No, it doesn't mean that either. This was the worst sin ever committed. Does that mean that the Israelites were not willful? No, it doesn't even mean that. They were stubborn, they were stiff-necked. All of that was active. Does that mean that they really did not know they were killing their Messiah? Yes, that's what it means. They really did not know. They didn't think that that's what they were doing. Due to the own hardness of their own hearts and their own minds, they were ignorant of who they were murdering. By the way, ignorance goes along with a hard heart. We say someone has a hard heart or they're ignorant. Actually, hard hearts produce ignorance It teaches that in Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 18. It says there of the Gentiles, it says, they are darkened in their understanding. And they are excluded from the life of God. Why? Because of the ignorance that is in them. Why do they have ignorance? And it goes on. Because of the hardness of their heart. Because their hearts are hard and they don't want God and they don't want the message of God, they're in ignorance and they're in darkness. Hardened hearts lead to ignorance. It is a willful ignorance. In other words, they're ignorant. But they didn't really want to know, and that's why they're ignorant. I think the apostles were well aware of the blindness and the lack of understanding that covered the eyes of the Jews of their day. They even quoted Isaiah the prophet. To help explain why. Why were there so many Jews that rejected their own king? Why? How can this message spread to all the other nations if the nation that he showed up to be the king of rejected him? That was an issue and a problem and apologetics the church had to overcome. And they quoted the Old Testament. They quoted Isaiah chapter 44 and verse 18, which says this, they do not know Nor do they understand, for God has smeared over their eyes so that they cannot see, and their hearts so that they cannot comprehend. In other words, this was judicial blindness. God smeared over the eyes of the Jews so they could not understand. Now that was a righteous act on the part of God. He did that because they were not responding to the revelation that he had already given to them. And so it's it's God's prerogative to do a judicial blindness so now they no longer can see. He pushed them further away from them. Their hearts got even harder Think about what he did to Pharaoh in Egypt. That's God's prerogative. Now Paul preaches the same thing in Acts chapter 17 and verse 30 to the Gentiles, that they're in ignorance. The Gentiles that are out there, the nations and the gods that they serve and the religions that they have, they're worshiping those religions not because they're a pathway back to God, but because they're in darkness and in ignorance, and they are that way because of the hardness of their hearts. Therefore they have no excuse. By the way, this is the same thing we see going on in our own country. This shouldn't be too hard to understand. It's what's happening right here in America. Do you know that we have some 200 Translations of the New Testament in the English language. Did you know that? If someone is ignorant of what the New Testament teaches and what Jesus required of them, they're ignorant because they want to be ignorant. In ninety-nine percent of the cases. I mean there's Christian radio, there are Christian books, there's a hundred thousand, two hundred thousand churches, not all of them preach the gospel. But it's there if they want to pick it up and learn. They can have an education on it. It's all over the internet if they wanted to know. They don't want to know. They are hard-hearted, and that's why they're ignorant. Daryl Bach, in his commentary, describes Israel's kind of ignorance. He puts it this way: it was not an ignorance of opportunity to understand. but an ignorance in failing to perceive its understanding. They failed to perceive because they didn't want to perceive Notice that the ignorance Peter's talking about extends to the rulers as well. He didn't just say you common people are ignorant. He said your rulers, your leaders, your Bible teachers. Your instructors, those men that you look up to, they also were ignorant. And that's uh that's a bad thing, wouldn't you agree? When your spiritual leaders are ignorant of God's ways and God's works, what does that mean for the people? That's a bad place to be. You know, for someone's going to a church where the people don't really understand the Word of God and the gospel of God, they should get out. That's not good for them. How bad to have pastors and teachers and leaders who have lots of Bible knowledge and can speak well. They're talented in many different ways, but their heart does not really know the true God. The rulers of the Jews were just like that. They're mentioned over and over in the book of Acts and in the New Testament as the driving force behind Israel's rejection of Messiah. After all, the nation followed their leaders. They played follow the leader. Paul talks about this in his evangelism to the Jews in Acts chapter 13 and verse 27. He's preaching to the Jews who are not in the land, and he's saying, those rulers that are back in the land really were the leaders of all of the nation of Israel scattered throughout the world because they were there in Jerusalem, he says this of them For those who live in Jerusalem and their rulers, recognizing neither him, Jesus, nor the utterances of the prophets Which are read every Sabbath, fulfill these by condemning Jesus. That was the explanation They didn't understand the prophets that they read every single Sabbath, and the rulers didn't even recognize Jesus, and they fulfilled the scriptures by killing their own king. In fact, we could take it further. Today, what is the nation of Israel like today? What are the people like today? Who are the average Jews? Are they believers in Jesus Christ? You know the answer to that. They are not. Pervasively, they are still ignorant of Jesus. They're ignorant of the prophecies about the Messiah. You know their law better than they know their law W in in most of their cases. And it's not hard to understand why. Most Jews don't even allow their children to talk and have a conversation with someone about Jesus. The topic's brought up that that's for Gentiles. That's for Gentiles. Many of the rabbis say Jesus is for Gentiles. They don't even allow the conversation. They're willfully ignorant of the truth about their Messiah. And the judicial hardening of God is behind that. That willfulness is uncovered in 1 Thessalonians chapter 2 and verse 15. Again, by Paul's hand he writes They both killed the Lord Jesus and the prophets and drove us out. They are not pleasing to God, but hostile to all men. That almost sounds anti-Semitic, you know, hostile to all men, but Paul's talking about the very countrymen that he loved. And he himself was a Jew Jewish evangelism to this day is still very, very difficult. Would you agree? You know, um we sent away to Ancestry. com to find out what's my background. You know, my kids wanted me to find out. I found out, yeah, I'm a third Armenian, I'm a third British, and there's other stuff in there That's mixed in there. I found that I'm three percent Jewish. Yes, I'm three percent Jewish, so I thought that was cool. But uh How many that are practicing a religion brought up Jewish will actually convert to Christianity? There are some. There's some here. But it takes it always takes the grace of God, but it seems something extra. That veil is lifted and they turn to the Lord as 2 Corinthians 3 talks about. And um we need to continue to pray that they'll turn because they will. They will turn one day, but our prayers will be part of that answer. Now, second truth about the nation of Israel. So they acted ignorantly, but second truth, God planned for Israel's Messiah to suffer and die. That's verse 18. God planned for Israel's Messiah We already talked a little bit about this, but it's really brought out in verse 18. But the things which God announced beforehand by the mouth of all the prophets That his Christ would suffer. That his Christ would suffer. He, God, has thus fulfilled God planned for it. God proclaimed it. God fulfilled it. Do you see that? It's all a divine design there. While Israel was acting ignorantly, God was acting purposefully. The willful ignorance of God's chosen nation could never nullify the faithfulness nor the program of God. God is so high and above man that He specializes in converting people's evil choices and turning them not just into something good, but something amazing. To borrow Joseph's words from the Old Testament, men meant it for evil, but what? God meant it for good. Men are held responsible for their evil choices even when it is part of God's predestined plan. God is sovereign over all acts, even evil acts, but he is not the one that is guilty for those acts. That comes from the creature who sins, the man who sins. That is how amazing our Lord is. In Proverbs 21:1 it says, the king's heart, not just good kings. Any king. The king's heart is like channels of water in the hand of the Lord. He turns it wherever he wishes. When a king decides this, it's going in the direction of God's sovereign plan, and that includes evil things. In Psalm 115 and verse 3, one of the most powerful declarations, I think, of God's sovereignty anywhere is Scripture. It says, Our God is in the heavens, he does whatever he pleases. He does whatever he pleases. Now I can't do whatever I please. You can't do whatever you please. Sometimes you get into your little fantasy world and you become a god in your little fantasy world. It's not true popped a little bubble. You cannot do as you please. Often you have to you have to go to work when you have to go to work. You don't have a lot of choices about things. I mean in America we have more choices about a lot of things. That's true. And we kind of demand our way, but really a lot of our life is controlled. God does as he pleases. Remember Peter's words in Acts 2, 23. This man talking about Jesus. Delivered over by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God, you, talking to the Jews, nailed to a cross by the hands of godless men and put them to death. You're guilty even though it's part of God's sovereign plan. You shouldn't have done it, but it was gonna happen. So you put those two side by side in your brain, it kind of blows it up, doesn't it? But you have to believe that. You have to believe that Jesus is murder, predestined by God the Father, yet condemned by the same God And the sufferings of Messiah should never have been a surprise to the Jews. They had the oracles of God, they had the prophecies. They'd done an accurate job of translating them and of preserving them through the centuries. They knew exactly what it said. When the Magi came saying, Where is he going to be born? They said Bethlehem. They knew There were these prophecies. They just didn't perceive what they meant. God had told the nation, and he had talked to the nation through prophets. That's how God speaks through prophets. He told them exactly what was going to happen. He told them Messiah was going to suffer. Many places. Isaiah 53 is the quintessential example of it Verse 5. But he was pierced through for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The chastening of our well-being fell upon him, and by his scourgings we are healed. All of us like sheep have gone astray, each of us has turned to his own way, but the Lord caused the sin, the iniquity of us all to fall on him. That's suffering. Isaiah 53, 7. He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he did not open his mouth like a lamb that is led to slaughter, and like a sheep that is silent before its shear, so he did not open his mouth. Christ is our Passover Lamb. Isaiah 53. 10. But the Lord was pleased to crush him, putting him to grief if he would render himself as a guilt offering. He then would see his offspring, he would prolong his days, and the good pleasure of the Lord would prosper in his hands, suffering and then glory, you see? Hinting at the resurrection and the ascension. Or Psalm 22, verses 14 and 15, a messianic Psalm, where David is writing about his experience, but it speaks of a of a greater David to come in his experience. And it says, I am poured out like water and all my bones are out of joint, as Christ hung on the cross. My heart is like wax. It is melted within me. My strength is dried up like a potcher, and my tongue cleaves to my jaws. Remember him saying, I thirst on the cross? And you lay me in the dust of death. Daniel 9, that prophecy that gave the 70 weeks prophecy, it said that at a certain point would come and Messiah would be, quote, cut off and have nothing. They were told. They knew. God brought this word to Israel through the prophets. It was the very word of God that told the Israelites this is what's going to happen. Wouldn't that be great if we knew everything that's going to happen? They were told this is what's going to happen. God spoke by the mouth of the prophets. By the way, a lot of times people will say, The Bible was written by men, therefore it cannot be the word of God. Have you heard that before? Here it says God spoke through the prophets. Yes, it was the word of men, but it wasn't really the word of men because God was speaking through them. There is no difficulty for an omnipotent God to take a week an imperfect vessel and speak a perfect message through that. And we can get our own children to run a relay to us and tell us, go tell someone such and such, and once in a while they get the message right. If we could do that with our own children, certainly God could speak through the mouth of a prophet with all of his power and resources. God took their minds, he directed them to write and reveal things that no man could know about the future. The accuracy of the Bible's predictions of the future proves it is the Word of God. It is fools today who denigrate the prophets and the Scripture, and as David said, who pass laws contrary to Scripture. It's fools that do that. Because God speaks by Scripture. God spoke through the prophets. This is the writing of the prophets and the apostle, and every apostle was a prophet, and this is their writing, and this comes from the Holy Spirit, and it also tells us about the future of the nation of Israel. And we ought not to to be confused about that as they were back then. We ought not to look past those prophecies about the nation of Israel acting as if, well, it's too complicated for us to understand. No, God's word is true and it's clear. For when God speaks something, he then, as it says in this verse, fulfills it. He caused the sufferings of Messiah. He fulfilled it. He spoke it ahead of time, and then he brought it to pass. That's what's going to happen. Maybe in our own age. God said what He's going to do with the nation of Israel. He's bringing it to pass now. We ask why is Israel at the center of all of world attention? Because God wants Israel at the center of all of world attention. God's going to work and act there. That's what He's going to do. It's on His calendar. We don't know the dates. Don't be a date setter. We don't know the dates. These words of the prophets must be fulfilled. Luke 24, 44. Jesus said to his disciples, These are my words which I spoke to you while I was still with you, that all things All things which are written about me in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms must be, must be fulfilled No one can stop the word of God from happening. You ever seen those scary movies where something bad's happening and the guy tries to avoid it, no matter what he does, he always ends up happening to him. As if there's some power out there that's control of circumstances. Yes, there are, but it's not what that scary movie says. It's the Lord our God. He's in control of all things. People will make these decisions and they'll rebel in this way and they'll do this way, but it's all going to converge to do exactly what God said he's going to do through the prophets. The third truth. The third truth is that God requires Israel to repent. That's in verse 19 at the beginning. Repent Therefore, repent and return. And I looked at the clock and we don't have time for this one today. But that's the third truth. We'll pick up on that. God requires Israel to That's still a requirement today. We're going to talk about why it's a requirement, where else that comes up in Scripture, and this is really exciting, what's going to happen when Israel actually does repent. And it gets really even better here. Father, thank you for this Sunday, this Lord's Day, that we can worship you. Thank you for the songs and prayers that we were able to share in together. Let your word sink into our minds and our hearts. Help us to be reminded of your faithfulness as we go forward. Help us to have great confidence and truth in your word, to study it diligently, to understand what it says. to yield our beliefs to what your word clearly states. And pray, Father, our faith would be built up because of that. Bless our conversations as we go forth from this place, as we share in more fellowship this day. Bless those as well, Father, for we We uh live and worship and serve under your banner, under your name, the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen