Well, good morning. My name is Dave Jordan. It's a great privilege to come and preach here this morning. We're going to be in the book of Job. You can turn to Job chapter 42 in your Bibles. We're going to be in verses 1 to 6. Although the exposition this morning might be a little bit different than what you're used to, I trust it'll be profitable for you. Let me open this up in prayer before we Go to the Word. Father God, it's an honor, Lord, to come before your word. It's hard, Lord, to express in words a God who is infinite, a God who is glorious, a God who is magnificent. Lord, we are so thankful for your grace that we have just sung. We are so thankful, Lord, for your servant, Pastor Tom. We pray your great blessing on him and his family. We pray your great blessing, Lord, in this church as we serve you, as we are part of this incredible kingdom, Lord Father, as we come to the Word this morning, help us to understand it. Help us to have hearts open to it, Lord. And help us, Lord, to be willing to change from what we understand from your word in your precious name. Amen. There was obviously a Supreme Court ruling this week that all of us in here probably didn't like. I hope you didn't like it. But I've got to tell you The Supreme Court is not in control of all things God is. Amen. God is really in control of our nation. How you respond to your friends and your neighbors in this time will show them whether you believe a great blow has been dealt to God in his kingdom, or if God's purpose will still prevail. Marriage, friends, is not defined by man, it is defined by God. Though man may write papers, though we are according to Romans 13 commanded to submit to our government To pray for them. We know that the heart of a king is like the rivers of water, and God turns them wherever He wills. Our nation is still under the control of God. God defines what is right and wrong, and friends, God is still in control. The main battle is not marriage. It is not marriage. The main battle is the gospel. That will you submit yourself to the Lord Jesus Christ and turn from your sins to Him and be saved? That is the battleground. That is always the battleground, and it still is this day. It still is this day. Yet the battle even rages on in our own hearts. Will we, by God's grace, submit ourselves to Him today? Right now, to focus on his word. That is exactly what Job needed to do. You see, Job was a man who went through great trials. And God, when he speaks to Job, as you'll see this morning, he wants Job to focus on who God is. You see, we're always about the why question. Why did this happen? Why me? Why now? God wants you to see Himself. That he is all powerful, that he is all knowing, that he is all-loving, friends, that he is able. To take care of you. He is able to wipe away your sins because he loves us. You see, Job needed to turn his attention on God. So we're going to go on a little journey with Job this morning. Job came through the fire a better man. Job is a story of great hope in the face of persecution, and it's a story of a great God. The big picture this morning is that God's purpose will prevail. There is nothing outside of God's control. Just because there's potholes in the road, friend, doesn't mean you're on the wrong road. Right? You learn a lot about yourself through the bumpy trials. In order to understand Job 42, 1-6. I'm going to take us through a sequence of four events that happens in Job's life so that we can have a biblical understanding of God and his word. The exposition of Job 42, 1-6, if you will, is really the first 41 chapters. So if Pastor Tom doesn't kill me when he gets back from taking you through so many chapters, I pray it'll be beneficial to you this morning. We're going to go through four things. First Job's Calamity. That's in chapters one and two. Then we're going to talk about Job's companions. That's in 3 through 37. Then we're going to talk about Job's creator. This is my favorite portion in the Old Testament, chapters 38 to 41. I think it's the most beautiful portion of Scripture. And then we're going to talk about God's compassion. God's compassion in chapter 42. Look in chapter 42 with me as I read our verses today. Then Job answered the Lord and said, I know that you can do all things. And that no purpose of yours can be thwarted. Who is this that hides counsel without knowledge? Therefore I have uttered what I did not understand, things too wonderful for me which I did not know. Verse 4, hear and I will speak. I will question you, and you make it known to me. I have heard of you by the hearing of the ear, but now my eyes see. Therefore, I despise myself and repent in dust and ashes. Job is the uh the book of Job, the oldest written book in the Bible. His wealth is not measured in money, but in livestock. This puts Job in the patriarchal period, about 1500 B. C. or so. He lived in the land of Uz, which is next door to Midian, about 40 miles away or so. That's where Moses went for about 40 years. And Job is a real person. Ezekiel 14 shares that with us. Job is mentioned alongside of Daniel and Noah multiple times as a real person. As a real person. Turn in your Bibles to Job chapter 1, verse 1. Before we get into Job's calamity, I want you to know what kind of man we're dealing with here. I'm reading out of the ESV. I'm sure they've used the NASB. I think you guys are in NASB, probably 95 church. But follow along if we will. 1-1 See how you measure up with Job here, okay? There was a man in the land of Uz whose name was Job, so far so good. And that man was blameless. Anybody still tracking with Job? And upright. And one who feared God. And turned away from evil. Friends, we need more people like Job. Amen. I was out as soon as they said blameless. That doesn't mean sinless. Does it does mean blameless, that is different. Job when he sinned, he went before God and begged for repentance. He turned away from evil as a way of life. If you knew Job, you would think, that is the guy I want to know better. That is the guy who loves God the Father. That's Job. Job had seven sons and three daughters. He was the wealthiest man in the East. We learn that through verses 2 through 5. He continually offered sacrifices on behalf of his children just in case they might have sinned. Are we doing that? Are we praying for each other just in case they might have sinned I mean we know each other as sinners, right? We know that we are sinners by nature, not just sinful at times. We are sinful by nature. That's why the songs we sung this morning about grace gives us the power to live. That's incredible. Job was headed for a great trial. Now when I say trial, and I say great, I mean great like the universe is great. Not like that hot dog is great. Big, huge, unending, infinite. When I say trial, I don't mean like you have to go on a diet. Not that kind of trial. That is not a trial. Okay, just because you have to put the fries and the chocolate shake aside That is not a trial. Maybe for Americans it is. But that's not the kind of trial we're talking about, okay? Jove is headed for a monumental trial I want to read Job's trial to you. I tried to paraphrase, I tried to summarize, I tried to look at this and just give it to you in glimpses. In glimpses. But let's read it. Chapter 1 verse 13. Picture yourself as Job. You're sitting in your house. You have a vast amount of land so far you can't even see the end of your property. And then this happens. Now there was a day when his sons and daughters were eating and drinking wine in their oldest brother's house. And there came a messenger to Job and said, The oxen were ploughing and the donkeys speeding beside them, and the Sabaeans fell upon them, and took them, and struck down the servants with the edge of the sword, and I alone have escaped You can hear the man panting as he's running and he's explaining these things to Job. Verse 16. While he was yet speaking, there came another and said, The fire of God fell from heaven and burned up the sheep and the servants and consumed them, and I alone have escaped to tell you. Now there's two servants. Job is bewildered. His life has just been rocked. While he was yet speaking. There came another and said, the Chaldeans, they formed three groups and made a raid on the camels and took them and struck down the servants. with the edge of the sword, and I alone have escaped to tell you. And while he was yet speaking, there came another and said, Your sons and your daughters, they were eating and drinking wine in their oldest brother's house And behold, a great wind came across the wilderness and struck the four corners of the house, and it fell upon the young people, and they are dead. And I alone have escaped to tell you this was a bad day. This was just the first of two very bad days for Job. He lost 500 yoke of oxen, five hundred female donkeys, seven thousand sheep, three thousand camels. Plus all the servants who I'm sure were dear to Job and his children. Friends, that's trial. It's the worst in di in Job's life. But there would be more to come. You know, you may have bad days from time to time. But I trust and pray none of you have had a day like this. You see, we're going to get to see the righteousness of Job come about in the midst of a tragic circumstance brought about by God, allowed to happen through Satan, the evil one So that we can learn more about God. So that we can put our faith and our hope and our trust in God. Praise God, Job went through that. Right? Not us. There's a friend of mine in seminary, he's not a typical guy. He lived in Burma and he came over to California. His name is Nauden. And uh he had to leave his family behind. While he was in seminary, the village of his family was attacked by China, and tribal war broke out. He's trying to write papers in California and his family is running for their life 12,000 miles away. That is a trial. Some friends of my parents. The wife went away for the evening with another girlfriend The husband's there cooking. Uh there's a barbecue going on. He somehow trips and falls, pulls the barbecue on top of himself. And his head hits the ground. He gets knocked out and the barbecue's laying on him. There's no one home. The coals are laying on him. It was raining that day. He lived. But friends, that's a trial. You see, I think sometimes we think getting to church on time is a trial. Right? And all of you who are laughing are going, Amen, Dave, amen. I was with you this morning. My wife and I'd be laughing if we weren't so nervous. We had these trials like getting to work on time or the traffic. You know, you have to drive your thirty or forty thousand dollar car on beautiful highways to get to work. It's so hard. That guy just cut me off. I don't know if I can do this anymore. Do you see what I'm saying? We need to expand our understanding of God. So that we can live through life and proclaim his name to the people. So that when we're out there with the people, we can share the gospel with him and say, yeah, he cut me off, he does all the time, and you know what? Sometimes I get mad when that happens. But God is so much bigger than that. He's so much bigger than getting dinner on the table, getting a church on time, and all the things we have to deal with in one of the wealthiest nations in all of the world Your iPad's not working, I'm so sorry. You see, I don't think we really understand what trials are. Pastor Leek, he's going through a trial. And we need to pray for him. And we need to step up as a church, right? The church is church is the ecclesia, the body of Christ. We need to come around and see all of those things that need to be done around here, and we need to do them. We need to give of our time and energy and effort. And if you want to be spent in life, be spent for the gospel. You all have a wonderful church. And I want you to see Job's response here in 120. Job arose and he tore his robe and he shaved his head and he fell on the ground and he worshiped. His response to great suffering is the worship of God. Naked I came from my mother's womb, and naked I shall return. Listen to this: the Lord gave, and the Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. My friend from Burma had this attitude. It was astounding to all of us who were there. Astounding. Worship is the righteous man's response to suffering. Not why me, and not God, you should have done something else. It's worship. Scripture says in 122 that in all this Job did not sin or charge God with wrong. Friends, that's another righteous response to suffering. To not charge God with wrong. Well, there was more fire on the way from Job, for Job, I should say. This is all in point number one, the Job's calamity. This is day two. I just summarize for you. Job would lose his health. Satan says a man will do anything to preserve his life. He'll even curse you to your face, God. Can you imagine having the audacity to see God and to say that a man would do that if you just take away his health? So Satan gave Job voils from head to toe. You know, Satan thinks we're shallow, and he thinks we're just pragmatic, and he thinks we're that way all the time He he he gave away his his ace here. Satan told us what he's thinking, how he wants to attack you. He doesn't want you to put your trust in God. He wants you to look to yourself for your trust. He wants you to trust in circumstances and all that is going on in your life. And when it's good, hey, God is good. But when it's bad, hey, God is bad. That's Satan's mantra. See, it's tempting to live that way. But we would miss the sweet mercy and grace and compassion of God if we did. We must not give in when trials come. And you all are in a trial as you weep when Tom weeps, as you weep when his family weeps. As the body groans together, as one part hurts, the other part feels it. That's what the body of Christ is supposed to do. God is shaping you. Do you know that? He is shaping you. The story of Hope Bible Church is this beginning. It's not coming to an end. It's just beginning. Just like it does with Job, his trials were just the beginning. Of knowing God more, of being used by God more, of being able to educate his friends and his family of a righteous understanding of who God is. That's where you guys are. The lesson here is clear from this first point to put your hope and your faith and your trust in God no matter what. No matter what, keep trusting in God. Then enters Job's three friends, Larry, Moe, and Curly. Wise for their day, they bumped into one theological error after another. They did great for seven days until they started talking. They tried to reach for the truth, you know, like Larry Moe and Curling, they reach for it and they just kick it further away every time. They did not know what they were speaking. Their real names were Eliphaz, Bildad, and Zophar. Some good baby names for ya. Eliphaz, Bildad, and Zophar. This second point is about Job's companions. It covers many chapters, chapter 3 to 37. I'm just going to summarize it for you This is a beautiful portion of scripture as well. This lasted about eight days or so. We're not sure how long it was when they heard about Job and then traveled and sat there with him silent for a week. And then they started talking, so it's at least eight days long. The first point is calamity, only lasted two days. This one lasts about eight. The purpose of the three friends is given in chapter 2, verse 11. It's a great purpose to show them sympathy and comfort. But as you'll soon see with friends like that and these enemies, right? Not only in your suffering, do you get bad advice, you have to stand up for yourself. You have to stand up for God and who God is. Job will start to loathe the day he was ever born in chapter 3. Eliphaz will try and convince Job that experience teaches us sin leads to suffering. That's the summation of Eliphaz's thrust to Job. Experience teaches us sin leads to suffering. You can see that in chapter 4, verse 7, where it says, who of the innocent has ever perished? I mean the mortality rate is holding at 100%, right? Everybody's gonna die. Even Job knew that. What is he saying? Bildad goes on to try and say that tradition teaches us sin leads to suffering. Traditions are those typical ideas that we hold. You can see that in chapter 8, verse 3, where he says, Does the Almighty pervert justice? Does the Almighty pervert justice? I mean, we know that he doesn't do that. Zophar says religion teaches us that sin leads to suffering. Speaking of the acts of God in chapter 11, verse 6. It says, know then that God exacts of you less than your guilt deserves. You see, Zophar had an accurate view of man, but not an accurate view of God. Did Zophar not know of God's grace? Did he not know of God's abundant grace? He sends rain. on the innocent and the guilty? That God is compassionate and merciful. Then you normally just hear about the three friends. There was another one, the youngest of them all, and he was basically indignant at Job's self righteousness. Job claimed to be self-righteous, that there could be no sin that would lead to this. That was what Elihu said. He was the youngest, he's mentioned later, and he doesn't speak until the other three are done talking. They're basically all three saying the same thing. Sin is the cause of all suffering, in a sense From sin nature, from Adam's fall, that is true, but it is not the direct cause of all suffering. Otherwise, we would have to lay blame at God's feet You can see from the purpose of Job here that this is not the cause of Job's suffering. God's greatness. God's mercy that would soon be displayed allowed all these things to be brought about. You see, Job and his friends had no idea just how much God was in control You may be wondering that yourself, how much God is in control these days. He wasn't surprised this weekend. He's not going to be surprised next weekend. He knows you, he knows your next sin, and he knows the next time you're going to turn from sin. And he loves you just the same by his grace. Job makes a fatal error here. He's doing pretty well. Turn to Job chapter 13 with me. Job 13, verse 3. Job says, but I would speak to the Almighty, and I desire to argue my case with God. Uh-oh. This is not good, Job. You don't want to argue with God. Isaiah didn't argue with God. The prophets that came after Job, they saw it didn't work. Look down in verse 15. Though he slay me, I will hope in him. We all know that part of the verse, right? Though he slay me, I will hope in him. That's very encouraging, but what's the rest say? Yet I will argue my ways to a space. You don't really hear that tagged onto that verse very much, do you? We love the first half, not the second half Context is king, my friends. Well Job is going to get what he asked for and he's going to figure out it's not all he really wanted. He is going to come face to face with the Creator. That leads us to the third event, Job's Creator. See, Job's going to get a dialogue with God. We're going to skip all the way to chapter 38. Turn to chapter 38, if you would, please. I love hearing the sound of the pages turn. That's a s a good sign. If it was silent we'd have problems So far we've talked about Job's calamity. We've talked about Job's companions. Now we're going to talk about Job's creator. Job's creator. Opening lines can be telling. Typically, the hardest line in a book to write, I'm told, is the opening line. So that's what Job gets to hear. Then the Lord, that's Yahweh, capital L-O-R-D, that's Yahweh, Yahweh answered Job out of the whirlwind He's not sitting on a couch. A whirlwind is now speaking to Job. God's voice through it. Look in verse 2. Who is this that darkens counsel by words without knowledge? This is not a good start for Job You have no understanding was God's opening line. That's not normally what you want to hear. We're always talking about, well done, my good and faithful servant. Right? That's what you want to hear from God. God says, Job, you don't know anything. You don't know anything. And if you read through 337, Job is profoundly wise. But he is finite compared to God. He is minuscule compared to God. Transknowledge sometimes is scorned in our day. As why would I want to do all that? Why would I want to exert myself? A greater understanding would have served Job well Do not scorn a deeper understanding of God and His Word. You may say you appreciate it, but what does your life show? You see, Job has just expounded for many, many hours here with his friends. He's laid all his cards out on the table, and then God says, thanks for spilling your guts, you know nothing That's how God starts with them. Appreciate all your thoughts. Now listen up. We may say, hey, it may cost me too much time and energy and effort to be diligent to study my Bible. I mean I have trouble remembering what I ate for breakfast. How can I look at the original languages? I would say, friends, the word cost is the wrong word. Invest yourself in God's word. Invest your time, your energy, and your effort. Be spent for God. Be spent for His kingdom. To God be the glory. You see, you have a training center here, and it fits right in line with what's going on here with Job. Job turned from his understanding of God that, hey, there might be something I don't know, and maybe I should just be quiet and trust God. But with Job, it took God Almighty showing up and saying, listen up, take advantage of that training center. I wish we had a training center in my little church. Half of this section is the little church I get the privilege to preach at. I love them to death. You guys have so many resources to utilize. I'll just tell you. You don't want to stand there before God and say, hey, why didn't you take that class on Genesis? You had it wrong for like 50 years. One little class would have fixed it for you. Hey, why didn't you go listen to Mr. Mora talk about eschatology? He could have helped you with that. It's a hard subject. But it's all explained in my word. You could have taught your neighbors about it. Why should we anxiously look for you, God? Why? Why does that impact my day? You see, the people who are in this training center feed themselves on the nourishment of God's holy word, which is alive and active. And they want you to feed on it too. Not just once a week. Just try eating once a week. It doesn't work very well. Get really thin, way fast, and break down and have that strawberry sundae. They want you to feed your soul upon it. You see, God's word will lift you up and it will set you free. It will set you free from the wages of sin and death by the power of God's grace. It will lift condemnation and set your feet on the right path. Job needed the right path. He needed that. I think this training center is one investment you can't afford to miss. If you've never been there, raise your hand. No kidding. Go to the training center, invest yourself, challenge the teachers, that's fun. Not me them. Challenge them. Ask them all your hard questions. Make them come back with an answer, and you know what they'll probably tell you? You study it and I'll study it. We'll see what God's Word says. And that's what it's all about, friends. So God says, Job, your problem is that you haven't fully considered that my wisdom may just be beyond you. What happens in life may just be beyond you. You went to the end of yourself, Job, and you talked to your friends, and you held up your righteousness. But you didn't hold me up in that place, Job. You spoke well of me, and in these things you didn't sin, but Job, you fell short. You should have looked to me fully, Job. That's what God is going to say, and we're going to take a little time in this section because I want you to feel the weight of God here in Scripture. It's magnificent. And 38, verse 3, he says, dress for action like a man. And I will question you and you make it known to me. This is QA with God where you know none of the answers. This is Jeopardy where you miss every question. This is God, QA with Job. I want you to feel the weight of God's discourse. Remember, Job is sitting in dust and ashes. He's got worms in his clothing. His flesh has changed color and fallen off. He's got sores everywhere. At night it says his bones cause him agony from the inside out. It says he cannot sleep. He has no comfort. His wife has already told him, curse God and die. This is the situation where God comes to Job and says, Job, hear me now. Listen. God's list is not short. It is not quick. It is not light. It is not to be trifled with. It is grand and deep and will cause Job to come to the end of himself. Will it cause you to come to the end of yourself? Job is not just a neat story. It's meant to make you come before God humbly. It's meant to make you come before God fully relying on God God says in 38. 4, you can just hear him thinking, okay, we'll start with an easy one. Where were you when I laid the foundation of the earth? Tell me if you have understanding. You see Job probably thinking, oh, what year was that? Next he says in verse five, Who determined its measurements? Surely you know. Job's thinking like you did. Job starts to realize his finite knowledge and that maybe, just maybe, God is not happy. Job didn't trust anymore. I mean, how much trust should we have in God? How big does the pothole in your road need to be? He says in verse 6. Chapter thirty eight verse six On what were its bases sunk or who has laid its cornerstone when the morning stars sang together and all the sons of God shouted for joy Job's probably thinking, I don't know how morning stars sing. I don't even know what morning stars are. And I don't even know who the sons of God are. You see, the distance between God and Job is already infinite. And God is just getting warmed up. This is just the first seven verses of God's discourse to say Job. I see you. I have not forgotten about you. I have come to you, Job, when you should have come to me. God displays his complete power over the sea and factors that went into creation. You can see that in verse 8. Who shut in the sea with its doors when it burst out from the womb? It came from the inside of the earth. Is that what that sounds like? That's what it sounds like to me. You know the researchers at Northwestern University and the University of New Mexico concluded last year that there is an ocean under the Earth's plates. 400 miles down. No, I haven't been there, neither have they. That's what they've concluded. It would square with what we see here in the book of Job. The size of that ocean is three times the size of our current ocean Three times. That is an immense power that needs to be shut off. And God just mentions it like, uh, you know, I just shut the doors. That's it. And you're thinking of like the uh the huge trench in the bottom of the ocean, five miles down, open wide and bursting forth water. Yeah, I just shut the doors. That's God. That's the difference in God's power between us. We have trouble shutting the hose off. 3812, have you commanded the morning? Have you commanded the morning? Since your days began and caused the dawn to know its place This is God. Complete knowledge. 38 verse 18. Look down there if you would. Have you comprehended the expanse of the earth? Declare if you know all of this. Ah, you're saying, we know how big around the earth is. We've comprehended that. We're ahead of Job. Not so fast. What part of the earth have you comprehended? The surface? The top 112 inches of the earth Do you really know all the species even in the ocean? Nope. Do you really know even all the species in the rainforest? Nope. You might know the distance around the Earth in a variable way. It might look round from outer space, but it's not really round. It's got lots of hills and valleys, and at any one given point, it's a slightly different distance all the way around. You see, even when we think we know something like that, Our knowledge is so small. God talks about how he was eternally existent in chapter 38, verses 19 to 21. Where is the way to the dwelling of light and where is the place of darkness that you may take it to its territory? Look down at verse 21. You know, for you were born then, when light first existed. Because the number of your days is great. God just reminded Job that God is infinite and he is not. He has no beginning nor no end. And Job doesn't even know when things came into being And will Job bring guilt upon God to these things? Will Job looking out across the earth understanding the earth and all that it has and all that has happened to him, will he bring condemnation to God who is all knowing? all-powerful and all-wise, those are the three things that if you look into the problem of evil, the theodicy of God, you'll study those three things. If God is all those three things, why are all these bad things happening? Job, do you really want me to answer the why? I don't even think you can get there. Let's just start with me. Let's just start with who I am, Job. And I think I'll be enough for you. Friends, is God enough for you? Whatever trial you're going through, is God enough? Whatever you wish were different in life is God enough for you Only when the knowledge of these things goes from your head to your heart does it really make an impact. If this is just an academic lesson today, it's totally failed. Knowing God is in control should change everything. God is in control of the wind That's verse 24. And the rain. And the lightning, that's verse 25. And over the stars of heaven, that's verse 31. He's also in control of the animals, and all that exists is upheld by the word of his power, Hebrews tells us. Is it enough for you? Is it enough for me? We should be the happiest people on earth. And I confess I'm not. I should be though. I fall short, way shorter than Job. I would have had maybe half a page to talk about. Job went on and on with his friends, dialogue about the great philosophies and understandings of life. As they understand it, is God enough? God is still in control, even of our country and its courts. Amen. God is not blindsided by these things. We will be challenged at every level of our life to doubt God. At home, at work, at school. It was Satan's original plan to get you to doubt God and want to be like God. God knows if you eat of this, you'll be like God, knowing good and evil. Can you imagine what would have happened if they would have eaten of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil and stayed in a perpetual state of sin forever by eating of the tree of life? Can you imagine what would have happened if God's mercy had not kicked them out of the garden? So God asked Job about his understanding. Turn to chapter 40. We will soon get to an exposition of 42, and I think it will be very clear to you. And it won't take much time at all. Chapter 40, verse 2. God says to Job, Shall a fault finder contend with the Almighty? Job's the fault finder. He who argues with God, that is what you wanted, right, Job? You wanted to argue your ways to my face. Well, I'm here. Let him answer. God doesn't say let him answer and you be silent. That doesn't work too well. You have to say, okay, at least I'll be silent. You have to at least voice that to God So Job answers, Behold, I am of small account. Job finally gets it. What shall I answer you? I lay my hand on my mouth. I lay my hand on my mouth. That is the righteous disposition for God when you don't understand what's going on. Oh Bible Church, I hope that's encouraging to you. God is not finished with Job. We're such a drive-through society on everything that we want it short, succinct, brevity is the key to life. We want it compact. We want it just given to us in a nugget, and I'll think about it some other time But God's not finished with Job, and He wants him to think. He wants him to know. He wants him to live more righteously than before. He was righteous and blameless and feared God and turned from evil before. And there's more, way more He says again in chapter 40, verse 8, Will you even put me in the wrong? Will you condemn me that you may be in the right? Because one of us is wrong here. And one of us is right. You see, when we're discontent with life, we're discontent with God, plain and simple We can desire better days. There's nothing wrong for desiring better days, for desiring that someone who is sick will be made well, who will get out of the hospital soon But we must be content with the days that we have. You see the difference? We must be content with the days that we have. Sometimes that means fiery trials and other times that means little tiny shallow potholes. Somebody cutting you off. You know, your child you say get the shoes on and they throw it out the window or something, you know Okay, this is gonna take a while. As Job puts it, quote, we must accept both good and evil. From the hand of the Lord. NESB calls it adversity. You could say calamity. It's in the first couple chapters. Time would fail us here to speak of God's next discourse with Job. And for anyone who's eighteen and under or fascinated with Genesis and over eighteen, This is like your go-to passage to find out the fascinating, most incredible animals ever spoken of in Scripture. The behemoth. They both kind of sound like dinosaurs. Chapter 40, verses 15 to 41. The next one is the Leviathan. And our hermeneutic, the way we study the Bible, has to be consistent throughout Job in this particular genre. And we are compelled that these are real creatures. We still don't know exactly what they are, and that's okay. Job did, obviously. God says one cannot be tamed, and if you mess with it, you'll only do so once. Listen to this. Neither sword nor spear nor javelin can hurt Leviathan. Out of his mouth come flaming torches. Sounds like a dragon. I'm glad they don't they're not around anymore if that's what this is speaking of 4120 is where that's spoken of. 4128. Iron is counted as straw against this beast. And bronze as rotten wood. I don't know of any animal like that today. Iron is counted as straw. You can make an iron harpoon and kill anything, but not this beast. That's incredible. After describing even the animals that Job knows nothing about or how to tame or is fearful of, I'm sure Job's probably looking around hoping one of these things doesn't come around the corner. God rests his case. So what does Job learn from this calamity, his companions, and his creator? Now you're ready for an exposition of chapter 42 verses 1 to 6. A very brief exposition. Turn there if you would. Job 42, verse 1. Then Job answered the Lord and said, I know that you can do all things. You know what that's a summary of? Chapters 38 to 41. I know that you can do all things. That's God's description. And that no purpose of yours can be thwarted Why would Job need to say that? Because great trials and calamity has come upon Job. That's a summary of chapters 1 and 2. God, no matter what happens, you're in control, God. I finally get it. I'm there with you now. Job has just summarized 1 through 38 for us. Job finally gets it. God's purpose will prevail. The thing we need to remember here is that God is God and we are not. And that is why God's purpose will prevail. If you were God or I were God, we'd all be in trouble. So don't wish that on anyone. Don't wish your desires to come true for everyone. Lord, if your will be done, then please this may happen. Right? You submit all of your prayer requests to God. Lord willing, I desire this to happen. Pray in line with the Psalms. Pray in line with Scripture. Beg God for something to happen. And if it doesn't, worship God. Fall on your knees and say, God, not my will, but yours be done. Job was at the end of himself. God needed to bring Job to the end of himself. Job has no answer for anything that God brought about. And that's so Job could see the difference between himself and God. From the beginning, Satan has been trying to get people to replace God with themselves. Job's friends doubted his integrity. It must be your sin to cause your suffering. Job had a right understanding of God, but not a full one. Job's response here is telling, look in verse 3, the beginning of verse 3, Job is quoting God. Who is this that hides counsel without knowledge? That was God's question to Job. He says, therefore, now that I have understanding, therefore I have uttered what I did not understand. things too wonderful for me which I I did not know. That's chapters 3 through 37. I have uttered things without knowledge. I love it when the Bible just summarizes everything for us here at the end. Job realized he spoke without true understanding, and then in verse 4. He quotes God again and he says, here I will speak, I will question you, and you make it known to me. Job's answer to this is, I had heard of you by the hearing of the ear, but now my eye sees you. Therefore, I despise myself and repent in dust and ashes. Job has finally turned from himself to God. That's that's the summary of of Job. He's he's he's at the end of himself. And he's he's turned to God This is an amazing, an amazing account of a man's life. I pray that you'll read it, dive into it. The fourth point is God's compassion. Job said all these things, by the way, not knowing the end of the story like you and I. He didn't know what was going to happen. Life might have stayed the way it was, and Job was okay with that. That is powerful, friends. This last point lasted 140 years. I shall not go on that long. God restores and doubles all Job had. Look at how many livestock he had in chapter one. Compare it with the last chapter. Everything is doubled. Everything is doubled. He then, as a grandpa, lived the dream of every grandparent seeing multiple generations of the grandchildren. They were running around everywhere. 140 years, it says Job lived after this. He was a blessed man before. Now even more so. Can you imagine the wisdom Job gave to his family now? Can you imagine the stories of God and his faithfulness and his mercy and compassion Oh, you you fell down and you broke your little finger. Come here. Let me tell you about God who cares for you. Those of you who are older, Give to the younger. Tell us about God. Tell us about your life with Him. Share with us how you've walked with Him. That it may generations, that it may be generations of people who know and love God Final application here. This is a public gathering of believers here that we call Hope Bible Church, right? The gathering of God's believers. Your under-shepherd has been wounded from the inside out, and he is suffering. He's in a trial. And you are left looking for answers, might I encourage you to put your hope and your faith in God? When Pastor Leek gets back to the pulpit, he's going to keep preaching through James, I would imagine, maybe something else. He went through about verse 27 of chapter 1, I believe. Chapter 5, verse 11 talks about Job. It describes the purpose of the book of Job. That God is full of compassion and mercy. And your pastor, one day, I pray, Lord willing, will preach that sermon to you. God has not lost sight of this nation. He has certainly not lost sight of you, O Bible Church. God's purpose will, it will prevail. Let's pray Lord, we are we are thankful for you, Lord. Father, we trust in your grace, in your compassion. Thank you, Lord, for all of these things. Help us to put our faith and our hope in you, Lord, in your precious, wonderful name. Amen.