I forget all the time. People usually used to wave in the back at me, Gary, you're a recorder on. Once I start talking, it's all downhill. Okay. Uh we're open at a word of word of prayer. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for uh the blessing of this time, Lord. The blessing of your word. Uh Lord, I pray that this study is a blessing for those that are uh the students that are here Uh Lord, I I uh thank you so much for this uh putting this on my heart to do this, Lord. Um uh It's just brought me to another level, Lord, and and I and I pray that that's what happens uh here in this class, that we'll we'll look at God in a deeper level And and as we read before, it kind of reveals our about ourselves, who we are. We have to look at the holiness of God so we can see just where we are. That he's the measuring line. And Lord, we confess I I forget it and and often I'm sure others do the same So Lord, let us just lift this time up. Uh uh let it be fruitful, open our hearts and our ears. Uh let us meditate on some of these things. I hate to read through some of your scriptures and just go by them. Uh we need to pause and think about really what did that just say. So that that's the goal, Lord. Uh uh again, may your spirit be here with us and and uh just uh illuminate us in in your word and and your your doctrine. So it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. So I started sovereignty of God last week and really the the part of this uh is is It's about, you know, the sovereignty of evil. That's really what what we want to get into and kind of focus on. Um Just that. I I had the the notes for four. We'll get into next week what we call combatalism. It's uh ties my tongue up. And that's really important. Then we're gonna move on, uh uh we're gonna get to, okay, what is the will of God, which is what you why you guys signed up But really this is the kind of the will of God. If we don't understand what the foundation is, really, who God is, um we're We're going to look at the will of God as if, okay, what do I do? You know, and it we make it kind of mechanical or legalistic. Um so I don't want to do that And I don't record. So let's let's kind of review real quick. Uh knowing, understanding, believing, and trusting in uh God's sovereign plan for creation is a foundation stone upon which God's will must rest. And I wrote this I read this last week as we we started this. Uh uh it's um from Calvin's Institute True and sound wisdom consists of two parts, the knowledge of God and ourselves. He later says in Institutes, it is certain that man never achieves a clear knowledge of himself. Unless he has looked upon God's face and then descends from contemplating him to scrutinize ourselves. Or to sc he says to scrutinize himself. And that's the hard part. Uh you know, we need to really Look and reflect, okay, where am I? And it's it this is a radical part of Christianity because it you know who likes looking at their Stuff. Right? But in order to move forward, that that's really where you where where we gotta go. It's not my stuff compared to somebody else. How do I rate in the church? Am I oh, you know, how where am I spiritually mature? It's like It'd be yeah, it's like anything. It's it's like if you want to get better at a sport or or uh anything you want to learn, going through going through school and getting educated and then the engineering thing You gotta look at where you're weak, right? 'Cause that's the thing you gotta work on. And you gotta see it and and r and recognize it. Uh Well, you know, let's let's be honest, because of our nature we're really good at denial, you know, we kinda gloss over this stuff. Uh so the uh and again I'm throwing out these terms and we said it last week. Arminian. Okay. Uh uh Joseph Arminian was a theologian, uh uh just prior to Calvin. And and these are the thoughts that were coming out, you know, w as Theology builds over history and and uh a lot of what we take for granted now, this is the stuff that they wrestle with. Arminius basically said He was into this free choice and we're calling that libertarian. A libertarian is just a b a big name for I can choose my own destiny. Um what is it they always say at uh graduations? Uh what's that Invictus or they I'm the captain of my soul, you know what I mean? It's you know, it's about me. I um you know and and really In cr in in biblical Christian and you know, in God's word, we are not. And that's what we're wrestling with So this Armenian and libertarianism, that that's all this is. Armenian said you had free choice Um you could if God God does work on your heart, but man has the ability to reject that. Uh we are are And I hate to use the word, but Calvinistic, because he's the one who really started to establish his doctrine. We believe that God has chosen us. Right? And we'll and we'll look at that a little bit Once God uh uh opens our hearts to uh uh I think there's a quote in here from Lydia, I hope I have it in here. I I sometimes I'm reading through the messages. I can't remember what lesson I put it in. Uh but basically Lydia uh went down, was hearing Paul, if you remember that in Acts 16 Uh he went uh Paul went down to to see where that gathering was. There was a woman named Lydia. Uh uh uh she was uh uh vendor or whatever and cloths and everything and it says God opened her heart to hear what Paul had to say. And that's that's what we're that's election. God opened her heart, okay, and she's going, Wow, you know, this is this is whatever. This is true. This is and okay. And she chooses On that basis, to believe in God. So Arminian said, you could actually, once that happened to you, you could reject it. And w and we don't believe that. Uh it's that tulip thing, uh uh total depravity, uh Uh irresistible grace is part of the acronym. And that's when God opens a heart. It's irresistible. Because you'll want to do it. But you do you do choose it and that's what we're gonna we we'll get into next week. We call it compatibilism. So But that was that's why we're throwing this term out. That's what Armenian believed. He also believed you could lose your faith If you were to be saved and you walk down a path that was, you know, unrighteous and you're opening yourself to sin, you could actually lose your salvation. So we you know obviously we we totally reject protest. So so that's why I wanted to Define those terms because I'm throwing out Arminianism and liber uh libertarianism and that's really what we're talking about. This sovereignty where we can choose Um let's see. So uh Armenian libertarian theology, God's sovereignty is limited to the extent that he will not intervene in most of the affairs of man in order to preserve the freedom of choice. God's providence does not require him to predetermined events in uh in creation. God intentionally limits his power in order to provide for man's free will. This puts man at the center of creation rather than the creator Alright, so the scripture passages are small, these are just a small example of the texts that define God's uh his revelation of his sovereignty over creation. The Lord has established his throne in the heavens, and his sovereignty rules over all. That's Psalm 103. Behold, to the Lord your God belongs heaven and the highest heavens, the earth and all that is in it. Ophelience. Also, we have obtained an inheritance having been predestined according to his purpose, who works all things after the counsel of his will. So, yeah, it's point blank. I mean you just have to kind of go against Scripture to really have this kind of free choice. He works all things after the counsel of his will. You know, I I forget this from time to time. You know. Not intentionally, but you just get on that r you know what I mean? And go yeah, you're You know, God's in control here. Uh but again, the i it this is a it's like anything. Um this is some of the things we'll get into we do the will of God because there is a part of us To practice the disciplines. It's a it's a discipline, right? You need to practice this over and over and over again. Especially um Uh when we get into uh the will of God and and like how the Holy Spirit, whether we're being led and uh and uh that part of the study is really good because We'll be looking at uh some of the passages for that Romans six through eight, which is really good on sanctification and and uh uh Really, uh there's a lot that um I think we we miss when we go through Rome as we get too much into detail, miss the big picture. So also we obtained an inheritance, uh right, I just read that. Uh it is he who changes the times and the epochs, right? Epics. Epochs, I don't know. Epics, epoch, what is this? Epic. Epic Okay, so what is it though? Epoch is a significant long period of history, a observable date or a specific point that marks the start of a new and distinctive era Yeah. And see, God's in control of that and and w we have uh uh uh a theology where we see different God do God works And I I don't see how anybody couldn't see it really. Okay, you know, think about how God worked Adam and Eve, right? To the flood. Then he worked right then the f he flooded the earth. He worked differently, right? And he goes through Abraham. And then he establishes the law. These are what what we refer to as is definitely different uh epics. You know, also we are in the new covenant, right? Which they talk about all through the Old Testament. We're the new covenant. Uh the Holy Spirit indwells us. Okay? God didn't operate that way before. So these epics are are are uh need to be observed. It is he who changes the epics removes kings and established kings. He gives wisdom to the wise men and knowledge to men of understanding. So this is Daniel and you of course you know what's going on with Daniel's working with Nebuchadnezzar and uh Nebuchadnezzar thinks he's uh on top everything and he And Daniel had these tremendous visions of future. Uh he uh there's so much prophecy in Daniel, Daniel, it was all food uh future. Wow I'll get my tongue in order. And remember, when Daniel, Daniel, they're in captivity. They're out of the land. Everybody's out on the land. And so God's shown his promises. He goes, you know, you're here now, but this is the future for Israel. But he gives wisdom to wise men and knowledge to men of understanding. Well, it's one of the things we're going to kind of focus on when we get to the will of God is focusing on wisdom. Right, Proverbs, pursue wisdom. Get understanding. Come now, you who say, today and tomorrow we will go to such and such a city and spend a year and engage in business and make a profit. Yet you do not know what your life will be like tomorrow. You are just a vapor that appears for a little while and then vanishes away. Instead, you ought to say, if the Lord wills, we will live and also do this or that. But as it is, you boast in your arrogance, all such boasting is evil. Again, it's it's uh another foundational thing. Uh pride uh uh gets in our way. Uh it's it's a control thing The lot is cast into the lap, but every decision is from the Lord. Excuse me. I joked about this last week, I said so I guess the Lawrence in involved in gambling. They're saying that guy's gonna lose. The guy but you know, of course they did cast lots and and it was a way, uh even if uh they cast lots. Remember when they were choosing the uh And Acts, right? They determined uh uh Judas was gone. They said, well, you know, we need uh uh another one of the apostles, remember and the Catholics, see who it was But they chose between two people. It wasn't like they just went rank uh helter skelter, right? They had two qualified men. So that's how they discern between the two of 'em The God who made the world and all that is in it, since he is Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made with hands, nor is he served by human hands as though he needed anything. Since he himself uh gives to all people life and breath and all things. And he made from one man every nation of mankind to live on all the face of the earth having determined their appointed times and boundaries and their habitations, that they would seek God if perhaps they might grope for Him and find Him. though he is not far from each one of us. For in him we live and exist, and even some of your own poets have said, For we are his children. So God's in control of all actions, our beings, and wholly dependent on Him for walking and moving and breathing, thinking, speaking, feeling, ultimately for our own existence. So this was in this verse I just read in Acts, this is Paul, right? Remember in Aerophagus, he's talking to the Greek philosophers And uh he's pointing out there they had all these gods, right? They had gods demanding the one unknown god. He goes, Well let me tell you who this unknown god is, right And if you remember he said and b uh by a man he uh verified that this was true. And that man he r he raised from the dead and that that just threw him off because the Greeks that was one of their things. They thought the body does not the body was evil in Greek philosophy, basically Uh they had a real problem with that and uh so anything that was holy had to be just spiritual And when Paul said he raised this man from the dead, th that it was just, no, that's we don't believe in that. And he stopped listening, so The resurrection's a huge part. If you get into uh conversation with anybody really. That's what we we're really focus should focus on. All through the epistles and everything. You're always talking about God was raised from the dead. It's it's the proof. Um uh there's evidence for it. God is in control of all our actions and being. We're wholly dependent on Him. I just read that Uh for all existence, Isaiah forty-five-nine illustrates sovereignty of God over man Woe to the one who quarrels with his maker, an earther uh earthenware vessel among the vessels of earth. Will the clays say to the potter, uh, what are you doing? Or the thing uh you are making say he has no hands? Uh you probably this is familiar. This is in Paul quotes this in Romans, right? Romans eleven. And he's talking about, you know Basically some you know, election more or less, and some people are gonna come to God and others won't. And is this is this fair? Uh that is probably one of the biggest things we have to deal with, isn't it? Why, you know, why did God save me? Why didn't he save, you know, family members, friends that we're praying for? Uh it it's tough question to answer. So God's sovereign care God is sovereign over all creation, and He is a loving God who cares for His creation. A God who is all powerful but stripped of His personal loving care is neither the God of the Bible nor a God that we could bear to live under. I mean think about it, e uh you know, with the chaos we see, we have to feel like somebody's in control, right? Um and it was one of our gifts We know God's in control. God's sovereignty is a reassurance because we have God who seeks the good of his creation and particularly for his chosen ones. Jesus illustrated his care, the care that he has for his people in Matthew 10, 29-31. Are not two sparrows sold for a cent, yet not one of them will fall to the ground apart from your father? But the very hairs on your head are all numbered. So do not fear For you are more valuable than many sparrows. God knows it all. Uh it seems like sometimes he does, I say, you know We look at the I look at some things and I'm going, uh, this is horrible. I what is the point of this And I read this last week, uh those of you weren't here, but uh it here's some of the promises and we're looking at again, this is a good guy. God does care for us, you gotta remember that because We're about to turn the corner and go, and God is sovereign over evil. So Ephesians 1, I just listed um these verses. And you can probably pick out some some more blessings in here, but verse 3, we're blessed with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. Verse 4, we were chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world. And not only that, to be holy and blameless. Verse 5, we were predestined to be adopted as son. We're not just saved, we're part of a family. Verse 7, we have redemption and forgiveness of sins. A nine, in all wisdom and insight, he made known to us the mystery of his will. Uh think about that. Um Uh you again, you look at what people are looking at, uh, the worldly people, they have no idea where this is going. Regardless of whether you see all these epochs or not, we know the end, don't we? That's that's huge. Um you know, sometimes that's what we need to think about. Really, when things are going bad we need to have an eternal perspective and go, okay, this is temporary. Right? Eternity, we're gonna have we're gonna be blessed eternity. We have an inheritance with Christ. Romans uh eight were fellow heirs with Christ. Imagine that We were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise, who was given as a pledge of our inheritance, as a down payment of God's own possession. Again, this is eternal security. We have the Holy Spirit indwelling us, sealing us. Uh to down payment so we see where it's going somewhere. So God's sovereign rule over all nature uh and and creatures is a reassurance to the believer We have a God who has planned all of creation before anything was created. The ultimate outcome of all that God has created is for good and for his glory. So here's the thing we should uh want us to really kind of wrestle with and think about. And and I know many of you have considered this before, but uh again When you the blessing of of teaching this is whether I pray that I'm communicating something, but the blessing of teaching it is because Yeah, I'm looking at all this stuff at a level and I'm meditating on it for a long time. I'm looking at reading different people and it's just um Again, it takes you to a new level. The question, if God is sovereign, how can there be evil in the world? How can a loving God be involved in any way with evil that is in the world? So in order to consider the sovereignty of God with any clarity and depth, we must deal with the biblical reality that God is sovereign over all, even evil. Here is a quote from Christensen. Evil does not reside in a mysterious realm somewhere Or excuse me, somehow untouched by God's plan, purpose or power. If it did, we would have reason to fear For then God would not be in fact God would not in fact be sovereign. If God is genuinely in control Then he is Lord over good and evil, right and wrong, truth and error, blessing and curse, comfort and pain, life and death. Any questions, any comments, any thoughts before I plow on with this? The Lord has made everything for its own purpose, even the wicked for the day of evil. Proverbs 164. I am the Lord, there is no other beside me. Excuse me, there is no other. Beside me, there is no God. I will gird you, though you have not known me, that men may know from the rising and the setting of the sun that there is no one beside me I am the Lord and there is no other, the one forming light and creating darkness, causing well-being and creating calamity. I am the Lord who does all these. I have a question. Yes, thank you. Um I know y'all were thinking something. And it says um creating calamity. Now that to me I would say creating evil or no. Uh I know the scripture very clearly says he doesn't decrees evil. But then they cause the evil. No, that's and that's what and that's what we're gonna separate out in a minute. Okay, great. Right. And that and that and trust me We'll read the scriptures and all that, but you still it's like we're from our human perspective, what he if he decreed evil, how c then he was a cause of he was the cause of it, but he We'll wrestle with that in a second. And and let's again we're finite. We we really can't uh there's some things that you know we can't grasp the whole thing of. But we can get a we can get a picture of it. I could also say though that he he does create things like earthquakes and the global flood and that kind of that's in the category of calamities Yep. And and that's what when I get when we go through uh uh if you look down here you can see I'm gonna go with different cav categories, mental and physical. It's like yeah, I how can So I forget who it was. Uh I think my wife was telling me about somebody. A little little kid, you know, two years old has cancer. It's like Really? You know what I mean? And they say that is one of the toughest nurses in here? They say that's one of the toughest things. And I remember James Dobson talking about that He says these children with these illnesses, sometimes the parents just can't do it anymore. It's not I mean they love the kids so much. You know, they just can't I mean it just ugh It's harder it's it's harder harder on the parents, you know, to see the child going through that. Yeah Yeah, one of my cousins is a uh pediatric oncologist. Oh my god. Props to her, props to Jenny, but I don't know how the heck she does it. I know. It's funny, um My uh mom's doctor was uh he was a general practitioner, was an oncologist for years. He said I couldn't do it anymore. 'Cause you know the success rate for cancer once it spreads not good. My son um Tory was a respiratory uh pediatric And uh I asked him once, you know, like why is it so hard, you know, for your area and he said because childhood diseases while some kids have, you know, asthma or whatever. Okay, great. That's not what they're dealing with. Primarily mostly deal with the things with children who have respiratory things is that most of them don't have a good life expectancy. Right. And they come into the church they come into the hospital to have to be dealt with for weeks at a time. I know. Because you can't leave them until they're like cleared. Right. So that they're not just going to be back in the next week. So you get to know these kids. Mm-hmm. But the next time you see them, they aren't as well as they were the last time. And he just he watched it. Yeah, I know. And he did it for five he did it for five years. He had to get out. Yeah. Yeah. I know. So i I you know Yeah, life's tough. And and you know and that again, look at the blessing we have. We have an eternal perspective. It's not that I want to go through hardships, but I know at the end of this this isn't this is not it. You know? It's not like okay, this is This is all there is. But the other question is is for people who go through that, like my son, trying to deal with the sovereignty of God is very difficult. Because he sees Why would God do this? Why would God do this and can't God God could stop this. I I know. And when I try to talk to him about it, it's It's practically impossible. Yeah. Yeah. A and that's why we spent the time because we know that God is good And sometimes you have to hold on to that. Goodness like I don't see you right now. Let's be honest, let's be frank here, let's be honest. This is this is yeah Um where did I leave off? Uh see now that I, I am He, and there is no God beside me, is I who put to death and give life. I have wounded, and it is I who heal, and there is no one who can deliver from my hand. I mean, these are tough statements. I say to you, my friends, do not be afraid of those who kill a body and after that have no more that they can do. But I will warn you whom to fear. Fear the one who, after he is killed, has authority to cast you into hell. Yes, I tell you, fear him. And and that's the thing, th we have the fear of God. We re recognize that He is sovereign. He is in control. And yes, we don't know the whole plan. And and You just have to leave it at that. We don't know. Mental and physical diseases. And the disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned? This man or his parents? that he would be born blind, Jesus answered, it was neither that this man sinned, nor his parents, but it was so that the works of God might be displayed in him. Again, it it it's uh for God's glory. Remember, this is the blind man. We looked at this in uh uh Pastor Gabe The Lord said to him, Who has made man's mouth, or who makes him mute or deaf, or seeing or blind? Is it not I the Lord? Right? Who is that? He's talking to Moses. Remember Moses going, ah, don't send me. Ah I can't speak And and the you know, you're but we re we know that, but you're thinking, okay, but he does say here or who makes him mute or deaf or seen or blind Um not everybody ends up with a good quote good Bible story, do they? But God is sovereign over this. Okay, whether in nature and catastrophes, right? Or who has enclosed the sea of the doors when first and forth it went out from the womb? Who made a cloud, its garment, uh a thick darkness, its swaddling band, and I placed boundaries on it and set a bolt and doors. And I said, Thus far you shall come, no further, and here shall the proud uh waves stop So again, uh as we you we were alluding to, he's over nature too. Earthquakes. You know, it's fun, I was thinking about this. We haven't had many earthquakes or uh uh You know, uh mountains, uh Volcano Volcanoes, thank you, okay But remember there for a while it seems like we were down in South America, they were having these volcanoes and earthquakes and Maybe they're happening and all we're hearing about's a war. News has a way of focusing on things, doesn't it? He sends forth his command to the earth. The word runs very swiftly. He gives snow like wool. He scatters the frost like ashes. He casts forth his ice as fragments. Who can stand before his cold? He sends forth his word and melts them. He causes his uh wind to blow and the waters to flow. Right? Mountains quake uh because of him and the hills dissolve. I'm thinking of volcanoes there. Indeed the uh earth is uh of he by his presence uh the world and all the inhabitants in it, who can stand before his indignation? Who can endure the burning of his anger? His wrath is poured out like fire, and rocks are broken up by him. Uh that's Nahu. So Yeah. So God raises up the ungodly to judge. So this is kind of answers your question. So how does God uh not be the direct cause of evil. And and again it's remote, but it's it's not as uh Uh s so here, let me read this. For behold, I am raising up the Chaldeans, that fierce and impetuous people who march throughout the earth to see dwelling places which are not theirs. Um so Habakkuk is is saying, and I think I'd written these written this out again uh later in this um but Even if I repeat myself. Habakkuk is saying, Wow, there's such wickedness in the land, Lord. How can you how can you do this? The people are this, the people are that. And then God says, Look, I'm gonna raise up the Chaldeans. And basically later Habakkuk says, those wicked people, they're worse than us. You know And and you know, if you look at it all the time, you especially in Isaiah and his prophecies, i it's it's easy to get bogged down. But a lot of times he you'll see where he raises these people up and he goes, But I'm gonna judge 'em because their wrath was uh uh they poured out more vengeance than I had in mine. So they're gonna be judged as well. But he uses them as instruments and and that was kind of what Patty was asking earlier That's the best illustration of God's plan in using evil is the book of Job, right? Life of Job presents a test case for the relationship between God, evil, Satan, and mankind. Okay, so think about that. Okay. God, evil, and Satan and mankind. The Lord asked Satan, right, where have you been? And he reports, I've been roaming around on the earth God asked him, uh, how'd you consider Job uh uh his righteous uh servant? Uh Satan says, uh Job fears God because you have protected him and blessed him And if you all know the story of Job, I I assume most of you do. He says I you put a hedge of protection around him, I think was uh uh translation of what it said. Um So uh Satan says, uh uh, let's see. Uh Bless him. Satan says to God, put forth your hand. So think about this. He says to God, Satan says to God, put forth your hand. Against him, and he will curse you. The Lord gave Satan the power to harm Job's possession, but not touch Job So he couldn't touch his he couldn't actually touch his body. Um the following events uh came upon Job, uh Sabians uh attack Fire came down from heaven. Chaldeans attacked. There was a gray wind that struck his children's house. Uh and all this Job did not blame God. Think about this, he uses all the elements right here. And but who was the instrument to initiate it? Satan. It's a fine distinction, but God is not culpable. Okay, he allowed Satan to do it. God did not actually do this. And this is what what we'll look at, these kinds of things uh with when we get the compatibility, because you think, okay, if God is sovereign over everything W you know, what is like choice? And it it's kind of the same thing as is here. God decrees, allows this to happen. Satan said to him, he goes, uh, you know, put your hand forth. Right? Um So Satan can't do anything without without God's okay. So in all this Job did not blame God. Again, Satan is uh is challenged by God to consider the faithfulness of Job. Satan now challenges God by demanding uh to be allowed to inflict Job's body with sickness. So and he said he could. Remember if you remember the story and in in Job one and two he said, yeah, you can You can touch his body, but you can't kill it. You can't put him to death. So Job has boils, right, on his body from his head to his toe. Job's wife responds the way Satan had intended Job to respond when she told Job to curse God and die. You remember that? That's what Satan was trying to get out of Job Job replied to his wife, Shall we receive good from the hand of God, and shall we not receive evil? Uh yeah, quite a face. And a and a face, you know it's We'll get to this, but faith comes on understanding and as we un as we have as in understanding of faith just kind of work step in step. Yeah, the the more we walk out in faith or the more we see God working. the more kind of understanding, wisdom, and faith we get. They they they really go hand in hand. It's it's practical I tell this all the time, it's one of my favorite verses, when uh God has a has a part for us to play. Uh you m right uh Moses, right? They're leaving Egypt. They they come out of Egypt, and who's tracking them down when they come out? Pharaoh finally says, Wow, man, we let those people go. We got What happened, right? The chariots were coming. Right? The people were between whatever sea, right? The the body of water. That's what they say, but we don't know. That's the problem. It was it was some body of water. And um Uh so the people are saying, Oh yeah, we're gonna die, we're gonna die. Remember Moses gets up there, watch, see what the Lord's gonna do. Today your salvation's gonna come and all this. But the next verse I love. The Lord says to Job, why are you crying out to me? Tell the people to move forward. And that's it kind of goes hand in hand. The Hebrews even have uh a name for the guy who was the first guy to go forward and they're It's it's not biblical. Uh who knows? It's it's probably something that's like anything, they made it up. But the point was is they they recognized the faith of that guy who was the first guy to walk toward the sea. And and That's the whole idea. It was that safe. It's like if you remember when they went into Jericho, it was the same thing. They crossed the flooded Jordan. And if you remember they had the uh Ark of the Covenant and the guys had to walk in, then he separated the waters. And that's kind of that that uh that light thing. Sometimes you gotta move, you know, uh do we believe God? Is has he got my back? You know But we at the same time you need to use wisdom, right? You know? And that that's that's what we'll look at when we talk about the will of God. So key observations, these passages. One The the God the God challenge Satan, right? He said, Where are you going? And he said, Did you consider Job? Remember that? God God put him forward He challenges Satan concerning Job. Two, God commands Satan to harm Job. Well, he basically says, okay, you can do it. Notice also that Satan has authority that has no authority over creation unless God permits it. Satan is an instrument of God. Satan cannot act outside of God's plan. Yes, thank you. So does Satan actually have power over In this case the other words it's a break when I think so. I gave him uh uh permission to do it, yep, and gave him power to do it So it makes it harder to distinguish things that are directly from God, like an earthquake, versus did Satan make that earthquake or did God make that earthquake? I know. I know. And as Here's the the here's the we just try we have to have terms for it. It's kind of like we talked about explained in the Trinity or anything else. God decreed it Right. He's always ultimate. Yeah, well he so he had to decree it so that it could be, but then he uses other instruments. To actually initiate it, carry it out. Good question. Because God does God does pour out his wrath. And he says he will judge. Right? You know, uh we love that that passage uh Noah and the rock, right? God is patient, God is compassionate, uh, right? Uh w when Noah said, Can I see your glory? And he goes through a whole list of what God is, God's merciful. He also says, but God will judge the wicked Right? And Satan's not in charge of uh hell, is he? Jesus will judge, right? Well it there's a great passage. Well what was hell prepared for? Satan and his angels. It's uh Matthew twenty five, I think it's forty, I'm not sure. You know, 'cause a lot of people go, you know, a lot of people, you know, what do the cartoons and everybody have? Satan's the in charge of hell. It was prepared for the devil and his angels. I think is it thirty-nine? Forty-one. Yeah. Then he will also say to uh to those on the left, depart from me, you cursed one, into eternal fire which has been prepared for the devil and his angels. And and you know that's the choice, isn't it? We got two kingdoms, two rulers The God of this world, Satan, uh we either follow him into hell or or you know we uh we have we follow God into heaven. Key observation is passed, we already read that. Let's see where are we at? Second Samuel 24, 1. Here's a good example of two things. Now again the anger of the Lord burned against Israel and incited David against them to say Go number Israel and Judah. That's 2 Samuel 24. 1. In 1 Chronicles 21, 1, we are told Who is the instrument God used to incite David to number the people? Then Satan stood up against Israel and moved David to number the people. So we can see the scriptures have told us, right? But God decreed it. And again, he was angry with the people. He judged them. A lot of people died a uh as a result of uh David uh numbering those people. But that was it. God was judging the people. Um We were talking about this yesterday, you know, how uh interesting with current events, what's going on with Israel and some of the uh uh Muslim nations, etc. But um you know, there's a lot I was saying God may be be protecting Israel for a time, but there are a lot of wicked people in Israel. Uh what is it, Tel Aviv? That is one of the most decadent places i uh you ever saw. A and a and if you look at scripture, a lot of Israelites, uh according to Zechariah, it looks like two thirds of 'em he says in Zechariah are going to be cut off in the end times. Ouch. The two throws are gonna die. Uh um It's important to note that Job in all scripture does not indict God as being evil or a perpetrator of evil. Scripture is clear that God cannot be tempted by evil. The Lord is righteous in all his ways and kind in all his deeds. For you are not a God who takes pleasure in wickedness. No evil dwells with you. For I proclaim the name of the Lord, ascribe greatness to our God. The rock, his work is perfect For all his ways are just. A God of faithfulness without injustice, righteous and upright is he. So that's again, it you know, we ask these questions, you know, like who caused the flood and you know to separate the two, but we have You gotta remember both sides of what the scriptures tell us. It's just one of those things you wrestle with. I mean, can I I don't you know, we just I just don't see how we you can't fully comprehend it. But we know God is good, we know he's just, we know his plan is for ultimate good Again, I I think one of the hardest things we have, why didn't God choose more people to be saved? And I've said this before, I I I think in his class, but especially when I was in in uh Studying some of the old Old Testament Leviticus and things, why didn't God save more of the Israelites during the Exodus. You see it over you know, you saw what happened to him over and over again. He gave them the law and everything else and judges and etc, right? They just Why didn't God say more of the Israelites? It was his chosen nation. So again, it it's it's one of those things. It's God it's a God thing. It's his plan. It also must be recognized that God cannot tempt anyone to do evil. James 1. Let no one say when he is tempted I am being tempted by God. For God cannot be tempted by evil, and he himself tempts, uh does not tempt anyone. So God can decree evil to occur, but uh allow Satan to do the tempting. It's not easy or even possible for us to resolve, but the scriptures bear out this seeming contradiction. It's just one of those things, kind of like, again, uh, how can God be good in the midst of evil? We take comfort in God even when he decrees evil, knowing that God is loving, compassionate, a compassionate God whose ultimate plan is for good and his glory. Lamentation reads, For the Lord will not reject forever, for if he causes grief, then he will have compassion, according to his abundant loving kindness. For he does not afflict willingly or grieve the sons of men. Right? So he doesn't do it willingly. Ezekiel addresses uh punishment of the wicked and how it grieves God. Do I have any pleasure in the death of the wicked, declares the Lord, rather than he should turn from his ways and live? The context for this is people, you know, uh God had said, you know, the fathers will pass down the evil to the fourth generation or whatever, you know. And they were asking this question, Ezekiel, and God says, no, if the sun does right, the sun is righteous. If the father does wicked, the father's wicked, not the son. If the father does right, the father's righteous. And that's what he's saying there Uh but then he answers that with this this line just wrote. Uh he he he takes no pleasure in death and wick it of the wicked How can God love and remember that's the thing. It's not our love. We know it intellectually, but God actually practices God loves, even though he will ultimately punish and judge. If evil were outside God's sovereignty, he would have reason to despair for life. He would uh have an element of random, chaotic events over which God uh was the uh neither uh Excuse me, God was either not in control or chooses to have nothing to do with them. And we t we looked at this earlier. It's kind of like God looks on and he does do anything. God never abandons his children and never relinquishes his control of all things. A profound, if mysterious, coherence exist between the sovereign decree of evil, his goodness, and the grief he bears alongside of us. That's Christians. It's just one of those things we don't fully comprehend That well-known verse in Romans 8. 28 reminds us that God cares for us. And we know that God causes all things to work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. God causes all things to work together for good for the believer. God has no evil intention towards the believer. God's intention for the believer's life is to be conformed to the image of his son. That's the passage that follows that we just read in Romans 8 And like the sun, we learned obedience through suffering. That's another one that's tough. Nobody likes that one, right? Although he was a son, he learned obedience through the things which he suffered. Right, Hebrews 5. 8, talking about Christ. Believers know that the wrath of God has been removed from us as Christ, our substitute of the wrath of God we deserve and is suffering on the cross. So therefore there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Romans A About out of time. I do wanna read. Let me read this God is all loving in his sovereignty over evil because he allows God's transforms and even designs it for good and loving eternal purpose that far transcends the evil itself, but could not be accomplished without it. Herein lies the mystery of creation and redemption, since God could have prevented evil from ever taking root in the world. We must conclude that evil is an essential part of God's overall plan for creation. Uh let me read this other one because I I also humans naturally think the wall of their moral of brightness is fairly straight, but the law of God comes along like an electric laser level and reveals how crooked the wall really is. People don't like this the scrutiny of that uh piercing red beam and seek to rebel against it all the more. Their transgressions increase before the judge of their hearts Uh well let me just read if you um So really the worst crime was Christ, right? Putting Christ to death. The innocent, holy, perfect God. And I want to end on this because we're I was out of time and I want to finish on time. But you know, think about this. We've read this before, but meditate on this verse. It's Isaiah 53. I know you guys are familiar with it, but but focus down on this one. But the Lord was pleased to crush him. Putting him to grief if it would render himself as a guilt offering. He will see his offspring. He will prolong his days. And the good pleasure of the Lord will prosper in his hand. God And we we we we looked at this when when uh we went to this in in Rob's class on what you know what about evil, why is there evil? Um God could not, this had to have been the best plan for God to reveal his sovereignty, his attributes And a and to be revealed to all this chaos, wickedness, corruption, if you will. It had to be the best plan. Otherwise, you know, i uh it has to be the theology of it. He wouldn't have he wouldn't have a allowed that. And and and we remember we thought we talked about this, we thought through this. He knew Adam was gonna fall. He didn't just know it. He had to plan it. Had to plan it. And then of course every we know what happened after the fall. It was just the the paradigm, the the first step for all he g in that in that uh three he he cursed the ground, right? And and the other things too Heavenly Father, we thank you, Lord. We don't comprehend um uh all and Lord that's that's okay. Uh I think part of of of Becoming uh uh mature uh uh in your word, in in Christianity, in faith in you, uh involves allowing uh the mystery of you to uh to be there. You we are finite. We are not God. You are God. You understand? We are made in your image. Lord, we confess we make you in our image from time to time. Lord, we want a blessing that we want. But Lord, we uh To turn the corner, we want to lift up this next uh hour and a half, two hours or of our corporate worship, Lord. We thank you, Lord, that uh you have designed the church. We can come together. We can praise and worship in and in a body. Lord, lift our spirits up. May we worship from the heart. a and not from uh out outer ex uh external uh expressions, even the even the praise band May our worship come from our heart. May we glorify you. May we realize the gift that we have. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.