Yes. Record it. I'll record the chaos. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Oh my god, I don't know I think you become true. Oh yeah. Yeah, everybody's like, I see it. So give me that one. Yeah. Um that people don't believe everyone can help help stay. Right. Good morning. Um Yeah, this is a continuation of the same lesson. And I looked at it today and I'm thinking, wow, we're I don't know for I want to concentrate on some of the scriptures instead of just kind of reading through it, so we'll see where we get. If we don't finish it, I guess you have the notes. There's some things Excuse me. I really want to highlight and if we don't read through you know, I've g I've listed some scripture references. If we don't read through them, um It's all for naught, right? So let us open in prayer. Heavenly Father, uh, thank you, Lord, for today. Lord, uh lift this time up, lift your word up in our hearts and our minds. Yeah, Lord, we're gonna we're uh there's it we're gonna read through uh all scriptures inspired by God. I have it in a couple of places, Lord, and we take that for granted. I was thinking about that uh the last couple of days. Well it is one of the gifts you've given us. We actually believe all scripture is inspired, which really gives us uh the ability, the desire, whatever, to to want to do your work. When we think about it, uh Lord, uh there's so much that comes in that influences us in in this world system. our fallen nature, the whole uh aspects of of of life and and godliness and and just really how everything so opposed to it. And yet, Lord, within that, it was your will to have us in this n in this uh position that that you knew man was gonna fall. It was your plan. But Lord uh it is the ultimate it's the best plan. It's a plan for us to really come to know you and and the attributes of you. So Lord, let us consider all this Uh let us not take it for granted. I I I confess I do. And and it we I need to be reminded periodically what a gift you've given us. We have the spirit of of God inside of us. Lord, uh we understand, we believe, we know your work. So Lord, uh with all that, uh just open our hearts and our minds to listen and and to uh meditate on uh what your word has to say today. In your name we pray, Amen. So No, it's actually it's coming from the speakers. We have to work that out. So they put speakers in the ceilings. And I think I don't think it's coming through the walls, I think you kinda hearing it come through here. Yeah, so So Bill's in the room, and what are we thinking about? Speakers have boxes and they direct the the i if we almost put the speakers up there, if we could figure out a little box to put just over the speaker, it might direct the sound down Just a thought. I'm a mechanic, not an engineer. All right, so uh the God's Will Through Wisdom. It's it's it was uh um uh this is still uh Gary Friesen's uh book I'm kinda working through We're going to do this for a couple of weeks. And I'm going to transition to another book. It'll be three books on using, but they're also interrelated. But I like each aspect. Remember what we did the first part. We looked at the sovereignty of God and our will. Which is so important because it's our choices, right? And we talked about that. And we're going to continue to talk about that. W uh yeah let's keep the big picture the big picture. We do what we desire. And our will typically is is affected Our choices our will. God gave us our will. But it's really on on what Um and we're going to get to that, but it it's really about what what focuses our desires or our wants or our or you know it's the the information we get. We're trying to be renewed in our mind by scripture, but we are in it we are in immersed in the world, right? This is where we are. We're not in heaven. We know that. We're we also have that fallen flesh. Okay? And you that's what the Bible talks about. When it talks about the flesh, but a lot of times he's referring to that aspect, that natural aspect that we were born with. Not the same aspect Not the renewed spirit, not the Holy Spirit dwelling in us, but that old the it's that old aspect, that old nature So when he mentions that with flesh And I just want to keep these big ideas because you know, we g I we can get lost in the forest, you know, we start looking at all the intricacies and we forget the big picture, right? Um Um the other thing I've been reading and and I just want to give you this in advance and um because right now we're s we're starting to move through, okay, this is what God's will is, obviously we want to do it. Um Uh but again and I w we're gonna get to this I'll get to this more w w in the coming weeks. But uh one thing I read and I really liked, um uh It was one uh it's a s I'm studying for the holiness of God and that's kind of what I'm gonna put in to the will of God. Because God says be holy because I'm holy. Uh but one of the things he says is is that okay You know what to do. We know the will of God. You're w the one of our issues is, okay, I got the Spirit of God, I shouldn't be doing this. And and well we we want holiness or sanct total sanctification kinda now, right We're gonna fail a lot. That's the point. And that's why he talks about perseverance and things like that. Yeah, and I used this illustration last week and then I'll get into the notes. But you know, I told you about I I w shoot and pole and the one guy said, you know uh hit the cue ball in the center. Uh he had these guys practice this for a thousand times. Okay? You're gonna fail a lot. But what we do is is persevere and to keep practicing. And things get better. We do this all the time in a secular world. Whatever we w whatever you you studied, whatever you learned, whatever your profession is, whatever hobbies you had. We practiced it a lot and we failed a lot, but it was okay. And sometimes we forget that, you know, in the spiritual aspect. You know, I shouldn't be doing this. You know, I got the Holy Spirit. I can't believe I did this again You know? But okay, you're gonna fail. But you keep practicing. And so with all this said, we're gonna look at these moral things, you know, uh uh uh to do this, but yeah, it's gonna take practice. It's a late journey. We all know this, right? Uh we're not gonna be glorified till heaven, which means we're not gonna be holy till heaven But we don't want to go into that passive mode, you know. Well, God will do it You know, a and and that's why I gave the analogy. I think the best analogy with I said with compatibilism is the farming analogy, right? We gotta prepare the field, we gotta fertilize it, we gotta plant, we gotta get seed. But God grows it, right? If he if there's no rain You know, if you have one of those years, sometimes the crops just you know a disease happen. Yeah that's the way it goes. Got God's in control As compatible as we kind of review a little bit, but the uh here's Um so scripture does not give instructions on how to discern God's individual will. And that's that's the thing we want to fight against. Okay, what is this what what is that perfect thing God wants me to do? Okay, we're we're seeking uh uh obedience through wisdom. There's a lot of choices that just aren't spelled out in the Bible But it is one of the things that is spelled out in the Bible is seek wisdom, Proverbs. So Scripture doesn't give us instruction how to discern God's individual will or guidance, but it does emphasize God's moral will. So this is what Friesen lists as his four principles Alright, where God commands, we must obey. Where there is no command, God gives us freedom, responsibility, to choose Where there is no command, God gives us wisdom to choose. And that's the important step, okay? Uh Uh when we have chosen what is moral and wise, we must trust sovereign God to work out all the detail uh work all the details together for good. And again, uh there are gonna be some times right in life where you make the right decisions and bad things happen, right? Uh-huh Okay, that's that's that's that's uh that's part of it too. Um but At the same time we have to use wisdom, we go, well, you know and and this is kind of what we'll get into holiness because Oftentimes we fudge it, you know. Uh we rape sins. Well this isn't really too bad. You know? And that's where it gets hard. It's like, wow, this is really Think about it. This Christian life, this walk is radical. And trust me, you're looking at a guy, you know my story. I didn't come to faith till I was 40 some Okay, I had all those years of habits that I ingrained, bad habits, right? And we all do, but you know, some of us to more more extent than others I mean, I was indulging in the world without trying to get totally engulfed by it. I mean, um I was imbibing, okay? Uh so those habits ha are you know, those are ingrained. I these gotta be undone. So I gotta put something new in there. So the reality of God's moral will. The scriptures have numerous commands concerning God's will. I don't want to read through all this because I'm trying to get us up. I'm going to read the uh uh so neglecting God's commands, not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my father who is in heaven will enter. And that doesn't mean again the the um he's not talking about just following rules, right? Because uh uh we'll be looking at scripture of that But it you know, i when you do have a relationship with God, you kinda wanna you're gonna wanna please him. And that's really the ultimate goal, isn't it? I I really My goal is to really know God, not know about him. And I know more it's let's face it, it's a lot easier to to study this theology the scriptures and everything and know about him. That's easy to download. Knowing him again is a practice uh And and again, it's intentional. It's it's uh it takes time. What else do I want to get to? What I really want to get to Uh we kinda went through this, that's why I'm kinda going over it really quickly because even it I don't there's no way. Um uh let's see what page are we on? Yeah, too. So finally, brethren, we request and exhort of you in the Lord Jesus that you re that as you receive from us instruction as to how you ought to walk and please God, just as you actually do, that you excel still more For you know what commandments we gave to you by authority of the Lord Jesus. For this is the will of God, your sanctification, that is, you abstain from sexual immorality. And then he Paul goes on the list uh a lot of other things that uh uh he puts uh sexual immorality up top there. I think it's a big one, uh every society Uh and he goes on to list that other things you should should abstain from. But you know and the authority of the Lord. Remember now the you're reading these things, these epistles, right Thessalonians, I mean the scripture is still not complete. We have the completed work. We have the instruction. Yeah, it's important that we take it seriously. That's what we're gonna read that. All scripture is inspired by God. Sometimes we it's so familiar we we miss it Uh practice uh morality and love, right? You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind. This is the great foremost commandment. The second is like it, you shall love your neighbors as yourself. On these two commandments depend the whole law of the prophets. And I read this to you last week. This is a great The Law is What Love Would Do. It's one of uh Freeson's uh uh professors told you that. It's true, isn't it? The law is what love would do. So the nature of uh God's moral will, moral will um Conforms us to the character of God. I'm going to skip over this. I'm going to read you this. Therefore, be imitators of God, his beloved children. Right? And again, that that's uh we have Christ. Uh we have Christ to model us. We have so much more revelation. uh right in Hebrews, right? Um uh what you say the beginning, you know. Uh God after he spoke long ago to the fathers and the prophets in many portions in many ways, and he last day has spoken to us In his son, whom he appointed heir of all things, we have the manifestation of the word of God. Manifestation of God in the flesh for us. What they had, they had the prophets, right? They did have miracles. God God did put miracles to 'em a at certain times, but Um we have we have the fuller revelation. Um Second Peter, this is great uh opening of Second Peter, seeing that his divine power has granted to us everything pertaining to light and godliness through the true knowledge of Him who called us by His own glory and excellence For by these he has granted to us his precious and magnificent promises, so that by them we may become partakers of the divine nature. Having escaped the corruption that is in the world by lust. Again, lustumea, strong desires. Okay, we desire but We've escaped the corruption of the world. You know those verses might come to mind. We've been uh transferred from the d uh rescued or transferred from the domain of darkness that's in Colossians. Chapter 1 we were blinded by this world, by the enemy, right? Satan is uh Second Corinthians four was it Satan is blind in the eyes and unbelieving, so they won't see the the true gospel. Uh In whose case the God of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelieving so that they might not see the light of the gospel, the glory of Christ. Uh let's see what else I want to get up to. Again. All scriptures inspired by God, profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for training in righteousness. The man of God may be adequate, equipped for every good work. You know, uh think about it. Sometimes we just need to stop. It's good for teaching, right? Forty one years? I didn't really pay attention to the Bible. I mean, we were brought up in a church and it was a religious kind of a thing, but I wasn't looking at the at the at the teaching I look at the Bible. Reproof. It does reprove us, doesn't it? Yeah, you ever read the Bible going, Oh man, you know, I I I don't do that or I do do that. Right And it's good for correction. He doesn't just tell us what we do wrong. He says, okay, this is the way to go. Training. We're being trained. Again, it's that practice thing. Right? So so we can be adequate, equipped for every good work. Again, works are the result. of salvation, right, James? Right? I'll show you my faith by my works. Why? 'Cause they're results of uh salvation, you know. Um again, yeah uh Uh many of you have been saved at a at uh young age. Um you know I lived in the world and once I got saved it took a time but there were there were certain things I used to like to do that I didn't like to do anymore. I I didn't, you know, that's the spirit working in me. It just it changes you, it transforms you I got a I got was exposed to the word and you know uh w you don't want you don't have the same desire to do that. But it is a process. 'Cause this is kind of where we left off. This is on what? Page four. So and this is what um So Freeson list lists these as kind of primary attitudes and their opposites. So why don't we do this? And um somebody uh let's let's get you guys kind of active. So uh uh somebody get Mark uh 12, 28 through 31 Somebody get uh Romans thirteen, thirteen through fourteen. I have mark. Okay, well what version you read? Just so we know. Okay. Okay. Alright, and one of the scribes came up and heard them disputing with one another, and seeing that Anton Well asked him which commandment is the most important of all. Jesus answered, The most important is, hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind and with all your strength. The second is this, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. There is no other commandment greater than these Romans thirteen, thirteen to four Let's behave properly as in the day, not in plurality or encouragement, not in sexual permissibility or debauchery, not in strife or sexy. So, I mean we could see the difference between the the low how about um uh Somebody about reliance and independence. Uh Proverbs three, five through six. Maybe maybe do seven. I I think seventh uh verse we oftentimes lay well. And somebody look at Galatians, but I want you to look uh a little more context. Uh Galatians five. Like thirteen through eighteen of Galatians. That's that's such a good passage. Yeah. I like uh that last verse. Do not be wise in your own eyes. That's that's really Kind of a starting place for me. Yeah. Uh it's easy to get. Um Trust in the Lord with all your heart. Lean not on your own understanding. For you were called to freedom, brothers, only do not use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another. For the for the whole law is fulfilled in one word, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. But if you bite and devour one another, watch out that you are not consumed by one another. But I say, bless it. But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh. For these are opposed to each other to keep you from doing the things you want to do. But if you are led by the Spirit, You're not under the wall. You see the context there? I mean a lot of us maybe it's maybe you are uh walked by the spirit and uh uh you would not carry out the desires of the flesh. But you see the context there there he says, but if you are biting and devouring one another, take care. Uh yeah Yeah, you know how many times r really w uh I think that to me is one of the uh the more difficult things is w we talk about love one another. difficult thing, especially uh, you know, and we we we have this in churches. We we've certainly experienced some of this stuff. You know, we there's somebody's we know they're believers and yet We're not nice you know, sometimes we're not nice to one another. Sometimes um I'm probably rude to other people and I'm not even aware of it or I you know uh Maybe you let somebody down or you're let down by somebody and and it's you know, these hard things, you know, but And l what he's saying is here, if you're led by the spirit, you're fleshed. desire, that old natural person, the poor the the sinner that we were I think is what he's referring to. It's that old nature before salvation. Come on. I catch my uh see myself going back to that. I mean well all the time. Sometimes I catch myself not going back to it. It's like a miracle. But you know, th think about it, you know, and it's w we need to put that on. We it's it's gotta be that daily thing. Humility versus pride. Um James 4, 6, somebody? Philippians 2, 5 through 8, very familiar passages. Then f this fourth chapter of James is is a uh It's a I I I think this is just incredible passage. I use it a lot. Somebody have uh I'll read James four six. Alright. Okay it says but he gives more grace Therefore he says, God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble, therefore submit to God resist almost seven years. Yeah, submit therefore to God. We the s resist the devil is the ones that sticks in our mind. We forget about submitting I do, submitting to God. Um how about the Philippians passage? And this attitude in yourselves, which was also in Christ Jesus, who although he existed in the form of God, did not regard equality within God. with God as things to be grasped, but empty himself, taking the form of a bond servant, and being made in the likeness of men And being found in appearance as as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on the cross. A and uh we all know this passage, uh you know, I I know you do, but you know, uh y again to think of it, um Yeah, he emptied himself of his of his uh being able to manifest his glory, being able to uh w uh, rely on his own attributes. You know, he kinda walked i it's it's uh questionable, but, you know, how did he walk? Did he walk by just by the power of the spirit? You know, he said when he was baptized he was full of the spirit, did he do it Uh, you know, these are things they they wrestled with, but you know, he humbled himself. Um Um I was talking with somebody or you know, how um somebody trespassed this person and you know how yeah and he was he was a confessing, you know, he goes, you know uh my flesh over I mean, I was angry. I wanted to I wanted them to feel what I felt and I said, Yeah, I get it. I mean, I agree, but um You know, and I said, Well, you think about Jesus on a cross. 'Cause 'cause that's what we just read. I mean, he he we he uh was obedient even to death on a cross It's bad enough to be on a cross and be crucified, but then these people are up there mocking you. You know? Uh Laughing at you, jeering at you, um uh he and think about what he said. Father forgive 'em. They don't know what they're doing. Uh think about that when you're back with so funny. I'm like, oh I'm not even close to that, right? But you know, I that's it's incomprehensible almost. But again, um uh let's see. What are we at? Grat this is one one verse. Somebody uh find Colossians 3. 17. Gratitude versus presumption. Whatever you do in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus giving thanks to God the Father through him. Yep. Um integrity I think it's you want clear conscience. I did. Yeah, Romans. Clear conscience versus guilt. Romans fourteen, twenty-two to twenty-three. Whatever you do, do your work ardently as for the Lord and not for people. Knowing that it is from the Lord that we will receive the reward of your caritants. It is the Lord Christ who will And again, that's it that's it um it's it's it's oftentimes difficult we're in situations, but um w it's having that eternal perspective isn't it? Uh uh and that really is is is one of our our our great um I mean we have that hope. Uh uh there is an eternal life. Uh here now i it it goes so quick and it's so fleeting and and Uh uh we were taught I was mentioned t today and I've said this before, you know, um you look at uh the news and and you know, how people get so excited about it and everything else and well think about a news cycle What was catastrophic three weeks ago? We don't even talk about three weeks later. It's off the ch you know, it's off the chart. And yet at the time, man, if we don't fix this You know, if we don't do something. And and you know, it's an eternal perspective. God's in control. Uh blah blah blah blah. Integrity and did I do that one? No. Integrit integrity Versus irresponsibility. So now we're gonna look at compared two verses in Colossians So Colossians what 3, 17 and 22? And whatever you do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. Why? Wait to do 17 through twenty two? Yes. Okay. Why submit to your own husbands as is fitting in the Lord Husbands, love your wives and do not be bitter toward them. Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing to the Lord. Fathers, do not prevented your children lest they become discouraged. Bond servants, obey in all things your masters according to the flesh, not with eye servants as men pleasers, but in sincerity of heart, fearing God. Yeah, sincerity of heart. Um, you know, uh that have that integrity to to to do what's right. Uh diligence versus laziness. We just looked at that. No, we didn't. The next first. Yeah. Whatever you do, work Heartily as for the Lord and not for men. Fortunately I have the uh I have uh A perseverance. Sometimes when I do something I'm pretty good about perseverance because um I can definitely be lazy getting started sometimes. Tomorrow. Tomorrow. We'll do it tomorrow. Eagerness versus compulsion. Shepherd the flock of God alone with exercising oversight, not under compulsion, but voluntarily according to the will of God and not for sword gain. But for but even Yeah, and that's the thing. Uh again, what are we talking about? We're talking about the right heart, the attitude Um I don't uh we we don't know we don't think a lot of times the difficulty it is to shepherd people uh our pastors, uh uh you know, um there there's so many uh Uh a pastor uh can can pour his heart out and he looks around at his people and he looks like nobody's listening or nobody's paying attention to doing always get, you know, the pat you know, a lot of times we look for pastors to be for per perfection, you know. Um i it's a it's a difficult job and um Really, it it takes that uh that spirit of God to really uh to go through and and to do that. Uh a lot of if you look, um And I think there's a lot of reasons for it. Um y you remember the uh uh video I showed you with the uh John Street. Uh and and he was talking about uh um it it's uh he's talked about counseling, how difficult counseling is. Well that's really pastoring Uh uh he said he said he he'd like to exposit the word. And he and if you remember he said, this is easy He says, we're really taught a lot of times in seminary how to dispense the word, but not how to minister the word. And he goes, ministering the word's hard work. Where sheep. Sheep are angerant, stubborn, fearful, not obedient, you right? Generosity did did uh do eager to you. First Timothy is the next one. Thank you. So generosity versus selfishness. First Timothy six seventeen through nineteen. As for the rich in his underage, charged by not to be haughty, right? Yeah. Uh money's uh Money's one of those things. Um it's not a bad thing, but it's it certainly uh is a controlling thing. It's it's uh You get a little bit of money and uh you know, it c it can control you. Um having money is a good thing though. I mean you can share, uh y you can support uh churches, uh missionaries, I mean it all costs money. Uh there are people sometimes in need, you you know, you you're able to help Uh but at the same time you get a little bit of money and uh well a little bit more would be better. How much money what do you was that famous quote? How much money is enough? A little bit more. Let's see, uh submission uh versus self-advancement. In the same way, you who are younger, submit yourselves to your elders, all of you. Clothe yourselves with humility toward one another, because, quote, God opposes the proud but shows favor to the humble. Humble yourselves, therefore, under God's mighty hand, that he may lift you up in due time. Right, and that's the thing. Um uh you know, uh talking about the Abraham a covenant, Bill was mentioning uh just thought of this. Uh Abraham a covenant. You know, uh you remember that in Genesis twelve? Uh God says, I will bless you, you will be a blessing, I will make your name great, and then you uh Uh the uh was it Genesis 11, right? They were building the tower, and what were they trying to do? They were trying to make a name for themselves. And and it's it's kinda what he just mentioned here. And I will, God will uh advance us. Uh in the way that that this fit. Uh it's easy for us to self-advance ourselves. Courage versus cowardice John sixteen thirty-three, Matthew ten, twenty-six and twenty-eight John 1633. I have said these things to you that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take hard have over overcome the world. Yeah. Yeah. Especially to live this life. Matthew 10 26 and 28. So have no fear of them, for nothing is covered that will not be revealed or hidden that will not be known. But I tell you in the dark, say in the light, and what you hear whispered, proclaim on the house tops. And do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Rather fear him who can destroy both soul and body in house Yeah, again, think about it. Yeah. You can have everything here. A lot of people live a live a decent life here. There plenty of this, plenty of that. Uh but it all ends. All comes to an end. Contentment versus greed. Hebrews thirteen five, Philippians four eleven. Let your conduct be without covetedness. Be content with such things as you have, for he himself has said, I will never leave you nor forsake you. And Philippians 41. Not that I speak from one where I have learned to be content in whatever circumstances I Really, what's that? I could do all things through God who strengthens me, right? So what's what's a strength? I could learn to do without, I can learn to do with And sometimes learn to do with can be more difficult than learning to do without. Uh uh to stay godly that is. Um Yeah. Okay. Any questions, any thoughts up to this point? So a third category that is governed by God's will is the means a believer uses to achieve the goal. The first and obvious criteria for discerning means we employ is a quiz asks the question, are these actions against God's law? We are not to be conformed to this world but use God's principles for our daily life, be imitators of Christ, to walk in love. Uh immorality, greed, silly talk, coarse jesting, or covetousness, or covetous um Nor an idolater. Uh Proverbs. We're these are things we need to stay away from, right? Proverbs gives us the example of wealth gained. The rich man's wealth is his fortress. The ruin of the poor is their poverty. The wages of righteousness is life. The income of the wicked punishment. Again, uh money is not a bad thing, uh, but um do you do it in a godly way? Do you do you go through uh Uh use God's principles, you know, as means. God blesses. God blessed a uh a lot of the uh great saints or the Old Testament people were were wealthy because God blessed them. Abraham was wealthy. It can also be a downpour, can't it? Um Solomon was certainly wealthy, but Uh he kind of lost his way. Scripture tells us that uh uh we are in a spiritual battle on this earth, right? Uh and means we stand uh firm against the onslaughts of the devil to be suited with the full armor of God. Okay, and this is important that we think about this. We are in a war We're warring against the flesh, the world, the devil. Because that's a that's a nature. Uh you know, things are are opposed to it. So we're commanded to know the doctrines of uh Christian faith. Uh this is uh Ephesians, right? Full armor of God, you're familiar with this. So the belt of truth is more than the gospel. It is the believer's integrity and faithfulness. The breastplate of righteousness is not only the justification received at salvation but also the sanctifying righteousness of Christ practiced by the believer The gospel of peace is a believer's sure-footed sure-footedness from uh his assurance of our position in God is uh as he faces the battle. So the battle rages, uh but we know uh that uh what we're what we're depending on is is God, is Christ. The shield of faith is the believer's absolute confidence in Christ that strengthens him against the slanderous darts of the evil one. The helmet of salvation is the ultimate hope of future salvation glory in heaven, regardless of present circumstances or outcome of the battlefield. The final piece of the offensive weap uh is the offensive weapon, the sword of the spirit Which is the Word of God. He uses a different word there. The word there is Rama as opposed to Lagos, you know, and the word became flesh, that's Lagos. And it seems to have a uh like a nuance. Uh it's the spoken word, the word on our heart, uh the word that we know and can recall. Uh We need to know God's word to take it into battle, right? You you you have to know how to use that sword. And I think that's kind of what he referring to. You can't be dogmatic about it But it it does seem i it is different that he would use uh that word rama as opposed to lagos there. The believer must not transgress the law of God, but he is commanded to be wise in his decision making. So then, do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is, and do not get drunk with wine, for that is dissipation, but be filled with the Spirit. Again, don't be foolish. We need understanding. We need wisdom. We know what the will of God is. Uh and really this being drunk with wine is not so much about uh uh drinking or not drinking as much as You joke with wine, you're what? Who's in control? Wine. Yeah. More more of the wine than you, right? Be controlled by the spirit. That's kind of what he's talking about Uh so it has a broader application, right? We could be uh drunk with the uh riches of the world, we could be drunk with the power of the world, uh fill in the blanks. So Luke for which one of you when he wants to build a tower does not first sit down and calculate the cost to see if he has enough to complete it. Otherwise when he has laid a foundation and is not able to finish, all who observe it begin to ridicule him, saying, This man began the bill and was not able to finish. Again, it's it's it's thinking through things, integrity. Um It could be taken a lot of ways. I you know, it's funny, I I had a brother I was close with. We were close in age. Um he would jump in. He would start things. He was good at starting things. He was good at selling and uh But he he wasn't really good at counting the cost. You know, but it the other thing is that some people can can can go uh, you know, totally with just well, you know, a and want to know exactly how everything's gonna work out. Sometimes you you have to plan and move forward. You you can't figure it all out How we approach the decision in life largely is determined by godly perspective. And that's kind of what we want to focus on. That's what all these scriptures that we're going to go over are not have time to go over. What do I have? Eleven pages of this? We're on six. Um but again. You can you have the notes, you can read this. It doesn't matter that we you read the whole thing as much as if you find something that speaks to you as Focus on that thing. God's speaking to you. Uh it's kind of like Bible study. Sometimes reading through the Bible in a year is a good thing. You get to get the whole thing You you see the big picture. But uh sometimes it's it's better to read one book for a month straight and to g to get it. Um Read a paragraph that that speaks to you and and really bear down and focus on it But it is God's perspective. I mean it's God's word. This is what we want to get into our hearts. And just again, uh uh and we're we're Like I said earlier, when when we get to this, we start doing the holiness of God, which is really kind of sanctification rolled up in one. Um it I I put it the book I'm reading is gonna keep there's gonna be a lot of practical things to do, to practice. Uh and and that's the key, because uh uh otherwise um again it's these habits, it's a this perspective that we have to get inside of us. And God. That's God's plan. Okay? We have to plow the field. We have to plant the seed. We got He's not going to do it for us, but the Spirit will bring that word alive in our hearts. Like I said. Th I there are things I used to wanna do that after I got saved, God took that desire. I don't have that desire anymore. Um That's again but without the practice we have to run this race. So, second, we just read this before. I'm not going to read it to you again, but it is inspired by God So the nature of God's moral will, this is from Friesen, right? So the origin of God's will. It is the expression in behavioral terms of God's character. The origin. It is the expression in behavioral terms of God's character. That's the origin of His will. The communication is fully revealed in the Bible. World world doesn't know this. It's on us uh our responsibility to know that communication. Scope touches every aspect and moment of life. Goals, attitudes, means, perspectives, why, what, how Impact. It is able to equip believers for every good work. Alright, just about out of time. To follow God's will you must believe in God, it seems obvious to us, but we must recognize that how we believe must also uh Oh but excuse me. But now that we believe we must also trust the Lord God and believe in him For this is the will of my Father that everyone who beholds the Son and believes in him will have eternal life, and I myself will raise him up on the last day. So I guess we ought to finish with that. It's about trusting. It's about exercising and practicing this. I may f finish up with a little some highlights of this. I think that um but as you can see it it's scripture heavy. Well I I I don't I think uh one of the things we should probably go over or we we look at next week is this Uh it's this great section here. It's on uh on the Psalm nineteen seven through fourteen. Uh he talks about God's word and and the impact it has on us. Well, Heavenly Father, we thank you for this time. We thank you, Lord, uh, for your your blessing, for the freedom we have to study your word, for the tools and the uh availability we have in your word for the again, the freedom to come and and worship uh uh without worrying about persecution uh Lord. Um and we lift up this time now. Our our public uh uh worship, our our getting together, our fellowship Lord, you told us to come together as a body to exhort one another and to assemble together. And some have fallen away and have uh Miss that, Lord, but it it is your will that we do this, Lord. It's your will, Lord, that we're patient with each other and that we allow each other to fail as we often will fail Heavenly Father, it's uh it's also your will that we practice uh and even though we fail, we we uh We confess it, we get up, we repent, we turn around, we practice it again. Lord, give us that perseverance, Lord. Now, may we glorify you in corporate worship. We thank you for this church, this body we call Hope Bible Church. It's in your name we pray. Amen.