So yeah, so we we uh for those of you who weren't here, we are starting a new series and um the series is gonna be on Biblical manhood and womanhood, uh and along with marriage and sex. And uh so that's that's gonna be the topic for the next, I don't know, probably four to six months, uh at least when I'm teaching. When Jeff's teaching, he'll he'll probably uh choose his own topics. So um, you know, but as we go through these things, um So last time I kind of wrote a little outline on the board. Uh I'll I'll probably post something in the uh in the uh class topics Slack channel about uh the the sort of loose syllabus for what we're gonna do. But these first few weeks, we're going over God's design. Uh first, God's design for manhood and womanhood, and next we'll do God's design for marriage. Um and so uh we started God's design for biblical manhood and womanhood last week, and we got through Maybe a page and a half of this five page outline. So the if you look at the top of that first page there The four questions that we're answering in in this section here are uh what is the meaning of manhood and womanhood? Uh and that's You know, not just like how can we tell who's a man and a woman? Because that's pretty easy. Like I think all of us in this class can can do that. But what does it mean? You know, what does that distinction actually mean? Is it is it just a biological distinction or is there something deeper about it? Um that's the main question that we're focusing on uh last week and this week. And then also other questions that we will get to in this in this overview, how has sin changed manhood and womanhood? How should we live as men and women in the world now, uh, because we can't just go back to the Garden of Eden and God's design back there and live it out exactly as as he first intended. We have to live out our masculinity and femininity in the reality of a fallen world. So how do we do that? Uh and then finally a little bit of touching on what are the world's counterfeits of manhood and womanhood. And we're not going to spend as much time as we could talking about that because at the end of the series we're gonna go deeper into um things like homosexuality and gender ideology. But I'm going to leave that for the end of the series because we have a lot to talk about with respect to both God's design and how we can can struggle with and overcome sin. um in our own lives and and with our with our own manhood and womanhood and sexuality. And so I wanted to cover that first before we turn to the world's deceptions. Um so that's that's sort of the 32,000 foot overview of uh how we're gonna go. Yeah, so last time we Started on this first this first point, this first major bullet point, that God created men and women as equal yet complementary image bearers So that's that's the biblical answer to what is the meaning of manhood and womanhood is that we are equal, yet complementary, image bearers of God. And we read through the latter part of Genesis one and uh most of Genesis two in order to uh dig into the the most prominent scriptures on God's design for man and woman And the first thing we noted from those passages, which I think we should probably just read those again, the first thing we noted was the equality between man and woman And the second thing we noted we started it on was the profound differences. But everybody turn uh with me to Genesis 1. And um Yeah, just follow along with me as I read. I'm going to read Genesis 1, 26 through the end, and then a couple passages from Genesis 2. Okay, so Genesis 1, 26. Then God said, Let us make man in our image according to our likeness. And let them rule over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the sky and over the cattle and over all the earth and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth And God created man in his own image. In the image of God he created him. Male and female he created them And God blessed them, and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth and subdue it. And rule over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the sky and over every living thing that moves on the earth Then God said, Behold, I have given you every plant yielding seed that is on the surface of the earth, and every tree which has fruit yielding seed. It shall be food for you. And to every beast of the earth, and to every bird of the sky, and to every thing that moves on the earth which has life, I have given every green plant for food, and it was so And God saw all that he had made, and behold, it was very good. And there was evening and there was morning the sixth day. So last last time we spent a lot of our time going over the equality b that we see here in God's design between men and women. And we see that um Not exclusively in chapter one, but uh but very prominently in chapter one. God created both men and women in his image. Uh both are necessary to display the image of God. Um Both are responsible for carrying out his commands, right? Be fruitful and multiply. That's not something that Adam could have done alone. Both masculinity and femininity derive from God's nature. And uh, you know, if you weren't here last week I'd encourage you to uh at least look at the outline, maybe go back and listen to the uh the discussion on that, because that was good. And I want to make sure that we put that up front. The the uh essential equality that God created uh between man and woman. There there is no superiority or inferiority here in God's design And it's important to emphasize that because the world um does not understand how differences can exist between equals Right? So the the world hears us say uh that men and women are profoundly different in God's design, and they say, aha, no, you can't say that, because uh if we're different, then we're not equal. But that's not true Uh and we'll talk about that a little more today. So then uh we went into some of the profound differences between men and women that we see in God's design And we started off by uh noticing that even before the fall, even before sin entered the world, men and women have different callings uh from God, different responsibilities. And uh we see that most primarily in Genesis 2. So I'm gonna read again uh Genesis 2, 4 through 9, and then 15 through 25. So follow along with me here. So Genesis 2, 4. This is the account of the heavens and the earth, when they were created, in the day that the Lord God made earth and heaven. Now no shrub of the field was yet in the earth, and no plant of the field had yet sprouted, for the Lord God had not sent rain upon the earth, and there was no man to cultivate the ground. But a mist used to rise from the earth and water the whole surface of the ground. Then the Lord God formed man of dust from the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life And man became a living being. And the Lord God planted a garden toward the east in Eden, and there he placed the man whom he had formed. And out of the ground the Lord caused to grow every tree that is pleasing to the sight and good for food, the tree of life also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil And then 15 through 25. Then the Lord God took the man and put him into the Garden of Eden to cultivate it and keep it. And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, From any tree of the garden you may eat freely, but from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat from it you shall surely die. Then the Lord God said, It is not good for the man to be alone. I will make him a helper, suitable for him, or corresponding to him. And out of the ground the Lord God formed every beast of the field and every bird of the sky, and brought them to the man, to see what he would call them. And whatever the man called a living creature, that was its name. And the man gave names to all the cattle, and to the birds of the sky, and to every beast of the field, but for Adam there was not found a helper suitable for him Or corresponding to him again. So the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon the man, and he slept. Then he took one of the ribs and closed up the flesh at that place. And the Lord God fashioned into a woman the rib which he had taken from the man, and brought her to the man. And the man said, At last, this is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh She shall be called woman, because she was taken out of man. For this cause a man shall leave his father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. And the man and his wife were both naked and were not ashamed. Okay, so uh this is the primary place where we see God's uh design for men and women as equal yet complementary image bearers of God. Uh and so we started talking about those differences by looking at met man and woman's different callings. And we last time we just got through the end of uh defining man's calling, defining mature masculinity. And uh in the words of so in the words of John Piper there, this is this is on the second page. This is uh bullet E Down there. Uh John Piper, so he wrote a he and Wayne Grudum edited a book called Recovering Biblical Manhood and Womanhood. And Piper wrote the first chapter of that, which is kind of an introduction and lays out the the sort of high level biblical vision for manhood and womanhood. And I would definitely encourage all of you to go and read that first chapter, that book. Has anybody done that, by the way? Gone and downloaded that. It's a free download. If you look at the last page of this outline, there's a link to where you can download it for free. Yeah, just just go do that and read read that first chapter. Um very some very good uh biblical wisdom for how to think about these things. But in that chapter he has he has two Very short statements. Uh one on masculinity and one on femininity. And I think um those two statements are pretty good roadmaps because they bring together a lot of the biblical principles that we see about masculinity and femininity. And so his statement on masculinity here I've copied in bullet E, at the heart of mature masculinity Mature masculinity, that is, is a sense of benevolent responsibility to lead, provide for, and protect women in ways appropriate to a man's differing relationships Alright, so this is talking about mature masculinity. Not all men do this or do this in the right way. But mature masculinity has has a sense of benevolent responsibility. Benevolent because it's for the good of others, uh specifically for the good of women. Um and it's not it's not a self-aggrandizing or self-asserting kind of attitude. Uh it is a benevolent responsibility, and it's a responsibility because it's not a right to be claimed. You know, it's not like we're we as men are supposed to go out there and say, hey, we have authority because we're men. You know, uh this is this is more of a responsibility uh a duty, a charge that God has given us as men. Um and the kind of activities here, leadership, provision, and protection, these are all to be undertaken as servant leaders. Servant leadership is the biblical model of masculinity that was displayed most clearly in the person of Jesus Christ. He was the ultimate servant leader. who, although he was equal with God, um, made himself obedient even to death on a cross and and he, you know uh washed the feet of his disciples, took took the towel, wrapped himself of the towel and went and washed the feet of his disciples. He did the the dirty jobs that nobody else wanted to do. So Um servant leadership is the picture here. That's that's the goal, not authoritarian uh domination or um passivity. Right? Those are Um those are things we should reject uh in favor of this kind of servant leadership. Anyone else have anything to say or questions to ask about hey Josh, how's it going? Um questions about uh masculinity before we move on to look at femininity. So notice I just want to point out real quick, uh this is not really about uh specific roles or You know, notice there's there's no m no specific mention of like, you know, who earns all the money in a marriage or or um you know who does the yard work or whatever. Um And I think it's important to point that out because uh the difference between man and woman, masculinity and feminity femininity, goes all the way to the bottom of our nature, right? It's it's it's a deep difference. It's not a it's not a skin deep or merely biological difference. And there are uh there are two ways to that people trivialize the differences between men and women. Um and one of those ways is egalitarianism, which says um you know, trivializes the difference in God's design between man and woman by saying that men and women are only different in their bodies, right? And and otherwise they're the same. Uh so that's one way to to trivialize these differences. But the another way to trivialize the differences between men and women is to reduce them to specific roles and duties and jobs. And that's not appropriate either, right? That's probably more common in a church like ours. where you know the temptation is to say, oh yeah, the husband um does all the yard work and the wife does all the housework. Um but that's not anywhere in scripture. Um I mean certainly uh a lot of uh many women do feel a a desire and a responsibility to to keep the home. That's and that's good and that should be affirmed Uh and many men do feel uh a responsibility and desire to to go out and and uh tend to the the yard or what you know, earn um earn money in the workplace and that kind of thing. But It's less the vision and the design here of God is less about specific activities and roles and more about a heart disposition. Right. Uh as men, it's not so much about what we do and the activities we undertake, it's about Do we have a heart disposition of servant leadership, of protection, of provision for for the women in our life I mean, does ever everybody see that? Is that is that surprising to you? 'Cause I mean I r I remember that was kind of surprising to me growing up, like when I realized that it was more about a a heart disposition than particular activities or roles. Yeah. No, it's true. Yeah, it It is a tendency we have as people just to reduce God's principles to outward behaviors rather than looking at the heart Mm-hmm. Yeah, you do have to apply it. It's not that it It's not that it uh does not manifest as different roles or activities. It's just that that's not where it starts, right It starts in the heart, it starts with a with an attitude, a disposition, but then it does absolutely work itself out in terms of what we do differently as men and women. Yeah, so let's go on to look at uh femininity. Alright, so If if men are called to be servant leaders, uh then biblically women are called to be nurturing helpers. And we see this in Genesis 2, uh, what I just read. Uh look at verse 18 Then the Lord God said, It is not good for the man to be alone. I will make him a helper corresponding to him. Some of your translations will say suitable for him. Um but that that is maybe not the best rendering uh of of the phrase. Uh because you know if you look at Pastor Plumley teaches a course on biblical manhood and womanhood and he gives a a a detailed exegesis of this phrase suitable for and it actually is better translated corresponding to, right? Uh it's it doesn't just mean that Eve was uh, you know, suitable for Adam, like just acceptable, like she'll do. That's not that's not the the sense that uh verse eighteen is trying to convey. The sense is that Uh she was exactly matched to his strengths and weaknesses corresponding to him, um, complementary to him. So that's why that's why I choose to say it here, um, I will make him a helper corresponding to him. Uh but in any case that is how God sums up his design for uh for Eve, for the woman, to be a helper corresponding to Adam. And uh John Piper summarizes it this way, uh looking looking across the scriptural pattern for uh biblical femininity. He says, at the heart of mature femininity is a freeing disposition to affirm Receive and nurture strength and leadership from worthy men in ways appropriate to a woman's differing relationships So I'll read that again. At the heart of mature femininity is a freeing disposition to affirm receive and nurture strength and leadership from worthy men in ways appropriate to a woman's differing relationships. So let's let's take this definition one one piece at a time So he calls it a freeing disposition. And he does so because walking in God's design is is freeing, uh, not stifling. I mean the world would would see a definition like this and would say, um, you know, if if women are are supposed to be Uh affirming, receiving and nurturing, strength, and leadership from men, from worthy men, that's not freeing, that's that's stifling. Um that's what the world would say uh because the world sees any kind of um any kind of submission or any kind of uh you know, being under authority or leadership as uh an inherent imposition. Right, but um The point in the Bible, uh true freedom is never really found in being being um outside of authority or being outside of God's uh constraints. True freedom is found in really understanding God's design and fitting yourself into God's design as best you can. Right? So um You know the the the world the world it has kind of a parody of freedom. Uh it says you're free when you feel free. Um but that's not actually true freedom, right? Because uh you know actually there's there is a a quote that Piper has here that illustrates that Um pretty well. Now it's an extended quote, but I want to read it to you because I think it's important. It's a it's a principle that we that's active in our culture. So he's responding to this idea that um that you know true freedom is the absence of encumbrance, the absence of responsibility or or or structure imposed on you. He says, there are sensations of unbounded independence that are not true freedom because they deny truth and are destined for calamity. For example, two women may jump from an airplane and experience the thrilling freedom of free falling. But there's a difference. One is encumbered by a parachute on her back, and the other is free from this burden. Which person is most free? The one without the parachute feels free, even freer since she does not feel the constraints of the parachute straps. But she is not truly free. She is in bondage to the force of gravity and to the deception that all is well because she feels unencumbered. This false sense of freedom is in fact bondage to calamity which is sure to happen after a fleeting moment of pleasure That is the way many women and men think today of freedom. They judge it on the basis of immediate sensations, of unrestrained license or independence. But true freedom takes God's reality and God's purpose for creation into account and seeks to fit smoothly into God's good design. Freedom does include doing what we want to do, but the mature and wise woman does not seek this freedom by bending reality to fit her desires. She seeks it by being transformed in the renewal of her desires to fit with God's perfect will. The greatest freedom is found in being so changed by God's Spirit that you can do what you love to do and know that it conforms to the design of God and leads to life and glory. Um so that was again John Piper in this in this first chapter of Recovering Biblical Manhood and Womanhood. Uh So what do you all think about this, especially especially the women? You know, is uh is Piper's description of biblical femininity as a freeing disposition, does that resonate with you or does that kind of bother? bother you or is it hard to see how that's okay. There's it's a lot of guys in the class. No it's probably hard to Uh well um just I would encourage you just to think about that. Um to think about how God's design could be freeing, um, you know, when the world seems to insist uh so strongly that it's not Um so and it's again a freeing disposition, right? It's uh the word disposition here that Piper uses, you know, it reflects the biblical focus on the heart, again, not on not so much on the outward actions, although there are a lot of outward actions that come out of this this disposition of femininity. Um but it is more of a heart inclination, right? And And the uh the substance of it is these verbs here, to affirm, um, receive, and nurture strength and leadership from worthy men. So this is um what Piper identifies here as the heart of mature feminism mature femininity is uh it rejoices in and draws out mature masculinity um as as a helper corresponding to the man. Yeah, I think you see that a lot in women of the Bible, in godly women. Um like later later in the outline here I've got a few examples. Um of women who do this. And one one example is uh the judge Deborah. Uh do you all know the story of of Deborah and Judges? Not not very well. Well I yeah, we'll maybe we'll read it um next time. But uh so in in the book of Judges, Israel is um goes through this roller coaster of like turning away from the Lord and then being conquered by uh the surrounding nations and then God raises up a judge, usually someone unexpected, to lead them uh to in repentance and also in victory over their enemies. And so they repent and turn to the Lord and then they get their land back and everything's good for forty years and then they turn away again and everything's bad for forty years. And then it you know it keeps going up and down, up and down on this road. roller coaster. Um one of the judges that God raises up um is a woman named Deborah. And this was unexpected because all the other judges were men. Uh and so so Deborah is a female judge who's leading Israel in this national repentance and turning back to God. Um but What's interesting is she does it in a very different way than all of the male judges that uh that come before and after her. Right? The the men who were who got raised up as judges, they were military leaders Right. They they b both led Israel in repentance but also in battle, fighting against their enemies. Um Deborah She has the authority to judge Israel and she leads them in sort of a national repentance, but she doesn't lead them in battle. Rather She goes to the man, Barak, who's like a general, and he's really reluctant to lead the Israelites in battle. He doesn't have um a strong faith in God, but she kinda Deborah kinda draws him out and draws out his leadership as the the man who's in authority and sort of encourages him and exhorts him to be this this uh military leader um and lead Israel in victory over uh their enemies. And so she's got this this uniquely feminine way of being a judge in Israel by drawing out the strength of the male leadership of Israel. And I think it's just a beautiful picture of how um God uses mature femininity um in in Deborah and not in the passive way at all. You know, she's very uh she's clearly um a very active part and has a very prominent role in Israel's repentance, but it's a very feminine role, you know. It's not a masculine role. It's not like God is is saying, Oh, I can I can just take a woman and put her in a man's uh in a man's place. God does not treat men and women as interchangeable. He uses women in feminine ways and men in masculine ways. And you can look at uh there's there's a few other examples of that in scripture that hopefully we'll get to um next time. But she was the the one who was kind of um she was functioning as a judge before uh before God delivered Israel from the the enemies that were oppressing them. She was um she was judging cases and disputes um even even before God called her to give this message to Barak and like draw out his leadership. Uh I don't know why I mean it's it probably was because there was a sort of a a vacuum of godly male leadership in in Israel at the time, um, that God raised her up. Well, and that's that's a that raises a good question. You know, what about women who have to step into leadership roles? Um, like single mothers? Uh You know, they a a single mom, like if her husband has died or left or or even a a mother whose husband is just totally passive. you know, has to has to step up and kinda take on some leadership roles that are uh that are more masculine. Um what do you think God's design and the principles of scripture would have to say to a woman in that situation? Yeah. Yeah, so yeah, it gets back to the uh like no I don't want to assume but like if I wasn't responsible to I wouldn't say like, oh, I'm not gonna assume this leadership responsibility because that's only for men. Men, like who who cares about my children, like I'll never I'll die before I become quote unquote. Uh-huh. Right. That's just very illogical. You would do everything in your power and resources to provide for your children with any means possible. Yeah, right. So there would be a a misapplication of the scriptural principles of uh manhood and womanhood that would say, oh uh I'm a single mom but I can't work and earn money to provide for my children because that would be a masculine thing, so I'm just gonna not work and and uh you know, but let my children starve. That would be a misapplication of this, right? Um you know, because the Bible doesn't again doesn't um usually doesn't specify these these particular duties uh or you know exclude In in some cases, men and women are are restricted to particular roles and duties like like church eldership or like childbearing. But um you know, in in most cases it's about the heart, it's about the way you undertake these kind of things. So so like for a single mother Is there a feminine way for her to undertake to provide for her children? Um is there a way for her to do that without um without acting like a man or becoming masculine. It's really hard. Yeah, and that's that's an illustration of God's design, right? Like when There are situations where we can't live out God's design fully, but it's still a lot harder when Yeah, like when when there's a uh a single mom who has to provide for and protect her children, that's hard. Uh because it's not God's design for that for it to be that way. Um Th a word here about like uh w we should not look down on those who have to uh respond to these these broken situations um by taking on roles that are that are outside of God's design. You know, like we shouldn't look down on single moms. It's not it's not a a a bad thing or a sinful thing to be a single mom. Like they they need our help and support and compassion Um but we also need to remember that it's not God's design, right? G saying r that it's not God's design uh doesn't denigrate uh the the single mom at all. Um it just is a recognition that uh the things go much smooth much more smoothly and are much more joyful when we conform to God's design But that gets to the point is like, you know, there's there's a a godly way to be a single mom too. I'm Yeah you know, there's there's there's the a worldly way to be a single mom, which is to say like, oh I don't need a man, you know, I can do it myself and I don't need anybody's health and I can just be the man of the house, even though I'm I'm a woman. Uh that's a worldly way that would deny femininity. But there's a godly way to be a single mom, like in the church, um, you can still um sort of, as Piper says, affirm and receive and nurture strength from uh worthy men in the church who wanna who are in the position to come alongside and and protect and provide for your children. Right. You can demonstrate as a single mom by your your disposition that um that you long for a man to be leading your family and and protecting and providing for your family. Or Piper gives the example of like, you know, if if there's a a woman in a marriage where the where the husband doesn't lead the kids in in um spiritual discipleship Right. The the ri the biblical the godly response is not to just say, Oh well my husband's not leading not like training my kids in the discipline and instruction of the Lord, so I'm just gonna stay out of it and you know. The godly response is to do that training of the children, but to do it in such a way that communicates to the husband, Oh, I really wish that you would take on this responsibility. And uh that you would be the one to to lead and disciple our children as the man of the house. Um so there's there's a way to respond even to um situations that are broken in a godly way, uh either for men or women. You know, we can talk about men in this in this way too, you know, like if you're in a situation where you're a single father and your children don't have the uh the nurturing of a mother. Um, you know, there are ways for you to respond in a godly way as a single father, and there are ways for you to respond as a worldly way in a worldly way as a single father. Um And our godly response shouldn't deny our our masculinity or our femininity Well and the last point here about femininity is that um you know in in Piper's phrasing the the goal is to affirm, receive, and nurture strength and leadership from worthy men, not just any men, you know, it's uh godly femininity doesn't just say um you know it doesn't just affirm any man, however immature he is or sinful he is. It affirms worthy men. So this is kind of a a call um for for us men to be worthy men, you know, to be the kind of men that a godly woman could receive uh strength and leadership from and and affirm that strength and leadership from. And it's a calling to women to to be on the lookout for worthy men and to be discerning um about which men have a mature masculinity and a godly masculinity that's worthy of your affirmation and um and nurturing And that's because mature femininity is first of all committed to Christ and is discerning. It does not affirm sinful leadership from unworthy men. Uh we can summarize this all by saying um again masculinity and femininity as mature things they start as a uh disposition of the heart. And yes, they do flow out into some outward roles and and behaviors. Uh and and even in scripture Some outward roles are reserved for men, like church eldership, and some are reserved for women like childbearing. Um but it all starts as a as a disposition of the heart. This difference between men and women. And we have to note that he doesn't he hasn't just given us different callings, right? He hasn't just di given us different um responsibilities as men and women, he's given us different bodies. And those different bodies are actually matched to our different callings that he's given us. Um yeah. That's right, yeah, yeah, that's what you said. You c I can't do the the man can't do what the woman does, the woman can't do what the man does. The world considers it offensive even to point out that there are differences between men and women, which is just kinda crazy, right? Isn't that crazy Yeah. Well it's because of the belief that's common in the world that you can't have difference without inferiority and superiority. Right. That's what that's what they assume. So they assume any time you point out a difference you're pointing out that someone is better and someone is worse. But that's not true at all, right? That's that's not biblically true anyway But anyway, yeah, we have different bodies. And and we're not going to talk too much about the differences uh in our bodies today. I'm going to save that for at the end we're going to go over um uh modern gender ideology and queer theory. And uh we'll we'll spend a lot of time uh talking about it then because there's this this kind of fashionable thing in the world to say that um that even biological sex is a construct, right? That there is that there's no biological basis for for binary male and female, um, that if you look at the biology it's more complicated than that and it's a spectrum and all these things. Um Yeah spectrum. Spectrum is like such an easy like a topic for somebody to say it's on spectrum. It's a spectrum. Yeah. Right, I know. It's just like the cut out like the best comeback or Yeah. Son inspector. Yeah. So we'll we will deal thoroughly thoroughly with that fallacy um you know in in the in the coming months. But if you're interested to um to read something about, to read a a really well thought out response uh from a biblical perspective, the Christian Medical and Dental Society has an ethics statement on transgender identity. And if you turn to the last page of the notes in the resources section, there's a link to that. I definitely encourage you to go read that. Like if you're Um if you've read or or heard people say that, oh, you know, biological sex is a spectrum, it's you you can't say from biology that there's male and female. If you're interested in dealing with that and a thorough refutation of that, read this read this link, you know, because it's a good resource. very, very well s well referenced. You know, it's got eighty some references to the scientific and medical literature. Uh it's uh very good reminder that that the biological reality is very clear that there is male and female. And that the differences really are there. So we have different bodies, and it's not just that the differences in our bodies are arbitrary. The differences that God created in our bodies are suited to our particularly different callings, right? How is that? What's an example of that? Childbearing. Childbearing, yep. Great example. Yeah. Well, it's just I mean I I knew that people didn't like that, but it's just it's so interesting to me that people take offense at the biology, you know. Yeah, they're taking offense at God. Yeah, his design. What's an example on on uh the male side of uh God designing our bodies to fit our calling? What's an example for men of for how God's designed the male body to to suit our our calling as servant leaders? Oh, yeah, until the mental leader. After Christ, of course. Uh huh. Ah clear the air. I hear ya. I hear ya. Natural born meaning is like we're just putting more dominant roles like is this lawsuit? But I'm not Like we're able to do more and lift more Okay, yeah. Strength. Physical strength, right? Yeah. Well it's it's not just physical thing. Mm-hmm Or it could be like emotional. Well, I don't know, because y'all ladies are that emotionally. Well yeah, we gotta be careful because like Men are stronger in some ways. Women are stronger in some ways. Uh I think yeah, Jen, I think you had a good example of this. Right. When when I was in grad school, um learning about um closely what my expenses were in um they're saying like the brain women's brains okay. It's like they're focused below some connects between half and women have a strong connection, I guess. And so we can shift attention better in men but men can compartmentalize better and so with C T S D women coming back from battle have much harder times than they can't compartmentalize but men can sort of like put it on the shelf to function. Yeah. But it's even dangerous to put it on the shelf though. Yeah, like you have to deal with it too, but um women can like And it hits us harder like if it falls off of the shelf. And it just smacks us in the face and then like when we're trying to like get all the strength and stuff just to like the muscle through and like capacity. We're like, okay, I'm gonna put it out here for a little bit. For me for instance. I could use and then that don't sweat me. I'm like, oh D forgot about this and like Yeah. Right. Yeah, and like not even just major trauma though, like the uh a man's ability to compartmentalize it it just it comes in handy when we're out there um you know doing the basic provision. All right. We're there are things that come up at work that we gotta deal with. Um And then the ability to compartmentalize that away and come home and focus on our families is um is a design that God has has given us, right? And the it is a strength. But on the other hand, that same difference is a strength for women in other areas, right? The ability to to shift attention and multitask. I imagine that that that um that uh tendency not to compartmentalize also uh tends to foster better relational dynamics. Uh so it's a strength for men in one area and it's a strength for women in another area, that same difference, right? They've already had some clothes. Oh. Aaron. So like in this short example. But there it's still a illustration of how God has designed us, right? So like they there was this really one day it was test and don't remember but For lack of a better word, it's like call it the vacation technical band test. Okay. So you have like for example like fifty men in one group, fifty women in one group, they all have the same luggage, zipper bags, double bags, suitcases, whatever. And their task was to fill the same exact minimum with saving as much space as possible and the men outperformed like statistically significantly. And so the the question was, is this like what is the like output. Like what is the input that creates this and this are able to compartmentalize things. Yeah. We're gonna need your research though. Yeah. I think how this all I class then I was like, what time is this class? Ooh. So there are tons of these examples, right? And the danger what what people have done since the dawn of time. The danger is to seize on one of these examples and say, aha, see, men are better than women. Or aha, see, women are better than men. But Biblically, we have to come back to men and women were made in God's image equally. We have this profound equality of our essence. before God. And we were made to complement one another. So anytime we see a strength of men in one area, we should look for a corresponding two strength in women, um, that that matches up because that's how God made us, right? He didn't make he didn't make one better than the other, or one superior or inferior uh to the other. He made us complementary y and equal. Um So I think I think it's really important just to to emphasize that, um, even as we find all these examples of good differences that God has made in us. Uh Davon, what were you gonna say with with your hand up? What are you gonna say like combacks is one remote? Yeah. That can be dangerous too. It can. But you got so used to compartmentalize. Mm-hmm. And it's like your phone emotions and everything like that. Yeah. Like shutting that down so you can process differently instead of like really filtering how you do it. Yeah. I mean anything can turn simple or can turn right you know, like for women something emotional fucked up in my day and I can't somewhere in my life and I can't put it down and it can't be everything usually. Okay. So anyway, yeah. Just Yeah, no, it's any any strength can turn into a weakness if it's it can still be a strength. Right. Yeah. Right. Yeah, I can't say that. So why doesn't the Bible just say, like, okay, uh the wife should choose out all the clothes and the man should pack it up? That's not the point, right? Yeah. What how long would the Bible be if it had to list out all the specific instances and applications of the principle, right? And it's not that's not even uh yeah, that's not the point. It's uh you know, as Piper says in his chapter, like it's not it's more of like a dance. You know, if you see to if you see a man and a woman dancing, um, if they're any good, you can't really tell who's leading, right, who's calling the shots. But in order for them to be any good, the man has to lead, right? There has to be a leader in the in the dance. Um but the better they are, the less you see that leadership express itself as overt and um you know, and commanding, right? Yeah, 'cause they're in sync, exactly. That's that's what we're made to be. We're made to be corresponding to each other. Right? We're made to be in sync. Uh we're made to husbands are made to be servant leaders for the good of their wives, and uh wives are made to be nurturing helpers. Um to not not just helpers for the sake of whatever the husband wants to do, but helpers for the sake of obeying God's commands. Right? That's why God created Eve as a helpers corresponding to Adam because without Eve, Adam could not obey God's command to be fruitful and multiply. Um Yeah. I think that's an important point to make too because I think there's there's often this kind of caricature that oh the Bible says uh wives are supposed to be their husbands' helpers and you know and just like subordinate everything to to his desires and his hobbies and his interests and whatever, but that's not it. God's calling on on the husband is to lead the family in obeying God and glorifying God, right? And that's how that's what the wife is supposed to help the husband do. And that also applies more generally to men and women. You know, God has called in the church men to lead the church and the people of God in a God glorifying direction. And He's called women to come alongside and affirm and nurture that leadership as helpers. uh in very active ways and roles in the church. Um, but it's that dynamic, it's that that dance of masculinity and femininity where when it's done well, um you don't you don't necessarily see who's calling the shots and who's giving the overt orders, but there is there is leadership and response as a dynamic there. Anyway, I think that's as far as we're gonna get today, hey