Alright. So yeah, so l let's um let's do a little bit of an overview of what we talked about last time. Because uh last week no not last week Last week was um the problem of evil. We can talk about that too if you want. But uh two weeks ago was the first lesson that I taught on this uh this subject. And so At that time we started on these first this first question, what are marriage and sex and how are they related Um so who remembers what the answer the primary answer to that question is? Like in its essence, what is marriage? Yeah, I'm saying. Yeah, covenant and sign. So marriage is the covenant. Sex is the sign of the covenant Do you guys remember any of the other examples of covenants and signs that we talked about? I mean they're in your outline here, so you can cheat, but nobody look down. Everybody see what you can uh see what you can remember. Yeah, what was the Mosaic? Yeah, the Sabbath. The Sabbath is the sign of the Mosaic Covenant, right. So yeah, so what does a sign do in the context of a covenant? What's the purpose of the sign? Or maybe we should back up and say, what is a covenant? Do you guys know? How about Lindsay or Caleb since you weren't weren't here last time? Yes, sir. Uh. tv. Oh yeah, it's fine. It's fine. Yeah. So I'll ask you something that's not on the outline. Wha how does a how does a covenant differ from like a contract? Uh Hey, warning. I think one is one way or one way in. A covenant can be one way. It doesn't necessarily have to be. Biblically, in the Bible there are there are two-way covenants. Like marriage is one of those. Um and then also covenants between human beings. But it's true that the covenants that God makes with people are typically unidirectional. Um you know, unilateral. Only God promises to do something because He doesn't need us to do anything for him. Um yeah, so that's a that's a key difference is that uh contracts and covenants sorry, covenants can be one way. What's another difference? What's that? You're feeding him You're helping him cheat. Should I c should I contact all the med schools? Yeah Um differences of Maryland of Camilla can't be broken as a country. Yeah, that's right. A contract it's almost expected usually it's actually written into the contract, like this is w what happens if you break it. Yeah. Whereas a covenant, like, it's expected that it will never be broken. It's supposed to be lifelong. Um if it is broken, usually the penalty is death. Right. In the Old Testament they would they would like cut animals in half and have the two covenant parties walk through the animals and the implication was like May it be done to me as it was to these animals if I break the covenant. Um so, you know, covenant is is just much more serious than than a contract Um so what role does the Stein play in the covenant? Chris, do you remember? Well, so if you if you look at these examples of the covenant, right, you got the Mosaic Covenant uh and then the Sabbath observance. Uh then you've got the Abrahamic covenant and you have the sign is circumcision, right? Uh or if you have the new covenant between us and Christ Uh the sign of that is the Lord's Supper. So what do all these signs have in common? Well, they're all observances essentially. So it's in essence the sign is a reminder to us. Yeah. Here's this covenant. This is why it's important to consider Yeah. But also more or less the physical representation of what that function is. That's right, yeah. They have it's something visible, right? Something outward or you know external. Um That's that's the first characteristic is it's visible. The second characteristic is it's ongoing, right? It's something that happens again and again Whereas the covenant itself was only instituted once, right? It's not like you you keep making the covenant over and over again. You made the covenant once, but you do the sign over and over again Um and so it's something visible, it's something ongoing, uh it's something that that is connected somehow with the the nature of the covenant um right, like Sabbath observance was connected with the Mosaic Covenant because the people of Israel were supposed to be holy and set apart. And so they they took one day of the week and set that apart as holy. Um you know, in the Abrahamic covenant, uh this one's a little bit harder. You need to know a little context about ancient Aries um culture. But the Abrahamic covenant, what did God promise Abraham in that covenant? Two things. Yeah. Number one Here. Uh let's let somebody else and um let's see, Paige, do you know? You remember what God promised Abraham? Mm-hmm. Yes, exactly. Your descendants will be as numerous as the stars in the sky. And then he also promised the land, right? The the the land of Canaan would belong to your descendants. But so how does circumcision relate to that? Well, circumcision actually it wasn't invented in the Abrahamic covenant. It actually existed as a practice before then and it was a it was a fertility rite or a a virility rite, I guess you would say. Young men would get circumcised when they turned um like thirteen or fourteen or something. Uh as uh you know and so as they were coming into manhood they would be circumcised as a um as a a rite of passage to say like okay now you can bear children and that kind of thing um or father children. So that's how it's connected to the promise of Abraham. It's like uh God told Abraham to circumcise his infant descendants, his infant male descendants on the eighth day, um not because they were ready to father children, but looking forward to the future. when their children would be as numerous as the stars in the sky. Right. So anyway, yeah, that's an important an important aspect of it is that the the sign is somehow like materially connected to the the concept that it signifies about the original covenant. Okay, so what does this have to do with marriage and sex? Well Biblically speaking, marriage is a covenant and sex is the sign of the covenant. And two weeks ago we went through uh the original account in Genesis 2 of the first marriage ceremony uh between Adam and Eve and we picked out various aspects of that text that make it clear that this is a covenant We saw another other biblical passages that that refer to marriage as a covenant and we saw how sex is the sign that is associated with that covenant. Um and so really this is the foundation kind of of all all biblical conversation about marriage and about sex, uh, is that they go together as covenant and sign. Right? They they're um there's no real separating them. And in fact, like taking the sign of the covenant and applying it to a relationship where there is no covenant is Um it's not just nonsensical, it is uh sort of attacking the heart of God's design for these things. And then I think last time we also got through the three purposes of marriage and sex, which are starting on page two. So we've got these three purposes, which are um you know the three Roman numerals under under point B Uh the first purpose being to unite man and woman in lifelong companionship. And so this was, you know, recognizing the fact that God made uh humanity male and female, and he made us both in his image and he provided marriage uh and sex as a way for the two halves of his image bearers to come together in a lifelong relationship. Right, so so he he he deposited his image into two um equal but different beings and then provided a way for them to come together and and sort of reunite his image in a relationship called marriage. And Um that's why that union uh that you know, this is how uh this is one way that that sex as a sign goes back to the substance of the marriage covenant is because uh sex is a a physical union um that points to that spiritual union that God has created between husband and wife. And then that second purpose of marriage and sex was to fulfill God's commands together. Uh remember the first command that God gave Adam and Eve? What was it? Genesis one twenty eight. God blessed them and said, Be fruitful and multiply, yeah. Fill the earth and subdue it. So God gave humanity a command um to to be fruitful and multiply, and this is a command that first of all could not be fulfilled um w individually, right? It required two you know, a man and a woman to fulfill that command. Uh but second of all We saw a couple weeks ago. God wasn't just talking here about like population growth. He didn't just want, you know, people everywhere w you know and and didn't care what you know, what those people were like. Uh we went through some other scriptures and saw that what God really wanted from that command was was godly offspring. You know, children who uh were raised in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. Um and so that's why this command was given in the context of marriage, right? Because Marriage is the relationship that God created in order to be that fertile soil for raising up godly children. Um So again, you know, in in the second purpose here we see the the um essential connection between marriage and sex. You know, sex is the physical means of reproduction, marriage is the um the family environment, the soil in which uh children are raised in godliness. And then finally, the third purpose of marriage and sex we saw is to picture God and his people. Uh so we read Ephesians five, uh which is an extended passage where Paul is talking about he's giving commands to husbands and wives. And um he says, Wives be subject to your own husbands as to the Lord, for the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ also is the head of the church, he himself being the savior of the body But as the church is subject to Christ, so also the wives ought to be subject to their own husbands in everything. Husbands love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church and gave himself up for her so that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, that he might present to himself the Church in all her glory, having no spot or wrinkle, or any such thing, but that she would be holy and blameless Um so he's drawing this extended analogy, Paul is, between a husband and wife and Christ in the church. And that is one of the purposes for which God created marriage was to be an earthly visible sign of the union between God and his people. Um and so this This purpose of marriage, um, and I would say of sex as well, uh takes the the sort of original creation purpose and intensifies it and elevates it Right, there's there's a sense in which marriage is for for everybody, for all humanity, uh even those who don't believe in God and follow God. But This purpose, you know, the purpose of picturing God and his people can only be fulfilled by believers, right? Uh or at least one believer in in the marriage. And so God takes the calling that He gives to husbands in general to be servant leaders in your marriage, and He elevates and intensifies that and says Okay, to a believing husband, your calling now is to love your wife as Christ loves the church. Right? Self-sacrificially, willing to lay down your life and go go to the cross, so to speak. for your wife. And he takes God takes his calling to wives in general, which is to um to uh be a helper to your husband. And to the believing wife he says, Now be subject to your husband as uh the church is to the to Christ Um which is, you know, an intensification and escalation of that that general calling. Okay, so that was all just just review. Any any questions about uh the three purposes we have here uh for marriage and sex, biblically speaking? Um okay. So Um I think it's worth saying that uh you know God's purpose for marriage and sex is not just about procreation. Right? I think there's there that is sort of a caricature of the biblical view that you'll find out there in the world is that, oh, you know, we think that that sex shouldn't be any fun and that it should all just be about children. And that's not true. You know, God um These these purposes here, these three purposes, like procreation is one of them, but it's not the only one. Right? Companionship uh joy, um intense relational unity. Those are also purposes for marriage and sex. Right? God invented sex and he intended it to be a good thing. He created it before the fall Right, before there was sin in the world. Um so, you know, God is not a a cosmic killjoy who wants to, you know, deny all the pleasure uh in life. He actually he knows what he made marriage and sex for and he is telling us in scripture how to actually use it in a way that both honors him and brings us joy Right. And if we use it in a different way, what are we going to bring ourselves? Misery, pain, suffering. Right. It'll it'll seem fun for a little bit, but it'll ultimately bring uh intense pain. Alright, so let's go on to talk about characteristics of marriage and sex. So we talked about what is the essence of those things, uh, what are the purposes of them Um now what is what is the shape of marriage and sex? Like what kind of characteristics does it have? Uh and these this list here I only put four of them on here. Uh it's not exhaustive at all. You could probably go on listing characteristics of marriage for a long time. But these are some of the more obvious ones that jump out from the scriptures. And the first characteristic of marriage and sex is complementarity Right? If you look back at these three purposes, uniting the two uh the male and female halves of God's image, um, ful fulfilling God's command to be fruitful and multiply, and picturing God and his people Um all three of those require differences, the difference between men and women. You you can't have that command fulfilled by a man and a man or um a a woman and a woman. Right? It takes it takes the difference, right? It takes complementary image bearers of God. And and so I think Like in you may you may hear about the debate in uh the church between egalitarianism and complementarianism, these two kind of views of of what it means to be men and women in the in the church. Um I think that uh you know m what's often missing from that debate is a recognition of why Why did God make marriage and for what purpose did he make marriage and sex? And um once you see those purposes clearly, it just becomes so clear that that it requires complementarity. That is not to say that there is not equality also, right? We we spent a long time in our uh study on biblical manhood and womanhood going through why men and women are essentially equal in in their n in their essence and in their being, right, before God. And how there's no contradiction in that statement that that men and women are inherently equal, but also different in complementary ways. So I like this this quote by Sam Alberry here that I've got in the outline. He he's talking about Adam and Eve And he's sort of noticing um how the complementarity and their equality is is very beautiful in God's design. Sam Alberry says, She is like him in the right way, made of the same stuff. And unlike him in the right way, woman rather than man. She is a different example of the same kind of thing as him. She shares his nature, his vocation, that is his calling, and his very life. It is this complementarity that leads to profound unity between them when they eventually come together in sexual union. The purpose of sex here is to express and deepen the unity between them. Yeah, I thought that was a really uh well said description of of the complementarity in marriage. Uh okay, questions. Yeah. I think more of a comment. I think the last part was a Uh think about how like some people are viewed as like if for example if men and women were the same as the same thing Is it logically feasible to have a deepening relationship if two things are the same? So I think that's a good point to raise if somebody's like, Oh, is it possible for a man and a woman to have a deeper relationship because they are different people and Yeah. Inequality inherited that blah blah blah. You can have a relationship with actual parts. Oh interesting. Yeah. I was just thinking about this. Uh-huh. Yeah, I hadn't I hadn't really heard that um before. That's a good point though. Yeah, I mean if somebody were to say, well, oh Yeah, the you know, man and woman they can never be fully united. Right. M A case access. Therefore you can never establish the fact that you have a true relationship between them. There's always power store. You're talking about like the the the social binary in that in that world view, right? That there's wrong because we've got all the features out there of indicator stuff. Yeah. Yeah, I mean what would you say to that biblically? You know, to the the idea that um that's in in this in one of the worldviews out there today that uh the world is fundamentally divided into oppressors and oppressed and that in the case of of gender, men are oppressors and women are oppressed, so there can't ever really be true unity between them. What would you say to that? Oh yeah. I guess with the social exception. The Bible says about submission, but it was to put out a context to say that you're impressive someone that they don't need to understand. Right, yeah, it might be it would be helpful to go through and and properly define what submission means in the Bible and and show that it is completely different from oppression, you know, that the world is talking about. What what's one example of that you could use to talk about submission and show that it's different from oppression I guess um like friends that have like baseball playing. But um two like study versions were doing code um Their view of Christianity was more of, you know, the wife has to like listen to her husband and do everything he says and can't have an opinion and whatnot. Or the self-sacrificial of the other person. Yeah. Yeah. Um yeah, no, I think I think it's good to to spell those out. I when I am thinking about um submission and equality, I always go back to uh Jesus, right? You know, 'cause Jesus submitted to the Father. Uh he um the Bible says that he uh didn't consider his equality with God something to be grasped, that but that he um you know became obedient even to death, death on a cross. Right. So And yet Jesus, he was fully God, fully equal with God. Um he was an intelligent person, right? A very a very proactive uh person when it came to carrying out the will of God. His submission didn't look passive at all, right? It didn't look like um you know, just not having an opinion or any thoughts of his own. Uh so he is the really the ultimate model for submission and equality. Um But then you could also go to places like Proverbs 31 where it uh describes, you know, the the excellent wife and um You see what you see there is uh we we actually I think Pastor Pullman is going to preach on it this morning, but what you see there is a woman who's doing a lot and being very proactive and um intelligent about her work. She's working hard, but all of her work is oriented towards what? the home, towards her family, right? Towards towards um building up her husband and her children and and preparing for their future. And it spills over into helping the poor around her. You know, I think I think it's a beautiful example of intelligence and proactivity um that is oriented towards the family. Uh and I think that's that's really what God's design is. And Yeah, so like painting a picture of what that means um is uh is a is a great response to you know when when people get sort of confused or or have a wrong idea that that biblical submission means oppression. Um the other thing I was going to say is that like if if people say, well, you know, it's inherently impossible for a man and a woman to actually have true unity um because of this social binary because of the dynamic of oppression. Um you can point back to the fact that God uh created man and woman in his own image, right? So how can there not be the possibility for unity between a man and a woman created in God's image. Um Okay, so second characteristic is fidelity, right? Not just complementarity, but fidelity meaning meaning lifelong faithfulness. So for this The the seminal passage here is when Jesus was talking to the Pharisees in Matthew nineteen. Some Pharisees came to Jesus testing him and asking, Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for any reason at all? And I'll just stop there because the Pharisees had this idea, they had built this up in their in their tradition, which they added to the law of God, that um that it was really okay for a man to just sort of on a whim divorce his wife for whatever reason he wanted to. Um and and so they believed that and they they sort of grounded it in this uh in the Old Testament where Moses, um the Mosaic law commanded that uh a man who wanted to divorce his wife should write her a certificate of divorce. Um and this was really a protection for the woman. Um because with that certificate, um, you know, she could prove that that her husband wasn't divorcing her for unfaithfulness. Uh but anyway, they took that as license to say, um you know, we can divorce our wives for any reason at all. And so they asked this to Jesus and it was really a self serving question. They wanted to test him or trap him. Um In in some theological contradiction. So he answered and said, Have you not read that he who created them from the beginning made them male and female? And said, for this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh So they are no longer two but one flesh. Therefore, what God has joined together no person is to separate Alright, so so Jesus um he doesn't make up a new teaching, he goes right back to Genesis two, where God's design is spelled out, and he quotes Genesis two and uses it as the basis of this principle that what God is joined together, no one is to separate. And I'll just say as an aside here, right, Esau Jesus quoting Genesis two, the exact same verse that Paul quoted in Ephesians five, right? So both Jesus and Paul based their ethic of marriage directly on Genesis, on the text of Genesis. And I think that's why it's so important that um That we not just dismiss Genesis as like myth or um you know, spiritual allegory, whatever as as many people do today. I think it's really important that we take Genesis very seriously as the basis of God's design, as the basis of um of our of our ethic, because that's what Jesus and Paul did Um but anyway, so Jesus is like, boom. This is this is God's design. What God has joined together, let no one separate. But the Pharisees don't like that. So they say to him, Why then did Moses command her to command to give her a certificate of divorce and send her away? He said to them, Because of your hardness of heart, Moses permitted you to divorce your wives. So he didn't command you to divorce your wives whenever you feel like it. He permitted you to do that. Um but from the beginning it has not been this way. And I say to you, whoever divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality, and marries another woman, commits adultery. So the point that I'm making here is that fidelity is a characteristic of marriage in God's design. God designed marriage to be a lifelong, faithful relationship. uh not to be broken at any time during this life. Um and Jesus reaffirms that and he he clarifies that Whoever does break it, you know, anyone who does divorce his wife, except for sexual immorality when the covenant is already broken effectively, anyone who does that and marries another woman commits adultery. So any kind of yeah, any kind of divorce or any kind of breaking of this marriage covenant, that is That is against God's design because fidelity is what God intends for marriage. Um Yeah, Alex. Um that's a good question. So so literal it means faithfulness. Um Right. So devotion exclusive devo devotion um of the the husband and the wife to each other. Uh so so it means um like the affections and the intimacy that a husband and wife have for each other are not to be are are to be faithfully directed only to each other and not elsewhere. Right. And they they're they're to be ongoing and continuing and and not allowed to to sort of lapse or decay. That I guess is what I'd say about faithfulness. What do you guys think? What does faithfulness mean biblically? Yeah. Two things. Uh-huh. I guess the most general one is anything that you cannot see. Which cannot hear which cannot touch. More importantly, the Christians that believing in that the cause of the people are true and will be built. as they have been destroyed. Yeah, yeah. So so there's there's a component of belief and a component of trust. And I think in this sense, uh, yeah, the component of of trust and commitment is is probably the one that's elevated here. Um You know, it's not so much an intellectual faithfulness. Um like yeah, I believe that my wife exists. Uh but uh um But there is there is something of that. But I guess what I'm um what I would say is that faithfulness, that adjective is an adjective that's that's very consistently applied to God's descriptions of himself in the Old Testament. Right. So um Oh man, I'm blanking on the verse. But there's a there's a verse in Exodus where um you know the Lord is passing by Moses and he says The Lord, the Lord, um compassionate and gracious, slow to anger, abounding in love, um, abounding in loving kindness, um and and faithfulness, I think, is you know, faithful to um to a thousand generations. Yeah, I'm sorry, I should have prepared that quote in advance because I'm I'm totally butchering it. But faithfulness, God's faithfulness, is something that He proclaims a lot in the Bible. Um and it carries this idea, it goes along with covenants, right? Um God's faithfulness means that in the covenants that He's made with us He's never gonna violate those. Right? He's never going to say, um, well, you've been so bad and you know, you've you've you've rejected me for so long. I'm just gonna forget about the promises that I made to you 'cause you don't deserve it. Right. Uh no, he's he's he says, even if everyone else is faithless, I will be faithful. I will fulfill my promises that I made to you, even if you don't fulfill the vows you make to me. So I think that to answer your question, yeah, that's the faithfulness that that God intends for marriage, right? Is is the almost like a willingness to be unilateral about it. Right? To be one-sided in your in your faithfulness. To to be faithful even if your spouse um Is it does not treat you in the way you think you deserve to be treated. Yeah. I just cypher. When I hear fidelity I think fidelity credit card. Uh-huh. Because there are a lot of like the same thing to us Oh yeah. It's like that's a thing, right? Yeah. But we're not. It's a contract, it's not a covenant. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, no. But that's a good question. You know, it's good to talk about like what do these words actually mean, you know Um I think too uh yeah what you want to say is um yeah, thinking about other interests. Mm-hmm. Like when we I remember we're gonna Yeah. But it's a while ago. It's scary, crazy that we've been married married that long. We talked about like Yeah. Oh that's a really good point. Yeah. Like not strengthening the friendships with the opposite I wouldn't have expected that because the Dali in Fidali comes in any full aspect of it. Very tiny little thing to do Mm-hmm. Like um even a slight affraction or in writing emotionally, uh and you you have not even go near the person's house, but you you you already draw through in your heart and that's what I I I I see a lot of that emotionally. Now we have web, we have email, access, you have text access. It might never go to that point where sleep at that husband's house, but you already saw out your heart, didn't you? With text and method pictures. And emotionally you already saw that. So that and that's something that I think I face a lot in this this county session. Well I may just level her. Yeah, but about these three temptations, it'll be fairly like that we're trying to Yeah. Very yeah. And having worked together way by way to advance the kingdom When you divide it and divide your heart. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that's a great point 'cause I mean and it doesn't even there doesn't even have to be any sort of sexual or even erotic or romantic component to emotional infidelity. It can just be like, you know, if I were to make friends with a female coworker and I just you know, I start telling her about my problems and like you know, sharing the weight of my burdens with her, like that I think verges on emotional infidelity, right? 'Cause that's yeah. And that can lead to Well it can yeah, it can lead towards sexual infidelity. But even if it doesn't, it's still infidelity, right? And we have a single, we go after lunch together, right? There's a man that he came to me you know, just work a look at and he said, you know, um he started telling me like, you know, how his wife they marry and his wife got this madness and she woke up in the morning in the middle of the night and scream and yell and then wake up in the beautiful sun and very you know Yeah. And then the next thing after he tell me that. And then I say, okay. And then next thing he tell me is that, Oh, would you like to go to lunch with me? Uh so I can tell you all. I would think I'll and then I home. Well I'm I'm I'm single. I'm a female. I'll only go out to lunch with other females. They cut off the cut off anything that he can think of. Cut right off. Yeah. Even even I don't know what he's thinking of, but I don't care what it is. Because I am not going to be part of that scheme or whatever that is. Yeah. So yeah, so so it's very, very, very interesting. Right. When when things that people share with you, you guard guard your heart because who know, because um someone is have something happen at home is they're a lot more they're a lot more vulnerable. Yeah. They come into the workplace, the secretary is smiling. At home everything is frowning. Can do can do can you go that way. So and someone who does not regard themselves Uh-huh. Yeah, that's a great point. Fidelity, faithfulness in marriage. It's not just something that can that you can leave alone and it'll passively be fine. You have to guard that faithfulness in that relationship. Um yeah, and and like you were saying, even if you're not married, you have to guard against unfaithfulness developing with someone else. Yeah. Yeah. This though, even with the symbol, go all the way to the backwards. Mm-hmm. Yeah. You could think about it as faithfulness to your future spouse, right? Even if you don't know who that is. Um just as a reminder too, the Bible that's mean temptation. Yeah. Don't just you know. Uh-huh. Don't say stand for getting a job. Yeah. Uh-huh. Yeah. Um Yeah, so complementarity, fidelity, or faithfulness. Um third one, very similar, exclusive intimacy. Um and so these two you you can't really have intimacy without exclusivity, right? It's it's impossible to have intimacy with everyone or with um Yeah. Yeah, yeah, you're supposed to have intimacy with everyone, but that that's not possible definitionally, you know, it's it's yeah. God designed the exclusivity to be what fosters the intimacy. Anyway, what we have here in look back to Genesis 2, in verse 23, Adam says when he first sees Eve when God brings Eve to him. He says, At last, this is bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. Or, you know, as the Nazbi has it, this is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. And um that's sort of that's his marriage vow, right, that Adam sort of comes up with at that marriage ceremony. And there's an intimacy that is implicit in that vow Right. This is bone of my bones. You know, the bone is is the deepest part of your body. Right. You it's past the skin, past the muscle. Um this is bone of my bones, flesh of my flesh. She's the same stuff as me now. And uh if something is done to her, it's done to me. That's that's kind of the the connotation behind that statement. And it's even more explicit a couple verses later in verse twenty-five. And the man and his wife were both naked and were not ashamed. That's intimacy right there. Being being naked, being completely open with each other, and being unashamed of that Um we are not meant to experience that kind of intimacy with everybody. Right. I I mean that hopefully goes without saying. Um Yeah, this intimacy is not to be shared with anyone else. And that's really the reason why the Bible repeatedly condemns all uh all sexual activity outside of marriage between a man and a woman Sorry. Questions. Right, in contrast to God's good design for intimacy, which produces no shame but but unity and joy. Um the the misuse and the twisting of God's design produces shame. You have nakedness with shame and guilt. Yeah. It's a great point. Um okay and then the fourth characteristic here. Uh uh non-exhaustive list again, you know there are other characteristics of marriage, but the fourth one that that jumps out from God's design is openness to children. And this one isn't maybe one that that uh we talk about a lot, but It's clear that God designed marriage and sex not only for procreation, but yes, for procreation. Right. He designed children to be a good and natural result of the uh one flesh union of marriage. Um so You can see this in Genesis 1. 28, where God gave the command to Adam and Eve. Notice it says, God blessed them and said, be fruitful and multiply. Yeah. It it wasn't God cursed them and said, You're gonna have a lot of kids now. Yeah. No, he blessed them and said, Be fruitful and multiply. The the the fruit of their one-flesh union was a blessing from God. And that's echoed in Psalm 127, verse 3, I think, where it says, Behold, children are a gift of the Lord. The fruit of the womb is a reward. Um so uh there's kind of two there's kind of two points with this, right? In marriage and in in a marriage Um you know, uh we should see children as a blessing. Right? We should not be afraid of having children as a married uh couple um or look at children as a burden. Um you know, or we shouldn't we shouldn't sort of like put up a stiff arm to God and say like, no, we don't want any children. We just want our life here um as as husband and wife uh and not to be disturbed in that. Uh because that's that's denying God's design, right? God's design is that children are a blessing uh to a married couple But then the the flip side of that is um God designed uh the the sexual union to produce children, right? And so we should not be surprised, I guess when we abuse sex and use it outside of marriage, um, if if children and and pregnancy is the result of that. Right. That's not that's not an unnatural thing or a thing that that is somehow an injustice that's happened to us. Right. Um I think uh let's see, I see I saw a uh a picture in a like a news article recently because you know there's all the the debate about abortion right now and and there are lots of protests going on. Uh I saw a picture of a protester holding up a sign that said um Consent to sex is not consent to pregnancy. And I was like, wow. What what a stark illustration of the difference between the world's view and God's design, right? Because in God's design Sex is an invitation to childbearing. Right? Like even if you use birth control, birth control is not a hundred percent effective. Um you still have to uh use it with the attitude like, okay, God, um I don't think it's wise for us to have another child right now, but if you choose to bless us with one, we will consider that a joy and we'll we'll consider that a gift and we'll rejoice in it. Because yeah, that's the way God designed it, is that is that having that uh that sexual union in marriage is an invitation for God to bless you with the fruit. of children. And and the world just completely rejects that idea and says, no, sex is just a fun thing that we can do. And we should be able we have the right to separate it from childbearing. All right, questions, comments on those last two characteristics of marriage and sex? Just going along with the idea that um just kind of that men and women are equal, you know um you know, I guess I can rather keep it in the option. Well if we're equal then we deserve to be able to win stuff. Yeah. Yeah. Like we should if we're equal, an illusion to it. Yeah. Well and to be fair, um the culture before then that that sort of winked and nudged men for for taking advantage of that ability is is equally to blame for that, right? Um, you know, th for for hundreds of years, um men sort of took advantage of their ability to to have sex without personal consequences related to like childbearing. Uh and so that sin was baked into the culture And then the sexual revolution and feminism came along and said, Well, hey, you know, if if that's okay for them, this should be okay for us too. Which is also wrong, but you know, it's not like it was just a A w a women's thing. Yeah. Because if you if you really break down the logic of every single world Their justification is that sin somehow will bring about good and counter to this or every challenge with Or so what they're saying is the truth, just think about it. If I do this bad thing, how on earth is a really, really good thing going in this Like as you mentioned the generation to generation. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. I think too like those numbers will be normally those And they want they're there to decide well, to find out what they're doing, but also to decide and reference to avoid particularly people who identify as gay who come in and people prostitute have come in and they get old. I mean Yeah going back to you when you were talking about the how Uh-huh. Yeah. Yeah, God's design is powerful and it still comes through powerfully, even with the distortions of sin. Um Yeah, some of those conversations I w I Yeah, I guess we that would that would be quite a tangent, but uh even I mean in this is where we're talking about the powers of darkness. And just believe in the line that Yeah, okay, really got asked the portion. Okay. Um the last point for children big conversations I've had with other people sort of just like a big stuff in the block. Uh-huh. I don't think yeah as you mentioned for like what is the Yeah. Uh-huh. Um there's like a passage in chapter ten and there's this is a funny story. So there's a bunch of kids around Jesus, and the disciples are bad. Yeah. Why are there a bunch of kids here? And then she just I think that the most amazing thing is like what separate the children because the kingdom of God belongs to kids like these. Yeah. What does this mean? Like heavens only for kids? Like I think about it, right? But it was just like if you think about like what what do children supply scriptures. There is this kind of incorruptible innocence about them, although they are sinners, but Jesus is basically telling us like W like child, we have to be like children in order to be able to see God. So like as Jesus takes us, he's like he who sees me sees the one who sent me. Yeah. So in essence if you take that to this passage, right, we're able to realize, oh it's it's Like actually very, very important to understand um like why is it that children are important and why is it blessing, but also why is it Right. Yeah, and I think something that that Pastor Fomley says in his uh classes on on parenting infants and and toddlers, um, is that he makes the observation that like all other Animal species, all other mammals at least, that that like give birth to live young. Those those young, they're pretty much fully functional out of the womb. You know, after a few minutes, like a a baby horse is standing up and and walking around and running stuff. Is does a human baby do that? No. Like of all of the mammals, like our our babies are the most helpless. Um and you know this is a little bit speculative, but but he says uh he thinks that there's a there's a theological lesson from God in that helplessness, right? That um showing us on the one hand that we this is what we look like to God. We're helpless before God. We cannot do anything to save ourselves. And I think that's Jesus' biggest point in Mark, right, when he says The t the kingdom of heaven belongs to such as these. It belong the kingdom of heaven belongs to people who recognize that they are spiritually helpless before God. They can do nothing to earn their way into heaven. There's no there's no pride of station. You know, no child uh no no toddler walks around and says, Well I'm the son of a Pharisee. So, you know, like I mean maybe they do, but you know, not that's not typical. Um so so children they know that they don't they don't have anything to rely on. They just depend on the provision of their parents Um and and that's the attitude, that's the posture that we ought to have before God, because that's the position that we occupy before God. Um But yeah, openness to children, God uses parenting, not just marriage, but also parenting to show um a picture of his relationship to his people, right? God calls himself the Father, um, our father, and he he talks about us like his children. Um and there is no there are no other relationships that will sanctify you so much as marriage and parenthood. Right. The I think I I I have learned so much more to see the world and other people through God's eyes, by being married and by having children. Um Yeah. And and to see my own sin, really, my own selfishness. Uh yeah, you don't know how selfish you are until you get married and have kids. Which is why you left so like my old mentor used to say, you you will never have more free time than you do right now. You don't feel like it Right? I know you all feel really busy. Like you feel like your lives are are scheduled to the brim. That's what you feel like, but you're wrong. I'm just telling you. You will never have more free time than you do now And and so, you know, make it a priority to spend some of that free time at least, uh, serving the Lord, seeking his kingdom. You know what I mean? Yeah, I mean I thought that too. When I was in college and I heard my my mentor say that, I was like, no, I'm really busy. You don't know me. But I'm look now I'm looking back and like, oh yeah, I had a lot of free time. I slept a lot. I played a lot of video games. Um let's see. Well I think okay, sorry, any more questions on what we just covered? Yeah, how so we talk about tokenness to children and uh how does that find the public token to have children. But I've also heard Mrs. Franklin Catholic Like if you're married you Mm-hmm. That mm that's a good um perceptive question to bring up, yeah, because the Catholic Church does teeth teach that all forms of birth control, artificial birth control are wrong. Um however it's worth noting that the Catholic Church does not actually teach that uh a married couple must have as many children as possible. Um there the official Uh there there's an official teaching of the Catholic Church or or recommendation called natural family planning. Um maybe some of you have heard of it. That's sort of Catholic birth control, right? It's like how to um how to sort of time um sexual intercourse so that you don't have children uh and it's it's not using any sort of birth control device, but it's pursuing the same kind of ends, either either delaying childbearing or or avoiding it. So mm, you know, I think I think there's a bit of an artificial distinction there between like the Catholic Church says, well this form of birth control is okay, but these other ones are not. Um so it it's not as it's not quite as um as uh cut and dried in their theology even as as we sometimes think. But that raises a really good point. Like What what about birth control? And what about the sort of related idea, do married couples have an obligation from God to have as many children as they possibly can? You know, if children are a blessing from the w from the Lord? What do you guys think? No, why not? There was in like John chapter 36 Jesus said we must have like there's first of all there's no explicit commandment. Right. And I don't think there's even implied implied. Because it even talks about in scripture there are people who are unable to consider So are they auto automatically sinners because they can't physically raises that point too. Like so if God really made this commitment, how do you explain those things unless you need a um what is it a copy of Right, yeah. Yeah, so you know, some some couples are infertile and completely unable to to have children. Um They're not in sin because of that. as they want as they as they possibly can. Um so the Uh you know, I think with like with everything, remember we've been learning, you know, on and off throughout throughout the last several months that the commands of God and the standard of God is much more about the heart than about external behavior. So what are the heart principles in this area of like having children and how many children to have Uh and then also remember we so we argued before that you know when God said be fruitful and multiply He doesn't just want like population growth um regardless of of the the sort of character of those those children. What God wants is godly offspring, right? So um One one consideration is um you want to have you as a married couple you want to have children, but you don't want to have so many children that you can't disciple them Right. If God wants godly offspring, um then maybe limiting yourself to um you know, a certain number of children that you can fully pour into and disciple is a better way to fulfill his command for godly offspring than having like fifteen kids, right? That you can't that you can't train up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord um or or provide for even. You know. So I think it comes back it comes back to the heart, um and to the attitude with which you use um birth control if you use it, right? Do you use it as as like a hand in the face of God saying, no You know, we we're gonna block your your purposes um and we're just gonna say a hard pass on having any more children? Or do you use it with an openness saying like, okay God, using principles from your word and wisdom, we think right now Um it would not be wise for us to have more children because we can decipher the ones we've got, but um probab you know, we might not be able to do to disciple anymore. But we're open to you providing more children if you choose to work through that, you know? If you choose for this birth control to fail, um and and to bless us with children, we're gonna rejoice in that. Right. So I think I think it just gets back much more to the heart than to uh any particular external behavior of like, are you having as many children as you possibly can? Does that does that help? Great. Okay. Um How do you search for a verse that the Catholic Church uses to support the idea of contraception is evil? Maybe it's in the apocrypha. I think I read some people believe different things. Um just even things some of my friends are people like me. Michael will told me like, Oh no, I don't think that that's that's certainly God's plan, you know. You should just be responsible. And then I've put other people saying, Well, you know, it's It's you know part of it is just being responsible like what you said about uh like artificial responsibility for uh of me things like that. Um just that are even responsible in that way. Um so I would say I would say it's different to think outside of the surface. Some people with a lot more conservative background than something That doesn't seem like a difference. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Yeah. Uh thank you. That's that is helpful context. Um, I think I've tried some people that will do something. sorts of birth control. Um I think so I can very similar birth control. Yeah. So there's Uh-huh. Yeah. Yeah, it can seem kind of arbitrary the where people draw lines, but I think that gets to a broader point about um You know, uh Pastor Gabe said this in one of his sermons. Um he's uh I'm forgetting what how exactly he said it, but like godly people who love uh the word of God will not always agree on everything, right? Um love for the Lord does not does not always imply agreement on on these kind of like where to draw the line about birth control or or politics for that matter. You know like um Uh what was I oh yeah, so there are there are a few passages in scripture that talk about um like eating meat sacrificed to idols, right? Where Paul Paul talks about like And he addresses two groups, right? He says, um, to you who are spiritually mature and have knowledge, you guys know that an idol is nothing. Right? There's so so yeah, go ahead and eat the meat But here's this other group who maybe is a little less mature in their faith and if they see you eating meat that that sacrificed to an idol it's gonna lead them into sin. It's gonna make them stumble. So although you have freedom to eat that meat first group, your responsibility, your greater responsibility is to uh unity and not causing your brother to stumble. And so I think, you know, this is this could be a whole class in itself. It's like how how do we as Christians disagree rightly on issues like that, you know, like where to draw the line in in birth control. Um and I think uh the Paul sort of sums it up by saying each one is to be convinced in his own mind. Right. There is there is a sense in which God wants us to um study His Word, know wisdom from the Scriptures, and make up our own minds and be firmly convinced in our own minds. Um and And he is okay with different people coming to different conclusions on that. But our priority is to be able to live together in unity with love, even in the presence of those disagreements. Does that make sense? I think that's that's a huge principle and that's something that I think the church needs to really grow in, especially in light of what all that happened during COVID You know, so many churches have split or like people have left churches because of stupid things like mask policies and you know, like, yeah, yeah, everyone needs to be firmly convinced in their own minds about like, you know, what What's right to do? Do you wear a mask? Do you not wear a mask? Do you make your children wear a mask? Like people believers can come to different conclusions on those things. But we need to be able to live together in love and unity in the same church, even while we disagree about that stuff. Um and that's something that I haven't seen the church do a lot. With the exception of a place like Hope Bible Church, I I love how Pope has not really gotten split and and drawn into a lot of those controversies. Even though I know several people on both sid like on different sides of the of those questions here. Um I'm I'm just very thankful that that our church hasn't been uh dragged into that. And I meant to leave time again for um for prayer, but but here we are at 1045 Um cow though. Yeah, yeah, we need yep, we need one of those. Alright, let me stop the recording and then um I will I will