Tested in one two. Test in one two. Will s the notes I printed for today will start. I guess it's work. Yeah, I think it's working. Um But I look at a lot of the what we did last week. Um there's a lot of scripture in here. We're gonna I'm gonna kinda highlight it and but we're not gonna go through it word for word. But I think we ought to uh uh uh we should focus on on some of the scriptures, otherwise it's it's all for nuts. Um With that, let's get started. Heavenly Father, uh, thank you so much again for your word, for your guidance. You didn't leave us alone. You've given us scripture, Lord, that's uh uh you've given us the means and the spirit uh to illuminate and to uh help us to understand the scriptures. Lord, they are our guidance. Um we confess oftentimes that um uh we don't uh uh pay attention, we don't obey, we don't uh uh consider all that's in there. And Lord, our my hope and my prayer is is that for myself and for all of us in here uh uh we would be find a motivation, a desire, Lord. Would you put that desire in our heart uh to really seek it, to want it. uh Lord, and to uh spend time meditating a and considering and then acting it out, behaving, disciplining ourselves. We thank you, Lord, your your grace and your mercy. We thank you for this church body. You brought us together into this local assembly. We call a church, Hope Bible Church. And we just lift this time up, open our eyes, our hearts, and our minds to what we're about to look at today. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Uh again, so we're kinda I uh I know you don't have it, but you you had the notes from before. This is uh the previous lesson Um I had to think I lucid it down, I forget what it is, lesson six it is. So we're just gonna pick up. I want to hit some of the highlights of it Um so we and uh we kind of went over this last time. This is what uh um This is the nature of God's moral will. This is Freesen's, Gary Friesen's a book we've been studying for this section. And this is how he defines it, the origin. It's the expression in behavioral terms of God's character. Okay, so we're talking about more well, it's the expression. What we do, our behavior, it's the expression of God's character. And we said that in a couple of different ways. Um I I think that I forget that one Since uh the law is what uh love is what the law is what love love would do. The law of God is what love would do. Um uh you know, it's a th think about it like that. A lot of this, I know I'm s uh uh talking to a group that's been in Bible churches, you know this stuff. You kinda need to I need to shake myself and look at it afresh. Oh yeah, I know that. You know, as soon as I do that, uh I'm not thinking about it. So communication, it's fully revealed in the Bible. We've we've we've started this journey and and we talked about that. Um the reason I did the sovereignty and free will was because we had to decide, okay, what's God What's God do through his grace and and w you know what is my participation? But the other thing is, is once we get into God's will, it's it's kind of the same thing Does God have this special will for me? And we've been talking about this over and over again. Does He have the perfect job for me, the perfect spouse? Um th do I make the perfect decision and and you can just name it for going to school, etc etc etc, right? God gives us wisdom, okay, uh, for the choices that we are allowed to make And if you if we do it on the grid of God, does, you know, am I making this choice? Am I choosing a job because it's gonna pay really well, but I'll have to uh fudge my moral character. You know, I was talking with somebody and the and this happens all the time. Um I y uh I worked in dealership before I opened my own shop. That was the way to be trained. There's always it's It was all commission. Okay. So you think, well, why do these guys sell all this stuff? Well, two reasons. It's all commission. And the other thing is is that the Management wants to see what your numbers are. They're taking a bigger cut of the commission, right? Um Uh I was talking uh with uh Daniel and he was talking about working for uh uh dentistry in an office and he said he liked the office because the they were pressuring him to sell cats. You know, you ever been to the dentist? You're like, do I need all this? What's that car you're driving out there? I get it. It and it's it Okay, all those temptations have come to us. And and that's uh that's what we're gonna look at in the next phase when we we're gonna get beyond this part about the moral will and I I'm uh and I'm gonna kinda bring in um holiness, the pursuit of holiness, because it dovetails. It it's uh God wants us to be holy. It's God's will. But there's another aspect of it and it's amazing. Um it's convicting you know? Um God's will in everything. And when we really start to look at that, you're like, that's a lot. So communication, it's with the Bible. Scope, it touches every aspect and moment of life Goals, attitudes, means, perspectives, right? The why, the how, the what And its impact is to equip believers for every good work. And we could expand that, couldn't we? It's it's also to do more what? Was it ultimately to do to conform us to the image of Christ, right? Romans 8, that whole passage, you know what I mean? Right, everybody's familiar with A twenty-eight, all things work together for good. Right? And we know that all things work together uh f for good uh work together for good for those who love God, those who are called according to his purpose. For those for whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son. So that we would be the firstborn among many brethren So it's yeah, it's predestination, all that, but the i the there's a goal there. We're to become uh and we're gonna look at another passage I really like, I think a little later here, in that 2 Peter. Okay, so yeah, it's to equip us for every good work, but to really to become conformed to the image of Christ. We're we're to uh uh share in the divine nature. Salvation essentials, um For this is a will of my Father, that everyone who beholds the Son and believes in him will have eternal life, and I myself will raise him up on the last day. So the response to God's moral will. Again, I'm not going to read all the text in here. You had those notes, you can go over that If you know these things, you are blessed if you do them. Of course, Jesus is talking to his disciples there. If you know them, you're blessed if you do them. And and and that's the thing. We we have to uh it's James, right? Show you know, uh show me by your good works. It is It's not the good works save us, but it's the fruit, the result of the Spirit that works within us. Um so give attention to public reading, scripture, exhortation, and teaching, right? We listen to the word of the uh people who present it, uh we we hear it, we read it, we meditate on it. Consider what I say, for the Lord will give you understanding in everything. And again, that's the spirit. The spirit works uh uh uh to n to know uh to illuminate and to understand this. The natural man, 1 Corinthians chapter 2, doesn't get it. We've witnessed the people and you think, well, I don't think you feel like shaking all right Laura will tell you my story. I was dragging her when I got saved and I was I was wearing her out to get saved. You know, you want this I you know, I was new in the faith. It's like I know you want this, but it it is uh frustrating to see unsaved people. They just can't hear or understand As to this salvation, the prophets who prophesied of the grace that would come to you made careful searches and inquiries seeking to know what person or time the Spirit of Christ within them was indicating as he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the glories to follow. First Peter one ten. Think about it, these Old Testament prophets and this is you you really need to comprehend this kind of when when you look at the old uh the Old Testament prophets were prophesying about this future Okay, but they didn't really s they were only getting part of the revelation. Here they are writing scripture and they didn't even know what this cr we know j we know his name Jesus. Uh the Christ. They they didn't know. What time? Who's this person? And you saw what happened. They didn't they did not understand he had to die for sins. They didn't get it. And it really wasn't Uh I mean there are some passages in the Old Testament, but there wasn't look at the m passages we have that Christ died for sin compared to really what was prophesied in the Old Testament. It's it's Uh the revelation we have is is it's incredible. So let us be motivated to understand that revelation So be diligent to present yourself, to prove to God, the workman who does not need to be ashamed, accurately handling the word of truth. Again. That's discipline. Be diligent. Uh you gotta work to know this stuff. When I was trying to drag Laura into the kingdom of heaven, I had, you know, this much theology I was just saved. It was like, man, you want this. Yeah, you do, but I you know, I didn't understand uh really the sovereignty of God, the election none of that. That was I had no idea And it's funny. I I by this time I I had a repair shop And God was sending me these people. And next thing you know, I'm witnessing to them and I'm telling you all I had was God so loved the world he gave it. You know, that was it. Uh but it's funny. Whatever, I was on fire and and it's funny what God will use. Um So let's see, where are we at? Meditate on the word, but his delight is in the law of the Lord. And in the law he meditates day and night. That's Psalm 12. You you're probably familiar with that one. Delight in it, desire it. That's what we want. God give me that desire. Give me that passion. I know, I know I need motivation. And that's why again, that's one of the things the body of the church is to do. We're supposed to motivate each other. You know, we we can talk to each other about spiritual things, uh to build one another up uh in all aspects. And that not just for, you know, when somebody's hurting, but you know, w we're we're doing well. Uh Joshua, right? He says this book of the law shall not depart uh from your mouth, but ye shall meditate on it day and night so that you may be careful to do according to all that is written in it. For then you will make your uh way prosperous, and then you will have success. So right, he's getting to go into the land. Remember what he had to tell Joshua? Moses is dead. Look at it, it's what he said. Moses is dead. Okay, they had mourned him, remember? They had mourned him for a whole period, well, month or whatever. And then he says to Joshua, Moses is dead. Let's move on. That's what he's saying. And also, they're going in and it it wasn't it was a physical battle, but it was a spiritual battle. What it they're going in there to take the land. Remember what the context is. And Joshua really didn't conquer all the people. If you notice what he did, he conquered all the fortresses. He went around and he took The he they when Joshua was finished the the fortified fortresses were destroyed So then they could then now you just had clans to deal with. And that's what the people had to do. Each tribe had to deal with their area And they were to deal with the clans that were that were there. It was a battle, it's a physical battle, but it's also a spiritual battle. We're in a spiritual battle. If we want to really do what the church wants to do, our flesh is in the way. We go with our old nature. Uh and then we got the world system and then we got we got the devil who who doesn't like this at all. Uh I'm sure he focuses on us more than the guys at the bar. I mean he's already got them. He gave some of the apostles and prophets, and some of the evangelists, some of his pastors and teachers. Again, he equipped people. uh commentators, uh uh books that we have. Uh you know, you can sit under these guys teaching some are easier to read than others, granted, but think about it, you're reading some of the the top professors in the world. The a lot of these My uh one Greek professor always said, you know, back in the day when they wrote these commentaries, uh these critical ones, he said they were really writing to uh other uh teachers and pastors, you know. He says now as uh the years have gone by, lay people are really starting to pick this up. But at one time, so it was kind of peer to peer they were writing to. And it's good because um they're peer reviewed. Okay? Now they get this stuff on the internet and people believe you have to be careful who's writing this, what's the source Uh you know, back in the day you wrote a commentary series, you had an editor and a a publisher and and they were it was peer reviewed on that level But then you had these other scholars reading it and they're like, no, you can't be writing that. That's not right. So you have these people that are that are trained and you need we need to thank God for them. Uh I've learned a lot from a lot of these guys. Some guys are have really um For who has known the mind of the Lord that he will instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ. And I, brethren, could not speak to you as the spiritual men But as to men of flesh, as to infants in Christ, I gave you milk to drink, not solid food, for you were not yet able to receive it Indeed, even now you are not able, for you are still fleshly. For since there is jealousy and strife among you, are you not fleshly? Are you not walking like mere men? Okay, this is that this is chapter 2 of 1 Corinthians is where he's going into the natural man. If you're familiar with that, the natural man doesn't know We have the mind of Christ. That's what he says. Who will instruct him? We have the mind of Christ. That chapter 3 goes right over and he goes, and I, brethren, couldn't speak to you as spiritual men We've been we've been taken out of that domain of darkness. We're in the kingdom of light. There's two kingdoms. Yes. Well, number one, let's let's establish the first fact. Uh these people ha if you have the mind of Christ They're safe, right? Right. They have the Holy Spirit. Okay. And I see where you're you're and of course it is. When I was witnessing Dolore, I I was a baby in Christ. I knew I had no theology. I you know, I'd read through the Bible several times But then, you know, you read through the Bible, then we really need if we're ch at this pla this church, we're teaching kind of systematically. And if you if you're getting theology, when Pastor Gabe spends all that time on a few verses, he's showing you, whether you're aware of it or not, connected verses We're going to other passages. He's telling us. And he's pulling out aspects that the Word of God is telling us. It might only be one aspect, but you're learning about, say, jealousy. So these people, what he had to tell them was, okay, you're saved, but now you need to you need to keep moving forward. You need to keep Y y you need to discipline some of those verses I just read. You need to discipline yourself. You need to uh seek to know the word of God. You need to meditate on the word of God. This just because we're saved doesn't mean it's gonna happen, right? And you'll see some Christians that are been Christians for a while and you think, man, this you know Some are going to be further along maturity than others. As you expose yourself to the word, God will change you, and especially if you're seeking it I I'm tell I'm gonna do this. I and I I ha I hope it is beneficial, but My analogy, I like sports movies. I don't know if you all were familiar with uh Miracle. It was the 1980 uh Winter Olympics and the hockey team. Back then they didn't have pros. All they could get was players out of college. They were supposed to be amateurs And the Russians were winning everything. And this guy uh wanted to put together a hockey team And he approached the Olympic Committee and they said, Well, we don't want to look bad and he goes, Look. We look terrible To show you how good the uh the Russian team was, the the uh NHL put together All-Star team to play the Russians. They lost six to zero. So this guy is trying to put together uh college players and he's gonna go up against and uh also the other But the point of it is is he said there's a couple things I want to do. I want I want this team because he was telling the Olympic Committee because they were interview him to be coach, whether you would or not. I want this team to have unity. Okay? They've got to play in unity. He said the reason the Olympics lost, because you had a bunch of prideful people out there individually skating. He says, you can't be a team that way. He goes the other thing you gotta they gotta be disciplined. They gotta work hard. He said and he said to the players, because look, no one has ever worked hard enough to skate with the Russians for for a full game. This this is this is Christianity. Life and real life oftentimes reflects what God's it's the same principle We have to work hard and discipline ourselves with the Word of God. You also we also need unity with each other. What are these people doing? This is the church. They got the Holy Spirit living inside. They're jealous, they're strife. Wheel. Look whereinda I've said this before. I grew up in this area. I it was Laura and I were born here. It was Montgomery County back in the day. Howard County, this was all rural. It was farmland. It was the same thing though. It was drawn people. There were the church we went to had physicists, engineers, we had scientists, we had government employees, dentists, right? They're they're qualified people. But that doesn't bring unity. Christ does. There's a bunch of pride there. You you have the only way we're gonna really get over this pride is if we're exposing ourselves to the spirit. We have to be humble You can't you can't do this on your own. Now that analogy for the hockey team might be okay, but it's it's not the same. Really what we have to do is more difficult than what they had to do. Because they can still have pride and still play in in unity. But you can't You have a question? Keep going. You can't You can't have this unity that God is talking about without walking in the Spirit. You can't do it on your own. And we're going to unpack that a little bit. It's Romans 7. You can't do it in the flesh. That's what he's saying here. Flesh, think about it as your own nature. It's the person. It sucks. It he he's really they use that term to talk about your whole person. It's your mind, your thoughts, your emotions. Okay, that's so we were born in what? Sin Now we still have this old flesh that we can deal with. These people had the mind of Christ. They're jealous, they're striving with each other. Come on, what church hadn't done this? As if we didn't see it here. The only way you'll do this is if you're really in Christ, if you're really But it's not some magic thing, you know, you don't see it's not a magic box where we sit down and we go like this and a lantern, right? And the spirit comes and the Alam new. No, you discipline yourself. You have a question? I do, yeah. Comment? Um I didn't want to get you off the train of thought. Oh I'm already all the train of thought. And I apologize. No, no, no, it's good. Uh what is like the difference between milk and solitude? What the difference between milk and solitude. Well, uh price dog I I get this all the time. I used to get it when we went down to the jail. Uh A lot of the guys of Prince George's County seemed to the ones that came to our our Bible study, uh they said, Oh yeah, you know, Christ died from my sins, he was buried, he was raised on the third day uh I was baptized, old man of a lot of Baptist down there. I was baptized. But you talk with these guys and you and you start to rum a little bit and you you get into it. Well I don't really believe that and right They they weren't saved. But uh a baby Christian uh and I can ask the uh you know, you go to Hope Academy and the people who are raised they know uh they know the spirit of God is in 'em. They know that uh they know the gospel. But what about the uh uh again, the finer things that we've been talking about? What is free will? What is God's sovereignty and our free will? That was a deep subject. What is Christ. Christ was a hundred percent God and a hundred percent man. How do you you don't you how do you reconcile that? Yeah, there's you know, those are the deeper things. Uh um we can talk about um uh prophecy. There's a lot of disagreement in churches over how how to interpret prophecy. That's the deeper things. But you can be saved and have disagreements on that. Baptism. Okay, baptism doesn't save you, we believe in immersion, but is that a I mean Right? Does that help you at all? And so, you know, we believe in in immersion baptism, but If somebody doesn't isn't immersed in baptism, does that mean they're not saved? No. And does baptism save them? No. That's the deeper things. And and really you again, you listen to Pastor Gabe's sermons, you're getting into the deeper things. That's why he spends so much time with the fine points So why we do exposit expository preaching so you go through the whole word of God. Any any other questions? Thoughts? I'll try and stay away from the analogy. But to me, uh uh you know, I I think sports is so neat because it really does reflect life Uh, there's so much to it. It's discipline. If a team I've seen teams that are really good who don't win. I've seen pre-Madonnas on team that mess up the whole chemistry of a whole team. Sometimes the best thing they're great players, but the best thing to do is get rid of them. Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing, but what matters is keeping the commandments of God. Uh, you know, again, uh w what they were doing, this is in First Corinthians, you know, they were talking about uh, you know, again, the law. If you do this law, this will help you And Paul's going, no, this has nothing to do with it. This is a spiritual thing. We're we're beyond the law. Keeping the rules Okay? It's not going to help you. Being disciplined is is another thing, but it is for a purpose. It's for a relationship with God When you a lot of times when you keep the law, you're really just trying to get justified or trying to make yourself righteous by just doing a work. It it it's We're justified by the Spirit, by Christ, right? In Christ the Luna. Now, Israel, what does the Lord your God require of you? But to fear the Lord your God, to walk in his ways, to love him, to serve the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul to keep the Lord's commandments and his statutes, which I am commanding uh you today for your good Fear of the Lord. You know, it's it's that respect, it's that realization uh you know, God. I mean think about it. Uh uh it's it's too easy. I it's for for I I know I do it, uh I'm sure uh some of you uh well get comfortable. God has uh uh I'm a friend of God. Um but God um when it when it comes to like Revelation and John sees him, John was the one who was leaning on Jesus' breast in the upper room and he sees God glorified and what's he do? He falls down. He's gone, you ready? in Revelation, his eyes were a flame of fire, his feet were like burning bronze. You're going, whoa. You know, you get it then. Yam a friend, but this friend is also totally, totally righteous, totally pure. I am not Uh we saw that right in uh you know the Isaiah for eight six, woe is me, for I am a sinful man. So to love him, that's another thing, right? Note that obedience is out of love for God, and obedience is from a uh is from the heart God wants worship and obedience. It's easy to go through the ritual, so you see you saw that in Isaiah, Isaiah chapter 1. God says, I'm sick and tired. of your festivals and everything else, right? 'Cause y you you you don't you don't you're not harsh out right with me But he turns the page, he says, if you do right you'll be uh I'll wash you white as snow. But you you you're you can't do it on your own by by bringing a lamb to me. It's more than that. The Lord said to Samuel, do not look at his appearance or his height or his statue, because I have rejected him. For the God sees not as man sees, for man looks at the outward appearance, but God looks at the heart. How are we doing? Have to speed it up a little bit. He who has my commandments and keeps them is the one who loves me. He who uh has my commandments and keeps them is the one who loves me. And he who loves me will be loved by my father, and I will love him, and we will discl and I will disclose I will Boy, did I mess that up? And I will love him and will disclose myself to him. He who believes in the Son has eternal life. But he who does not obey the sun will not see light, but the wrath of God abides in him. And here says 1 John. We all know this. Do not love the world, nor the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, boastful pride of light, is not from the Father, but is from the world. The world is passing away, also is lust. But the one who does the will of God lives forever. Again, the lust it's it's again it's that word uh we talked about it's epithumia, it's it's it's a passionate desire, you know Your your flesh has a a desire. Your eyes have a desire. Boastful pride of life. Again, you know, uh God has gifted lots of us in this room with a lot of talents. But again, it's God gave you that talent. What do you have that you did not receive? And if you did receive it, why do you boast as if you had not received it? It all comes from God. And we all have different gifts, okay? You have to be content with the gifts you have. It doesn't mean we can't hone some of the weaker gifts, but you know what I mean. There's some gifts. Other people just excel at and and God gave my gift So this world system, uh and we live in a world system that's easy to love. God's been good to us. We we definitely live in the land of milk and honey Uh we're rich. Right? We we know some of these uh uh missionaries in the the third world countries in Africa But it's funny, I noticed even with the w the ones down in South America, uh uh it seems like they they're in metropolitan areas, you know, it seems like the world is getting rich, doesn't it? Um Um but it it's a temptation, you know, it's it's easy to to just depend on that. Uh I read you the Joshua 1. 8. So feed on the Word of God and obey His commandments, you will be filled. After he had removed him, he raised up David to be their king, concerning whom he testified and said, I have found David, a son of Jesse. a man after my heart who will do all my will. And we know that David was a man after God's own heart. We also know that David fell to the world, did he not? And God cursed him. He he said the sword will never depart from your house and remember the issues that uh David went through after that Look at this. This is um this section here, Psalm nineteen seven through fourteen. These are all these different things of the law. It's the Bible, the Word of God. The law of the Lord is perfect. It restores the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wives is simple. And you notice that it you Notice how he uses different words for it. Um testimony, the law, the precepts Uh and so, you know, sometime when you have time think meditate on this, maybe look at some other works on this, some some men who who have uh uh have a commentary on it. Uh the precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. And he typically gives a result, doesn't he? The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The judgments of the Lord are true. They are righteous altogether. They are more desirable than gold. Yes, and much fine gold. Sweeter also than honey drippings of the honeycomb. Moreover, by them your servant is warned. In keeping them, there is great reward And that's what we have to buy into. That's what was my analogy. When he was forming this hockey team I was telling you about, they had to buy into the system He also had a bunch of guys that were from different colleges and they were rivals. He had to get them to come together as a as a as a as a unit. There there's an intuitiveness that good teams have. They kind of know where each other is. You see it in basketball, good teams, they just know where the guy is Uh and and it's it's neat to watch the chemistry. Uh you have to look at the subtleties, but Yeah, th th it's it becomes but through practice, through through uh discipline, through through, you know, working things out. They they it it's it shouldn't just happen Who can discern his errors or quit his hidden faults? Also keep back your servant from presumptuous sins. Let them not rule over me. Then I will be blameless, and I shall be acquitted of great transgression. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation in my heart be acceptable in your sight. O Lord, my rock and my redeemer. And and that's that's really uh a lot of it, isn't it? Uh uh Take every thought captive, right? We we we have that uh for our our uh teens. Um uh you know uh the meditations, w what are we thinking? Um and the world again is is is programming us. We our thoughts go down from uh all this media that we're getting bombarded with and um you know it's hard. It's it's easy, you know, and y we can be frustrated with things in the world and and we should be, but at the same time w we can be thinking about the world and and uh instead of meditating on God. God has overcome the world. This is a temporary situation down here. I'm just going to read you this last. This is a quote from Friesson. The revelation that God has graciously and abundantly given is of no use to us if it remains confined to the pages of a book. It needs to be ingrained in our hearts, Psalm 119. To the degree that a disciple has mastered and absorbed the content of God's written instruction. To that degree, he has moment by moment access to wisdom, to the wisdom of God, and will be able to draw upon that wisdom at the point of decision making. And that's what the ultimate answer is for a lot of our what what is what is is my decision. What what should I do? And it's it's the wisdom that God gives us as we meditate on his word. Because he told us We know the things that are wrong that are against his will. And so we need to judge that. Well, if I go to this college, let's say. My child goes to this college. Um is he gonna be ingrained with uh stuff from the world? Or, you know, um I I w I talked my son Wesley. My son Wesley had uh was accepted a University of Maryland's um music program. And fortunately there was a guy there who was auditioning for a master's program, and he had come from Cedarville, and so we got to talking with him. And uh it was saxophone, obviously, because they were they were uh both doing the same thing. And um I said, Well to Wesley, what about Cedarville? I did not want him going to Maryland. It was I went there in the seventies and it was it was liberal and programmed. Uh I was taking humanities and uh I I I can't imagine what it is now, especially in the humanities, right? In the music department So um, you know, fortunately we found an alternative Um but to the degree that we uh uh uh that a uh disciple has mastered, absorbed the content, that's that's up to us. The degree, uh the amount uh uh he has moment by moment access to wisdom So, you know, we're uh and we're gonna turn the page and we're gonna l look at the spiritual side of this, because that's the other people say, well, you know, um I I well, let's look at it. Any questions up to this point? It's a lot. I know we can get lost in the woods. Um But again, big picture. We we've we took a good look at the sovereignty. We know that God is uh ultimately uh has Chosen the path that we're gonna we're gonna walk. You say, well, how do we make decisions And all that, and that's uh the the what is what is free will and what's the sovereignty. There is no simple answer, but it is both Um if we apply ourselves to this and I I I don't know I've gone through lapses. Have you all not gone through lapses? You know really working and going to God, next thing you know, you kinda forget a little bit. You know, and then you go, Oh man, you know what happened? Uh we're forgetful Uh but um yeah so it it is that right. The other thing, and I've said this before, we'll we'll look at it when we get to uh uh the the pursuit of holiness by uh Jerry Bridges um there's gonna be a lot of failure. Um We we talked about that. Again, it's a discipline of whatever you did. Um we we i we don't get it right the first time. You don't hit the mark the first time. You you you you know But you keep practicing, you keep practicing. That's what God wants. Uh uh Michael tell you w w when you work with guys that, you know, have some real s addictions or or they're slaves and bondage or even if it's even if they don't go that far, even if it's just a a real prevalent habit habit, let's say They're gonna fail a lot. But the real the thing is, if they continue to keep that direction, th it will get better. Even though they fall, they keep going, okay, I'll fell, but then they they work again. You know uh I the analogy is when you're trying to get over something it's like bam it happens all the time. Bam it ha what happens is is i i it gets better. You start stretching it out. And you'll find that these guys are not tempted for longer periods of time. They may fall, but it you know, the periods get longer. And y It's just it's just the the process. It's it's um things are gonna happen. But it's direction and it's will, and you pray for that will. So I'm just going to introduce this. Do you have the notes? Read them. Bring them back next week. Because the other thing, again, we're going kind of backwards. The other thing people say, uh well freasing they say this is I can draw this because it's circles. I hear them. Do we have one at writes? Since he gave you the old I so this is the world, right? Alright, this is uh this is uh God's will And then what some people are saying is when we've talked about this, and this is like Freyson kind of diagrams it, is that you know God has again the specific College, husband, wife, whatever. For me. I gotta do that. If I choose the very right thing, then he calls that the dust. And a lot of it this has been taught for a lot. A lot a lot of people still uh uh kinda ex ex uh go for this, right? Um So that's what we're talking about here when he says, see this these section here. Friesen has several chapters in this book discussing the belief that God has a specific will for each individual. And it is to our benefit to discern what their will is. Freyson categorized this type of decision. He doesn't believe in this, but he categorized this decision-making view as follows. The premise. For each of our decisions, God has a perfect plan or will. And he might, okay, and probably does But we don't know it. That's the point. It's not revealed to us. Remember we talked about that? God's um secret will and God's revealed will, or however you want to label it. The purpose, the goal of the believers is to discover God's individual will Find the dot, that's why I put that up there, and make the decision in accordance with it. Process The believer interprets inner impressions and outward signs, which the Holy Spirit uses to communicate God's individual will. And that's what we're going to unpack a little bit. The proof. The confirmation that one has correctly discerned the individual will of God comes from an inner sense of peace an outward successful result of the of of the decision. So it's it's subjective. That's the problem. Excuse me. We'll we'll look at this uh I think in in a uh got a couple of minutes, but we'll look at this And I want you to kind of go over these notes, especially if you have a chance. Because the two main ones, the the one in Romans, you'll see in the notes. So I want you to kind of we do Romans. I think we miss a lot of big picture of Romans. Um I may give Romans five through eight. Really, he kinda it's still doctrine. He's not really talking about um There is sanctification in there, but he's not really he he's really talking again about position. And not fruit or anything else. Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. So it seem seems like that that that's an inner piece. But really, if you look at the commentators that are that are writing this We were enemies to God. And that's what he's established from from four. Justification. Chapter 4 is justification by faith. And he goes back and he uses Abraham And he's telling you, okay, now you have peace with God, so he's still talking about our position, knowing what our position is. There can be an application, yeah, there is peace. If you if you're If you're work walking in God's way, you're doing what's right, you have a confidence, you know, I know I haven't broken, you know But if you fudge something, yeah, there is some guilt there, right? So you can have an application thing there. But I want you to look through this, right? Look at the highlights, see and and we'll talk about this. Chapter seven. Right? Everybody knows that one. The things I don't do the things I want to do. We all know that. We get that all the time when we were going down there, you know, the guys that go, Well, you know, everybody's a sinner, you know, which is like, what can I do? You know? Um it's it's that kind of thing There are two. Maybe some of you got Bible people in here have heard. Chapter 7. There's all these per pronouns. So definitely Paul. So there's two schools of thought. This is Paul before he was saved. Or this is Paul even after salvation. Okay, those are the two things. I don't know if you've heard that or not. But that the point is If you choose either one of those things, what is the writer talking about? Even if it was Paul before salvation, what is he talking about there in chapter 7? Big picture. You get lost in the wheeze. What was he talking about if Paul was saved? Think about that. See if you if you come up with with something. What was the question again? What is the writer talking about, Paul talking about in chapter seven? Okay. Uh a and well i I think we'll probably go I'll highlight and go through it. Um Uh because we get lost we get lost in all the details in these. And these this is so crucial. Okay? Uh a and a lot of us don't don't really uh understand, number one, what our position is. But it you know, again. So we'll we're gonna look at this. It's it's because uh really What he's t what the um I'll finish with this. The scripture that he's talking about, you'll see it in the notes. Verse 8. 14, this is where people say there's a specific thing in the spirits leading me. And they'll use this passage. For all who are being led by the Spirit of God, these are the sons of God. And they'll go, oh, I'm being led by the Spirit. And it they'll take this and they'll use it as an individual thing. Yes. Oh go ahead. We got we got a couple minutes. We give he gives us a half hour to get to get there. Not ten minutes, right? So I was thinking like I thought that you were saying like these being the deep things that I thought about like uh just being spiritual food or I followed food rather uh as compared to milk. And then the the thought came to my mind which is is it possible to um or unwise to skip over the milk and focus on the solid foods? Like theological um topics, but maybe not like practical Christian uh fundamental as far as like being scriptures, uh going through prayer I'm sorry, being what? Bearing fruit, being in the scriptures, like reading our word everything, is putting ourselves to have communion with Is that is that those is that those small things you say? No, okay, I don't know. See and when he's talking about that he's talking about concepts or theology or you know who Christ is. That's really all this theology is really unpacking who God is. These are the and and the methods he's used to bring us into a relationship with him. Okay? And this is what makes us so separate from unsaved people The disciplines knows how you you get there. If you're running marathons and you ran a marathon, do you and you and that's what they do? Do they practice or do they just run another marathon sometime? Yeah. And they they watch their they'll make sure they watch their their discipline their diet and they're ready to do it. Um Yeah, so the deep things is is really the concepts again of who God is, who we are, you know, all different levels. And the fruit which I read they're jealous. Okay. That's that's there's bad fruit too, right? If you if you if you've been practicing, if if you're disciplining yourself, the spirit, and if you're walking with the spirit, the spirit is going to change you. Well well, okay, Christ died for our sins. Uh uh uh First Corinthians fifteen, you wanna you wanna know the gospel? Do you know First Corinthians fifty? First Corinthians fifteen, we will end with this. I make known to you, brethren, the gospel. Good news which I preach to you, which you also received in which you stand, by which you are also saved if you hold fast the word which I preach to you, unless you believe in vain. For I delivered to you as a first importance. Alright, this is this is he he came to them. He came these are unsaved people. He saved them, right? When I also received that Christ died for our sin, according to the Scriptures, that He was buried, that He was raised on the third day according to the Scriptures. If you truly believe in this, the only way you're going to truly believe in this is if you if you're saved. The Spirit of God opens your eyes and hearts and go This is true. This is real. That's milk. Thank you. Yeah. Right. Yes, so? Hi. We could go. Heavenly Father, thank you so much. Um Lord, thank you for these questions. I pray that uh we'll be thinking about this. Uh I pray they'll look at the notes And now look over Romans. What an incredible passage. 5 through 8 is remarkable. The other chapters prepare the way. We're all sinners. were saved by faith. Chapter 4. Through grace alone. But Lord, the process of of uh bringing us into relationship, reconciling us to God. We were enemies. Chapter five 6. We were slaves to sin. We are now transferred from that slavery. We are no longer slaves to that sin. Chapter 7. Uh Lord, you're showing us that that uh the things I want to do I don't do, the things I do want to do, I uh Uh even I got that wrong. We don't do what we w what we know to be right, Lord. We know we're weak Chapter 8, the Spirit, Lord. We were enemies. We are now sons of God. We are now have the Spirit of God. Those who are saved are the Spirit of God. Lord, we thank you. Let's lift up this time. We go in our corporate worship. As a body, we thank you for Hope Bible Church. We thank you for our pastors. Lord, the work that they do, they dedicate. We know the difficulty, Lord. We want them to be perfect. We want everything just right, Lord, but we're not. Only Jesus Christ is without sin. Only you, Father, are holy and righteous. The Trinity, Lord. The Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit are righteous, Lord. So let us uh rejoice and just sing a prayful noise to the Lord. It's in your name we pray. Amen Yeah, yeah. Oh okay. Yeah, something like that. Oh on the Yeah, I wouldn't be strong for me. Um I got like handful of people who are. Well that's what the biggest thing is. This is a well I can write but it's no more uh I haven't done the word. We'll get into it. Oh, I had a piece of What? Yeah. Oh great. Oh yeah. Well, what are you saying? You're out of that. Item will be like a few. Oh now you're gonna buy this all the open. And that's what you're doing. Oh my god. And then you You shouldn't worry about it. You don't believe that he's gonna leave somebody and open the doors and shut the words, right? So I will These people are trying to stay around through the force. We don't know in some cases it's just no reveal it. And you're friends But he's not going to give you a little bit of a thing of them, but I would say they would break.