God is incomparable in his faithfulness. Truth is that attribute of God whereby he is in himself as he reveals himself to be. And he is in his speaking and acting as he speaks and acts. He is truly eternal, immutable, and infinite. He is the true God in opposition to all to false gods. He is truth because he is the unchanging archetype. of all true things outside himself. He is truth because his eternal decrees are certain. He is never deceived or disappointed in his purposes God is truth towards all his cre towards his creatures. In his works all he does is true. His actions of creation, providence, and redemption are real. In his words, all he says is true. His precepts, promises, and predictions are true. God is truth itself. He is abundant in truth. He is the God of truth. He is the God that cannot lie. At times lying Arises from forgetfulness. Some people break the word because their memories are poor. But God never forgets. At times lying arises from weakness. Some people want to keep their promises, but they lack the ability to do so because their circumstances have changed But God never changes. At times line arises from wickedness. Some people are able to pardon me. Some people are able to keep their words, but they refuse to do so. But God never breaks his promises. He cannot be accused of wickedness. There is no unrighteousness in him. People can be true, but what it But what are we in comparison to God? Men of high degrees are allied to be laid in the balance They are altogether lighter than vanity. Angels are true, but if we consider them as they are in themselves, We see it is possible for them to lie. However, it is impossible for God to lie. God is so true that He only is true. One of the sobering effects of the fall is how this it how a distorted man's creation created image. Where once we reflected the likeness of God, we've now become marred by forgetfulness, lying, weakness, and wickedness. As a result of the falling of this fallen nature, when looking back at our lives, we often utter the following, I wish I had. If only I had done things differently. Maybe you too have uttered these same words. I know I have countless times when looking back in my life. But when we look back at God, we see no regret, only perfect faithfulness. Every promise of God stands firm. Where we are inconsistent, he remains steadfast. Where we forget, he remembers. Where we fail, he, God alone, redeems. Men God knows every hard season you've either you've either gone through or that you're going through at this very moment. He knows your mistakes and every temptation in your life. I want to remind you as we go into study of God's faithfulness this morning, that God is faithfulness. He is true. He is immutable, never-changing. He never abandons his purpose even when we fall short. Our failures do not frustrate God. His plans, they become the very means through which he fulfills them. When you fail, God already knew what's gonna happen. But he will still use that failure to bring glory to himself. I would like to take the remainder of the time that we have left today to highlight God's faithfulness by looking at our reading today, which would come from Genesis 38. The narrative of Judah and Tamar. But because of time, we will not be able to go through verse by verse of this chapter. Rather, from a few selected passages that I've chosen. But first, to make sure that we are on the same page, I want to begin by defining our terms so that I'm not using a term but yet you have a separate definition in mind. Obviously that term this morning will be faithfulness. Wayne Rudom in his book, Systematic Theology, provides a clear and concise definition of what faithfulness is. Many of you have read that book and many of you know know what that definition is. He states in the second edition of his book, Systematic Theology, that faithfulness is the doctrine that God will always do what he said and fulfill what he has promised. But when we look at the word in the Hebrew, Hesed, there is so much more to the term faithfulness. Who better to describe the term to us but God Himself, the author of words? And so to do this, we're going to look at Exodus 34. In Exodus 34, you're going to have to turn there, if unless you want to. In Exodus 34, Moses is meeting with God at the top of Mount Sinai. Why? To get a second copy of the law that his emotions cause him to break, but the righteous anger. The law which Which um Moses had broken after he saw the children of Israel celebrating the um golden calf in Exodus 32. The Lord himself descended in the clouds and described To Moses, through the proclamation, as he's speaking with Moses, what Hesse is The Lord said of himself, the Lord, the Lord, a God, merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. God here describes himself as abounding in or filled with love, not a conditioned love based on you. But a love which encaptures who he is, his very nature, his very essence. And said it's not how God just feels. It's who he is. He is love. He is true. His nature is his set. Because love, as I stated, is unfailing, is an unfailing love. It's a faithful love. It's a steadfast love. And it's a loyal love. It's not based on you. It's based on him getting glory. To do finite beings. Bible scholar Daryl El Bach, a partner of the Fellowship of Israel, says I wanted to get a little bit deeper what that word means. So who else? The Hebrew people. And he goes and he's a professor of Dallas Theological Seminary describes Hasid as a term that brings together in itself It's of all the positive attributes of God, love, covenant, faithfulness, mercy, grace, kindness, and as I mentioned, loyalty. How many of Paul has never thought about God like that? That God is loyal? That He will never leave you. That when you fail, He's right there by your side. Author Lewis Teberberg said, Hasid is not just a feeling, rather, it is an action. It intervenes on behalf of love of loved ones and comes to their rescue. It said expresses God's faithfulness to his people. It is not a forced love. It is key to who God is. And this kind of faithfulness Is indeed, as the author says in our reading this morning, incomparable, infinite, eternal, immutable, unchanging. Isaiah says this beautifully Though the mountains be shaken and the hills be moved be be removed, yet my unfailing love, my Hassid, for you will never be. shaken. What an assurance. Now that I believe that we have defined what faithfulness is, through this term I said. I want to present you an example of God's faithfulness in the narrative of Judah and Tamar found in Genesis chapter 38. However, before we jump there, let me set the stage. In Genesis three, which we all are familiar with, Moses communicates to us that Adam and Eve disobeyed God's command not to eat of the tree of knowledge of good and evil. Genesis 2. 17 As a result of their action, their disobedience to God, sin. And what is sin? Lawlessness. First John three four entered the world. Romans five twelve. Sin does not discriminate. It encaptured the human race, all of us. And that sin has been bring bringing um has caused all of us to sin. And it is said in Romans 3. 23. A just and holy, uh said God, a faithful God, an unchanging God. Looked at his creation and would just not let them dwell in this sin. And he knew that we couldn't do anything about it. He devised a plan, but not only did he make a plan, he came up with a solution to redeem you. Not because you had done anything. Not because he needed you. But to bring glory to himself. God was not going to allow what he has stated in Genesis 2, 17b. For the day you eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, you will die To not come to pass because then he would lie. And he is a God that cannot lie. So what he said he'll do, he'll have to carry it out. If God had not stepped in at that moment to judge man's sin, Adam and Eve would have been cast into the lake of fire, the consequential place for all who died without putting their trust in the salvation work of Jesus Christ Adam and Eve would have been in a place of perpetual suffering and misery, totally cut off from God at that moment, if he had not stepped in. But because God has said his unfailing love, his faithful love, which is not dependent on human cooperation, as I've said, gr God crafted and executed a plan of redemption Which he, God profanity, communicates to Adam and Eve in Genesis three fifteen. He said, where he says the um to the woman that her offspring referred to her seed would bruise the um the head of the serpent and the serpent would um bruise the heel of um of her offspring. The passage in Genesis 3:15 often call the Pro-Tovangelium, the first gospel. Is what we see here in Genesis 3. 15, the first gospel, where God says that the woman will crush the head and the serpent will bruise the heel. Pause and think about that just for a moment. Humanity's first grandparents, the original grandparents, just then, and God says to them, in Genesis 3:15, help is on the way. It wasn't gonna be immediate. But I got you. Is that how you react when you're Do you have unfailing love? Do you keep your eyes on the cross when your brother and sister does wrong to you? Look at how God responded, a holy and just God. They are just sins. They had just ruined what he just created. Remember God said everything was good. But here he speaks to them and tells them that salvation is coming. And because men are flawed. God made this promise, and because men are flawed, there have been many speed bumps along the way. There have been slow bumps, big bumps, small bumps, you name it. But in his omniscient nature, God knew of them, yet remained faithful to his plan of redemption. We jump to Genesis 12. We're introduced to a new character in God's redemptive plan. Abram. He's called from a place called Ur of the Chalese. Which is today which um is believed to have been the ancient capital of the city of Mesopotamia, modern day southern Iraq. We find Abram living with his father Tarah. Who Joshua stated was not a believer in Joshua 24:2. Hence, Abram grew up in a pagan home for reasons unknown to us other than God. God called him out for his special purpose Should Abram comply, Doc said? God will make him father of many nations, and we'll make his name great. And the word says in verse 4, chapter 12, Abram went as the Lord told him. Twenty-five years later, after Abram left Urb the Shaliz, he has a son, Isaac. Twenty-five years. As God Yeah. As God is faithful to keep his promises, I um after God had Abram, I'm sorry, after God had Abram God brought about Isaac, Jacob. As God is faithful to keep his promise, Isaac praised the Lord on behalf. of his wife, Rebecca, and she becomes impregnant with twins, Isar Jacob. Jacob is one of those big bumps that I talked about. There's small bumps, big bumps, little bumps along the way. As I mentioned in the terms of being flawed, Jacob is a trickster until God changes him through circumstances. Jacob has twelve sons. The brothers do not like one of their one of them, Joseph, as you know, and seldom. Now the story sort of turns after Joseph is sold and we go into and we and we're introduced here all of a sudden to these character Judah and Tamar. Which is our verse for today. As I stated, we're not going to read the whole chapter, but I wanted to point some things out. I wanted to point out how flawed we are. And despite our flaws, how God maintains his faithfulness. In verse 1 of chapter 38, it happened at the time that Judah went down from his brothers and turned aside to a certain Adulamite. whose name was Hera. Remember in Genesis 37. 27, God told us that Joseph was sold, as I just mentioned. But what you sometime we fail to miss is that Judah was the one that came up with that recommendation. Judah said in third twent uh Genesis thirty-seven twenty-seven, Come, let us sell him to the Ishmaelites. And let not our hands be upon him, for he is our brother, our own flesh. And what? His brothers listens Judah did not care about Joseph. He just wanted money. He didn't want to sell Joseph for nothing in return. He was willing to let him die, but he wanted something from it. He said, let's sell him. Let's get something for him. As a result of our corrupted, unregenerate nature Judah now, I feel like is tormented because of what he did when he returns home. He's living with his father, probably feeling guilty for what he had done. His father was crying, his father distraught because he just lost what we many in the Bible believe was his favorite son. And Judah has to sit around there and watch to watch the father. And I feel like he was just tormented because of what he had done. So what does he do? What do we do when we have unrepentant sin in our lives? We run. We try to hide. So we can run away from God So he went to the um the the as it states here, Adulamite, which was a Canaanite settlement. The Canaanites were a pagan people. They were wicked, idolatrous people, who God wanted to destroy. Yet this is where Judah ran to. He would soon find himself in the same situation as Lot, Abraham's nephew. I'm just gonna be outside the city. I'm just gonna move away from here. But before you know it, just like Lot, he'd be right in there, dealing with the same pagan rituals that Lot taught himself and not Because Lot Foam went from being outside the city to be part of the government city because I believe it tells us that Lot was sitting at the gate. Then verse 2 of chapter 38 tells us, then Judah saw the daughter of a certain Canaanite whose name was Shua. He took her and went into her. It was Eden all over again. So Judah saw her, just like the Bible says that Eve saw the fruit was good. And when she ate it, it was um sin had entered, and Judah once again is gonna see something and goes after it. The delight of the eyes, just like it happened in Genesis 3. 6. Judah is now married to the same people that Abraham told Isaac not to marry. And the same people that Isaac told Jacob not to marry in Genesis 24, in Genesis 28. Judah's unrepented sins of what he had done with his brother. was clouding his judgment, his behavior. And now he was married to somebody that he was not equally yoked with. Somebody that was not submitting to his God. The God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob. And he was willing to put himself in that situation rather than just going to his father for whatever was forming him and saying, Father, I want to come back home. And because of time, let me just paraphrase what's happening through the rest of the story. After Judah has um is married, Judah has three sons, Ur, Onan, and Shu and Sheila. Shua, I don't know if I'm pronounced his name right. But the Bible tells us that Ur was wicked and God took him out. The term wicked that was used to describe what Ur had done and why God took him out is the same term that was you that was used when God described the people that that were living before the flood. And he took him out. Then Onan was supposed to step in and take over the role of the brother. But instead, he was after his own pleasure. God then took him out. And there was the last little brother, but Judah, for whatever reason, maybe feeling that, oh man, I've lost two sons. Said to Tamar that hey when he gets a little bit older And right of age, I'll allow you to marry him and continue on the family line. But it never came to pass. As we continue through the chapter, we see that Judah has gone to share his um animals. And Tamar devises a wicked plan. I'm gonna trick my father in law into having me. But how did she know that This is where he is going. Was this a pattern? So she dressed up as a a harlot and Judah sleeps with her and then she says um What are you gonna pay me with? Or he says I'll pay you with um a a goat or something. You read that you're like what? Um but he instead leaves his signal thing and his staff Time passes by, turns out that Tamar is not pregnant. She has caressed. who I believe is technically the second child but is the first child only in a way that God can do it because he sticks his hand out and uh wrap his foot around his arm or pulls his arm back in then comes out she's like, No, I wanna come out first. So she then has two sons. Perez And I call the second one zero because you have nothing. But it's narrow. Months later, Timo is obviously pregnant and is confronted. And just like David when confronted by Nathan, Judah had the nerve to say, stole her, kill her, get rid of her. Until she shows him that, hey, it was you. But I w I really want to get to the meat of this. We see in this situation a devastating series of events through this chapter. I don't know if you've ever gone through it and just read it. A lot of manipulation, a lot of sin, a lot of unfaithfulness But out of this, God is still gonna bring glory. And here's what I mean We fast forward to Matthew 1. 3. And whose name do we see in the genealogy of Jesus Christ? Perez. The character that was supposed to be here. The one whose mother and whose father had devised these schemes, but yet The enemy did not thwart God's plan. God used the wickedness and the connivingness of the human beings to bring about glory to himself. We looked again at Luke um three thirty three. Who again do we see? Peres. His name is again in the genealogy of the promised one, the seed of the woman, the one who would be born of a virgin. That promise that God gave in Genesis 3:15 continued on his path. The one who would come to take away the sins of the world. Men, we are undeserving of the God that we have. I wish it encourages you as you go through this story that there is nothing that you could do to take you out of the will of God. As I close out this morning, trying to stay on time, being respectful to you all. When we look back at ourselves as I've started this, we see regret. We see unmet expectations. We see disappointment. And sometimes that weighs on us. We're men. We want to provide for our families. We want to be there. We want to be the superhero. But when we look back at God, the view is entirely different I don't know if you all go to Florida or if you've ever been to Florida. But you can be looking on one side of Florida. It's completely clouded. And you're just like, I can't go outside to the beach today. But then you turn around and it's nothing but sunshine and you feel like you can stay out on the beach all day. I know when we look back at ourselves, we sort of see that cloudy side. But remember, don't attribute that to God because God is faithful. God is unchanging. God knew where you were going to be. God knew what your failures were going to be. But he will bring glory to himself through that. In God, there are no regrets in his story. No mistakes, no second guessing, no broken promises. Where we see failure in ourselves, God sees formation. The very things which we could undo are often the very things God used to shape us into the likeness of his Son Jesus Christ. Ephesians 1. 4 says that God chose believers in Christ before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight. Before the creation of the world, God knew you were thinking you were going to be here. And He knew what plan He had for you. He chose you because he is love and because he loves you. He chose you again, not by anything that you've done, Ephesians 2, 8 and 9. He chose you to put bring glory to himself. He chose you because he, God, is faithful, as a statement Deuteronomy 7. 9. What he begins, or what he began, I should say, man's redemption in Genesis 3. 15, he has completed through his son What he promised he will perform. So while we tend to look back and say, I wish I had. God looks back and says, It is finished. Welcome back home. Jesus indeed has taken on humanity's sin. Death is defeated. That is the faithfulness of God. God is hasset. He is unfailing. He is unchanging. And it's part of failures. Pardon me. God has a wonderful purpose for his people. And so don't keep your head down with your fail because I'm failing now. I said I was gonna have any tears this morning. But God He is faithful, men. And I wish that I brought a little bit more clarity through this message on what it means for God to be faithful.