All right, well, so we are going to go into God's design for marriage and sex today. And Yes, it's it can be an awkward topic, but we need to talk about it in the church because, you know, the world is happy to shout about it all day long, all week long. Um but we need to base our opinions about these things on the Word of God uh because He's the one who made them, who made these realities And so for those of you who haven't been here in the last few weeks or months, uh we uh when when I'm teaching, I'm going through a unit on um God's design for Manhood, womanhood, marriage, and sex. And so we've been taking the last few lessons to go through God's design for manhood and womanhood And that I think we spent like four or five weeks on that. Um and today we're gonna shift to God's design for marriage and sex And then we'll spend probably a couple weeks on that. And then we'll go through sort of specific applications of these things. We're going to do uh scriptural sexual ethics after this and then uh go through issues. related to um like homosexuality and LGBT uh concerns. Uh but today, yeah, today we're gonna go into the design for marriage and sex. And there's a reason I put marriage second after manhood and womanhood. Anybody remember why? I think I mentioned it a couple times ago Are any of you married? Well, you are. How many of you are men or women? Yeah. So we are men and women. Not a trick question in this yeah, I mean maybe it's hard to tell these days, but um So we are men and women. God expects us to live as men and as women, even before we're married, right? So Uh a lot of people when they talk about manhood and womanhood and especially biblical manhood and womanhood, the temptation is to jump right to marriage and say like this is it, you know, this is this is the only dimension of masculinity and femininity, but that's not true. And so I wanted to start with manhood and womanhood in general, and then move to marriage. And so just like we asked four questions regarding biblical manhood and womanhood in general, we're going to ask four questions about marriage and sex and God's design for it. And we're only going to get through probably the first question, maybe half of the first question today. So the questions though are, what are marriage and sex? Like what is their essence? What are they? And how do they relate to each other? Are they unconnected or are they are they tied up together? Second question, how has sin changed these things that God made? Third, how should we walk as Christians, as believers in these areas of marriage and sex? Like how should we please the Lord? And then fourth, what are the world's counterfeits for marriage and sex? So today the first question is going to take up most of our time because that's the meat of it. You know, that's getting to the essence. So that question, what are marriage and sex and how are they related? Well, biblically I submit to you the answer is here in that first, that first large print bullet. Marriage is a covenant And sex is the sign and the seal of that covenant. Okay, so to unpack this definition that I've given you and justify that, we need to understand a little bit about covenants in the Bible. Um now uh covenants, that they're a really important concept uh when you're studying the Bible. They uh the concept of covenant pervades both the Old Testament and the New Testament. In fact Who knows what the other name for the Old Testament and New Testament is? Old Covenant and New Covenant, right? Testament just means covenant. It's the Latin it's a Latin transliteration of the word for covenant. So, you know, most most of the important doctrines in Scripture have something to do with covenants, particularly covenants that God has made with his people. So what is a covenant? Well, biblically speaking, a covenant, it's a permanent bond of mutual service and commitment between two parties. And so it's a permanent bond, right, of mutual service and commitment between two parties And so it's we might think of we don't use the word covenant a whole lot in our society anymore. Um we use words like contract or partnership. Um So a covenant is kind of similar to a contract in that it's it's a formal agreement. It's a formal um you know stipulation between two parties. But how is a covenant different from a contract? Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Right. So with with a contract, um, you know, there it's easier to break it, right, than a covenant. So a covenant generally was considered unbreakable in in the Bible. Certainly when God makes a covenant with humans, he is never going to break his covenant. He's he says, It's impossible for God to lie for me to lie. I'm not gonna I'm never gonna break my covenant with you. And even covenants that were made between two human parties were either unbreakable or there were just absolutely severe consequences for breaking the covenant. Um It did you guys know it's com it was common in those days for when two people made a covenant, uh, to to sacrifice animals and and cut them in half. Uh this idea of cutting was was central to covenant. In fact that's how you would you know, in Hebrew the word how you make a covenant is you cut a covenant, right? So they would cut two animals in half and and they would walk between the animals and it was essentially promising like, okay, if I break this covenant, let it be done to me as it was to these animals Right, so oftentimes the the penalty for violating a covenant was death. Uh so that's one difference from between a covenant and a contract, right? These days nobody's gonna get killed if they break their contract. It's kind of expected that some contracts will be broken and so it's kind of written in there like, here's what happens if the contract is breached. Um yeah, what's another difference between Yeah. So I I don't think this is all the time, but I'm gonna say a contract is I do this, you know, covenant can be one direct. Yeah. Yeah, that's a great point. A covenant, especially the covenants that God most of the covenants that God makes with humanity are unilateral, right? God is promising to do things for his people and He d is not expecting anything from his people in return. In fact, like his people can't do anything meaningfully to to sort of repay him for the service that he's giving them. So a lot yeah, a lot of the biblical covenants are unilateral. Um but you highlighted another aspect of cov of contracts that are different from covenants. where a contract is kind of like transactional, right? I uh you know two businesses might enter into a contract and it'll be like for a defined period of time. I do this for you, you do this for me. It's um it's not like those businesses are intrinsically committed to each other's welfare, right? It's it's What can I get out of this relationship? We're gonna come together because we both think we can get something out of this. And um and then we're gonna you know, as if the relationship ceases to be beneficial we're just gonna break it off. Yeah. And you don't have to go ever and go again like Yeah. Is is this are you just getting at the um the idea that's a differentiation because one thing I classify into matters is like not a quotient like Oh okay, so there are some some contracts where th where there are binding aspects of it. Yeah. Yeah, so in that in that sense, some contracts may approach what we think of what what the Bible sees as a covenant where there's some non-negotiables there and and you know where it's meant to be like a serious permanent relationship. Yeah, there could be contracts like that. Um It just it seems like typical the typical contract in today's world though is more more transactional, more temporary, more self-interested, you know. the in in a covenant, uh especially in the covenants between between God and man, but also in some of the covenants between man and man, it's It's a commitment to the relationship. It's a a fundamental commitment to the good of the other person, right? Which is not what a contract is. A contract is what can I get out of it. Yeah. And a contract is kind of in a sense based on not on trust, but on mistrust, right? Like I needed you to sign this document with me because I I don't really trust that you would fulfill your end of the bargain if there weren't this legal document holding you to it. But a covenant is you enter into a covenant with somebody that you trust and that you're committed to. Right, so So it's unbreakable. And then there's this second point here. The the covenant is always initiated in the Bible with some kind of declaration or a vow or an oath Right? So this um th this should remind us uh of uh the the marriage ceremony where you have you have a declaration and and vows Um but that that is a characteristic of biblical covenants, uh, because you you have to have this declaration because it has to define what the covenant is all about, what it's for, right? You don't just get two people coming together and and saying, yay, covenant, and then going their separate ways, because that's meaningless. But yeah, there's this cov there's a covenant declaration and usually a ceremony that initiates the covenant. And then the third uh characteristic of biblical covenants is that they are, and especially the covenants that God makes with humanity, is that they are sealed with a visible physical sign. and one that that keeps recurring after the covenant is set. So to show you what I mean, let's look at some examples of covenants in the Bible. And we're not going to read you know, you could do you could do an entire semester on covenants. It's really a deep subject. So we're not going to go in and and read through these examples in detail, but I'm just going to rely on sort of your general Bible knowledge. um to show you what these covenants look like. So there was the Abrahamic covenant. So God made a covenant with Abraham. What did he promise Abraham in that covenant? Yeah, he promised him descendants, right? That you're I will make you into a great nation and your descendants will be um you know as numerous as the stars in the sky. What what else did he promise Abraham in that covenant? Blessing. Blessing to to just Abraham. The people who bless you are going to be blessed. Yeah, all who bless you will be blessed, all who curse you will be cursed. And in you all the nations or all the families of the world will be blessed. Um yeah, so he promised descendants, he promised blessing, he also promised the land, right? The land uh the promised land that his descendants would possess the land. What was the sign, the physical visible sign of the covenant that God made with Abraham? It's right here. Yeah. You can cheat. It's fine. Circumcision. That was the physical, visible sign of the of God's covenant with Abraham. uh all of Abraham's descendants male descendants were to be circumcised. And so that was an ongoing sign. Well, you know, each male only got circumcised once, but every time a new male child was born, he would be circumcised and that ceremony would be a reminder of God's covenant with Abraham. So it was this very, very tangible, visible sign that kept on recurring and kept on reminding God's people of the covenant that he had made. Um so the sign goes with the covenant, right? So what about the Mosaic covenant Uh and by this I mean uh when God met with Moses on Mount Sinai and delivered to him all the laws and regulations uh for like how to build the tabernacle and how to offer sacrifices on it. And how how the Israelites should conduct themselves and should live loving their neighbor, that was the Mosaic Covenant What was the sign of the Mosaic Covenant? And this is this is a tricky one. You can look at your sheet if you want, but um this is probably the hardest one to identify the sign for Yeah, so the sign for the Mosaic Covenant was Sabbath observance. And you can see this in Exodus thirty-one 12 through 18. We're not going to read it, but this is at the end when God finally finishes delivering the whole covenant of Sinai to Moses. He said, This will be a sign. um for you, keep my Sabbaths. So Sabbath observance was an ongoing, very physical, very visible sign of that covenant that God had made with Israel on Sinai. Yes, Lily. Um yeah, that that's a related, interesting topic. Because what day is the Sabbath? Saturday. Saturday, right? Why don't we have church on Saturday? Yeah, because Jesus rose on Sunday. This is actually one of those Um things where uh you it's a piece of historical evidence for the resurrection of of Jesus. Uh because all of the early Christians were Jews, right? You guys know that. For at least several years after uh Christ died and rose again. The early Christians were all Jews and the Sabbath was just a core piece of Jewish identity. Like no serious Jew would ever break the Sabbath or would ever choose to worship on a day other than Saturday. So this entire community of devout Jews took the core of devout Judaism, which is Sabbath observance. and shifted it to where they worshipped on a different day. Why did they do that? Unless they were convinced that uh Jesus had risen from the dead and that they had a Messiah with the authority to make that kind of a change. Right. And and that's why, so when Jesus said, This is the new covenant in my blood, I I give you a new covenant That new covenant uh took the place of the old Mosaic covenant. Right? So the sign of the Mosaic Covenant, which was Sabbath observance, that ceased for people under the new covenant. But what's the sign of the new covenant? It's right here. Yeah, the Lord's Supper. Right, so this is this is related to so now the what was the Sabbath observance, the what was the sign of the old covenant uh and took place on Saturday. Now we have the Lord's Supper, the sign, the physical, visible, ongoing sign of the new covenant that takes place on Sunday. And that is um yeah the relationship between the two is one of one of replacement. Um But the point here is that all the covenants, all the covenants have uh they're initiated one time But then they have this visible ongoing sign that confirms them and reminds everybody and and sort of binds together the covenant community, the parties in the covenant, uh in an ongoing fashion uh circumcision, sabbath observance, the Lord's Supper. Now, marriage is a covenant, as we're going to argue in a second. It also has a visible physical ongoing sign that binds the parties together, and that is called sex. That is what sex is. It is the sign that seals the covenant of marriage All right, so this is this is very different from how our culture views sex, right? Our our our culture views sex as um, you know, it is the way that we reproduce. Right. So evolution has kind of brought about uh sexual reproduction as as an efficient means of um uh of of increasing diversity in the gene pool while also propagating the species. And uh evolution made it made it pleasurable for us so that we would do it more. But there's no inherent reason for us to respect uh the procreative nature of sex that evolution has has bestowed on it. And we should be we are free then to take sex and separate its procreative function from its from its uh pleasurable function and treat those separately. And and marriage, you know, by the way, is just an afterthought. It's a total social construct. That's what our That's what our culture says. So these three things, procreation, um the pleasure of sex and marriage are all three separate things that we should be able to Chop apart and treat uh and treat separately. That's what our culture thinks. But In God's view, um sex and marriage are are inextricably intertwined, right? Because marriage is a covenant and because sex is the sign and seal that goes with this covenant. That is its function So I wanna I want to prove this to you here. So we're going into uh Roman numeral three here. Marriage is a covenant and sex is the sign that steals it. You can see this. I'm not just making up that marriage is a covenant. In in Malachi 2. 14, God explicitly calls marriage a covenant. God is rebuking the people of Israel through the prophet Malachi. And he's saying, You have not you've been treacherous, you've dealt treacherously with the wife of your youth, even though she is your companion and your wife by covenant. And there are other other passages of the Bible that use the word covenant to describe marriage, but this is this is one of them. But we can we don't even need to uh rely on on the specific word there, we can actually just go to the first time marriage is instituted and we can look there and we can see all the elements of covenant right there in that first marriage ceremony. So I've I've copied Genesis 2, 18 through 25 here in the tack in the outline here. So Let's read it together. I'll read it. Then the Lord God said, It is not good for the man to be alone. I will make him a helper suitable for him, or corresponding to him. Out of the ground the Lord God formed every beast of the field and every bird of the sky, and brought them to the man to see what he would call them. And whatever the man called a living creature, that was its name The man gave names to all the cattle, and to the birds of the sky, and to every beast of the field. But for Adam there was not found a helper suitable for him. So the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall on the man, and he slept. Then he took one of his ribs, and he closed up the flesh at that place. The Lord God fashioned into a woman the rib which he had taken from the man and brought her to the man. The man said, At last This is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman because she was taken out of man. For this reason, a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife And they shall become one flesh. And the man and his wife were both naked and were not ashamed. Okay, so what aspects of a biblical covenant can you see in this text? Uh huh. No God has made a promise that Right, so that that kind of joining together, that is that is a an aspect of covenant. Joining together are two parties What's the nature of that of that commitment, by the way? Is it is it like kind of a temporary relationship uh until you know things change? It's forever, right? Yeah, a man a man shall leave his father and mother, you know, that that's pretty permanent, and be joined to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. Yeah, do you with your own flesh, you know, is the is the unity of your flesh something that you want to be permanent or temporary? Perma pretty permanent, right? You you don't want to one day, you know, like cut off your arm just just because you don't like it anymore, right? Um Yeah, so that that is that speaks more of a covenant than of this than of a transactional or contractual relationship. What other elements of covenant do you see in this in this text here? Okay. So like just Justify that it's like gods are back to the point that God is not the workistry. in modern society, it's always emphasized that's you know you have the power, you have the you have what it takes to think whatever you want to all you you do. That's a great point. Yeah. Who does initiate this this covenant? It it's God, right? Um it's the Lord who sees that something is not good about the man being alone, who who decides to make a helper corresponding to Adam. It's God who brings her to the man in verse 22. So it's initiated by God. Covenants can be initiated by humans Um but it does speak to uh the the goodness of this relationship, right? It is something that God thought of, that God designed And by the way, it's this is before sin entered the world. This is before the fall. So marriage and sex are part of God's very good creation. Yeah, we we gotta say that. We gotta remember that. Uh 'cause it's tempting to to look at sex and see all the brokenness, right, all the lust, all the all the the terrible ways in which humanity has has distorted and twisted it and to think that it's just something bad, that's something irredeemable. But no, it's something that g it's something good that God made before the fall and that He made for a good purpose. Um how about a declaration or a vow? You see that in here? Where is that? I'm sorry. Um that's a declaration yeah, I think I think that's um That is a declaration of God that specifies the purpose of what he's about to do. Uh Lily? Verse 23, yeah, yeah, that's that's what I'm thinking of. Yeah, what um so when you read that, this is now bone of my bones, or at as some translations have it, at last bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh, right? Because God has just finished bringing all the animals before Adam and Adam's said saying, No, that's not the same kind of thing as me. No, that's not my same nature. Ah, at last, bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. That's not just an observation, though. It's not just a declarative statement It's covenant language. And if you actually look at some of the other covenants in the Bible, this phrase bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh is applied in other covenant declarations. And it means We are committed to each other. It means I am making a commitment to you to treat you as my own flesh and bone. So yeah, that's a vow. That's a vow. It's not just an observation that Adam is making. What about uh so we mentioned that Or I mentioned that uh the Hebrew word for how you make a covenant is is related to the word for cut, right? Cutting a covenant. You guys see any cutting taking place in here Yeah, there's there's a metaphorical cutting where you you you leave a man shall leave his father and mother. So that that's a cutting off of a previous family relationship. Um but there's an even more literal cutting. The rib. Yeah. Yeah. God cut this covenant Out of the what it sorry, what did you say? Oh yeah. Yeah. I know, right? Anesthetized. Yeah, yeah. Best anesthesia. Yeah, exactly. So there's a cutting. Now We just spent a lot of time talking about how all covenants have a sign, right? A visible, physical sign that goes along with it. Where anybody see the sign here? Yeah, them becoming one flesh. That is a reference to sex, guys, by the way, right? Not to Uh be too blunt about it. But uh it doesn't just mean it's not just spiritualized, it's not just metaphorical. It is also uh a sexual it's referring to the sexual union, the physical intimacy between husband and wife. Now it's not only referring to that. One flesh doesn't just mean sexual union. It also means relational intimacy and emotional intimacy, um, intellectual and spiritual union. So one flesh encompasses a lot, but it also includes the uh the sexual and the physical intimacy. Right? It's not Uh we we can't be overly spiritual about this and spiritualize away all the all the physical. Um and the man and his wife were both naked and were not ashamed. You know, can Can you imagine that? Being naked around somebody and not ashamed. I mean don't try to imagine that too too hard, but uh But what a what a beautiful description of the intimacy that they enjoyed Okay, so marriage is a covenant. I hope that that's clear from this. And I hope what else is clear is that Sex is inextricable from marriage. Sex goes along with that covenant because its purpose is to be the sign that seals the marriage covenant. Any questions about what we've talked about so far? I mean it's interesting like you mentioned that fine buttons. one day I mean there's there's a case where yeah with relations are numbers probably numbers because a guy is working with that he actually kicked out and It's his his response that I'm gonna reject it. It's it's a way to just reject Exactly, yeah. A man was killed uh for for violating the Sabbath. And w you know, we read that and we say, Whoa, that's that's way harsh, you know, like Come on God, what what's up with that? But it's because that man was rejecting the sign of the covenant, and so he was rejecting the covenant itself. And so he has been careful to say as he has deal with adultery. Jesus And allows you to actually divorce Exactly. That is the principle behind why you know when Jesus we'll study this later uh in the outline, but um you know when Jesus says anyone who divorces his wife And except for adultery and marries and except for um sexual immorality and marries another woman commits adultery The reason why he says that is because in his mind, he's following this this principle outlaid in Genesis 2 Marriage and sex go together as covenant and sign. And so if you if you reject the sign by committing adultery, then you have broken the covenant. That's why there was no other thought that that that young woman was standing by the pieces. She partner had to go. Right. Which interestingly, if you think about it, if you catch a woman in the act of adultery, is it possible To only catch her. So, where is the man? Why didn't they bring the man before Jesus? to stone him too 'cause that's that is the penalty that should have happened to him under the the Mosaic Covenant. Um yeah, that's an aside though. So Yeah. One more slight aside. Uh huh. I just I was just thinking of In verse 24 it says, therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother will pass for his wife. Why doesn't it say, therefore a man and a woman should be both of their parents and both of their children That's a good question. Um yeah, what do you guys think? I mean any answer to this question is going to involve some speculation, but still demonstration the differentiation between the room master and like the man is the head of the house. Yeah. Or like remain his father's household if it used to become the next bed to the next generation. Right? I think I think it is I think that's the answer, yeah. You can't have two leaders in one house. Yeah, I mean I think it's already implied by the way by the way that God created Eve, right? That that Adam is the head and that uh she is coming under his headship as as his helper. So it's already implied that when they get married, like, Eve is gonna leave her the woman's gonna leave her family because she's coming under the head of her husband. But the question is is the husband leaving his family? Well this text settles it, right? Yes. You When when you become a husband, you leave your family, uh, you leave your mother and father, you you step out from under that authority, you become the head of your own family. Uh and by the way, something that that Pastor Pomley likes to say, um, you start a family when you get married. You don't start a family when you have children. Right. Deciding to have children is is good and fine, but um that's not when you're starting a family. You started a family when you said I do. Uh and he bases that on on this text on the uh the man leaving his mother and father and and joining to his wife Uh uh another somewhat defined that is uh Yeah. And so so you would you He was trying to explain that could be because it's a it's a rejection of always beautiful. Yeah, that is an interesting question. Yeah. There's been a lot of speculation I know on on like what does that mean? What does blasphemy against the Holy Spirit mean? I think that answer is like Rose and Jews and stuff that because like it's actually like the Pharisees. The real meaning is like because You're saying this because you're attributing salvation as the work of Satan. Yeah. Yeah. Right. I think that is that's probably the most convincing interpretation that I've heard is that, you know, because the Pharisees had just said, oh, he casts out demons by the power of demons or, you know, they attributed like his miracle working that was by the Holy Spirit to demonic power. And so when Jesus said that he m in the context he was probably referring to them that misattribution as a blasphemy against the Holy Spirit. You know, it's uh there are other possible interpretations. I think that's one of them. But I I don't think we quite have time to get down that that tangent. And one fun fun distraction is yesterday I have a woman married conference and they split the man and woman up and one woman asked why is the rip? Why why why did God take the rip of a man to a woman? Yeah. Uh-huh. So so um yeah, so he just so he so Matthew Henry goes that he said that um there's a foot so he won't trample on her and as long as a head so he won't you know, she won't rule over him. But the rip is is side by side. And it's under the armpit, so she's protecting he's protecting her. And uh yeah So and and and the ribs was close to the heart. So so he loved himself. So I I would just think I would just that was with that was the exact same passage I would I would laugh if we That's a very poetic speculation. Uh-huh. And again, we can't be sure, right? Like I want to make sure we don't go beyond the scriptures. But But we see elsewhere in scripture that was that principle of equality and difference. And I do think, you know, speculative as it is, that interpretation does fit well with equality and difference. The the rib versus the foot or the head. Yeah. Um all right, well let's go on to talk about the purposes of marriage and sex. So we talked about The essence of marriage and sex, what are they? What did God design them to be in their essence? Now let's answer the related question of what are they for? Why did God make them Well the first purpose is what we already saw by reading Genesis 2 there, and it's to unite uh man and woman in lifelong companionship. Right, so God created um male and female as his image bearers, right? And we talked several weeks ago about how both the man and the woman were necessary in order to completely show God's image. Right? There's there's a a masculine aspect of the character of God and there's a feminine aspect of the character of God. And um both masculinity and femininity derive from God's nature and are deposited in these two equal image bearers of man and woman. And so Uh but God didn't intend for them to just be like independent halves of his image going about, you know, independently in the world. He wanted his the halves of his image that he deposited in man and woman to be united together in in a lifelong relationship of of companionship. And so that's marriage. That is one of the purposes of marriage. And that's why God said It's not good for man to be alone. Or that's one of the reasons why God said it's not good for man to be alone. Because on his own, man does not display the full image of God He doesn't display all that God meant for humanity to display of his character. So, or to put it another way, marriage is the permanent relationship where God's two image bearers live out his design for masculinity and femininity. So, uh I don't want to take this principle too far. I I'm not trying to say that everyone should get married. um or that, you know, you're sort of somehow incomplete if you don't get married. That's not true. We know from scripture that singleness is a high calling. It's an equally high calling as marriage, and you can be a a complete human being and a uh valuable servant of the Lord as a single person Uh but I think it is true that most people are called to marriage and you know most people are going to get married in their life. And so for most people, the way that they um experience the relationship between masculinity and femininity. The the way that they experience the two halves of the image of God is through marriage. Right? It's it is in that sense God's primary way of uh men and women relating to each other And we saw this uh a few weeks ago that God has a general calling for men and a general calling for women Uh independent of of marriage. Like even if you're not married, God has a calling for you as a man or a calling for you as a woman. Um and remember God's calling to men generally was to lead, protect, and provide for women. Um, well God's calling to the husband in marriage specifically is a deepening and an amplification of his general calling to men. His calling to the husband in marriage is to lead, protect, and provide for his wife. with love and gentleness like he's doing for his like he would do for his own body. Right? So it's a it's a an intensification of that general masculine calling uh and it's a a focusing of it and a directing it towards one specific woman. Um and likewise There's a general calling that God has given to women, and that is to uh nurture and receive um strength and leadership. from worthy men, right? Not just from any men, from from worthy men, uh men who show mature masculinity. And in the same way, God's calling to the wife here in marriage is a deepening and an intensification of that general calling to women. He's saying to the wife For this particular man, your calling is to skillfully help that man fulfill not whatever he wants to do, but to fulfill God's commands. and to joyfully submit to his leadership as you would to God's leadership. Alright, so uh do you see how that's The calling in marriage for the husband and the wife is is just a specification and an intensification of the general calling that God has for men and women. And that's that's why this we'll get to this maybe next week, but that's why complementarity um between men and women is so important in marriage. Right, we none none of the purposes in marriage that we're going to talk about would be possible without the uh the inherent differences between men and women that God has designed, not only in our bodies, but in our callings. So we've said the purpose of marriage is to unite man and woman in lifelong companionship. Uh the purpose of sex, or one of one of the purposes of sex, goes right along with that. Uh if if the marriage relationship is supposed to unite husband and wife and lifelong companionship, sex is both the sign of that union and it's also the act that most powerfully accomplishes that union, that most powerfully binds the husband and wife together. Right. So so not only is is sex inextricably related to marriage, they it accomplishes the purpose. This it helps accomplish the purpose that marriage sets out to accomplish. Right. And that's why that's why um you know sorry, to there are two ways that this that this can go awry. You know, if you if you are married and you use sex outside of marriage, um, or you somehow break the bond of marriage, either by divorce or by adultery. then you're taking the one flesh union and you're ripping it apart. Right? That's why divorce and adultery hurts so much. It's like ripping out your own flesh. Uh because sex was designed to bind husband and wife together, uh inseparably And then the flip side of that is it if you use sex apart from marriage, like like premarital sex and before marriage, you're creating a bond uh between yourself and someone else where you don't intend for there to be a marriage bond. Right? You're you're performing the seal, the sign that seals marriage you are inviting the creation of that bond uh where you where you probably don't intend to marry that person. And that's just inviting the same kind of pain as as divorce and adultery. That same kind of ripping your own flesh apart. Pain. And you know the Bible the Bible doesn't speak explicitly very much about premarital sex. It's included under the heading of sexual immorality that that the Bible does condemn. Uh but we can still know what God thinks about it and what and that premarital sex is wrong because we can look at God's design for marriage and the purpose for marriage and sex and how they go together and we can see what premarital sex is doing. Right? It's creating a bond where you don't intend for there to be a bond. It's creating a bond in a in a situation where you intend to rip that bond apart at some point. Probably. And we'll talk about that more later. I just want to say, you know, this is this is a pretty heavy teaching. Um and we're going to get into some even heavier teaching when we come to sexual immorality and the various ways that sin has corrupted this. And I want to say to you, like, I have I have plenty of my own sin in this area Um I I'm not standing before you as an example of of perfection, of perfect adherence to God's law. God's standard is so high and so demanding that none of us can live up to it on our own. Right. And this this this area should especially drive that home for us. Uh that we cannot live up to God's standard for marriage and sex on our own. Um but I do want to say to you that um You know, God's grace is sufficient for you when He uh when you are saved, when you trust Christ. God gives you his power to overcome sin. And I I can say that God has given me victory in a number of areas related to sexual immorality and sexual temptation. Uh and not you know, it's not like I've already attained the goal. It's not complete victory, but I have seen the progress, but the grace of God can make in a life in this area. Uh so it is possible. Victory over sin is possible by the grace of God Um so, you know, as you as we go through this, as you are feeling sort of convicted or condemned in your mind about things you may have done, uh ways that you may have violated God's standard in the area of sexuality. Um just remember that. God's grace is sufficient for you, for his strength is made perfect in weakness. And, you know, men, I'm I'm happy to meet with you and talk to you about these kind of things. Uh and and women, um, you know, Jennifer would would love to meet with you too. Uh if uh if you have specific struggles or questions about these kind of things. But the main point here, just in this purpose, right? This purpose of marriage and sex for uniting man and woman in lifelong companionship is that marriage and sex are inseparable. They can't be They can't be taken apart. They're directed at the same thing. Right? And they're and they are gifts of God. They're part of His very good creation. They accomplish a very good purpose. Any questions about that? Yeah, well that gets to the the second purpose, right, of um of marriage. So the first purpose Right, I I I put I put this one up at the top um just because you know we can sometimes be a little too utilitarian about sex, like oh it's just for babies, right? But that's not the only purpose of sex Uh it part of God's purpose for sex is to to be pleasurable and to to promote the companionship between husband and wife. But It's true. Another purpose of sex, the c uh and and marriage, is to fulfill God's commands together and the command that he gave uh to be fruitful and multiply, which you see in Genesis one here. Genesis one twenty-seven And twenty-eight, God created man in his own image. In the image of God he created him. Male and female he created them. God blessed them and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth and subdue it and rule over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the sky and over every living thing that moves on the earth. So question. Was Adam able to obey that command on his own? No, he was not. Uh he obeying that command required both Adam and Eve. Required both man and woman, obviously. Right. Um and So the the point here is that sex within marriage is how God designed for humanity to obey his command But that you know sort of immediately raises the question, um, why marriage? Right? Wouldn't sex alone have been sufficient for humanity to be fruitful and to multiply? Why why couple it together and confine sex to marriage? Yeah, it's about it's about the family. God God's command to be fruitful and multiply is not just about like population growth Right. He's not just saying, I want tons of humans and I don't really care who they are or what they do. You know. Uh look at Malachi two fifteen, which is the verse right after he calls marriage a covenant He it says, Did the Lord not make them one with a portion of the Spirit in their union? And what was the one God seeking? Godly offspring. He doesn't just want a bunch of people. He wants worshipers. And so what is the institution that God designed to teach children godliness? Yeah, marriage. Marriage and the family. Proverbs 1-8 Where it says, Hear, my son, your father's instruction, and forsake not your mother's teaching, for they are a graceful garland for your head and a pendant for your neck. Right, so so the father and the mother being there to teach um the children godliness and raise them up into godly offspring that that the Lord is seeking. That's that's what's critical here. That's why Uh it wasn't sufficient just for God to say, um, you know, go make a whole bunch of babies and and have sex without worrying about marriage. Um that's why God's command to be fruitful and multiply required both sex and marriage. It's for that for that family structure to um facilitate the discipleship. Not the children. Um, and then real quick, the last purpose, the third purpose that God had for marriage And this one was revealed not in Genesis but later, later on throughout um salvation history in the rest of Scripture, was to for marriage to picture the relationship between God and his people Okay, so look at Ephesians 5, 22 and 23. Wise, be subject to your own husbands, as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ also is the head of the church, he himself being the Savior of the body. But as the church is subject to Christ, so also the wives ought to be to their husbands in everything Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church, and gave himself up for her, so that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the Word. that he might present to himself the church in all her glory, having no spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she would be holy and blameless So husbands ought also to love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his own wife loves himself, for no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as Christ also does the church. Because we are members of his body. For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother, and shall be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. Notice Paul quotes Genesis 2 there, right, referring back to the original definition of marriage. This mystery is great, but I am speaking with reference to Christ and the church. He's saying marriage is a mystery, a picture of Christ in the church. Nevertheless, each individual among you also is to love his own wife even as himself, and the wife must see to it that she respects her husband So Paul's saying here, um, and and this is present in other places in Scripture, but this is probably the most extensive and clearest. place. Uh he's saying here that marriage shows the beauty of how God pursues his people like a husband pursues his wife and how and the joy that happens when his people respond like the wife responds to her husband. So this again, this puts um this intensifies and escalates God's calling on the husband and wife uh in a particular way that believers uh are supposed to live out. So in addition to God's general calling to all husbands God's calling to the believing husband is not only to lead, protect, and provide for your wife, but to love your wife as Christ loves the church. Let that sink in, men. This, you know, this is what you are looking for if you want to get married. You are looking for a relationship where you can act like Christ. And not act like Christ in just any old way. Act like Christ going to the cross. You're looking for a relationship where you can sacrifice yourself, your desires, your interests. and put her interests first. That's what you're looking for in order to get married. You're not looking for a relationship where you can get all your your desires fulfilled. Uh you're not looking for a relationship where, you know, you kind of each bring something good to the table and and you got this nice little fun partnership. Uh this is how this is how serious marriage is And then God's calling to the believing wife is not just to be a helper to your husband, but to be subject to your husband as Christ is, I mean as the church is, to Christ. uh you know the the the cheerful, joyful submission that the church gives to Christ as as the head is the calling that God has for you, women, if you want to get married. So as Christians, you know, we ought to take marriage very seriously. You know, if you're looking ahead and and you're thinking, yeah, yeah, I think I want to get married. This is the kind of thing you should have in your mind when you're thinking about marriage. And this is what you need to be preparing yourself for. You know, and that can only happen by by serious discipleship. You know, if you are serious about growing in spiritual maturity. Only spiritually mature people can um sacrifice themselves to this degree for someone else or can subject themselves to um to the author to the God-given authority of another like cr like the church does to Christ Alright, so so marriage is a really big deal. Sex is also a really big deal. And this is why, you know, people in our in our culture think that that Christians are obsessed with sex, right? And they and they think, you know, the Bible is um is really obsessed uh with sex and and and they don't understand like why we're so uptight about this, right, in this area. They think we're just we're just being prudes and we're kind of just bothered by this. But Really, it's a big deal, right? It is God made marriage to be a covenant, a lifelong covenant. He made sex to be the sign and the seal of that lifelong covenant. He made it to be a picture of Christ in the church. And he made it to be this this giant this great work of art. Um so you know, doing what our culture does and taking sex and separating it out of that marriage relationship is like walking up to a a Rembrandt with a pocket knife and slashing it down the middle. You know, can you imagine going up or you know, going to the Louvre and going up to the Mona Lisa and just going slash, you know? That That's how seriously God takes these things. And that's why we take them so seriously. You know, it's not just that we're prudes, right? We're it's that it's that sex actually means something. It's a significant act And marriage means something. It's not just a social construct. Um Yeah. I just repeat what you just said, just uh What are we preparing for marriage? Don't wait until you're married to probably look at Ephesians 5 and go, oh, do it now. And also, you're gonna get married? Look for some someone who already seems to be striving towards these things, or Fusion Spi or Pro. Someone who fits that picture Right. Excellent advice.