Well, apologize for that. Again, let's see, where are we at? The God who made the world and all things in it, since he is Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made with hands. Nor is he served by human hands as though he needed anything, since he himself gives to all people life and breath and all things. And he made from one man every nation of mankind to live on all the face of the earth, having determined their appointed time and boundaries of their habitation. That they would seek God if they might grope for Him and find Him, though He is not far from each one of us. For in him we all live and move and exist, as some even of your own poets have said, for we also are his children. This Acts 1724, remember, that's Paul preaching to the Greek philosophers, Mars Hill or Areopolis or whatever. For in him we live and move and exist, even as some of uh read that. God is in control of all our actions and our being. We are wholly dependent on Him for walking, moving, breathing, thinking, speaking, feeling, and ultimately for our existence. Isaiah 45. 9 illustrates the sovereignty of God over man. Woe to the one who quarrels with his Maker. And earthen earthenware vessel among the vessels of earth. Will the clay say say to the potter, What are you doing? Or the thing that you are making say, He has no hands? Isaiah 45, 9, a lot of you are probably familiar with that. Paul uses that in Romans, right? He's talking about the sovereignty uh of God God's sovereign care. So God is sovereign over all creation, and he's a loving God who cares for his creation. A God who is all-powerful but stripped of his personal loving care is neither the God of the Bible nor a God that we could bear to live under. So God's sovereignty is a reassurance because we have God who seeks the good in his creation, and particularly for his chosen ones. God illustrates the care he has for his people in Matthew 10, 29, 31. Are now two sparrows sold for a cent? And yet not one of them will fall on the ground apart from your father. But the very hairs on your head are all numbered. So do not fear. Are you more are you not more valuable So do not fear. Are you more valuable than many sparrows? Any questions? Any thoughts in talking away? Did you say something? Carrie, I have one. So um so it's such an interesting topic and we see I believe totally in God's sovereignty. And I find comfort in it. Um at the same time, great theologians have never really been able to tease out how other verses in the Bible seem to be incompatible with it. For instance, choose this thing whom you will serve work out your salvation with fear and trembling and things like that. And so I've studied MacArthur and he he's done a really good um sermon about it how man will never really be able in in pea brain to reconcile these two things. We see that they're both equally true. Um and yet they they are incompatible. But uh we know that we make our own decisions. So anyway, just wonder what you thought about it. Yeah, and that's in that's what we're gonna address Um when we get to compatibilism which should be next week Assuming where we get to today, if not we'll get into it. Yeah, you're right. And and that is kind of the dilemma. Um exactly. And that's that's a worse that's that compatibilism thing. Um you're right, and that is Not the our theology nor the theology of the uh and I'm you'll see in your footnotes I'm um I'm quoting uh Christensen um this is all based on his book I'm paraphrasing even when it's not a direct quote oftentimes from his thoughts and thinking. And there's some other things I put in there, but it's not the idea w what you said about being a puppet's dream We are n God we're in w God didn't make us um robots, right? Or if he could y you wouldn't have this, right And that's that's that line. I don't know, but he he he does he use he is using uh a a part of our will and a part of our our hearts, our choices. to choose this day who you will. And a lot of them didn't, right? We saw what what Israel did all throughout their history. From that point on, uh till they went to captivity, right? We think of Israel. Israel was a nation. It was a it was a different entity and and a different way of doing things as opposed to now that the new covenants here and the and the spear has been has been put onto believers' hearts, but it's always a remnant. There's a lot of people who aren't saved In Israel, it was a remnant. There were a lot of people who weren't saved. Remember Elijah. I always want to say Elijah, Elijah. Elijah, give me a friend, Frank. Elijah, right? And he says, I'm the only one. And God says, no, no, I got seven thousand other people who didn't bow the knee Well he's still talking about a remnant though when you're talking about the whole population. Even in the New Testament when um And I'll get off of the subject. But even in the New Testament, right in the uh after uh Acts, the early chapters, and five thousand people were oh man, there's a revival. Well think of how many people were there. Five thousand It was during a feast, right? Pentecost. Th the the the population had come back. You're looking at a population of uh probably over a million people during this Five thousand, it's a fraction, right? Uh it's always a remnant. Uh but yeah to I got off on the topic, but yeah, they to go back to her question, he does change our hearts. We do have this choice We do make choices. And I think sometimes we try to figure out too much. Is God doing this? Well you we have to obey what we know. Let's go with that. And if God's working it out fine. Right? Um Yeah, sometimes we we think too much about it. Um There's another topic I could go off on, but it it we've been talking about Arminianism. There was a guy, Joseph Arminius, he was a big theologian, and they were breaking it was a ch part in church history They were breaking into two camps. And libertarianism and I'm using this word Arminianism, it was just that. It was like God can't control I can't have a free choice if I'm not making the choices. God can't be sovereign over all of this. That's what he was saying. And he said, or he w and when he you draw his conclusion, he was saying, or Minius was, you could lose your salvation. Okay? Because it made sense because you basically it it we are in control. Can you say that again Armenia said that that you could if you walked away from God, you if you were you could be saved. He goes, God worked in your heart to recognize you needed salvation. You would choose salvation. But you also had the ability, once you recognized in your heart or your mind that God was drawing you to him, you could also reject. We don't believe that. We believe that once God opens your heart and you see it, you're going, I'm going to choose it You have a desire. You look at it. My testimony was, I go, this is true. And I go, of course I want to choose this. Right? I see all the falsehood. But Armenius said you could also, even if you were saved, you could lose your salvation if you walk down that path. We don't we don't believe. We believe in security. Uh John chapter ten. Um uh That's the classic text on on eternal security. There's other ones, but this is the classic one. Let me read it so I don't get it wrong. My sheep, uh this is John 10, 27, is where I'll pick it up. My sheep hear my voice, I know them, and they follow me. Listen to 28. And I gave eternal life to them. Okay? I gave it to I I I did not Give myself eternal life. That's kind of where Armenius is going. He said, Yeah, I knew God was there and I chose it. I could have rejected it though. He says I gave them eternal I gave eternal life to them, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. You didn't put yourself in God's hand. See most people think, okay, uh, you know, the devil can't snatch me out of his hand, somebody else can't snatch me out of the hand But I can do something so bad that I can lose my salvation. No. You didn't put yourself in God's hand and you can't take yourself out But then he then he piles on. He goes, My Father who is given the uh has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand I and the Father are one. That's eternal salvation. Why do the saints persevere? Because God keeps us on the, God doesn't let us go. Does that answer you? But that's why I came I thought, well I better talk about the D Arminianism and libertarianism Because again, it gives us too much sovereignty. It's very subtle, but it does Well when when we look at the other verses it so clearly uh state that we were dead in our trans trespasses that we were incapable of could not come unless we were called. Um Clearly I think people have a problem with the fact that if you believe God's sovereign then it's an offense to your pride because you have no supposedly no choice, but I think that is the reality that if we're not um transformed by the grace of God through his own decree and his own election, that we are um helpless to uh we're dead, so how however we're gonna come and let's like cause us right because we would never choose we would never choose him, right? So it's kind of so what Liz was talking about is in a you know what's in us before we're saved, um we are we are we're dead, we're sinners, we're enemies to God Yeah. And that's the offensive part to Christianity. Uh and the other thing is, is like, well what about those he didn't choose? Right. That's the real dilemma, isn't it? Think about Israel though. Here's a nation Right? He they were they had a boundary, there they didn't have a parameter, it was right around them, they were his quote chosen people, why didn't he choose more of them for salvation? And again it's that part of the plan is like I created you. Don't don't worry about that. I got this is I th I got my plan. But again, you have to go back. You we know that God is good. We know right you have to go back to the positive attributes about God. Is he a God who's mean and wicked? And we'll look at that in in some of these verses up here. So this and I went through some of the um Uh Ephesians, because Ephesians chapter one, hmm, you can even turn there in your Bibles. I'm not going to read it, but I'm just going to highlight. These are the gifts we get from God. And this is our position You know, think about it. A lot of the epistles give you the doctrine in the first part, and the second part of the book tells you how, okay, now that you know who you are, this is Uh Ephesians is a classic. When he gets to chapter four he goes, now walk accordingly. Right? It's always walk. So it's so it's our action. Okay, be obedient accordingly, based on who you are. Romans really is doctrine up till chapter 12, really most theologians, there are some some things in there where there's command you're exhorted, but in general it's doctrine up to twelve. And then twelve he goes, okay, now here's what you do Be renewed in your mind is where he starts with. All right, so Ephesians 1, verse 3. We are blessed with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. This is from moment one, you're saved. Right? Moment one You don't know it. Most a lot of new believers don't know it. A lot of seasoned believers don't even focus on these these things. And we need to be reminded. You're blessed with every spiritual blessing in heavenly places. Now, not later, not on what you've done. We are chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world to be holy and blameless. I've had I've had guys uh you know in groups where we were sitting around studying the Bible and he goes, man, he goes, is he sure? Are we gonna are you gonna do that for me? I mean that's honest, you know what I mean? We are predestined to be adopted as sons. We're gonna look at that a little bit later, much later Adopted. We're sons. We're part of the family. He even says more than that later. Well, wrong book. In Romans he tells us more than that. We're not only adopted, we have an inheritance. Well he says that here, but we are fellow heirs of Christ. Charge, think on that for a while. Fellow heirs Whoa. Are you sure about that? Oh, let's see. Redemption, verse verse 7. Forgiveness of sins. A nine in all wisdom and insight he made known to us a mystery of his will. I would say too as we'll get to this, look at when you look reading the Bible, look at what he wants us to know, what he wants us to understand. He wants us to go, he wants us to be in spiritual wisdom Uh these are things he wants us to and that's what we're gonna look at when we do the will of God. Because part of this is on is on top of us too. Um To be devoted to that. It's it's it's here's the manual. We've got to read the manual and know the manual, understand it We know that Christ will bring an end to the age in heaven and earth. We know that there is going to be an end to this world. Thank them. We take this for granted. Um they're looking for aliens. We spend a lot of money looking for aliens. I'm not kidding you. I I had a guy, I had a c customer of mine, and I believe the guy was saved. Uh he was University of Maryland, had a PhD in something or other. He was looking at he was uh part of this program they were listening for radio waves for, I guess. I don't know, extraterrestrials, whatever you wanna Yeah. Uh there you know, you're spending money or spending grant money for that. It's funny because I asked him here, I'm an auto mechanic, I said, Well, are you using a digital or analog? And he he he got it, he goes, you know, it's funny, we we just talked about that Which is who you didn't care, right? Well there when there was a debate. Oh. You all know the difference for that You know, you gotta we gotta measure math bias guys. You all know this stuff better than I do. Digital, right? Digital. Right? That's a digital sign It's all and off all and off. It's square. Oh but but light is really what? Analog. It goes like this is what it waves, huh? Right? Yeah, it goes from alternate it's alternating This is man-made. This is not man, it's kind of man-discovered. What they did was they they shot it down on one line, I guess positive or whatever And it squared it off on off. So God is God is amazing. We sometimes we you know we get we've got a lot of information. We think digitally and we're not aware of it. We've got especially as this stuff's gonna explode You know, we're already getting what they got all the just about all the information on uh web someplace, right? The kind of AI It it's not so much thinking, but all the stuff is kinda on there and it can go and hit all these sources. It doesn't bring wisdom though. Um In all wisdom and insight, we may know the mystery of his will, right? Um we know the end of the age. We have an inheritance with Christ. We're sealed. And this is another. Aspect of eternal salvation, eternal security. You're not going to lose your salvation. You're sealed with the Holy Spirit, a promise. Right? This is uh 13 and 14. Is given to us as a pledge for inheritance, a down payment of God's own possession. He gave us that spirit. Okay? It's a pledge. We're saved. You're gonna have to unseal yourself to become unsaved. So God is sovereign over evil. And this is what time oh man, we're out of time God is sovereign even over evil. Let's get into let's just start it in the few minutes we have. The question: if God is sovereign, uh how can there be evil in the world? How can a loving God be involved in any way with the evil that is in the world? In order to consider the sovereignty of God with any clarity and depth who must deal with the biblical reality that God is sovereign over all e all, even evil. So right now, bring your notes back for next week because we're just getting into this. I've rather not print them again Okay? Bring your notes back. We will pick up from there. Um let's look at a verse or two before we leave. Abel does not reside in a mysterious realm, somehow untouched by God's plan. purpose or power. If it did, we would have reason to fear. For then God would not in fact be sovereign If God is genuinely in control, then he is Lord over good and evil, right and wrong, truth and error, blessing and curse, comfort and pain, life and death. Now think about that. Reread that when you when you get a chance. You think about it. If God wasn't in control, if he's just allowing evil It kind of gives evil a power of uh uh outside of his realm, doesn't it? He doesn't just look at it and say, oh Well, I guess that happened or but meditate on that that phrase. That that's from Christensen. I uh A couple of verses and we'll stop. The Lord has made everything for its own purpose, even the wicked for the day of evil. I mean yeah. I think we have to stop there just because of time. So think of this, bring these notes back, we'll we'll pick this up Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. Lord, thank you for revealing to us Who you are, Lord, thank you as that word works on us and we grow in you. Thank you for your salvation Uh Lord, I confess, I think many of us do. We we we forget, we take it for granted. Uh we get caught up in the uh busyness and the uh uh trials, just the world system and and and life in in general. And Lord, we forget you that that you are there. You're not surprised by any of this. There are things we look at and we go, um, I can't believe they're doing that, but Lord, you know it Uh this is ultimately all things are working your plan of salvation, your plan of uh being glorified Lord, help us to recognize this, to see this in our lives, which would uh to allow us wisdom in how to go and how to proceed. knowing that we are secure in you. Lord, we lift this time up of corporate worship, Lord. May we praise you. May we be moved by your word. By the music, may we uh feel your presence, Lord, and may we glorify you and praise you in this this next uh couple hours. Lord, it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.