Some of the foolish things that modern leaders, the world's teachers, say Against God or against his character or against the God of the Bible. They get away with these foolish things. Because few people challenge them when they say them. They're unfounded assumptions, their arbitrary beliefs. Because that's what they are. We know when people say things slanderous about God or his existence, that that is effective, works, it hurts some people's faith That's why we have to be very careful with our own words, but we know that even when we're careful, the world attacks faith in Christ. They might say, if there's a God, why does he not stop evil? Why all the trouble and problems in the world? That's one of the most common objections to God, is it not? But God's already told man exactly why there is evil. Not only why, but where it came from, what it is, how it's going to be worked into good one day. The whole bit. And even how he grants healing and life after death as comfort of it. How he can turn evil into good. How he will destroy evil ultimately. He'll solve it at the right time and he will do it in a way that honors himself and reveals his glory. It is only, I think, arrogant humanity with its unfounded assumptions and wrong starting point That nobody challenges, that raises up arguments against God and his goodness. There's nothing intellectual about an attack upon God. I hope that you understand that. There's nothing intellectual about an argument against God because it doesn't have anywhere to start and it doesn't have anywhere to go if it is analyzed and challenged. Do you not hear how absurd some of the claims are? The atheist who steals credit for the good in his life, but when he sees evil, blames God. It's so inconsistent. He can't even provide a coherent reason why some things should even be called evil to use that argument against God When you really think about epistemology, and that's just the study of how we know what we know, how can we justify knowledge? There really is no foundation other than God for knowledge, for education. For even knowing what goodness is to know right and wrong. God is the one who gave the human human race a standard of right and wrong. He gave the human race truth He gave us a mind that uses logic. He gave all those good gifts to us that we would use them and understand. But the atheist or the hater of God never has a justified starting point. He tries, but anywhere where he launches his attack from the ground that he stands on is not justified. He cannot give a basis for his argument without there being a God. No atheist can even tell how life came to be from non life. Just start there. How did all of life come from non-life when the very science the atheist touts as being the proof of his beliefs proves his beliefs wrong? Because science says that all life comes from other life. That's a law, that's a fact. But he has to believe the opposite. He has to believe all life came from non-life. The only answer we get from an atheist to try to deal with the great questions of life is that just give chance a lot of time and all of this happen. I'd like to submit to you that's not an answer. That's really a non-answer. I can't even say where time came from, first of all. They can't even prove there's such a thing as chance, for they would have to be a way to prove that, and there's really no way to prove that An atheist says that we Christians pretend God exists. They must think that we are psychologically disturbed people for gathering and worshiping an unseen being. But really, the atheist's attempted use of logic and meaning without God shows that he's actually pretending that God does not exist. Beloved, I'd like to say to you, just starting at a real basic starting point this morning, that belief in God is not absurd. Belief in no God is absurd. The fact is that God is, and that God is here, and that he is here to listen to those who qualify for his ear, that is, those who will fear his name and will believe in his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. God has never abandoned us. There are obviously times where it feels that way. There are obviously difficult and dark situations of life where if you go by your feelings and not by your faith you're going to make some pretty bad decisions and you're going to drop to some pretty lowly points in life. But God continues to provide for us right now, I assume If you're sitting here right now, you're alive, so in some way God has provided for you the breath you're breathing, the warmth that we have here in this room, we tend to forget that everything good that we have is from God This is not a perfect world. It was made perfect, but it's fallen now. God told us why it's fallen. We sinned. We were the captains of this planet. We were the kings and queens of this planet. And when we sinned, the planet itself was struck with a curse. And so there is evil and there is a tragedy and there's pain. That's what a cursed and a fallen world is. In the midst of that world, God continues to prove that He is a good God, and He does it in a number of different ways. If we have to be honest as believers, because we're talking to believers now for the most part, even we as believers have thoughts that go through our minds where we question how God is managing and superintending life. Whether it's our own personal lives, the lives of the ones that we love, our families, the way the church is going, a nation is going, we question God's goodness in those things. We don't come to a full doubt about it, but that lingering doubt to some degree, and that questioning hurts our faith This doubt, doubt of God's graciousness, doubt of God's generosity, doubt that God has designed things well for us, that He's wise in the way that He manages our lives. That has to be reversed in your thinking. You have to dispel that entirely if you're going to deepen in your Christian walk. If you're going to be the kind of Christian that gives and is excited about the Christian life, gets busy and ministers And learns how to give things up, you have to dispel those doubts. This truth that God is good seems so basic, why would we even take time to come to affirm it? We all know God is good. We would all understand that God is not evil But we don't think consistently with that doctrine, and until we do, we don't deepen in our Christian walk the way we need to. We need to grow in our Christian faith And growing in the Christian faith means growing in our faith that God is good. No? That God is good to me And having a conviction about that. The Lord has been and is and will continue to be good to me That's really what the thrust of our text today is. If you haven't opened the James 1, please do that already. Verses 17 and 18 is all we're going to cover today, but it is powerful, I think, in its message as it asserts some theological truths in a very pastoral way. James 1, 17 and 18. Please follow along and read it and study it as we go through this message and unfold his word today. It says that, and really if we back up to verse sixteen, which we covered last time, it says, Do not be deceived, my beloved brethren. Every good thing given or bestowed, and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shifting shadow. In the exercise of his will He brought us forth by the word of truth, so that we would be a kind of first fruits among his creatures. Two verses, that's all, but they are verses that can transform your thinking. Go down into the deepest parts of where you think and meditate. Where you are when you're all alone and you have troubles with your faith, these two verses are a bomb and a salve in order to help with that. Specifically, how do we think about God in relation to us? And whether or not there's some deception still going on in our thinking in that realm. There's so much potential for deception So much slander against God, so much distortion of who God is that even if people don't have an idol in front of them when they worship, they are really worshiping an idol by having a wrong conception of God Himself James, a Jewish man who believed in the Lord Jesus Christ as God's King. He's providing here two proofs of the goodness of God. One's a general proof, and one's a more specific proof. When you hear the specific one, I think you'll realize why he chose that one as the example and proof. of God's goodness to us. So the general one is in verse 17, and that is that God gives good gifts. The more specific one is in verse 18 and it relates to God causing the new birth. Let's start with the first general truth It's not really teaching us something new, but I want you to go deep on it and meditate on it this morning. God's generosity God gives good gifts to his people. He is generous. That's a theme that James has actually already touched upon. If you glance back to verse 5, you can see it there. It said, if any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask of God. Why would we ask God for wisdom? Because he's generous. He gives it without reproach. Now, in verse 17, he's sort of picking that same theme up and he's coming right back to the generous nature of God. God is generous. And he is giving and he gives good things. Unlike our nature, if you look back to what our nature is in verses 13 through 15, you see that we struggle with evil and sin. But God gives beautiful gifts, and that uh he does not bring us down to temptation. Who tempts us? We tempt ourselves, right? We bring ourselves into sin and we bring ourselves into death, all the consequences of sin, all the pain of sin. That's what we do to ourselves. If we want to blame someone, we should be blaming ourselves There should be a sense, a good sense of true guilt before God that we have violated his commandments. But when we think of God and we think of his nature, We have to think of no evil, no tempting to evil, perfect in character. And that's what he's getting across here. Really, the exact opposite of us is true of God. God does not bring bad things. God brings good things to us. God's gifts are good precisely because they never lead to temptation. They don't take us into something that is evil. They are meant to benefit man. When we think of something that's good, we think of something that brings blessing, that's useful, that works. These are good things that last, and that's what God gives, those kind of gifts. Look at that broad statement there. Every good thing given. I like the old way that the old Nazbi translated, bestowed. Every good thing bestowed, and every perfect gift is from above. The key word there is all, pas in Greek, all, every. Not some of them that I get, I should give thanks to God. Not a slice of the good pie comes from God, but the whole meal comes from God, right? God is completely non-responsible for the evil in the world, and God is completely responsible for all the good in the world. Period. That's proper thinking. That's how we are to think all the time. It's exactly the opposite that the hater of God and the atheist asserts blindly Without any foundation at all, without any starting point at all. For if there is no God, why would they even bother to argue against him? And the very fact that they do betrays they know he's there There is nothing good in my life, and nothing good in your life that God did not give to you. And there is no evil temptation in your life that comes from God. The word good there, by the way, agathas, describes what's useful, what's beneficial. That word good is so elastic. What do I do with it? Well I think of something that's good. It's like, well when you get a gift and you say this is a good gift, it's something that your eyes brighten with and you think, wow, that was a really thoughtful gift. I could use that, right? So you think about how you're going to use the tool or where you're going to put that special little dish that was given to you or that painting and someone has been thoughtful about you and given you something that you can use. That's what God is. He's Agathas. He's good to us. And the second word there, perfect, telias, it describes that which is complete or mature or brought to its intended goal. God's gifts lead to something in our lives. They lead to a goal. They lead to perfection. They lead to completing us. I like D. Edmund Hebert. He says The perfection of the gift received flows from the goodness of the one bestowing it. That's right. Why is it that we get perfect gifts? Because God is good and he gives them. Jesus pointed this out when he was teaching his disciples. He said it in another way, but it's just as effective. He turned to his disciples and he said, If you then being evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will God give what is good to those who ask Him? You have an evil nature and you can figure out some ways to give beneficial gifts to your children God has no evil em at all. Just think what He will give to you if you ask. Even the two words for gift that are used in this verse translated, given and gift, point again to God's goodness. Dosis is the first word. It refers to God's action of giving. It shows he is the one who wants to give. He doesn't want to take away, he wants to give. It shows a hand that is open and is generous. And then there's Dorema. It refers to the result of what is given, the actual gift itself, when you get it and you say, that was good. So God is a giver and God gives gifts is the point. God gives beneficial things and the gifts which are perfect. These good gifts include all that He has given to us in the world of creation. Even to the atheist, even to the one who believes wrongly in their religion, God has still given good things to them. We live on a most amazing planet. And they scan the heavens and they try to find one planet that's like it, and they say, well, there must be millions out there. They haven't found one. Not even with a Hubble telescope. Not one. They keep assuring us that life comes from non-life, and so it must have popped up all over the universe, but they can't find one. No, this is an amazing planet. Its delicacies, its balance, all of it provided by God. The more the scientist studies it, the more he should be religious, the more he should be just thanking God for this could not be by accident. Don't have enough faith to be an atheist. What a ridiculous idea that all of this came by accident. So we have what? What do you have? You have a home? Did it survive the night? Was it blown down? You have transportation, you got here, you have clothes, you have food, you have friends, there's a whole kind of things that are part of our creation that you enjoy every single day. Do you stop and think all of this is from God All of this he meant for my good. The unbeliever arrogantly takes credit for what God gave as good He works with a hand, makes something, and says, See what I made, and forgets that the eye and the hand were a gift from God. And even the stuff that he picked up to make it with was a gift from God. And the time and the health, and we can go on and on The unbeliever is a thief. He steals the honor and glory from the one who deserves it and who gave good things. These good gifts also come from the world of redemption for those of us in Christ. If we're in Jesus, we're in Christ, and being in the sphere and the locality of The locale of Christ means that we're blessed with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places where in Christ, so says Ephesians 1. 3. Do you have redemption? Were you purchased from slavery to sin? Do you have an inheritance which is reserved in heaven for you and cannot fade away? Have you been adopted into the very family of God and have the privileges of sonship before the King of heaven? Do you have a present assurance that never is stolen from you, giving you confidence and courage in this world Are you declared innocent before the throne of God even though you violated so many of his laws? Do you have the promise of future glorification and all the fun and joy and blessing and brilliance that comes from that? Well, they also are part of the perfect gifts that come from God. Our vast array of spiritual resources in the Lord Jesus Christ again come from hands that are open and giving and are blessing all day long. God richly pours out gifts every day. God is more generous than anybody in this room, and all of us put together. Isaiah 55, 7 says, Let the wicked forsake his way and the unrighteous man his thoughts, and let him return to the Lord. Why should he return to the Lord? God is just and righteous, won't he be angry? The verse is completed. Let him return to the Lord, and he will have compassion on him. And to our God, and he will abundantly pardon. What kind of a God is that? A God who's generous and forgiving Jesus said, the thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came into this world so that I might give all of my sheep the most abundant life that there is. Notice the gifts come from above, and that clearly indicates that they don't arise from earth. They don't arise from man. They come from above is a reference to God the Father. We don't thank Mother Earth, we thank Father God. They come from the heavenly sphere in contrast to the earthly sphere. Later in James three, when we get there, it'll talk about wisdom that is from below and wisdom that is from above and what Wisdom is from below means it arises from the thoughts of man, and it can never get higher than man. It starts with man, it has man as the aim, it comes back to man, and it argues in the circle. And it never has a basis for any true knowledge at all. It's not real wisdom, it's just the kind of educated wisdom that people think that they get today. It just kind of goes up and falls back down again. It's no good. The wisdom that comes down from above sees everything the way it needs to be seen. It understands in a much greater way. That's why it's real wisdom. Heaven is the place of origin of all good givings and all perfect gifts. You know, sometimes you eat ch you eat chocolate or something that's really tasty. Maybe you did that Valentine's Day, you eat it, you say, oh, it tastes so heavenly. It's because you know that that's the highest compliment you can give a gift is that it comes from heaven, the best place Notice it says it's coming down, and that's a present tense verb, meaning there's this continuous flow that is coming down from the Father of good and perfect things from above. Kata Baino. Baino is is to go and kata is down. It shows the direction of God's blessing coming down. Good things are all wrapped up there in heaven, but then they're sent down, UPS, to descend to us in a continuous flow of blessing. Is that the picture you have of God when you pray to Him? Is that the picture you have of God when you're meditating at home? Is that the way you view your Heavenly Father towards you? Unfortunately, one of the clearest indications of a lack of faith in God's goodness is that nemesis called complaining. Complaining. Why is it such a sin to complain? Because it's a denial of the goodness of God. And the goodness of God is a cardinal doctrine that's at the core of how we live our lives. If you don't believe in the goodness of God, you will eventually fall away from the faith. You will eventually go away and not come back. You have to believe. This is something that you will treasure and hold to you. God is good to me. And why do I complain? Why do I do that? In everything, give thanks, for this is God's will for you in Christ Jesus. Wow. In everything, give thanks. Does God deserve our thanks? Does God deserve our thanks? Does he deserve your thanksgiving every day? Not just a Thanksgiving day every day It is always God's will that we thank. Not ourselves. There's the arrogance of the unbeliever. He thanks himself. He has thanksgiving, and he looks at himself and gives thanks to himself. What a fool! We don't give thanks to Mother Nature. Mother Nature doesn't think. Mother Nature doesn't have a design, a purpose. All that we think is a design and purpose that comes from nature is the Father's purpose for us. You ever hear of people that thank their lucky stars? Really? We're not to thank Allah. Allah is not the God of the Bible. He's a false representation of the true God who spoke through true prophets, not false prophets. We're not to give thanks to Buddha. We're not to give thanks to other sources. Give thanks to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who is above. He writes next specifically that he is the father of lights. Do you see that? I love that little title. Father of lights means the originator of lights. He's the one who caused the lights to be. What do the lights refer to? The lights refer to Genesis chapter one, where God put lights into the sky on the fourth day of creation. He put the greatest light, the sun. He put a lesser light, the moon, to govern the night, and then it says he made the stars, all the lights, which includes all the planets and everything that is up there that shines. It's that broad of a term. He originated them all. He is the Father, and He is the Father of the lights. He's also called the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. That makes him our Father. Ephesians 1, he's called the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory. I like that also. As the Father, he is the originator and he is the governor of all things. Everything. That's his sovereignty. I like Kurt Richardson's quote. He says, God's governance over all things is impeccable and benevolent. He does it in a perfect way, and it's always generous. So he made the bright sun. He made the glowing moon. Even with all the wind last night, there was a glowing shine out there. The myriad of twinkling stars, the rotating planets. How did he make them? It says that God spoke and they came forth. How does that work? Nobody knows. He spoke and they existed. He called them ex nihilo, out of nothing. There was nothing, and he spoke, and he created them out of nothing. Ultimately, the atheist has to believe the dumbest thing possible. And that is, everything that exists came from nothing. That's all he has to work with, is nothing. And I always remind people, nothing means nothing. There's nothing there. There's no design, there's no matter, there's no energy, there's nothing. That's all the atheist has to work with. Everything was created by nothing. You either go that route or you say everything was created by God. You really don't have a log any other option to choose. One is absurd, the other is very logical. The image of light also speaks of the goodness of God. He made lights, and the lights penetrate the darkness, and the light shines in the darkness, and it dispels ignorance, it dispels not being able to see what is true, and the light is good. I love 1 John 1. 5. God is light and in him is what? No darkness at all. Not even the slightest little speck of darkness. Yet the main point is that God, being the father of these lights, is greater than all of the lights. God is immutable. There's a big word. What does it mean that God is immutable? It means that he never changes. He is who he is. He will never alter or change from his being. We grow, we change, we catch up with old friends and we say, my how they've changed. Stephen Mountains change. But here, even the lights in the sky change, but God never varies. God never deviates, even to the smallest degree. Notice it says, with whom there is no variation or shifting shadow. That term variation indicates a change from a course or a pattern. It's the word trape, alteration. It includes all the little shifts of the heavenly bodies, the solstices and the eclipses, all of those things. Yes, even the sun changes. Actually, you can go online and they have a time-lapse picture of the sun over so many months or whatever and you can watch all the little explosions on it. It's fascinating. It's altering and changing and moving all the time. Little explosions. Yes, it changes It's the greatest light that there is, and yet it's still inferior to the light of God, because the light from God's being never alters, never changes. The sun moves through the sky, its shadow is cast upon the earth, God never is changed at all. That's the point. I like uh D. Edmund Hebert's Quote on this, he captures it well. He says, As the earth, the sun, moon, and stars move in their ordained courses, we observe the interplay of light and darkness, day and night, the longest and shortest day of the year, the waning and waxing of the moon, eclipses. And the movement of the planets. Nature is subject to variation and change, not so with God. In him there is never such turning because of any change in his nature or purpose The light from him is constant and unvarying. The heavenly bodies move about All the time. They have their variation. Not God. God's goodness is constant. If you can think of a light that never, ever changes and never casts a shadow. It so fills the room that everything is constant and bright. It's hard to even imagine that. With God, there's not even the slightest shadow of turning, no shifting shadow at all. There's that famous hymn, you know, Great is thy faithfulness, right? O God, my Father, there is no shadow of turning with thee. He was meditating on this very verse, I'm sure. Hebrews 13. 8, Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and what? Forever. He doesn't change in the essence of his character. Malachi 3. 6, for I the Lord do not change. And that's a good thing for them, because that means he keeps his promises to Israel. The created lights are thus inferior to the greater light. The constant shining grandness and glory of God is that greater light God cannot lead us into sin and into evil. There is no darkness or evil in him at all. He's constant, perfect light. He sends out constant rays of blessing without variation. What's the application of this? Dr. MacArthur nails it on the head. Let me read you his quote When we as God's children are so abundantly and continually showered with the most gracious, valuable, and satisfying blessings our Heavenly Father can bestow, why should anything evil have the slightest attraction to us? If we know that what he gives to us helps us, makes us happy, blesses us, completes us, why do we turn to the vain things of the world to try to find some satisfaction in them as if they hold more promise for our happiness and our future than God Himself does. What a great quote. The preeminent example of God's goodness toward us is one special gift. You might say, well that's Jesus, yes, but it's what Jesus brought to us. Look secondly at verse 18. Specifically, when you think of all the gifts that you could have from God, what is the one maybe you're most thankful for of all? And he says it is our new birth, our new life in Christ caused by being born again, our new birth. Oh, this is such a blessing, beloved. our new nature, our new birth, the very life we possess. Then everything good comes from the life we have. It's everlasting life. It is the preeminent gift of God to us, and it proves his goodness, which is what His uh design is here in verse eighteen. It says, In the exercise of his will, that's God, in the exercise of God's will, God Brought us forth by the word of truth. Brought us forth as birthing terminology, and it's a birthing kind of image. Birth is the verb uhpo. By the way, it's the same verb that's used in verse 15. The contrast was intended and should not be missed Sin brings forth death. God brings forth new life. What a contract. That's what sin does to us. It brings forth death. But God brings forth life. God birthed us to something beneficial and perfect, and it's called new life. This is obviously referring to our being a new creation in Christ Jesus. Another way of putting this is 1 Peter 1:3, where it said, God caused us to be born again. God caused that. Just another way of saying God brought believers out of a realm where they would be hurt. A realm where Life would not be good for them, for existence would be painful. That is, he brought them out of the realm of death, and he transferred them into the kingdom of the Son, the kingdom of light, the kingdom of life And in bringing us into life, that bringing us into life is the clearest intent that He loves us and is good to us and means the best for us. It is, as one book said, the life of God in the soul of a man. This refers to regeneration, our wonderful and blessed doctrine of regeneration. Regeneration is the instantaneous creation wrought in the soul by the Holy Spirit, producing new life in us, and with it new godly desires, new godly inclinations, and a whole new course of life. Regeneration is that which makes you participate in the life to come, the life of God. It is your second birth. Remember how we talked to Nicodemus? You've had one birth, it's a physical birth. You can't see the kingdom of God until you have a second birth. And Nicodemus was like, What are you talking about? I can't enter a second time into my mother's womb and be born, can I? And he said, No, that which is born of the flesh is flesh, but that which is born out of the spirit or from the Holy Spirit is spirit. That's the kind of birth he's talking about. Wayne Grudham says regeneration is a secret act of God in which he imparts new spiritual life to us. The evangelical dictionary theology says regeneration or new birth. is an inner recreating of fallen human nature by the gracious sovereign action of the Holy Spirit. And it cites John 3 as its evidence. Please notice how this shows the goodness of God to us. God is good because He gave us this gift. You would know that. Someone brings you the very best gift at Christmas time or on your birthday, and you're like Wow, this must have cost thousands of dollars. I can't believe you sacrificed to bring this to me. You would immediately embrace that person and say, this person's looking after me. This person cares about me. This person was sacrificing for me. This person is good to me. Well, God has given you, believer, everlasting life, and that covers every other blessing that you're going to have for all of eternity. He gave you that. He caused the new birth for you. It is our new birth. We are born again. And it was his choice to do that. It was the exercise of his will. That's what it says. In the exercise of his will, he caused it. That word for will. It's a strong word in Greek. It's boolamai. In fact, it's emphatically in front in the sentence in Greek, and that means we're supposed to focus on that. It is his will that brought us forth. Not our will, his will. He made a decision, and he decided he wanted to bring us out of death and into life. If that doesn't prove his goodness, I don't know what would. And it's an heiress active verb. What does that mean? That means it was a deliberate and specific act of his own will. God has a volition He decides what he wants to do. Nobody influences that will. He doesn't have to listen to anybody. He's been around forever and he's omnipotent. He just makes a decision, and somewhere in there, he decided I want to be very good to my creation and I want to grant them everlasting life. He's good. It was a sovereign decision to grant you life. Think about that. He could have determined anything and he determined that you would get a new birth. It's amazing. Calvin underscores this in his commentary. He says, God did this of his own will. That implies no other will constrained him to make this decision. Our will did not prevail on his. His is the greater will. Ephesians 2, verses 4 and 5 say exactly the same truth as James 1:18. We were dead in our trespasses and sins, and then it says, God made us alive. Do you remember that passage? God made us alive in Christ. Listen, beloved, our choices, our faith does not cause us to be born again. That is not true Your faith did not cause you to be born again. You could not cause your new birth. It was in the exercise of God's will that he caused your new birth. Your belief is not the energy out of which the new birth happened. We come to faith in Christ precisely because God has already birthed us. He births us, and as we are birthed like newborn infants that come out of the womb and they begin to breathe, our faith is like that breath. We breathe and have faith because God has made us alive. Faith does not cause the new birth. God does. Jesus said, Do not be amazed that I said to you, Nicodemus, that you must be born again. The wind blows where it wishes. Oh, it sure does, doesn't it? And you hear the sound of it, but do not know where it comes from and where it is going, so is everyone who is born of the Spirit. The new birth is by the moving wind of God and his sovereign choice to blow wherever he wants to blow. And he decided he wanted to blow into your life, so to say, and cause a new birth for you. So is everyone who is born of the Spirit. The new birth is by the will, the bulamai of God, that's caused by the Holy Spirit. Man's will is not involved in the new birth at all. It is caused by God completely. Again, a quote from Dr. MacArthur is helpful. Not only theologically, he writes, but logically, that is the only way life could be given to those who are dead. The dead have no awareness or understanding of sin, no desire to turn from it, and no power or resources to change if they wanted to. They do not, of course, even know that they are dead. I like that No child has ever been born into the world by its own will or plan. Its conception, gestation, and birth are completely out of its consciousness and control. It is merely the passive recipient of the will and the action of its parents. Do you get the parallel? Just as certainly no person wills, much less creates, a new spiritual nature within himself. Regeneration is totally the will of God, the action of a sovereign God to grant that to you when you didn't even know you needed it. John 1, 12 and 13 says, As many as received Christ to those people, he gave the right to become children of God. What a privilege to be a child of God, right? Then it goes on and it says, even to those who believe in his name, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but born of God Dr. Will Varner says, the maker of lights was sovereign in his creation of his natural children in the heavens. He was also sovereign in the timing of his creation of his supernatural children. children on earth. He spoke, and the stars had absolutely no say whether or not they would come into existence. They didn't help God plan their arrival. They don't think. God spoke and they arrived. And God spoke to you, and He gave you new life, and that's why you're alive. It was completely a choice of His. It's even hinted at in the Old Testament with the prophet Ezekiel, who speaks of days to come when the nation of Israel would be blessed. And shows God the sole actor in regeneration. He says, moreover, I will give you a new heart. Notice what he says. I Will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you, and I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. He does it. He does it all. The new birth is his work, and it is a drastic work. It is a drastic beginning. It's not like some of the liberal persuasion of Christianity like to say, well, getting the new birth is just kind of like making a resolution, you know, on New Year's where you just want to try to be a little bit better. A reforming of the old life. That is not what new life is at all. Physical birth marks our entrance into the world and it's a drastic new beginning, right? Everything that we've been doing in life is because we were born. We got the life, we were born, and now we live. It all flows from that. It was drastic, it was life-altering, it changed everything. And so also being born again initiates new life in Christ. It is an entirely new life. It's not even our life, it's Christ's life in us. Remember what Paul said? I have been crucified with Christ It's no longer I who live, but what? Christ lives in me. It's his life God chose to put inside of me. Therefore, if any man is in Christ, he is a what? A new creation. The old things passed away. Behold, new things have come. Regeneration is an instantaneous event in the life of a believer. It's not a process. It does not happen slowly over time. Some people don't know the exact point at which they were saved, the exact point at which they're born again. You don't have to know the exact point you were born again, but I can tell you this: there was an exact point when you were born again. And once it happened, regeneration is irreversible. There's some that think you can be saved and get life and lose it, and then maybe get it again, I guess, and then maybe lose it again. What kind of life is that? Once it is accomplished, this life is permanent because it is defined and described as everlasting life, eternal life Not even Adam had that. We have something greater in God's kingdom. Do you have eternal life? Do you have that blessed new life of God? It's a mystery how God bestows it, but one thing is clear. Anyone who wants it can cry out for it and say, God, I'm a sinner. I I beg for your mercy in this new life that you have. My old life is not all that great, and I see it now. Thank you for opening my eyes even to see that. I reach out, Christ, I want that new life. You can have that new life with simple act of faith in your seat there today. And God will grant it to you. You'll be birthed into his kingdom and you'll have everlasting life forever and ever. And everything that comes with it, why would you resist? Why would you wait? Notice how God does it. There's an adverbial prepositional phrase there. He did it by the word of truth. We are brought forth by the word of truth. That means by means of the word of truth. The word of truth is the instrument that God uses to affect our regeneration. The word of truth is not just any word which happens to be true, people. It's not the word that is true, it's the word of truth It's truth. What does that mean? Ultimate truth. Is there such a thing as ultimate truth? Of course there is. It's something the world does not know. It's something the world will not be see, but it's there. Their halls of learning cannot pass it on. All they pass on is extravagant error But God's word, everything that comes out of the mouth of God is truth. It's rock, solid reality. That's what we mean when we say something is truth. We don't mean that, well, this is what we happen to believe in our religion. No, we mean that's the way the universe is. That's reality. If you don't see it, you're believing a lie. You've misunderstood science. You've misunderstood philosophy. You've gotten your belief system wrong. You're out of touch with the reality. We're brought forth by coming to an understanding of reality the way it actually is. That's the point. The word of truth is the instrument that God uses to cause our new birth. God demands that we believe it. The word of truth is really a synonymous phrase with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Notice that James follows in verses 19 and following, he talks about the implanted word which saves your soul. That's the gospel, the scripture. The scripture, the truth about Jesus Christ, his death, burial, his resurrection, that truth, that gospel is the instrument by which God causes us to be born again 1 Peter 1, 23 through 25 teaches that we are born again not by seed which is perishable but imperishable, that is, the seed of the Word of God. There is no substitute for the proclamation of the gospel of Jesus to have people born again. They don't get born again in a vacuum. It is the necessary seed that causes the new life. The gospel is the seed by which the miracle of the new birth occurs inside of us. God causes us to be born again, the same time we hear the gospel preached to us. So the Spirit works on us inwardly as we hear outwardly, and he takes that seed and he plants it deep within us and he causes that new birth so that we can believe Why did he do this? Why? Why did he cause us to be born again? Why did he do that for you and me? Just take time and ponder that question a little bit. Just meditate on that. Your quiet time, your devotion time. Get alone with God and just really take that thought seriously. What a wonderful thought. He he caused you to have a kind of life which will never end and bring you blessings for all of eternity. And no one told him to do that. He did it simply because he wanted to do it for you. Just ponder that. Just stop on that. Don't go anywhere else. Just park on that thought. That will heal anxiety. That will heal depression. That heals so much, doesn't it? Shuts my mouth up when I want to complain. But Lord, you gave me everlasting life, Lord. That's what you gave me. Kind of stops my mouth. There's a reason given in the latter part of verse 18, and we close with this. Why did he do this? So that we might be, so that we might be, as it were, the first fruits among his creatures. This is farmer language. The first fruits were the best, and they were to be given to God. You grow them, can't wait to dive in and eat them. Uh-uh. Take them to God. They're his, the first fruits. Bring them in thankfulness. Don't bring them grudgingly. Bring the first of what you earn, bring it to God, and bring it. Thankful. Some of you are wanting a principle for giving. How much should I give? Why should I give? Bring the first of what you make to God. That's what a farmer had to do. Why shouldn't you? Bring it first. Bring the best. And lay it before him. That's thanksgiving. That is the way of saying, I know that my job and my life here in America and everything that I have. God bless the Congress and the President for all those taxes. You know, everything that I have is a gift from you, God. I'm bringing you first what I have. Not second, not third, kind of look at the bottom. Well, look, we can give a little bit to the Lord this month. He wanted us to be the first fruits among his creatures. What does that mean? Well Believers are being addressed. He wants believers to be the first fruits. We're like the harvest, the first fruits of the harvest to come. What does that mean? That means something some people think it means that the Jewish believers that came to Christ in the first century is kind of talking to them as this is a letter that was written to the diaspora and to the Jews that were scattered through that whole area tens of thousands of whom believed in Jesus as Messiah. So some think that he's referring to the Jewish believers as being the first fruits and there were many, many more believers that would come throughout church history and we would kind of join in with the harvest and it would be one joyful time. That's possible. But I think he's talking more broadly here that believers in general are the first fruits and that God is making it an entirely new creation. He's making a recreation. Not just the people, not just causing you to be born again. He's causing you and you and you and you and me and those other people to be born again and he's bringing them into a new creation. He's going to recreate the planet. That's what the millennial kingdom is about. And on into the new heaven and new earth in Revelation 21 and 22. He's going to regenerate not just our individual souls, but according to Matthew chapter 19, he's going to cause a regeneration of the whole planet. He's making a recreation and we're the first fruits to fit into that recreation. And here we tie together then the beginning of creation which God is the Father of, and the recreation in Christ, of which we're just the first fruits of more that is to be seen. Even Romans 8 says that creation itself is groaning right now. It's a good word for the wind out there. The creation itself is groaning right now, awaiting the adoption of the sons of God. Then they also That is the trees and the planets and all of this planet, everything is going to be recreated. The curse will be lifted, the lion will lie down with the lamb. Literally, the child will play by a cobra's den. Literally, everything will be changed. Life expectancy will be long again. And all of this is part of God's recreation. So His purpose in causing us to be born again is to fit us, get us prepared with a new life that can be translated and inhabit and fill that new creation. We're being prepared for that. That's how good God has been for us. Like I'm you know you just think about God making the Garden of Eden, right? There's the garden. Then he takes the man, makes them, and puts them in the garden, say, Look what I made for you. Then he messes it up. God has given us a much bigger and glorious and longer lasting paradise, and our new birth now is fitting us and preparing us so we can have the life of Messiah the King So we can reign with him in his thousand-year kingdom and on into eternity. We're being fitted for that. We are the first fruits. I love Kurt Kurt Richardson. He brings all of this together in one quote. He says, The word of truth by which God gives birth to new creatures, produces a harvest that he had intended since the moment of his first creating. Here is a wonderful uniting of first and second creation. What God brings about in salvation was contained in the original purpose of his creation. The word of truth that brought forth the first creation brings about the regeneration of human beings in anticipation of the regeneration of all of nature, both done by the word of truth. He spoke and there was the first creation. He speaks and there is another creation now. Do you see why he says in verse 16, don't be deceived. Every good thing bestowed and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation of shifting shadow. The exercise of his will, he brought us forth that we might be the first fruits among his creatures. Wonderful. God has loved us. It always concerns me when I see members or attendees of this church go through some trouble. And you can begin to see it. Fear starts kicking in. They start withdrawing. They start pulling back. They don't want someone to know about their trouble, or they're angry at God. They don't want to talk to anyone about their trouble. And they start isolating themselves and they pull back and those are the first steps of apostasy sometimes. Walking away, doubting the goodness of God in their heart, staying away from the people of God, not wanting to hear anything about the goodness of God. That's one of the reasons people don't even want to listen to the gospel out there. Like don't tell me that God is good. I'm not buying any of that stuff. You have to buy it. You have to buy into it. Because you're living proof that he's good. I know it can cause people to abandon the faith if they don't deal with that. It can cause people to have thoughts of suicide if they don't understand God is good towards them. It could cause you to do the opposite of what verse 12 exhorted us to do. Persevere through trial, for once you have persevered, you will receive the crown of life. Your faith will receive an approval from God. What you are doing in your mind and heart, when you are doubting God's goodness towards you, and you're beginning to withdraw from church and you're beginning to pull back and you're beginning to think in your own little realm as you're beginning to buy into Satan's slanders about God. He's not good to you. He doesn't want the best for you. You've got to go out and get what you want to get You can't listen to his law. You can't do it his way. That's not fun. That's boring. Why are you doing that? And that is in your voice. That is in your head. That voice is in your head, I mean. And you're listening. You're listening to Satan. Don't join him when he slanders God and you hear that in your heart. Rebuke that. That's not from God. Don't join the atheists in their irrational arguments against God. Look what is in front of you and see the goodness that He's given to you. Don't let anyone ever deceive you into thinking wrongly about God. God is good. He has been good to you. He is being good to you right now. His plans for you are better than any plans you would ever have for yourself. O taste and see that the Lord is good. How blessed is the man who takes refuge in him. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his loving kindness is everlasting. Psalm 119, you are good and you do good. Romans 8. 28, we know that God causes all things to work together for good. To those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. Who are you and I ever to doubt his goodness to us? Father, we want to confess that often in our mind and heart, our thoughts about what you should be doing to superintend our lives. are really nothing more than a complaint, a dissatisfaction with your superintending our lives, with the way you made us, with the direction in which our life is going, with our station in life, with our looks. with our capabilities, with our relationships and friendships. Lord help us to learn what we need to learn, to improve what we can improve, but not blame you. To know that your your hand is good and that there's so many possibilities for us if we would but believe. There's so much that's already been open to us if we would but believe. And whatever limitations you've placed on us, we would give you thanks that that was wise also, for you had our best in mind. Father, we appraise you and thank you. You are a good God You're wonderful, God. Thank you for your word. Impress this truth deep within our hearts. Save any soul that doesn't yet have everlasting life. Help them to call on Jesus humbly this day. And help them, Lord, not to fall back into excuses, but to believe in you, to know the truth, to let it shine in the hearts of those who have darkness there. Bring the light of the gospel, we would pray You who caused our new birth, but we'll give you glory and you praise all the days of our life and into eternity. And God's people said, Amen.