Well, it's my privilege to open the Bible for you this morning. And uh as I said to the earlier uh Q<unk>A group Uh we brought the weather with us from Alaska, that's for sure. It's been colder here than there, and so God truly has a sense of humor. to say you thought you were gonna get the sun, but you'll have to wait. Um this morning I'm I'm really just wanting to express my gratitude for your hospitality Judy and I have been blessed to be with the body of Christ all week long and to have some time together and we're exploring God's will together for our future and that's a spiritual process and we're doing that together out loud with you But I was comforted to have some kind of direction for the message I was going to open for you this morning, because on a morning like this when you're just preaching one sermon, what do you choose out of all of the Bible, out of all of what you could choose and Providence seemed to choose for me in that uh I was part of that Zoom call that Gabe mentioned earlier. He was on there as well. A lot of uh the gamma pastors I'm sure were on and uh those with the Masters Fellowship, which really represents uh independent uh Bible churches around the country and even around uh the globe that dial in to um really take on issues that are approaching the church Yeah, my whole life being raised in the Christian in a Christian home, Christian environment, there's always been talk of coming persecution But very little teeth to that message in terms of my own experience and I think we haven't seen anything yet in terms of what could be coming. But uh John MacArthur was leading that Zoom call and uh was talking about the uh laws in Canada specifically related to his connection to James Coates in Alberta, I believe, and and the idea that when you're Ministering the Word of God maybe even more particularly in private ministry with counseling and talking, and you're trying to exhort someone to be converted to Christ. uh that that could suddenly be something that puts you in jail. Uh the laws against conversion therapy. Conversion therapy is a secular form of counseling where you're trying to Tell someone that they need to grasp who they are in terms of um how they were born. You're born either uh a man or a woman and to transition either in your thinking or to uh to try to move to um believing you're a different gender or to commit homosexual acts is a sin And in secular therapy, they're not going to call it sin. They're they're going to say, you know, just come back to uh who you are and how you were born and how you were made. But as soon as you transfer that into the Christian counseling office and and it becomes illegal to say, you must be born again. You need to be converted. You need to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and be saved from this sin, all of your sins, and in particular one that you need to be converted from, MacArthur saw fit to call us pastors to talk about this from the pulpit. And the reason we're talking about um Conversion isn't to stand for secular you know therapy, it's not to reform the government, it's not to keep us out of jail, it's also not to lead with the chin and to get the church in trouble. Uh the reason that we uh preach um and stand for the ability to minister the word of God for people to be converted from sin is to keep people out of hell. To keep people out of hell. That's how high the stakes are. That's what Satan is trying to shut down. He's trying to weaken our In testimonal fortitude, our faith, our boldness to preach the gospel. It is interesting when I went on to that Zoom call, I was coming back from an appointment Judy had. It was early in the morning at 7 a. m. Alaska time and I was coming into my office and the call was on at 9 o'clock Alaska time, 10 o'clock California And I pulled my SurfacePro up and, you know, my secretary saying, you know, you've got to get on that call and I'm, you know, I'm I'm part of the Master Associate, but so are, you know, fifty, sixty other people that are on this call. So you have all the little Zoom boxes And there's MacArthur up in the corner and he's sitting there, you know, working on his thing and nobody's talking yet. It's that awkward silence of are we paused or not? And I I clicked join the meeting and as soon as I did, apparently my window went right up next to John and he goes, Oh, Jeff Crocs from Alaska, how are you? And I'm like, whoa, okay. Um, do am I perfectly dressed? Uh you know, what am I doing? But just be ready. Be ready. When you zoom, you're you're zooming. You're doing it. But uh But this church, um, like our church in Anchorage, like other um truth houses, are standing for the sufficiency and the authority of the Word of God And Paul said in Second Corinthians four, I believe, therefore I speak. We we just we don't hold back when we come to text in Scripture that that are the pivot point between people believing, repenting and being converted and going to heaven. And if they don't repent, and if they don't believe, then they are not converted and they'll go to hell Well I thought how do I tie this stance and this um sort of position that we're taking together as a church this morning to your individual life. And I was drawn to a passage that I had preached um months ago from um the Beatitudes uh or from the Sermon on the Mount in particular, Matthew chapter five, I would um focus your attention to verse 27. I'm gonna preach through verses 27 through 30 from Matthew chapter 5. This is where Jesus confronts the world. That's the Sermon on the Mount. Jesus confronts the world. I'm going to read the text. You have heard that it was said you shall not commit adultery. But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lustful intents has committed adultery with her in his heart. If your right eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that your whole body be thrown into hell. And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that your whole body go into hell. This is a text that is targeting uh the soul of the issue, not just in our world, but even within our churches. There are churches that are compromising on calling sin. They're accommodating sense. They're allowing our culture to become more and more androgynous. That that culture to seep into the church and uh there are people um one author that I knew personally that wrote a book called Washed and Waiting that want to sanction um what what the the church big evangelicalism is called the homosexual Christian Well that's actually a misnomer. That you can't have someone who is who is committing the act of um lustful intent in their heart and unwilling to kill that dead, unwilling to fight that in their own heart Where they just sanction it with a label and say, Well, that's just how I am. I'm a homosexual Christian, and that's just how it's gonna be. I'm not saying people don't struggle with all kinds of sins in their hearts We have to wrestle things. We have to wrestle things to the death and do that together with each other within the body of Christ. I understand Christian sanctification And it is that call to mortify sin. But when the church begins to just sanction it and say it's okay for someone to have lustful intents. And to have this kind of sin remain in the heart, unchecked, unsupervised, not called out, not repented of, that's the kind of sin that will send you to hell. This is the sermon that I've entitled God's Brake Pedal. Um God's Brake Pedal has to be as strong as the sin we need to kill. And his brake pedal is simply this, I'm not going to miss words. It's hell. It's the threat of hell. Harboring unconfessed sin in your life, whether it's homosexuality or lust or heterosexual lust, whether you're single, whether you're married. Um what whatever, if you harbor sin in your life and it goes undealt with and you're unmoved by your sin. Then it's telling us something about the state of your soul. Instead of being on the narrow road that leads to life, you're on the wide road that leads to destruction. You're headed off a cliff. The good news is that Christians can even understand and recognize the the the reality of hell and have hell even shake us awake to say, I'm not one of those And I'm a person who is a sin killer rather than someone who's a passive um individual believing I'm fine when I'm really not. And I'm headed to hell. Let me put it in maybe a more stark um reality as an example. Let's say someone commits adultery, physical physical adultery, and um you know, is found out and even loses the trust of the spouse and the marriage dissolves The relationship with the children are forever damaged and strained. If that person comes to himself like the prodigal son and says, I have sinned I am I'm the publican that's in the temple beating my chest and saying, God be merciful to me a sinner. As I think it was Charles Spurgeon who said your your repentance needs to be as notorious as your sin. A person who is standing before the church perhaps and saying, I've sinned, I sinned against my wife, I sinned against my family Please forgive me. Whatever the appropriate context of confession is there. The confession is made even to the spouse, because the the sin this way vertically, but sin against the family, the children, and and he still loses everything. Because he has repented, he is far better off than a person who is secretly harboring lustful intent and doing nothing about it whatsoever. That person that repents, that loses everything in this life, is incomparably better off for all of eternity than a person who's harboring secret lust and sin. And secret lust and sin, it it it eats away the person's soul and life and joy and happiness and it paralyzes a a person from so serving in ministry of the body of Christ. And so that's the core of what we're talking about. Again, we're not I'm not preaching for government reform. I'm preaching to to embolden us to go there with people and go with there go there in your own heart with this particular sin because the stakes are high and hell is Real. Hell is real. People are cavalier in our culture today. Media is super cavalier in terms of the predatory nature of what comes on your phone. right as you're scrolling, things that pop on your screen, things to be resisted, all these allurements and temptations are are causing the culture in the church even to be numb to The insidious hell sending nature of lust and sin. If people talk about it, they say, Well, I would never act on it People joke about it. This is the wife-slopping culture, the the joke around about this issue culture when this is sending most people in our world to help. It's just an important thing to think about. Lust and the sin of lust is sending most of our culture, most of the people around us to hell. And so that's bad news, but we have really good news because God gives us, Christ gives us kind of a no-holds barred way to deal with this issue. It's God's brake pedal. It's God's slam on the brakes mechanism for the heart and life of men, and I want to say also women. And this is dealing in particular with men with the I gate and and what's happening in the heart, but this is talking about hearts for all And there's ear gate with women and you know, as a pastor, you hear the sad stories about women who who are told enough to for them to compromise. You have the cavalier So um woman of Proverbs six and seven who's given over to her own lust and her own allurements. You have Romans one where there's the exchange from natural to unnatural in men and women that give over to levels of Sin. What is God's big break pedal like? Well, exploring a text like this, which we're going to open up in detail, deals with hell. And this is God's kind of coil burner, you know, on the stove where as a Christian you're like a child and y you you almost need to go up to it and if a child touches that hot stove There's something forever encoded in the mind of that child, right? Where you just you pull away, you go, I don't want to go there. If I were to just casually leave my hands on the burner and forget about it, it would destroy my hands. It would ultimately destroy my Life. You say, well, how does this apply to us as Christians? And we're supposed to doubt our salvation? Not at all. We've escaped hell as believers. At the same time, Jesus is dealing very directly with his hearers in this text, followers, disciples, sitting around his feet at the Sermon on the Mount And he says, if you're someone who is doing this, who is who is using the law externally and saying, I'm not going there outwardly, but I'm allowing myself to go there inwardly You're in jeopardy of being thrown into hell, headlong into hell forever. We need to talk about hell. We need to bring it up. Jesus spoke about hell often when he preached. How do we make this practical? This is a Lordship passage. Jesus is Lord over our lives, and he's, watch this, Lord over where everyone spends their eternity. Jesus is the Lord over heaven. He's the Lord over hell. Satan is not the Lord over hell. Satan will be committed there forever for fiery torment along with everyone else who does not confess. Jesus as Lord. So this is a Lordship text. If you want to deal with lust in your life, specifically men, you need to do a gut check and ask yourself, have I yielded myself to Christ's Lordship completely? It's a lordship issue. When you go there and you make allowances in your life to look at things or feed on things that you ought not, you are denied the lordship of Christ in your life. And Jesus demands not some of you, but all of you. All of you. Lordship. And so if you're taking notes, What does it take to stop lusting? What does it take to stop lusting? This should have been my men's talk on Saturday morning, but here we go. What does it take to stop lusting? How do you deal with this sin? This is for men, women, boys and girls. Number one, you have to yield Th well you have to yield two secret areas of your life to God. And the first area is your imagination Your imagination. This text is talking in terms of the imagination. You yield your mind, your heart. Your soul, what the Holy Spirit is searching in your life and convicting you of, you yield yourself to God and you're yielding your imagination to God. This is not just yielding your habits Not just yielding what's you know what you have programmed on your phone or not to God, not just what filter you've put on your TV or not to God. Um what commitments you've made outwardly to God or not. That's what we're talking about. We're talking about yielding your imagination. You're yielding the area of your life that only God really knows about. He knows the secret things that are going on in your mind. He knows about things that you're even lying to yourself about and saying that these are not issues when they really, really are. Jesus has authority over our minds. And you see the text in verse 27 is introducing the law in a way that he's been um discussing in Several analogies, several illustrations. I think there are six different ways that Jesus is saying, look, you've heard it said, but I say this to you. You've heard it said one way, but I'm taking it another way. The Pharisees and the Sadducees and those of tradition were trying to make people do more and more. Do more and more. If you do more and more, you'll be fine. How do I escape this sin? How do I deal with this Ferocious sin in my life is such a discouragement. I need to do more and more. You know, modern day I need to have more quiet times, more prayers, more service, more this. I need to do more and more Whereas Jesus is saying, don't think in terms of doing more and more, think in terms of doing going deeper and deeper. Don't go external. Dig down internally. Um verse 19 earlier speaks of the warning of relaxing the law. In the ESV it says, Therefore who whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom. Relaxing the law is making the law external rather than internal. It's lightening the load. Doing more and more is actually lighter duty. Being a legalist is easier than soul searching confession to God. Think about that Right? You go to these external places, just do more and more. Sign up. Go to the Christian, you know, weekend away and deal with your issue there. And you you you checked all the boxes and you're good That's relaxing the law. The law is meant to penetrate our hearts. Remember Paul in Romans 7, Paul is the Pharisee of the Pharisees. He had done more and more. He had gotten the t-shirt. He was the top of his class. He was He was the Sinequanon of the Pharisees, and in Romans seven he said that sin, verse eight, seizing an opportunity through the commandment A thou shalt not covet, produced in me all kinds of covetousness. When he dealt with the law in a deeper and deeper way and let it mirror, reflect who he really was, he realized that Even though he was checkboxing the law, he had not really done the soul searching in his heart where he said, I am undone. Covetousness, for apart from the law, sin lies dead. I was once alive apart from the law, but when the commandment came Sin came alive and I died. And the very commandment that promised life proved to be death to me Moralism that will leave actually the adulterer hopeless because he tries to escape his sin and do it more and more and make it right and make it right with uh someone he has sinned against and nothing is happening. Moralism can also create the delusion that a person that's not really dealing with their heart and their own lust inside that they're safe, they're just fine, because they've done enough. And neither area or approach is safe. The law has to be brought to our hearts I'm not preaching perfectionism. We're those who live the Christian life and we work out our salvation what? With fear and trembling, for it is God who is at work in us with the will and the work for his good pleasure. He's He began a good work in us. We'll be faithful to complete it. We're working out our salvation. We're practicing godliness. I'm not talking about natural attraction here. But and I'm not even r relegating this to someone who is set in deep-seated perversion. This is just someone who is either willing to deal with the normal Christian life to try to kill sin in their lives or someone who is giving sanction to their sin and then maybe even labeling it and saying I am a this kind of Christian. I'm a lustful Christian. I'm a homosexual Christian. I'm an angry Christian. I'm a covetous Christian. Those are all misnomers. Those are the titles that people want And in big evangelicalism you see it kind of it's there that's just to borrow Bodhi Bacham's uh you know analogy and terminology. Uh it's like there's a fault line in evangelicalism between dealing with this sin, calling sin sin, calling it out, and giving people hope that you actually can be delivered from the power and dominion of sin in your life. Romans 6 Versus, this is who I am, this is my proclivity, this is how I was born, this is my temperament, I'm different than you are, and God will solve it one day in glory I want to presume on the Lord with a text like this. Deal with this issue, repent of this issue, or go headlong into hell First Corinthians 6 9. Or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Now here's a bigger list than just homosexuality. These are things that you cannot be known for. Do not be se deceived, neither the sexually immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men. Now in other translations, I think the New Orleans standard that is nor the effeminate Nor men who practice homosexuality. So it's not just the practice, but that is the fruit of what happens in the heart and those who let their hearts go unchecked. It's not being perfect in your heart. It's just where you just let go. It's just like you're just flipping channels with your life. Just laying back. This is my life. I don't care. I'm just gonna just let my life go. That kind of person is in danger, in danger of hell. So what's convicting in this is the fact that people are doing it all the time. Look at verse back to Matthew 5, Jesus' words. Verse 28, but I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman, this is the imagination, with lustful intents, That language there is the idea of looking in an ongoing way, looking towards someone, feeding upon someone, not just a passing glance. This is someone who is giving over to this and saying it's okay. That person has committed adultery with her in his heart. They've done it. You see that word already has already committed that sin In the Old Testament, things were very physically defined. Levitical law said that both the adulterer and adulteress, Leviticus 20, 10, will be put to death, Leviticus 20, 13. Both of them have committed the abomination. They'll be put to physical death. Their blood is upon them. Deuteronomy twenty two twenty two. A man found lying with the wife of another man, both of them shall die. Physical death again A man who lay with the woman and the woman, so you shall purge the evil from Israel. Deuteronomy 22, 22. These are physical acts with physical cotton Consequences in the theonomic government of Israel back then. It was God law that was um administered. But here with the law of Christ, things are far more severely understood Physical death would be light duty for committing adultery in terms of being a Christian. You're not getting off the hook just because there's a divorce that takes place. You have to deal with the sins beneath the sin. You have to repent genuinely before the Lord to escape spiritual death, which is hell forever. The requirement of repentance is here for us, and the good news is that you can be forgiven. That's why this is listed out That's why this is one of the sins listed that labels our heart that has to be dealt with. We lie to ourselves, don't we? We say we're just fine. Jeremiah 17 9, the heart is deceitful, deceitful and desperately wicked. Who can know it? First John 1 8, if we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. We're deluding ourselves, right? And the truth is not in us. You're not thinking like a Christian at all. You're you're wrapped up in self-deception. 1 John 110. If we say we have not sinned, we make him a liar and his word is not in us. First John is a litmus test as to whether you are a Christian or not. What defines you as a Christian is first John one nine If you're someone who isn't deceiving yourself, verse 8, and deceiving yourself and and really ignoring God's warning in your life, verse 10, but instead you are first John 1 9, if we confess our sins He's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. That's an ongoing confession, and you've heard this, I'm sure, in this pulpit. That word confession in 1 John 19 is Hama Lego It means to say the same thing that God already knows is going on in your heart already. You're not surprising God with where you are You're not duping him with works righteousness. He knows where you really sit. And he knows that if you just would but say, God, forgive me. I know I've got this issue in my life. I'm willing to tell this person or that for accountability. Help me, Lord. I want to be honest with you. Let's You know, let's meet together. You are my Lord. You are the only solution in my life, and you are my Savior. That's when the joy of the assurance of our salvation comes back to us. In our secret place of our own hearts and lives before the Lord. So the first area of our life to submit to the Lord is our imagination. The second area is our eternity. Don't presume upon God that your eternity is set if you are stuck in unrepentant sin. That's really what you're doing. You're you're saying, Lord, you're the Lord of my life, you're the Lord of the secret place That nobody else goes or knows about but you, and you're also the Lord of where I'm going to spend the rest of my eternity. Not me. I I'm not choosing myself into heaven You chose me, you saved me, you've got an inheritance laid for me in heaven. You're Lord over that. And that's what I'm submitting to That's what this is. This is a text of submission. Verse 29: if your right eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members Then that your whole body be thrown into hell. We're submitting our our imaginations, we're also submitting our futures to the Lord. He is absolute authority over this. Matthew five verse uh twenty-nine is the same um kind of um text If your right eye causes you to sin, tear it, throw it away from you. It is better to lose one of your members than that your whole body be thrown to hell. If your right hand causes you to sin, verse 30 Cut it off and throw it away, for it is better to lose one of your members than your whole body be thrown into hell. Hell is just meant to sober us up. Jesus is pictured as Lord over where people will spend their eternity. Matthew 7, a few chapters later, speaks of this On that day when they stand before the Lord, many will say, Lord, Lord, didn't we prophesy in your name? Didn't we cast out demons? Look at all that we did. Look at all the spirituality that was part of my life. We prophesied. I spoke for you. I cast demons out. I understood the um the path that I was supposed to be on as a Christian. And then Jesus will say, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. Lawlessness meaning your heart was never changed. You never wanted to really follow and know the Lord Jesus. John five speaks of this. Verse twenty five Truly, truly I say to you, an hour is coming and hours when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live For as the Father has life in himself, he's granted to the Son also to have life in himself, and he's given him, Jesus, authority to execute judgment because he is the Son of Man. Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming, when all who are in the tombs will hear his voice and come out and those who have done good to the resurrection of life and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment Hell is real. People will be raised to life or eternal death. They will be fit with resurrection bodies for heaven, for eternity, resurrection bodies for hell. for eternity. The worm doesn't die because the body never fully decays. Um there is no ultimate um annihilation of the mind or the physical consciousness of pain. It's there for all of eternity. That's the brake pedal. That's what you gotta get in your head. That's where you're you're choosing. Am I gonna look? Am I gonna look am I gonna feed on this? Am I gonna not gonna feed on this? Am I going to continue to cultivate this relationship with this person that's suggesting things, or am I going to cut it off? God's brake pedal is, well, do you care about where you spend eternity? Because God's in your head and in this moment And he's determining where you will go. Let alone your kids that watch you, your spouse, others. You are the spiritual leader men in the home, and you should be concerned about their eternal futures as well. Like Judas, people are self deceived. They think they are fine. They're not. Hell raises a couple issues. It brings fear into our hearts. I mean imagine being in hell and Thinking that you were going to heaven all during your lifetime and then you're there. And you're coming to your senses and that awareness that you were self-deceived. I mean I don't even trust myself like driving around town without GPS. Why should I trust my eternity to my own consciousness and go, you know, I'm fine. I'm good. No. You have to do business with God. You have to take a text like this to bear to your whole own heart and soul and say, Where am I, Lord? How am I doing? What what do I care about? Am I am I completely submitted to your Lordship in my heart and in my life? Not in the works righteousness, but a soul-searching, repentant way, where I'm soft before the Lord and I say I'm open before you. And I understand that you are Lord over my future. A genuine believer will do this. A genuine believer will respond like this. I do see the sin in my life. I do see my own failings. I do see my own self-deception that I need to repent of. But I know I'm a believer. I know I'm secure. I know no one can snatch me from the Father's hand. Nothing can separate me from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus I'm his and he is mine and so I'm gonna kill that sin. Right? You do battle You go you go after it. A genuine repenter will gouge out the eye or cut off the hand. These are metaphors, origin in church history. That early church father took it literally. shouldn't have decided himself that was outlawed seventy-five years later. That's bad hermeneutics, bad application. He missed the point. The sin is the heart. The sin is the heart. You can be physically blind, you can be physically handicapped, you can lose you know, lose use of your hands or eyes and still sin in your heart, right? This is obviously something you need to deal with in your own heart and life I'm reminded of a a friend of mine back in Anchorage. He's a kind of a a fellow um just brother in the Lord, and he has recently gone blind in one eye. And I watched him because I've always thought, you know, if to lose an eye is a significant thing or to lose any of your sensory um functionality is is threatening, he's a hunter. Uh I was with him in his yard and his wife I think threw keys to him, you know, just across the yard, like, hey, here's some keys, and his depth perception was gone. And so the key sort of fell in this way. And I loved what he said with that. Well I guess that's going to be different from now on. Because he loves the Lord. He he he's able to, in his mind, in his own unique way Not to feel sorry for himself, but to say, God's in control, and the Lord matters more than my physical body The physical eye is an amazing um thing. It the the material, according to an ophthalmologist I talked to, is made of really, really hard, hard, durable material, the white material of your eye. He likened it to concrete. I don't understand how that plays out, but the eye's an amazing thing. It's it's focusing, it's it's a lens that's natural, it's it's colorating things and interpreting things to our own minds But all of the greatness of the I is met with the reality of hell here, to where we would say that's even expendable to me. If I'm jeopardizing my soul. In other words, I need to go for it. I need to be willing to do whatever it takes to be right with God. The Old Testament law Lex Kaliana said an eye for an eye, and in a sense, in the spiritual sense, we are saying, look, I'm willing to give up my eye for this sin. I'm willing to truly repent of what's going on in my life because of this reality. The imagination is Amazing, isn't it? Nowadays. I I've got a son in law that I've s we've talked about who's studying aeronautical engineering. He talks about rockets, you know, sort of being flung around the moon to get momentum to go farther out into space. He's working through those things. I know that you guys um you know, you're located near um where a lot of people are engineering rockets and and things around here. You have rockets that take off and land in the same place in the same way that they took off now. It's incredible. Our grandkids might, you know, I can't imagine why colonize somewhere on another planet or something. That would just be dumb. Just weird. I just I That's where the imagination goes wrong, but the imagination is fascinating because as it seems like today as quickly as someone can dream something up, they're actually doing it Uh my wife went in um on a Christmas gift with uh with our daughter um for our son in law and bought him a drone and you know I he's sitting there at the kitchen table and he's flying over Anchorage, you know, looking at things on his iPhone like two hours later. I would never have a drone. If I had a drone, I would just crash it immediately, you know? But but with the imagination we need to be serious about dealing with it Not rationalizing. It is um something that we're entitled to use sinfully. We need to deal with it dramatically Some of you might remember an illustration of uh an outdoor adventurist named Aaron Ralston. He believed himself invincible several years ago. He he said he could do anything, um, even all by himself Outdoors was his second home. April 26, 2003, he went to Blue John County or Canyon in Wayne County, Utah. He didn't tell anybody where he was going. He's walking along and he went right down into a crevice. And he went down and a small boulder followed him down that crevice, deep connect um crevice connecting to the bottom there, and he was virtually unharmed, but his right hand was wedged between the boulder and the crevice wall so he was stuck. He had supplies on him, he could feed himself, but he could not get his arm out to free himself to climb back up out to safety. And he was sitting there and he was he was hoping someone would remember where he was. He had come across two women, Christy and Megan, who he he had seen earlier that day, but nobody was coming. He wouldn't check back into work until about three more days And so his boss Brian wouldn't come looking for him. Um, as time went on, he then began to deal with the situation he was in, as food was running low. Extreme weather could be coming. And at that moment of clarity, he began to say to himself, I could die. He began to consider his mortality. He was filming on his cell phone somehow a goodbye message. He was um just sort of going in out in and out of lucidity. He was thinking about his distant family, how he was gonna lose seeing them A broken relationship with his girlfriend. Well what saved his life? What what what changed him in and and saved him from that moment? And it's simply this He came to realize he had a decision he had to make. He was at a crossroads. You either stayed down in the hole, in the crevice, stuck Or you begin to amputate what is sticking you down there, keeping you stuck there. You either deal with it. Or you don't. You either don't deal with it and you die or you deal with it and live. He began to recognize the fact that his arm was already going to be lost His arm was already a lost cause, so he pulled his blunt pocket knife out just to be completely gross in this kind of sermon. I mean, why am I doing this? But you know, puncture skin You see pumped your skin, gases were loosed, his his arm was kinda jellyfied and he's going through that. But he recognized his dire situation. He was crying out, saying, I don't want to take my own life, I I don't want to stay on here and die. I I want I'm willing to do what it'll take to deal with what has me wedged in sin. Like a Christian, you have to deal with what's wedged you in your heart, down in the pit, the heart adultery, the secret sin. The details are gross and gruesome. He realized that his arm wouldn't be recoverable. When you repent of sin, by the way, and you cut off certain things from your life And you tell someone what's really going on inside in a safe Christian context, and you begin to repent and confess your sins one to another, confess your sins to God. Guess what? What was cheap thrills and excitement for you in a moment was really deadening your soul. And it's like that dead arm in your life. Guess what? You want to cut that arm off anyway. You want it to be gone. You want to be loosed. and freed and ultimately that's what he did just to make this even grosser, um when he came to um cutting his arm and flesh, he came to the bone and realized that the pocket knife wasn't going to go through the bone. So just like in really mortifying sin, he had to make a decision to break the bone, and so he threw his body against the wall and broke the bone and I guess got out. And was saved physically. Hell brings us to this same decision point. This is what we're standing for. We need to preach the gospel and bring it to the crossroads of hell. where people understand what they need to repent of. Today in the Christian circle, people don't even know that lustful intent is a sin anymore that needs to be repented of or that people can be freed from at all. I mean your church is called Hope Bible. This is what gives people hope. True repentance, calling sin for what it is, and dealing with it or the level it needs to be dealt with. It says if your right hand causes you sin, cut it off. It's dramatic work. Why do you do that? You're doing it so you're not thrown into hell, verse 29, so your whole body doesn't go into hell. You're committed to not doing anymore. You're committed to stop starting it up again. You're committed to put the candy bag of your own lust away where you you've been eating one after the other and hating yourself for doing that. You're done with that. Look at verse 29, just back up there real quick. It says if your right eye causes you to sin. What does that mean? You know, there is The physical realm of repentance. Repentance starts in the heart, and we have to kill the sin there. But the fruit of repentance is being willing to not look at certain things anymore. So please hear me to say that the root has to be dealt with, but as you deal with the root, you need to take like make physical decisions in your life. Um and surround yourself with accountability to where your eye won't be tempted to look at certain things or your your hands to touch certain things or to go certain places or to do certain things. You deal with the sin on the inside, it will automatically have a result on the outside. Mortifying sin, I've heard it said this way, is basically starving the sin. You starve it. Romans 8 13, for if you live according to flesh you'll die, but if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. Colossians 3:5, put to death, therefore, what is earthly in you, sexual immorality. Impurity, passion, evil desire, there it is, covetousness, which is idolatry. Now listen to the warning of Colossians. It's the same warning that Jesus had given. On account of these things, the wrath of God is coming. So when you come to that point where you're going to sin, you say, I'm going to put this in the greater picture of hell, the greater picture of God's wrath. I'm going to put this in in the context of the fact that God sees in my heart And he's given me a way out. He's given me the pocket knife. I've got the dull knife. And I'm going to use the word of God right now and I'm going to quote Scripture. The men on Saturday morning were quoting 1 Thessalonians 4, this is the will of God that you do not commit sexual immorality. That each person would know how to possess his own vessel in sanctification and honor. Memorizing passages like these to starve your sin and to put on a a truth in your heart And your mind is the path forward for life. Why do I bring all this up? I'm bringing this up to say, please, as a church, continue to keep the pulpit hot. For the sake of people's hearts and lives. People need to come to church and and sense That there's a heaven and there is a hell, and that this the decision is Christ or the world Christianity is binary. You are either a Christian or you are a non-Christian. You are a believer or you are a non-believer. You are on the narrow road. um that leads to life or you are on the wide road that leads to destruction. You are either a sheep or you are a goat. You are either under the Son of God or you are a son of Satan. It is one or the other Blurring the lines is just Satan's tactic here through the world system that is invading the church and we dare not do it. We dare not shrink back from coming to our senses and saying there is a reality. That's heaven and hell. I uh so when I was thirty-five, I was driving in Little Rock, Arkansas, and uh as an associate pastor driving around I was thirty-four, I was turning thirty-five, and I um was talking to Judy on the cell phone and and going along and I saw a Mac truck in front of me. It was a big tree barrier on this sort of uh country road. And it was a Mac truck and it was making a left hand turn in front of me. And I, you know, I slowed down and the the the truck went by. And then there was another one that came up. as I was as I was continuing to go and it just acted like it was connected like a choo choo train to the second truck and I didn't anticipate that. It ended up legally being his fault. But um I had to slam on the brakes. and I'm squealing and locking my brakes and and beginning to turn like this and this. And suddenly, and I've been in situations like that before, but suddenly I begin to realize I'm going to hit the side of a Mac truck In my little Saturn. I mean Judy's hearing all of this on the loudspeaker on the phone and it's And we're just going. And I just remember having this very melancholy thought as I'm about to impact the side of the Mac truck. I'm going, Oh, so this is how I'm gonna die? And this is how I'm gonna die. And somehow I I was directed to hit the gas tank on the side. It crumpled, it spun my car around, airbag deployed, and I basically went away unharmed. I got out and I was like I became a little bit charismatic. I was like, Woo! I'm alive! And these two my car had spun around and so I'm facing two old elderly people and they're looking at me like this. And I'm like, Yes. I hugged the truck driver. I'm you know, I'm kind of around there. An ambulance came, the hazmat group came, Judy came in the van, and my older three were our only three at that point and so um You know, Logan gets out, he runs around to give me a hug as like a five year old and Riley came out as a six or seven year old and she saw all the fire engines and all the people in uniform and the lights and she said, This is the best day ever. So I bring that up just to say that moment before impact is really the moment that we all need to have before we choose Satan's path versus God's path. God's path is the way that leads to life. Let's have the joy of the Christian life. Life is messy, it's hard. Um it's not, and this is a MacArthurism. It's not the perfection of our life, it's the direction of our life. We need each other to grow in grace together. And um, let's stand firm for truth. I love this church because it loves God's word And stands for truth. We're a no-compromise Christian here and abroad, and we want to stand for God's glory for the sake of the souls of men and women who need Jesus. Let's pray. Father, thank you for our time together. Thank you for Hope Bible Church. Thank you for the edification of the saints and Lord the Ministry of the Word of God. We thank you for the grace and truth of Christ. And as we sing, I pray that we would find great encouragement. And if there are those here who do not yet know you, who have not truly repented or are confused about repenting, I pray that you would grant them the gift. And a grace of repentance in their own life. For the glory of Christ we pray. Amen.