Blast fun Easter Sunday welcome very glorious time as I said, celebrating the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ The Bible's doctrine of victory over death is one of the most important doctrines that the Christian faith has. In fact, there are some doctrines. The Bible says if you deny it, you can't even be a Christian. And so if someone denies Jesus was raised from the dead as one of my pastors did growing up, then guess what? They're not even a Christian yet. You have to believe in that supernatural act of God to reverse death to even be a Christian. I love to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ, maybe more than anything else. Just reminding people and teaching people how they can have a right relationship with God. I'm always grateful when I'm given an opportunity Wherever it may be, a of wedding or funeral, or being invited to speak somewhere or share with somebody in the room in the back just to give the gospel to someone. Do you know the incredible privilege it is to be used by God to lead somebody to faith, knowing that for all eternity they and anyone else they talk to is going to be part of that heavenly course because you took time to talk with him. Do you understand the privilege of that? That God, rather than just booming the gospel from the heavens as he could, decided he would use people like you and me to give the gospel to others. However, there was a report that came out just a few days ago by LifeWay Research And it states this: more than 50% of Protestant church attendees have admitted to not engaging in evangelism in the past six months. More than 50%. In Protestant churches, survey was done. No evangelism in six months. Did you hear that? 2,500 churchgoers were asked back in this past January how many times they shared with someone, quote, how to become a Christian. 55% of respondents said zero. Zero time. Twenty-four percent said they had shared how to become a Christian to someone only one or two times. Only 3% took the highest category that said 16 times or more. So I'm counting that that's 79%, one or two times or less. That's 80% of the church. Barely sharing their faith and the gospel. Scott McConnell, the executive director of Lifeway Research, commented He said, evangelism does not appear to be the priority of churchgoers. The task of making disciples of all nations has not been fully embraced in the American church. Especially by the majority culture. This is in spite of the convenience of having other ethnicities and immigrants from other countries often living in the same neighborhood that we live in. Well there were a couple of bright spots that came out of their research. Most respondents did say they prayed for evangelism opportunities. And most had at least invited an unchurched person to worship at their church in the past six months. That's a start A Christianity Today article, again this year, February 6, 2019, reports on a Barna group research stating this, this will shock you. Forty-seven percent of millennial Christians Say it is wrong to evangelize. Not that they didn't evangelize But that it is wrong to evangelize. Forty-seven percent of millennial Christians It reads, the twenty somethings and thirty somethings now on deck to carry on the faith say it's quote wrong to share one's personal beliefs with someone of a different faith in hopes that they will one day share the same faith. End quote Huh? My how things have changed When people ask, does the pluralistic environment of the schools and society and the media rub off on the opinions of churchgoers? Well you have your answer. Yes, it does, unfortunately. When politicians from both parties stand up and say, all religions are great, they're all good, they're all nice You can't believe that. Can't believe that. That is Satan's message to shut you up If you believe it, you're already lost the battle. And maybe there's too many people that believe that and that's why they're not sharing your faith. Without Jesus Christ, the soul will be lost for eternity. There's no salvation in Buddhism. There's no salvation in Islam There's no salvation in Mariolatry. There's no salvation in Taoism, Confucianism, Shintuism, Paganism, or whatever it is. There's salvation in one name, right? No other name given under heaven by which we are to be saved, Peter said in Acts chapter four, verse twelve. One hundred percent of Christians in every church, regardless of their denomination, should know it is an immense privilege to lead another soul to Christ. Out of false and vain worship to serve a true and a living God. Amen? By the way, that's our vision in this church. Not just to equip our own people, but to impact other churches. And you can see with this kind of thing going on, people need solid doctrines so they can teach their people properly, so that we can reverse these kinds of trends That's what Christian education is, to educate people that they would really and genuinely know it is Christ and Christ alone. We cannot be unconcerned about the spiritual drift going on in other churches. We cannot just do our own thing here. We have to be concerned about the trends. Listen, it is not wrong to evangelize. It is wrong not to evangelize. And if you get nothing else from what I said today, you're gonna go look at your Phones for the rest of the time and all of that and draw squiggly lines. Please just remember that. Okay? Okay, good? That's good. Some people are going to be baptized because somebody evangelized them, right? You are failing your Savior, you are failing your local church if you are not at least attempting to give the gospel to people. Listen, they don't want to listen, that's on them, right? I mean I go out, I start talking to people, hey what do you do? I'm a pastor. I mean they shut me down quick. They're out of there, you know I mean nothing I gotta do about it, it's my BO, I don't know what it is, it's it's just I said I'm a pastor and they run for the door, you know, that's kind of it. But some of them want to know. Some of them start confessing sins. It's kind of funny, you know. I said, I'm a pastor, I'm not a priest Yeah. But they feel the need to tell or if they start touting their religious experience of what they did and start bragging about the things that just I don't need to hear any of that. It is one of the most loving acts that you can do to recognize someone down the street, someone in that cubicle over there is lost. And you're going to put your reputation on the line and risk being mocked by people to go to them and tell them, or even just ask them, do you know what the good news is about Jesus Christ? Do you know the good news No. May I take a couple minutes to share with you? Ah, okay. Well, does that hurt, right? Today we are going to see the joy and the priority of evangelism. through that guy we've been studying for a while here named Philip in the book of Acts. If you haven't already turn to Acts 8, we're going to be down to verse 25. We're going to cover 25 through 40, but you know we won't do it all today And so you're going to be gypped a little bit because we have a two-parter, you'll have to come back for the rest of this. Now I gotta warn you, not every message can be as high and cele celebratory as last Sunday was We're going to have to get down into some details and do a lot of teaching today, so you're going to have to hang with me on that, okay? All right, verse 25 of Acts 8. Let's read through the passage. So When they, that's the apostles, had solemnly testified and spoken the word of the Lord, they started back to Jerusalem and were preaching the gospel to many of the Samaritans. But an angel of the Lord spoke to Philip, saying, Get up and go south to the road that descends from Jerusalem to Gaza. This is a desert road. So he got up and went, and there was an Ethiopian Munich, a court official of Candace, queen of the Ethiopians, who was in charge of all her treasure, and he had come to Jerusalem to worship. And he was returning and sitting in his chariot and was reading the prophet Isaiah. Then the spirit said to Philip, Go up and join this chariot. Philip ran up and heard him reading Isaiah the prophet and said, Do you understand what you are reading? And he said, Well, how could I unless someone guides me? And he invited Philip to come up and sit with him. Now, the passage of scripture which he was reading was this. He was led as a sheep to slaughter. And as a lamb before its shears is silent, so he does not open his mouth. In humiliation his judgment was taken away. Who will relate his generation? For his life is removed from the earth The eunuch answered Philip and said, Please tell me, of whom does the prophet say this? Of himself or of someone else? Then Philip opened his mouth. That's a key in evangelism, by the way. He opened his mouth. And beginning from the scripture, he preached Jesus to him. As they went along the road, they came to some water, and the eunuch said, Look, water! What prevents me from being baptized? And Philip said, If you believe with all your heart, you may. And he answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. And he ordered the chariot to stop, and they both went down into the water, Philip as well as the eunuch, and he baptized him. When they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord snatched Philip away. And the eunuch no longer saw him, but went on his way rejoicing. But Philip found himself at Azatos, and as he passed through, he kept preaching the gospel to all the cities until he came to Caesarea. Now obviously here we have an example of a man full of God's Spirit, led by the Spirit, responsive to the word of God. Dedicated to evangelism. That makes him a great example. Do you agree? Great example. Better example than me. This man is great. That's why, as we talk over the next two Sundays, we're going to try to learn from him and learn how to make the most of our opportunities we get in evangelism. Is evangelism. It's speaking the truth of the gospel to unbelievers With an aim at their conversion to Jesus. That's simple. It's speaking the truth of the gospel about Jesus to unbelievers with the aim, with the purpose that they will be one to Christ in faith. That's what evangelism is. What we learn from this beautiful text is that God wants us to cooperate with the Spirit of God. He wants us to obey the Word of God as He prompts us, motivates us, and commands us to witness. In other words We need to gain a conviction ourselves about the priority of, listen, the priority of spreading the Word of God. The Word of God needs to be spread, and that's a priority of every church. It should be at least. So I could ask you, what is the priority of the church? Answer: Spreading the Word of God. That's a simple conclusion, right? What's the most important thing we do besides worshiping God? Spreading his word, right? We want more people to come to faith. We want more to be better equipped in the truth. We want more doing that so they'll worship God and God can be honored, correct? That is what church is all about. What did Jesus say? All authority in heaven and earth has been given to me. Go therefore and what? Make disciples of who? All the nations, baptizing them, teaching them everything I have commanded you Lo, I'm with you always to the end of the age. That's the church's commission. That's what we're supposed to do. That's not this church's commission. That's every church's commission. That That's Jesus commanding the church to do this. So we have to be dedicated to it. The church's role is not to try to improve the environment. And I'm not against it. If you want to save the baby whales or whatever you want to do, that more power to you. But this is our priority. Yes, we build hospitals and we Feed the poor, that's all important. It communicates the love of God. But more important than all of that is getting the gospel and the doctrines that go with the gospel into the hearts and lives of people. That's what it's about. It's not about solving every societal ill. Every time you read the newspaper or you go to Drudge Report or whatever you read, Hubbington Post, it's all bad, bad, bad, right? We're not going to solve all of that. This is a bad world. It's just bad. It was bad before you were born. It's going to be bad after you die. And the church is not here to solve that. The church is to bring a people out of this world that are saved for God and for Christ and to live before Him, populate His millennial kingdom when Christ returns. That's what it's all about. And so the very important part about that is spreading seed. We had to spread we had to spread grass seed in our backyard this past week, and so um my son was helping me push the little spreader, you know, and there it is, all the seeds Flying everywhere. And you think about it, you're not going to get grass unless you put the seed down, right? You're not going to get any converts unless you what? Put the seed out, right? You're not going to get any well, I haven't won anyone to Christ this pasture. But did you share it with anybody? Can't grow anything, nothing can be born if you're not actually telling anybody anything. Right? I know we get discouraged sometimes because there's so many that won't listen, but there are some that will listen. Well this is what Luke is documenting in the book of Acts. You read through Acts and it's almost like he's just showing you how the word is spreading, how the Word is going here, and how the Word is going there, and the church grew, and more disciples came, and it's all in there. It shows that they took this task of making disciples and spreading the word very, very seriously. Now, in this text here, we see three movements of the gospel, and most of it is around the Ethiopian eunuch. But there's a little bit before and a little bit after. So there's three movements here about the gospel in this text. And the first one is in verse twenty-five. Focus on that first. Verse twenty-five It says, so when they had solemnly testified and spoken the word of the Lord, they started back to Jerusalem and were Preaching the gospel to many villages of the Samaritans. There they are, apostles doing what they should be doing. They're out there witnessing and they're evangelizing. This is really a verse that summarizes what happened at the end of their ministry in Samaria. It's a summation. Philip had gone to Samaria, remember he was fleeing the persecution in Jerusalem like many people were doing. Saul is not yet converted yet, and he's He oversaw the stoning of Stephen, you remember all of that, and and tens of thousands of believers in Jerusalem now are spreading everywhere and as they're going, They're preaching the gospel, and Philip decided he was not going to hide his head in the sand. He was going to get up. He went down to Samaria and he said, This looks like a good place to preach the gospel. And so he did it. And many were converted. Many were converted The apostles hear about it, and they send down Peter and John. They come to endorse the mission and pray that they would receive the Holy Spirit because these were non-Jews And so to show that the non-Jews were allowed into the kingdom, the giving of the Spirit was held back until the Jewish apostles came, laid hands on them, and now they were properly and equally received into the body of Christ. And so now you have Jews and you have Samaritans in one body with one spirit. That's what that was all about. This is the first time that the gospel is advanced beyond Judaism. And it was a glorious advancement for the Church of Jesus Christ. It's dawning on them what their mission is. They're learning as they're going through all of it So now on the way back to Jerusalem, the apostles are evangelizing. Who? Well, there's more Samaritan towns. There's a town, let's stop in there and let's Tell them about Christ. There's another town. So they're going town to town, these little villages, and they're giving the gospel. People would come out of their homes, they would stop with what they're doing with their businesses. This is the way things were done in that culture. This was accepted in their culture. They used what was acceptable in their culture and they proclaimed the gospel and people listened and evidently more and more were believing. This is what they were doing. It is worth repeating that God did not forget these Samaritans. Remember, they were half Jews. They have an ancestry with the northern tribes of Israel, and God had made promises to them too, and even though they had set up false worship on a different mountain and it kind of skewed the religion. God remembered them and brought the gospel to them so they also could be saved. But they had to believe in a Jewish Messiah. They had to eat a little bit of humble pie to receive the gospel. Because as Jesus put it to the Samaritan woman by the well in John chapter 4, when he told the Samaritan woman, You worship what you do not know. That was the Samaritans We worship what we know. That was the Jews. And then he added, Because salvation is from what? The Jews. And that's a stumbling block for a lot of people in the world. They won't come to Christ because it's the Jews who have the message of salvation. Well, not the present Jews. But the Jews back then, Jesus was a Jew, right? And he's a Jewish king. And so salvation comes from the nation of Israel. That's how God designed it. And so they had to believe it that way. But they were freely received into the kingdom. They were now the fellow citizens with the saints, and it was a glorious and happy day for the Samaritans. And here they are taking it to more villages. Now, what I would say to you here, when we look at evangelism, we see the movement of the gospel, we have here a more systematic strategy of evangelism going on. They thought through where they wanted to go. They saw the little villages and they said, We need to go to these villages and we need to evangelize. They did not get an angel appearing to them telling them to do this They did not get a voice of the Holy Spirit telling them to do this. They just took the commandment of Christ and the Word of God. They used their common sense and they said, Hey, if God is opening this up to the Samaritans, let's go village to village, yes? And we can do the same thing. It is proper and is acceptable to God to have a systematic strategy of evangelism. It doesn't have to always be spontaneous. You could sit down and you could have a plan based upon the Word of God and say this is what we as a church want to do in evangelism, but what we think we can do with the resources we have, and we have an example of them systematically doing this evangelism, and that's not unspiritual. That's good. They decided to take the gospel to people. They didn't have any special prompting to do it. So having a cooperative strategy is good. Sometimes we have to make our own opportunities in evangelism. Sometimes God has already told us to go out and do evangelism. We don't have to wait for a little halo to appear over someone's head and to say this is the one to go evangelize. God has already given us an open door. Let me put that another way. God has already given us opportunity for evangelism. Did you know that? Did you know it's not against the law to evangelize in the United States of America? That, my friends, is what you call a huge open door. And who knows how much longer that open door will be there Take advantage of the door while it's there, right? You have an open door. You say they don't like it at workplace. I don't care. If they like it or not, find the appropriate time to do it without not, you know, you've got to do what you're supposed to do at work. Find a way to do it, a lunchtime Bible study, start an FOF class, do something Dessert socials, who doesn't like desserts? Put some flyers out in the neighborhood, invite people to dessert social and show a video and and ask Somebody to be there to help answers answer the questions after a video. This is an open door. That open door is always there for you. It's always there. So take the opportunity, don't wait for some sign to come from God. Go witness. Remember what they did when they were persecuted? Look back at chapter 8 and verse 4. It says, Those who had been scattered went about what? Preaching the word, not going around moaning, oh my goodness, we're being persecuted. Oh no, we better lay low for a while. Listen, they were evangelizing while being persecuted. We're not really yet being persecuted We're being made fun of. We're being told we're homophobic and we're this and we're that. Who cares? Who cares if they don't like us? We like you in here. They don't like you out there, it's okay We like you, most of you. Most of the time. We're friends. Come on in here, all's okay. If they hate you out there, that's alright. We got a lot of friends in here. Just learn to To have a little bit of thick skin, who cares if they don't like you, right? Come on, think about it. So what do we do? If going door to door in our culture is no longer culturally acceptable, and in most neighborhoods it's not Then we don't do that. If there's a neighborhood where it's acceptable, we do that. If if having Bible studies at certain times works, we do that. One of the big open doors we have right now is just service projects People love to be served out in the world. If we serve them, show the love of Christ in some way, like we did with a care day, like we could do with a car wash, 101 ideas. By servicing people, people's ears are open and they come and they want to listen. People who are hurting in the hospitals and prisons, there's an open door for evangelism there as well Reaching out to internationals. Do you know how many internationals are in our area? Many of them are wide open to want to hear what Christianity is all about. And they're right here. We just need people willing to organize it and do it The world loves education. We can have educational times. They love things for children. They love to learn things. We have a creation conference going. We can use that. Invite people. They'll come out. They'll hear about creation science. They'll also hear the gospel. That's what we can do. These are things that have been given to us. Technology. Any form of technology. How about this? How about just making friends With a next door neighbor, with a guy three cubicles down there, looks a little bit lonely. Make friends with him. Spend a little time with him. You don't have to share the gospel with him the first time you meet with him, just be a friend to him Love them. And then as the Lord prompts you, and as you feel you have an open door and it seems he's somewhat open, as you talk about your own life, just ease right into talking about your church and what you do and the gospel It's a great way to share the gospel systematically, just making friends. Please notice here the emphasis, and we're still just in verse twenty-five, in case you didn't realize that. We're still in verse twenty-five. But notice the emphasis on the importance of the Word of God. It says they went on solemnly testifying. That word in Greek, diaturomi, is a very strong term. I mean it's like you know what it means to give a testimony, right? You say something that's important to you, but then when it's solemnly testifying, right? There was seriousness to this And they were realizing the words that they were giving were the word of the Lord, and it was very important. It shows sort of the weight and the gravity of evangelism. What we do is not flippant. It is the word of one who sits on an eternal throne and will decide the final destiny of every man, woman, and child who's ever lived. That's the word you have in your mouth. The term is used in Acts 2. 40. It says Peter solemnly testified and kept on exhorting them: be saved from this perverse generation. The word of God is dead serious. Men may spurn it, but if they do so, they lose their souls. Listen, those who turn up Their nose at the good news of Jesus will be assigned a place with all the damned. That's how serious this is. So handle the word of God with care. It's dynamite. It has power. Life and death are in the power of the tongue, particularly when the tongue is talking about the gospel. Listen to what Paul thought about spreading the gospel. This is from 2 Corinthians chapter 2 and verses 15 through 17. He wrote about his own apostolic office. He said, we are a fragrance of Christ to God among those who are being saved and among those who are perishing. To the one, an aroma from death to death. To the other, an aroma from life to life. And who is adequate for these things? So if you sit in there saying, I don't feel adequate to do this, it sounds too serious. Paul said that Who is adequate for this? And then he goes on, we are not like many peddling the Word of God. In other words, they're getting rich off of the ministry. But from sincerity, but as from God we speak in Christ in the sight of God. Our consciences are open. Our motives are open. We go out and we tell people about Christ. It's serious. For some people it's an aroma that spreads death to death. With other people, it's an aroma that spreads life to life. That's how serious this is, and they were engaged in this It's also called not only solemnly testifying but spreading the word is also called preaching the gospel. Preaching the gospel, and you say, but preaching's from a pulpit when you're talking to lots of people, no, because it says that Philip was preaching the gospel, right? to one person, right? So you can be there sharing, we call it sharing, talking, right? And that's preaching the gospel, right? Preaching the gospel. Yangalidzo, it actually we got our word evangelized from that word. It refers to proclamation. Getting it out. We're not here sharing our feelings about God. There's a message. It came in history. It's an objective message with signs and wonders that have testified to it that was laid down at the beginning. It is The Christian gospel that's been here for 2,000 years, it doesn't matter how we feel about it. It matters that it's true. And we're here to herald that. You're here to be a mouthpiece for that. You're not here to tweak it so people will like it. You're here to give it the way God gave it. You know, they say a good evangelist is like a waiter. He's not like a chef. The chef's back there, he's making and cooking whatever he wants to cook, right? It may be good, it may be bad. Hopefully it's good. Now I'm gonna get you all hungry, you're thinking about food now. But a waiter just picks up what was cooked, right? And he does what with it? He brings it to the table. If he messes with it between the kitchen and the table, you like he wants your money back That's all we are. We're taking a message from God. It's his message from Christ, and we're delivering it to people. Listen, it was an urgent message in the first century. How much more urgent do you think it is now in the twenty-first century? Do you know the date of Christ's return? I don't either. But I do know this. We're 2,000 years closer now, right? This is an urgent message. It's to go out. And because of the proclamation of the gospel, the word was spreading in Samaria, just as it did in Jerusalem. Remember, the uh Sanhedrin was was freaking out about the apostles, angry at them, because they they filled Jerusalem with this teaching. And now it was flowing through Samaria. Please notice church growth is not something that is bad. Church growth is the will and the work of the Holy Spirit, and it's something we are to be cooperating with Him in regards to this. So there you have it, a plan and a systematic approach to evangelism. And God uses that. Hooray for the apostles for doing that now. Now we see them working together, and that's good. And next we're going to see sort of the opposite. An unplanned, spontaneous evangelistic encounter. And I think this is kind of exciting too. So we come to our second part, and this is the big chunk of the passage. Second, the gospel is preached to the Ethiopian eunuch. And this is going to take the bulk of our time. And even in the next week. It says, But an angel of the Lord spoke to Philip, saying, Get up and go south to the road that descends from Jerusalem to Gaza. This is a desert road. So Luke's narrative stays focused on this this man, this precious man named Philip. Do you remember who he was? He was one of the seven The deacon-like men, the apostles chose to take care of the problem with the Greek-speaking widows. He was a man full of the Spirit, full of wisdom. He was a trusted man by the congregation in Jerusalem. And God now singles out this faithful servant, Philip, for a very special evangelism encounter. This is the first of three Conversion accounts to individuals in the book of Acts. And this has been arranged by Luke, the author, purposefully this way. The first person that gets converted to Christ here is the Ethiopian eunuch in chapter 8. The second one that is converted to Christ is Saul, who becomes the Apostle Paul, and that's in chapter 9. The third who is converted also very significantly is Cornelius in Acts 10. Three conversions that have wide Spreading effect on how the Word of God would move beyond even the bounds of Israel. Each of these stories shows the launching of widespread evangelism. Saul becomes Paul, and Paul launches the Gentile mission, which starts in chapter 13 of Acts into chapter 14. In fact, we follow his mission from chapter 13 all the way to chapter 28 of Acts. Cornelius becomes the first Gentile convert and and the Jerusalem church understands that the gospel is now available to Gentiles and that opens a world of converts that ends up being like ninety-nine percent of all the converts to Christianity. And this Ethiopian eunuch, even though we don't know what exactly happened to him after here, we can surmise from the fact that he was chosen that he would be the first guy that would be bringing the gospel into Central Africa. And God was going to have the gospel spread into that continent as well through this man. With this in mind, please notice it starts with an angel. I like this. An angel appears. To Philip and speaks to him. Now we can't be Sadducees, brothers. We have to believe in the existence of angels, okay? The Sadducees didn't believe in angels, and that's why they were Sadducees. That's a terrible joke, isn't it? But there are angels. You haven't heard that one? Come on. There are angels and angels if you study what they do in Scripture, they do what Hebrews chapter 1 verse 14 says. They're ministering spirits, so they minister. And they're sent out by who? By God? To render service for the sake of those who will inherit salvation. What does that mean? That means they're kind of aware of who's going to be coming to Christ and they work behind the scenes usually invisibly to make sure the gospel continues to go. That's right. If you get an evangelism opportunity, even if you don't see an angel, you may have been touched by an angel You may have had an angel working behind the scenes to open up an opportunity for. This time an angel actually appears to Philip. And angels are here to aid the spread of salvation. To all those that are elect, all those that will inherit salvation. They're servants of the Word of God. And the angel gives a command in verse 26. He tells them, get up and go south to the road that descends from Jerusalem. to Gaza. Now you you have to kind of think about the geography here in Israel a little bit. Um he's being told to go A number of miles to the south here in Israel. And uh he's being told to get up and leave. Now we're not told whether Philip went with the apostles back to Jerusalem or whether he was still in Samaria. I think he stayed in the north in Samaria because of the persecution that was going on in Jerusalem. We are told where he went though and where he was supposed to go, and that is to to Gaza. Gaza. Does that Name, ring a bell. Sometimes you even hear it in modern day in the news. You may remember that it was one of the five cities of the Philistines in the Old Testament that were along the coast The Mediterranean Sea and the coast that was there, they were right snug up against the coast there. And um the ancient city of Gaza that was in the Old Testament was destroyed in ninety-eight to ninety-six BC by Alexander Janius. But the Romans, as they did a lot of other things, they rebuilt that city on a different location. The little explanation statement that you have there, this is the desert, scholars debate Whether or not that refers to the city being out in the desert means the ruins of the city, or whether it's talking about the road being out in the desert. They don't know which one it applies to. Most likely it refers to the road. And what that would mean is that Philip was being taken from these villages in Samaria where there were a lot of people And he was told to go out on a road that was actually, because Gaza was on the border of the desert, this road was actually in the desert. And I had to sit and think about that. From our human perspective, that doesn't really make a lot of sense. I mean this is a head scratcher. Philip is in the midst of a very successful evangelism campaign. Would you agree? He's broken down the barrier between Jew and the hated Samaritans, an incredible step forward for the gospel. Samaritans are accepting the gospel in math, and he was the key man that broke it all down. But now he's being told by an angel, get up and leave this. Go to the desert I think it would be very easy to question the wisdom of God in this. But notice verse 27, what does it say he did? He got up and what? He went. Philip did not question God's directive. Now that's a problem with a lot of us. We question God's wisdom about things, how he works in our lives. I do Of course I feel foolish after I question God because you know that He's wise and we're not wise and all of that. But because we're not as responsive to the Word of God, responsive to what God is doing providentially in our life, sometimes we question it rather than seeing opportunity in it. Do you hear me? He got up and made the trip and made the most of the trip. He interrupted what he was doing. He was a pliable guy. He was a teachable guy. He was not stubborn like the mule Philip knew that responsiveness to the Word of God meant that he had to take some action. And so next we see that Philip meets this Ethiopian eunuch, the latter part of verse 27. Notice the rest of the verse that says, There was an Ethiopian eunuch, a court official of Canais, the queen of the Ethiopians, who was in charge of all of her treasure, and he had come to Jerusalem to worship And he was returning and sitting in his chariot and was reading the prophet Isaiah. What a great setup for evangelism for Philip! See, when you follow the Lord and trust him, it may seem strange, but he will lead you into fruitfulness. That's what he's being led into. What a very interesting guy this Ethiopian eunuch is. Luke actually takes a little bit of time to let us know, I would consider a good bit about this guy. And I think understanding him a little bit more may help you to appreciate why an angel was sent from heaven to make sure that this guy in particular was evangelized. Do you ever wonder how it is that God can elect people to salvation? What about the fact that they need to be evangelized? Well, here's something to help you out. God not only elects some people to salvation He elects the means to get someone to bring them the gospel, to bring them that salvation as well. And when you understand that he he elects not only the ends, but also the means, you realize that it all works in harmony. And so an angel was dispatched for the sake of this man. Pretty important guy. What do we know about him? Seven things. You can write it down if you want to. First, he was an Ethiopian. That's obvious. Ethiopia in ancient times was not located exactly where you would see it on the map today. Ancient Ethiopia is called Kush. In the earlier parts of the Old Testament at least, such as in Genesis chapter 2 and verse 13. By the way, you may remember Moses was remarried after Zipporah died. Zippurah was uh a Middle Eastern woman, but it says in Numbers chapter 12 and verse 1 that Moses married a Cushite woman. What does that mean? Moses married a black woman Moses married and had a black wife from Cush because Ethiopians were black, and Cush was the same area. Ancient Ethiopia is where modern-day Sudan is in Africa. Which is uh just west of modern-day Ethiopia. They border each other, and just south of Egypt, right along the Nile River, which is very, very long. You just keep going deeper into Africa, and you eventually came to Cush In those days it was the kingdom of Nubia. The capital city of Nubia was Mero, and it was way back up the Nile River past several of the cataracts. See, it was not just the Egyptians who were flourishing in Africa in ancient times. Ethiopia also had a long and a prosperous kingdom. From the 8th century BC to the 4th century A. D. , that's 1,200 years this empire existed in Africa. The Romans and the Greeks in their various writings were fascinated with Ethiopia. They considered it one of the spots that they called the ends of the earth. Now when we think of the ends of the earth, we think of, I don't know, Fiji. Or or you know, uh Chile or something like that. I don't know, something far away from us, but from the Roman Greek kind of mindset, way deep into Africa, as far as they knew existed That would have been Nubia. That would have been the Ethiopians. They would consider that the ends of the earth. Or a place like India would have been considered the ends of the earth to them. So Christ said the gospel was to go to the ends of the earth. These are the kinds of places that they were thinking of. And so uh the angel had Philip go way out of his way to make sure this black man was evangeli. In fact, it is well documented by the Greeks that the Ethiopians were black-skinned. It's even hinted at in Jeremiah 13, 23, where it talks about the Ethiopian skin color being different from the Israelis' skin color. By the way, I also looked this up. Guess who has the largest population of modern-day Ethiopians in the entire United States of America? Of course you know what the answer is going to be, right? Washington, DC. That's right. The largest number of Ethiopians are right here. Some thirty-five thousand Ethiopians live in our area. They're the second largest population of Africans in America today. The American University Radio article in 2016 noted this. It said The Washington region is home to the largest concentration of Ethiopians outside of Africa. Ethiopians in DC began opening shops and restaurants in Adams Morgan and Columbia Heights and when the rents got too expensive, the Shaw area. I don't know where that is. Today, the largest concentration of Ethiopian businesses are in Silver Spring, Maryland, and to a lesser extent, Alexandria, Virginia. So God has laid this opportunity right here in our back door, right here, to reach Ethiopians for Christ. Second thing about this man is he was a eunuch. This is not pleasant to talk about, I know. Sometimes this term just simply meant something like we would say a court official, but its original meaning and the meaning that it has here because it's conjoined with the statement that he was an official means that he was castrated. This rather radical act for a man to do was so that he could be ministering in a privileged position with royal women or those associated with royalty without the temptation of having sex. We read about a eunuch in Esther chapter two and verse three. It says, Hegi or Heggai, the king's eunuch, who is in charge of the women. and let their cosmetics be given to them, he wa he had to be a eunuch as well. Of course, if you're a eunuch That made life a little bit tricky, didn't it? It made it a little bit different. You can imagine he was ostracized and made fun of. It gave him special challenges, social outcasting that he would not others would not normally have And so he had to deal with all of that. The third thing we learn about him is that he was privileged to serve Candace, the queen of the Ethiopians. Now I like the name Candace. But you need to understand that the name Candace is not a name, it was a royal title, like Pharaoh. Pharaoh is not the name, you know. Pharaoh's the title, or Caesar. The Ethiopians actually did have kings. But they were considered to be incarnations of their sun god. And so actually it was the queens that ran everything in the empire. And they were called the Candace, something like what we would say the Queen Mother. And so even the names of these candasses have been unearthed in archaeology. By the way, that adds a little more credence again to how accurate Luke is in his history here. The fourth thing we learn about this man Is in Candace's court. He was a court official. And he was actually in charge of all of her treasures. This is a very important man. This was a trusted man. This is a man that handled the finances for a kingdom. And so this was a man being trusted probably was an ethical man. And that also probably means he was a very rich man. He had means. He had means to take a very, very long and arduous trip. Today we might say he was the minister of finance. That's kind of the kind of position that he would have. More importantly, and this is kind of where the whole text is going, number five, we learned that he was a worshiper of the God of Israel. He had taken a trip that would take him some fifty or sixty days in a chariot. One way. Then he'd have to return. It's a two month trip. Oleven hundred, twelve hundred miles, something like that, to go from Moreau or any vicinity around there and get all the way to Jerusalem. Using whatever means he had, because he wanted to worship the God of Israel. Isn't that amazing? He came to worship. He came to worship God at the temple in Jerusalem That's a problem. Because according to the law of God in Deuteronomy chapter 23 and verse 1, eunuchs are not allowed in the main building to worship God. God would not have any animals that had spots on them offered as a sacrifice, and no priests that had Mars or anything like that were allowed, any deformities Nothing like that was allowed in the presence of a holy God to teach the Israelites their God was a perfect God. And so this man who traveled that whole desk distance, guess what? He didn't get to go in the temple. At best, he got to go into the court of the Gentiles, or he'd have to worship in a synagogue, but I'm sure he got to see the temple And it must have thrilled his heart because Herod's Temple was one of those great edifices of the ancient times. It was a beautiful, stunning uh building. Now, because he was a eunuch, it also means that he was not allowed to be a Jewish Jewish proselyte. He was not allowed to convert to Judaism. He was allowed to worship the God of Israel. He was like a God fearer, but he had to remain on the fringes of Judaism according to the law of God. Remember, the law of God Now I want to add this in case you're feeling very sorry for the eunuch That in God's mercy, there's a passage in Isaiah chapter fifty six, verses three through five, where God makes an explicit promise to the eunuchs that they will be allowed in full scale into the kingdom in Israel in the millennial kingdom. God promises to remember the eunuchs in that passage. Isaiah 56, 3 to 5 So we may ask, how is it that an Ethiopian, some 1200 miles from Israel, 1200 miles from Jerusalem, came to be a worshiper of the God of the Hebrews? It's not too hard to figure out actually. You remember what happened to the Israelites when they were disobedient to the Lord. God sent them out of the land, right? And they went out of the land and they were scattered everywhere they went. Well a lot of the Jews, when they left the land, this was before the times of Christ, they settled in Alexandria, Egypt. There was a very strong population of Jews in Alexandria, Egypt. In fact, because Ethiopia and Egypt were connected by the Nile River, it was a very easy trip down the Nile for the Ethiopians to get to Egypt. contact through trade and through diplomacy and all the rest of that would have been common. And the Ethiopians would have heard of the Jews and they would have heard of the God of the Jews as well. In fact some people believe, and I can't confirm this is true or not that the queen of Sheba was actually from Ethiopia. There's a whole book written about this as well, and that she was a black woman as well. But the Ethiopians had contact with the rest of the world, and through that contact they came to know of the God of Israel. Just like in the times of Jesus we read about wise men coming from the east, and they settled in Jerusalem and said, Where is he that was born king of the Jews? And they lived thousand miles or more away So also to the south people had heard of the God of Israel. The ancient times were connected through various trade routes, and so news would spread and they would know about the God of Israel. And there was this connection between Nubia and Egypt in those days. There's some archaeological evidence that suggests there may have even been a community of Jews in Ethiopia itself. And so that's fascinating as well. Now I gotta hurry because we're out of time. The sixth thing that we learn about him is that he was on his way back to Ethiopia seated in his chariot. So he's done his worshiping, he's traveling home, he has a copy of the scriptures, which means he's a rich man, because not everybody has a copy of the scriptures back then He's in a chariot that could be a military chariot. It could it could mean something of a lesser kind of a chariot. Certainly it was large enough to hold at least three people, the driver and the eunuch and Philip, probably more And with the worship of God in his mind, he's reading a text of a prophet from Israel. His heart is captivated with God. He wants to worship him, and he's trying to understand this, and it shows how hard some of the prophets were to decipher at times. And he's reading it and he kind of understands what he's saying, but he doesn't know who it's talking about. And that's the seventh thing we learn about him. He's reading the prophet Isaiah He's reading out loud because they read out loud in ancient times. He's not reading to himself. They read out loud because it would aid their uh their memory of the things that they read. And Philip is brought alongside And he would have heard him reading from the prophet Isaiah. And it says while he was walking or maybe trotting alongside outside this chariot. The Holy Spirit now, not an angel, but the Holy Spirit speaks to Philip, and notice the spontaneity of this evangelism, verse twenty-nine Then the Spirit said to Philip, Go up and join this chariot. Brothers and sisters, Philip didn't know what he was doing on that desert road until the Spirit told him this He'd come that whole way and and he was not he was not allowed to know what the plan was. But now he realized with this rich-looking chariot, this man reading from the prophet Isaiah This is why I was told to come to this desert road. I am to go up and I am to speak to this man the gospel of Jesus. And he was given definitive words from the third member of the triune Godhead, the Holy Spirit himself, who is God of God. And we'll have to pick up next week with what the Holy Spirit said to him, why he said it to him, and exactly what comes from this evangelism encounter. But one thing I want you to take home from this is that sometimes God puts you in a situation and you did not plan for it. And all of a sudden there is an opening. And it may be from a strong impression that God gives into your mind, it may be from just the circumstances laid out in your lap. But brothers and sisters, that is an opportunity for evangelism that God gave to you and He gave it to nobody else. He gave it to you because He wants you to open your mouth. He gave it to you because Somehow in God's preparation of you, you're the one that's supposed to talk to them. Don't dial up one of the elders or the pastors and tell us to come witness to them. This is Your responsibility. This is something God gave to you, and you have to be ready and you have to be courageous to open your mouth at that time. There's somebody that might be saved because you open your mouth. Now Philip, we know what happened. Philip is going to open his mouth. Philip is going to get busy giving the gospel. And I want you to know next week that I do believe the entire continent of Africa was opened up To the gospel of Jesus Christ because of this one black man. And that's why God wanted him saved, and God had already predestined for this man to get saved, and he worked out all the details, and the only thing Philip had to do was open his mouth. And sometimes we just need to pray, God give me the courage to open my mouth and come what may. Come what may. And may God move on your hearts. We have 500 people in this church, and we should be sharing the gospel everywhere we go. It is our message, brothers. And please rejoice in that. Please pray about our systematic evangelism and our spontaneous evangelism. That God will allow us to rise up and meet our calling. Father. In heaven. Please, as we study this text, help our convictions about evangelism to grow. And please, Heavenly Father, bless our hearts as we hear of the faith of these about to be baptized publicly. Thank you for your word. May it dwell richly in our hearts. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen