Please pray with the Father, we thank you indeed for this day that you have made and that you have brought these souls to your people. To listen to your word, and I do pray, Father, that uh your servant might have clarity of mind and uh clarity, that I would be able to communicate the truths that you have for us today, for our good and for your glory. Amen. The world is in turmoil. If you read the current events, it's uh Whether it's Fox News, MSN, or any other kind of news around the world, the world really is in turmoil. There is a battle going on, which I believe in my age, as I said, is spiritual, not physical. There's a warfare going on, not just in the Middle East, but even in our country Just about ten days ago, I believe the uh riots in uh Egypt Sue West City. In Cairo, a city of 18 million people, five people were killed, and it's still going on. People, masses of people demanding resignation of an authoritarian ruler was thirty years. You've been in the Philippines uh maybe a year ago there was a bombing in a bus as we as as an action against the government's loss and alternatives they call it Here we see it every day, don't we? So the battle, my friends, the loved ones, is really spiritual. And I believe this morning God impressed upon my heart uh to preach on Titus, which is I believe is timely and appropriate. And uh I got a call from Laura Zender To preach today that was Tuesday. It appears to me that whenever Pastor Lee gets sick, I get to preach. I like that. I don't know, not the part of him being sick You see, I wish he would call me when he's healthy, but I can preach to him. So I can get even But today seriously beloved, if you look around you, this is a great country. Democracy, see? People love democracy But what is democracy? By definition, I think Abraham Lincoln gave a simple yet profound statement using prepositions. A government of the people, by the people, and for the people. Damo, meaning people, Krasya, Greek word, is to rule. Majority rules. But but there's there's a problem with majority ruling over the minority. In fact, D. Carson said that majority many times are wrong. And our God is always right. He is the majority of one. And Christians, believe me, young people. Believe me, we are always the minority. Christians around the world is always the minority. Don't expect laws to be passed like everybody's voting for it. Like a gaving casino I think was approved in somewhere in Maryland where I live. And it's it's sad. You know, they keep most notes are are are passed by public opinions It's public opinion. And many times people are wrong, especially if they are unbelievers. Let's let's review what's happening in this country. Where were you in June nineteen sixty-three? I think in June 1963 Pastor Tom Lake was just a toddler. Uh Pastor Allen probably was about five years old. And dog sleep was probably um was just boring. If you ask me where was I? I was single. You know, enjoying the foolish lives, you know, from thinking I was actually twenty-three. Twenty-two or twenty-three at that time. And uh I met a little girl at one time and I told him my age says, Sir, you are old I am old. But I believe in God's grace, I've learned to to appreciate God's goodness of keeping me healthy. Uh all these years. Let's let's let's look at the year June uh I don't recall the exact if it's June 1953. I got this article from uh actually from uh Good Street Good Newspirit. com In June of nineteen sixty-three, okay? It is called The Day America Rejected God Keep that in your mind. In June of nineteen sixty-three, the Supreme Court upheld the argument of the atheists, Madeline Murray O'Hare. And promulgated an etic with ramifications so widespread, it ensued that God would be evicted. From public society across the entire spectrum of the American government system and from the day on to this day, 2011. Not only has prayer being outlawed, God's very name has been declared anathema to the U. S. Constitution. A forbidden to be mentioned in any federal, state, court, city, or municipal context Do they not not just pray your provision? Even cross. In Columbia, I don't see any cross around here, do we? Do we have a cross here? Are we allowed to have a cross? Display of the cross is forbidden. The Ten Commandments are forbidden. Bible is forbidden in public schools. Nativity place are forbidden. Christmas time. In state offices and buildings. Even the mere mention of the names God or Jesus in schools are forbidden In fact, if you think about it, the most offensive name now in America is Jesus. Or God. How sad it is June of nineteen sixty-three. And ten years later, another movement came in. Nineteen seven seventy-three the Roe vs. Weave landmarks was a historic Event that most Christians in America were appalled when this law was enacted. When abortion on demand was legal legalized. And recently, actually in Maryland, I got a letter from email from Pastor Lee Today we have the uh uh another law being in a bill introduced into the Senate for approval of same-sex marriage In the vi in the prison it might pass. So you have this problem Around the world and in our own country. What do you do as a Christian? individually, collectively as a church, what should we do? That's the question. I think Titus is timely. In fact, I was just reading it before they called me. I called it Provides, didn't it? The timing There's no such thing as luck. You coming here is providential to hear this word from God. So Titus is a great epistle. It's one is the shortest epistle among the uh pastoral epistles, including 1 and 2 Timothy. But Titus Obviously it was written by Paul and he uh sent this letter to uh to type to young Titus in the island of Crete. Actually Tartus was was not mentioned his name was not mentioned in the Book of Acts, but he was more mentioned in the in 2 Corinthians and Galatians. And when Paul left Antioch to discuss his gospel with the Jerusalem leaders, he took Titus with him So actually Titus is the disciple and his mentor is Paul. In fact, Paul called him my Uh beloved son, my two son in treat, implying at terms of endearment and a term of Close relationship within as a disciple And from there and from there uh from from Jerusalem he uh he took him with him to Corinth to help the church with its work. And then they went to to Yanamakr briefly. And from this letter, it appears that Paul actually left him To do some unfinished business. And this is where our text is this morning I've learned uh in in in studying the scripture you you have to get the main message. The main theme. Then you have subpoints. What is the main theme of Titus for us this morning? I entitled it God Living. In a godless society. Godly living in a godless society. Better yet Teaching godliness to the church in a godless society. That's what we are doing today. Paul gave us or suggested several steps for us to follow in this day and age. When you study titles and you see the truth, it is so relevant then, it is so relevant now. Isn't it? Have you noticed that? I like that. So here are the steps. First step, or point one He tells Paul tells the young Titus, appoint, affirm, ordain Qualified elders who are able to teach the truth or sound doctrine. You have your Bible tell you Titus 1. Okay? Chapter 1, beginning with verse 5. Remember, in in the Allah of Kreed there are uh false teachers Based on uh uh verses ten to uh sixteen. And and these people uh as as Paul described are rebellious men, empty talkers, deceivers especially those of the si circumcision who must be silenced because they are studying the whole time list teaching things that they should not teach for the sake of sorry gain Verse 12, one of themselves, a prophet of their own, said, Cretans are always liars, evil, beasts, lazy gluttons. This testimony is true. For this reason, reprove them severely, so that they may be sound in faith, not paying attention to Jewish myths and commandments of men who turn away from the truth. All things are pure, but to those who are defiled and unbelieving, nothing is pure. But both their mind and their conscience are defiled. They profess to know God, but by their deeds they they deny him, because being detestable and disobedient and worthless for any good deed. If you look at verse um Verse one I'm sorry, verse five. Then Paul says to Titus I love you increase that you would set in order that what remains an appointed well I'm sorry appoint elders in every city as I directed you. The word appoint there appears to unilateral, is it? It's a fish unilateral as if um he's doing on his own. He's not getting any counsel from anyone. He just speaks up people like a presidential would appoint someone. But in the context of this and the other passages of the scripture, I believe the uh the proper understanding of this word of point is it's more like an old uh affirmation Like um Pastor Tom with Lee would select someone like me and then the congregation will he will affirm it and and then the uh uh you know it will be later on approved by the by c by the congregation. So it's a step of selecting a a a possible qualified elder in any church. This this is my point here. So I would I would perhaps this is a better way of saying it appoint a firm and ordain qualified elders who are able to teach the truth of God. You see. And the word elders there is plural. Have you seen have you noticed that? Otherwise That's the idea of plurality of elders in a given church. The church government is important, by the way, in the New Testament. This is how how we develop through the years, centuries, get Presbyterian where elders rule, congregational where you the majority rules like a dem democracy. There's the one that's balanced, which is I believe is scriptural. You have plurality of elders, and you have the congregation working together. The congregation most of the time would listen to the godly advice of the uh of the elders, say uh fifteen elders If you have fifteen godly elders who is right to be God, it is hard to what? To oppose them. There's no reason to oppose them. So the the the qualification is so clear here that if the church has godly leaders Usually the congregation in all their humility and meekness will tend to obey. Because they are there are examples of God's faithfulness to the church. So Titus here actually appoint, in a sense, affirm and ordain elders. in different towns for the churches of the island of Creed. And the qualifications there, I don't have to read it to you. I just mentioned that before we go to our own text. One thing I I have to mention though the uh the The false teachers actually were there where Titus was. And Paul used harsh words, strong words. Like reprove them severely. I mean he can't you can't get any stronger than that, can you? Fuck if you look at the epistles and the other uh letters of Paul, there's always uh false textures in heresy. In all the churches in Galatia you got Galatianism, Judaizers. In Colossian you have agnostic heresy. Even in the Corinth, the very carnal church, even here in Titus, even in Timothy Why is that? That's the world here. That's the world right there. Remember the story of the uh the parable in Matthew? I was telling Pastor Lick, but I don't know the chapter or book, I'll say it's somewhere in the Bible. Somewhere in Matthew, I believe there's uh there's uh the uh the sowers see the good seed. And later on, the enemy saw the bad thing. Remember that? And the workers were concerned. Master, Lord. The enemies have sown goods, you know, bad seeds on top of the good seeds. What should we do? And the Lord said, let them grow. Don't, you know, let them grow. They look alike in the beginning, don't they? Perhaps everyone is carrying a Bible. Everyone looks holy. But only God knows in the end who who are his and who are the Tyrrhs. I pray today that you are the wheat of the Lord, not the terrorist, not deceived by some self uh egotistical knowledge. Which is not of God. So this is part of the problem of the church. They have problems externally from the government, at the same time they have internal problems. I would rather do deal with the external problem than the internal problem, would you? I would do it. And so here We come to the second point, or the second step of chapter two, verses one to ten. It's all about teaching. The second point is this teach the older and younger sound doctrine. You can go through that. Chapter 2, verses 1 to 10. Remember the first uh step is appoint elders, affirm them who are qualified to teach the truth of the sound doctrine. The second step, appoint, rather, teach the older and the young people sound doctrine. That brings us to our Text this morning, verses two eleven to uh chapter three, verse eight, which is step three. Teaching the role of grace incarnate in promoting God's works among God's people. That's step three. Teaching the role of grace in promoting God's works among God's people. It sounds simple, but it is it is really deep. Let's let's read it starting with verse eleven. Listen, for the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation to all men, instructing us to deny ungodliness and worldly desires, and to live sensibly, righteously, and godly in the present age. Looking for the blessed hope and the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior, Christ Jesus, who gave Himself for us to redeem us from every lawless deed. and to purify for himself a people for his own possession, zealous for good deeds. Distinct speak and exhort and reprove with all authority, let no one disregard you. Chapter 3 verse 1. Remind them to be subject to rulers, to authorities, to be obedient, to be ready for every good deed. To malign no one, to be peace, peaceable, gentle, showing every consideration for all men For we also once were police, ourselves disobedient, deceived, and slave to birch, lust, and pleasures, spending our life in malice and envy, hateful, hating one another But when the kindness of God, our Savior, and His love for mankind appeared, He saved us, not on the basis of deeds which we have done in righteousness, but according to His mercy by the washing of our generation. and renewing by the Holy Spirit, whom He poured out upon us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior. So that being justified by his grace, we would be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. This is a trustworthy statement. And concerning these things, I want you to speak confidently so that those who have believed God will be careful to engage in good deeds. These things are good and profitable for men, but avoid foolish controversies and genealogies and strife and disputes about the law, for they are unprofitable. And worthless. Reject a factious man after a first and second warning, knowingly that such a man is perverted and his singing beings So condemned the money. If you look closely at uh verse eleven, apparently the grace of God, that statement is actually refers to our Lord Jesus Christ. But the grace of God was the grace of God has appeared. So the Peter says really but the first Adam. The first Adam. God in the flesh. God incarnate. The incarnate God. John McCarthy called him the grace incarnate. Others call him love incarnate. Bringing salvation to all men. Now that phrase is somewhat misleading if you look at it. Some people suggest it's universalism. But God would save everyone. Is that biblical? Of course not. Because if if if that's the case, the doctrine of hell will be have to be removed. Chance 318 you have to remove that, which is what? He who does not he who is who does not believe is already condemned. But we just not believed in the oldest son, begotten Son of God. You also have to remove the verse like Ben Jesus Man saith the Lord, I will repay I believe the proper construction would be: for the grace of God has appeared to all men, bringing salvation. Bringing salvation. In fact, uh if you look closely on the prepositions in any given passage Learned it I learned this from my son uh Steve actually yesterday. He told me that Martin Luther said that Biblical theology is built on prepositions. We call it a prepositional theology. But the word in him, in him, in Christ. In Christ is the most powerful verse there is for me. You see? Christ before me, Christ behind me, Christ in me. I love it, don't you? Huh? In me, in Christ. It's like uh it's like your door, you hinge, your eternal destiny is hinge to Christ. You attach to him, and he's attached to you. It's important now. Jesus, the grace incarnate of God, has appeared When Paul wrote this letter, it was long gone. This was written around 64 AD. Bringing salvation to all men And he goes on to say, instructing us to deny ungodliness, unworldly desires, and to live sensibly, righteously, and godly in the present age. No, the word ungodly, uh in fact the the the the the term ungodliness is only found uh four times in the scripture, and that's interesting. Of course you have ungodly all over the scripture. But the the the noun With the prefix an, actually the opposite of ungallonus is a gallonus obviously. It's only found in uh Four scriptures, uh one of them is Romans uh one, very familiar passage, Romans one eighteen. It says, for the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of man who support who suppress the truth in unrighteousness. You know this verse actually if you look at the at the the the the the the verb suppress this is what's happening now The ungodly is suppressing the truth of God. So much good. Well, ban the Bible. Is it? It's the word of God. You remove the Bible. You ban God from public quorum. Yes, the first thing is the serve God. That's one way of doing it. It's also found where God is also found in 2 Timothy 2. 16 and Romans 11:26. First Pastor 2:12. The other the other uh the other um thing that uh Paul instructed Titus is to deny worldly desires. Ah, that is so such a common thing. In fact, the word worldliness is uh even hardly mentioned now today. Maybe because we're used to it, see. I think the problem for me in my age is uh Uh is not uh worldliness but earthliness. I have a friend uh who is uh former director of uh the New East Tribe Mission. Well he had five sons, all of them are preachers, missionaries. He had a brain tumor. Two weeks before he died, we uh rode together in his van. He was sober. He was only sixty-one. He knew he was dying. I could I I did not forget what he said. I could not forget what he said. Tony, uh it's not that we are worldly. We are earthly. We cling to the Zordan. We cling to our furniture. We cling to our houses, you know. There's nothing wrong with that. But as you get older, you know these temporal things? It it just to me it's vanity. It's passing away I'm gonna leave behind everything that I have to my family, my son especially. My son to Steve. I don't know if Steve's here. And Scott, Russell, everything, including my favorite night time. Did I wake you up there? This is one of my favorite And they leave everything. Let me tell you a funny story here before I get sometimes I get satracked preaching here. But when my father-in-law died We were in a hurry uh and my wife took some shirts and a necktie and actually was the one who It was in the uh service, you know. But my my father by the way stay it was an open casket display. I look at him and I said, hey that's my favorite necktie. It is it was a thirty-five dollar necktie that I had five years. It is so good it was worn out. In fact must Steve my son would kind of hide it and and and right you know use it once in a while I almost removed it. Delive it. I was tempted. I almost removed the necktime. But I said, okay. Papa Abbey, I'll I'll I'll have you have it. Take good job and I'll see you in heaven. That's what it is. We are earthly such of us cling to that necktie. Isn't it But the thing is this, worldliness in the surely sense, Paul is saying here is you are actually in the world. Right. In first John two is a very familiar verse about worldliness. John wrote, do not love the world, nor the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lusts of the flesh, And the lust of the eyes and the boss of pride of light is not from the Father, but is from the world. Beloved This it's nice to live and and and eat and eat and and dine and enjoy the weather, you know, and the company But we belong we don't belong to this world. You don't. When you're twenty-one growing up, even thirty-four. I've been there many years ago. It appears that the life would not end, isn't it? But thirty years went by past. Look, I never thought I would be this age. With God's grace. I've been worldly before too. In fact, uh I have an evident uh before God called me to mystery I have these uh Old classic convertible Mastang, white one. I got a ninety one or ninety-two. It is an evident, a a a proof, a living proof, a dead proof Being an idol of my idolatry in the in the in the night before God called me to ministry and really trying to sell it But the point I'm trying to make is this, everything that you have will pass away. That's all in this, you know. Verse 17 of John 2 says, the world is passing away, and also its lust. But the one who does the will of the Father lives forever. The world is passing away. Then the next uh verse to that titus back to Titus 2 To live sensibly, righteously, and godly in the present age. I don't have to expound those words, those are good words. It's just the opposite of ungodliness. It's really godliness, isn't it? To live sensibly, in a sense, is a a life of uh self-controlled, disciplined, uh sort of an even-tempered guy, you know. You know, you see everything in the right sense, in the proper profess perspective as a Christian. See the world as it is. Enjoy God's creation. Enjoy a nice uh mocaka prapuchina perhaps. Thanking God for that. Believe sensibly, in order, righteously, that's actually a good term to describe your position in Christ and your right relationship with the Lord This is what uh this is really the description of uh Psalm one. Remember Pastor Lick's preach preaching last the last two Sundays You know, blessed is the man who walks out in the council of the ungodly. He says the opposite, is it? It's a stark contrast between the two, godly and ungodly. Here's the other thing that we we should that that separate the godly from the ungodly. If you are godly, you are looking for the Blessed hope and the appearing of the glory of our God of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ. That's a great verse. Are you looking for a sky coming? Are you still earthly? Are you still attached to the things of the world? I think uh we need to I think Church today need to uh be reminded that he's coming again. He's coming again. In fact, many churches today have not even preached about the same kind of Christ now. We we seem to forget that he's coming again Blessed hope. Why is it the blessed? Because it's from God. When you see Him, you'll be happy. See? In fact, when you see Jesus coming again, I think every believer will be excited to a point where you will start with joy. It's almost like an ecstasy beyond compared. You see. It's a spiritual ecstasy. It's not the physical ecstasy that you you feel in in this world. It's a different kind of ecstasy. You know, it's a blissful hope has been realized kind of ecstasy. You see? Because you know when Jesus comes again, it's over. The world history is over. And we're gonna be with him forever. Fix your eyes in Jesus, according to the author of Hebrews 12:20, the author and perfecter of her faith. First John three says, We know that when he appears, that's Jesus, we will be like him. Just as he is, and everyone who has this hope fixed on him, purifies himself, and just as he is pure. The word preifies is interesting. It has something to do with cleansing. You know? We really need to be cleansed every day, isn't it? Because we are defiled every day by the world. We are defiled every day. Um The eyes, first of the eye gate. Watch your eyes, the ears, your senses that God has given us. We are looking many times, not upward, but around us. We we fail to see that God is there many times. And this is dear to me this this verse fourteen is really close to me. Who gave himself for us to redeem us from every lawless deed and to purify for himself a people for his own procession, solace for good days. This thing speak and exhort and reprove with all authority. It told Titus, let no one disregard you. And we come to the uh the final the final uh point which is uh which is really uh relevant today, submission. The last point is you can say it this way God rules in the affairs of man. He rules in the first place. He intervenes. In fact, the stories in uh Daniel. If you read Daniel with King Nebuchadnezzar, you know. Start over our Bible there, Daniel. Chapter four. Remember Daniel his dream? And no one could interpret except Daniel. I mean and you know but but I mean Lebucca is a dream and the Daniel, the prophet One of his uh confident uh interpreter gave the interpretation. Nebuchadnezzar was uh was uh was a proud king. He dreamed in chapter eleven, rather chapter four, verse eleven, that the tree grew large He did you know a tree grew up. A tree grew large and became strong, and its height reached the sky, it was visible to the end of the whole earth. Its foliage was beautiful, and its fruit abundant. And it was food for all. The beasts of the field found shade under it, and the birds of the sky dwelt in its branches, and all living creatures fed themselves from it. It went on. But it was chopped down. It was chopped down. Here's a tree, a big tree, blooming, grew to its full height. With all the food the birds can eat and shade, the birds can dwell in these trenches. Symbol of practice, success. Danya gave him this interpretation Sir, it is you. This was you. We you will be cut cut down, chopped down by the Lord. He ignored. He ignored. Kingdom of Carnessus ignored the interpretation of Daniel. And so in in verse twenty-eight he says, All this happened to Nebuchadnezzar the king. Twelve months later he was walking on the roof of the royal palace of Babylon, and the king of Father said, Is this not Babylon the great which I myself have built? As a royal residence by the might of my power, for the glory of my majesty. See how arrogant he was. Is this not Babylon the Great which I myself have built as a royal residence by the might of my power and for the glory of my majesty? I mean three pronouns my. I, ni ni, my. Immediately You heard a voice from heaven saying, King Novukad Nessar, to you it is declared, sovereignty has been removed from you. It's over. It's over. God rules in the first of man. If you're upset about the candidates being elected who is corrupt, that's God put him there. There's nothing you can do about it. Well what do you do? What do you do? Regardless of Christian We are supposed, according to chapter 3 and Perspective 2 that Pastor Alan read, we are to submit to all authorities. Would you rather live in a place where there's anarchy? Lawlessness? If God place you in a uh a country that's dictatorial, you leave as a godly Christian. You've got place you in uh Indonesia for instance That is really a minority place for Christians. And you have to be you have to go underground, even in China. But here, here, what We're really so free to point you don't know what freedom is, is it Warren Rosby is practical in this point. He says, do not be political activists, but be a radical evangelist. Chair Makar to put it this way, the alternative to radical activism is radical evangelism I mean I admire James Marchali in in in coming here to express desire, invite you folks to to go with him. But many are like don't isn't it? You know the difference between the first century Christians and the Christians of today? Peter and John, read the book of Acts. They'll be in prison for preaching the gospel They're not carrying placards or writing to the you know because Roman is the precursor of democracy. I'm sure they even complain, file complaint to them. They don't do that. They were radical evangelists. That's the answer to the changes that's happening in this country. Evangelism. Make disciple, make disciple Witness to your neighbors. And away you go. Witness at work. You will follow what opposition, of course. I think when things I think we are afraid, we are afraid, we're afraid to offend someone. But Jesus is offensive. But we we have to be careful. When you witness, they're watching us. Especially loved ones who are not saved. They're watching us. But the idea is this, my point is this. Knowing that God rules in the affairs of man, in politics, in any whether it is senator, Ishan Godli. But the president doesn't please you. You put him there for a reason, a wisdom that we don't understand as of now. But we have to respect the office. So Daniel's rather Peter says You know, to subject ourselves all to human authorities in in in Peter chapter two. At the same time Apostle Paul told Titus Subject yourself to all rulers. Same thing principle in Romans 13. All authorities are given by God. Established by God. Of course it is hard to uh to obey a particular law and submit to it when you know it's not biblical. We are not politically correct. Never be Jesus, according to MacArthur, is politically incorrect, and so are you. But having the perspective that God is sovereign, that establish the government where we are. Whether it's monarchical, oligarchy, democracy, totalitarian, God forbid, anarchy. We have to submit to the loss of the land. So Titus has been instructed in review the uh steps in a church, any church I think we can model on this. And the church is starting this church is about twelve years old now, so I'm sure Pastor Tom knows. Uh he has an idea of what exactly i the church needed to get with Pastor Allen. That you appoint elders, qualified elders who can teach the truth of God to rebuke contentions and heresy To teach every member's literature which we're doing in Sunday school and Bible uh studies. Older women teaching the younger women? Older men teaching the men the younger men And keeping in mind that God is in control, He rules the world, He rules the government, that we're here for a reason for a season. Keeping in mind also that the role of grace should be promoted. The role of Christ, the grace incarnate, should be promoted. Amongst us, in promoting good works amongst us, that is We are not going to solve any laws that have been passed right now because since June nineteen sixty three We lost God in the curr in the US Constitution. We had rejected God. May God have mercy on America. Lest we forget, God is sovereign in all things. And no matter what they say, what they do We know that he is coming again. We're looking forward to his coming. Let's keep it in mind. Let's have that watchful attitude of looking for Jesus even now. Because time is near. We don't know when it's coming yet. Let's pray Father, I thank you for this message given us, your servant, and the people that you have placed here to hear your word, your truth. We ask the Lord that we would indeed be mindful and be watchful and be looking for the blessed hope for the appearing of the glorious day when Jesus will be coming again, Lord. We forgive us for our worldliness and even our earthliness. Pray for the young people to keep their minds in proper perspective. in all that they do. Pray for the young parents and raising their children. Pray for the elders and deacons of the church and the leaders of each care ministry. Free Father, you will protect them from the evil one, that you give them wisdom and discernment and like-mindedness that only comes from you, in clothing ourselves with humility for our good and for your glory. In Jesus Name, Amen