The godly man versus the worldly man. Which one are you? And what's going to be the outcome of your life? Good questions to ask when you come to church. Think about God. What path are you on right now? Because that's going to determine where you end. Will it be the path that leads to success, prosperity, joy? Favor. Well one that seems pretty nice now, but leads to destruction, rejection, shame, waste. Let's open again to Psalm 1, because it has the answer. As we conclude, I believe, hopefully, our mini-series here from the Old Testament. Psalm 1, let's read it again. How blessed is the man who does not walk in the counsel of the wicked, nor stand in the path of sinners, nor sit in the seat of scoffers. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law he meditates day and night He will be like a tree firmly planted by streams of water, which yields its fruit and its season, and its leaf does not wither, and in whatever he does he prospers. The wicked are not so, but they are like chaff which the wind drives away. Therefore, the wicked will not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the assembly of the righteous. For the Lord knows the way of the righteous, but the way of the wicked will perish. We left off last time, if you were here and remember, towards the end of verse 3, with the thought that it seems sometimes we who follow God Have the opposite of what this Psalm promises happen to us. Namely, we don't prosper. Our life does not seem like a tree flourishing by streams of water. That's a nice psalm, beautiful poetry, but what does that have to do with my life? And then there's the wicked who could care less about God, and you know that because you know them. They certainly don't meditate on the Bible, seem to prosper. The neighbor down the street. He uses Sunday for himself. It's a great day off, great day for golf, skiing, whatever. He doesn't bow down before Jesus and worship him. He's got a really nice convertible in his driveway. Large, beautiful backyard with a swimming pool. Here he has a really important job, stable in a bad economy. His kids seem nice, wife's pretty. What's more when he goes on vacation, he takes long vacations. He's gone a long time. Europe Throws lavish parties, wears the best clothes, season tickets to his favorite sports team. Meanwhile, you're struggling to get that electric bill paid. How does being godly prosper you? If you ever do eat out, it's a Taco Bell. I actually like Taco Bell. Maybe you hope to get out camping once this year. Your kids, they need shoes badly. And uh you can't remember the last time you went to a ball game. Life seems to be most unfair. Psalms like this can rub the wrong way. And preachers, who wants to listen to a preacher preach from a song like this? But these kinds of thoughts can hurt our faith. They can hurt our confidence in this book There's a real work that goes on in spiritual warfare for your minds and what you think is actually true. And we're going to be getting deep into that today. So we're going to talk about some negative stuff. We're going to talk about unbelievers and wicked people, and we're going to be very honest and true about what God is doing in our lives. And some of this I hope will help your faith. I really do. Because the Bible continues to say things, not only like Psalm 1, but like this: Proverbs 3:33. The curse of the Lord is on the house of the wicked, but he blesses the dwelling of the righteous. Proverbs 12, 21. No harm befalls the righteous, but the wicked are filled with trouble. On which planet is he talking about? Proverbs 13, 9, the light of the righteous rejoices, but the lamp of the wicked goes out. You need more? Proverbs 24, 16. A righteous man falls seven times and rises again, but the wicked stumble in time of calamity. That's just a small sample. What do you do with that? With your faith, your belief in the authority, inspiration, infallibility, and inerrancy of Holy Scripture? What do you do with that? How do you harmonize that with what you see going on around you? Well, concerning Psalm 1 and the prosperity of the righteous, the expositor's commentary begins to give us some helpful insight. I'll quote him. True to the language used in wisdom literature, he writes, the godly are characterized by the success the Lord sends their way. Nevertheless, the psalm does not encourage a success-oriented faith The godly do not seek success for its own sake, but they do receive a measure of blessing in their lives. But success is not an infallible token of God's presence, for the wicked may also prosper. Psalm thirty-seven seven. Rather, the righteous live with the hope of God's blessing. Last time we began to get a little bit into this, we mentioned that sometimes the way of the righteous seems blocked. You have a way, you're going forward, you're trying to accomplish something, and it seems to be blocked, you don't seem to be able to prosper into things that you plan to do, whatever that might be. We started talking about the life of Abraham. and how he was greatly blessed of God, but you have to read the story and read all the steps along the way where it seemed everything he was promised was never going to come to pass. And so he had to begin to Try to fix things his own way, you know. That's called uh Ishmael. We all have Ishmaels in our life, you know. Why why can't Ishmael live before you and be the prophets? No I'll bless him. He'll be a prince of uh twelve tribes or twelve kingdoms, but he's not the child of promise. I'm gonna do it my own way. And Sarah, yes, old Sarah, she's gonna have the baby. And that's the way it's gonna be, because that's how God works He was tested all the way along the way. It seems his way was being blocked. Well, what was God doing with Abraham? And remember, Abraham's the example of faith for all of us. He was being tested. How much do you love me, Abraham? How true is your faith, Abraham? Sure you came in the land of promise. Are you going to persevere in your faith, Abraham? Or is it all going to sort of end and you're going to turn aside to one of these other gods in the land of Canaan? All of that was tested. He had hurt, pain, trouble, difficulty, but he persevered in believing. We learn from him. Well, what is God doing in our lives? Well, first of all, we need to remember that God's still working in the midst of our pain and trouble, whatever it may be. Yes, He is working in the pain and trouble for your prosperity, but there's still going to be pain and trouble. Paul encouraged the churches in Acts 14. 22. He said this, through many tribulations, many tribulations, we must enter the kingdom of God. He reminded the churches of Galatia that. We have to understand we are going to prosper, we are going to be rich and blessed, but not all at once, and most of it's still future. Prosperity preachers twist scripture and encourage greed for the sake of wealth now They use faith as a tool, a genie rub to make life blessed now. And if God doesn't do it now, I'm not going to believe Well, it's easy to believe what you already see. You've got to be a man of God, you have to believe what you don't yet see But God is working. You may not be able to perceive how He's working right now. He doesn't drop a blueprint from heaven and say, well this is how it's going to be. Okay, point A I'm going to bring this into your life. But point A1, what's going to happen is, that is going to cause this in your life. And point A2, that's going to be this. And you're like, oh, I get it. No, he doesn't do that Why not? Because that's not living by faith. God says, Trust me. And we're like, No, no, no, no, God. I've learned not to trust anybody in life. You give me the plan and I'll put my stamp of approval on it. If I like it or if I don't like it. And then if I don't like it, you go back to the drawing board God and you give me another plan. You submit another plan to me because I'm the boss. I'm the boss, and I'm in charge, and I want to see that on my desk in the morning. And it better be something I like with my life And it better be clearly leading the blessing. God doesn't do that, because guess what? You're not the boss, who is? He's the boss. He's got a plan, he's got a report. It's up there in heaven. He's got it all worked out, some angel scribes writing it down, and you don't get to look at it. Live by faith. We read the story of Abraham, the account of Abraham, the historical count of Abraham. Abraham didn't get to read it. Right? Abraham didn't have Genesis 15 and 16 and 17 to read, right? He didn't have any of that. Just go into the land and I'm going to look up the stars, see the stars. That's how your descendant's going to be. I'm going to bless you. He kept to see none of that. But it says he believed. What about you? Do you believe God's working for your benefit? You know, uh Satan came to Job. Remember that Satan, have you seen my servant Job? How he worships me. Oh, he just worships you because you've made him rich. And look at his family. Look at all that he has. God says, alright, do what you want to do, just don't take his life. So kids are gone, house is gone, health is gone, prosperity is gone. Job struggles with that, yes. But then he ends up what? Confessing God, right? He didn't believe simply because God made his life good. What about you? What about you? You just happy with God, have you a quiet time when things go well He wanted to know, do you love God when it hurts? God wants to know that too. I mean, he knows, but he's trying her heart Do we only worship God when it leads to prosperity and something you can see about three feet in front of you with a benefit of? Because I can't see any further away out there. What's going to happen? The second thing I want you to remember before we dive in this passage again, and it's like what Psalm 37 says: the prosperity of the wicked, as abundant and wonderful as it seems, you need to get a little historical perspective on the wicked, right? I mean we can kind of rewind and we could talk about the historic wicked people. We'd go back to Alexander the Great. Now there was a guy who did a lot, Alexander the Great. Where is he now? What does he have now? He doesn't have an inch of the ground that he conquered, and he's never gonna get it. I mean unless there's something to happen at his deathbed that we don't know anything about, right? We hear about all these people live wicked lives and we kinda hope on their deathbed maybe maybe Michael Jackson repented, you know, and got saved. Maybe Marilyn Monroe, maybe she repented and got saved. We kind of hope for that. We're not God. We don't really know what happened in their last seconds. But if it was like the way they lived, all that they had, it's gone. They don't have anything now. They don't get anything. A little bit of history even in our own lifetimes. We don't have to go all the way back to Bible times. We could say Yeah, they they have it nice now, but but try to use a little bit of forethought about what's coming up and do you see them there? Uh they're losing it all. Do you want to be there with them Is that where you want to be? Well, wisdom literature, like Psalm 1, says, look to the future, to the person who's promised your future. Who holds your future? You? You don't hold your present. I can't control a thing today. I could drop dead in this pulpit right now. Heart pumping, I don't control that. You don't either. You don't control a thing in your present. Who are you going to control? Who are you going to give your future to? Well, me, I'm the captain of my ship. I'm the I'm the general of my destiny. No, you're not. That's a lie of the world. So, a couple of introductory thoughts just to bring your mind into Psalm 1 and say, look, the wicked aren't going to continue to prosper. That's what it's trying to tell us. This is where it leads. That's what we're going to look at. Alright. Today we're looking at the second half of the Psalm starting in verse 4. We're going to focus on the wicked. The godly man was described, verses 1 through 3. Now we do all of verses 4 through 6. Yes, I intend to do all of verses 4 through 6. Look at verse 4 again. The wicked are not so. That's a rather weak translation, people. The Hebrew is a little more emphatic. It starts with the negative, and it literally reads, Not so are the wicked. Not so. It's like a psalmist here has taken a sharp butcher knife and he's chopped it down the middle to separate the godly from the worldly, the wicked. The godly are like this tree, and I got this picture of this beautiful tree and its roots are going all over the place and there's the stream and it's growing up tall and there's the leaf and the fruit And it's prospering and it's strong and it's tall, and I'd like to sit under that tree. It's a nice looking tree. There's where the godly are. Not so, not so are the wicked That whole glorious description I just gave you of the blessed man, now you've got to erase that in your mind. Get that out of your heads. That's not what we're talking about in the second half of the song. Now we're into something different. Now, in fact, you pretty much go to the opposite direction to know who the wicked are and what happens to the wicked. They are the Rasha'im, the wicked, with the article. It shows the wicked as a class of people. We're talking about them as a group of people. What are they like? Well, I want you to remember from our first message a couple Sundays ago, the wicked are not just murderers, terrorists, rapists, etc. Anybody who doesn't follow God's teaching, doesn't believe the Bible, any now in the New Testament era who will not bow to God's word, the message of Jesus as Lord They treat the Bible lightly, they go their own way. They are the wicked. That's the biblical definition of the wicked. We may use The word only for the Hitlers and the Stalins and the worst of the worst, but all men, unless they turn from their own way of living, are the wicked. Many so-called moral people in our society, God calls them wicked. Most of the people around who say, let's have civil discourse. Choose civility. Most of them are wicked. That's what the Bible says. That's not my doctrine. They're not good in God's sight. They're good in one another's sight. They like themselves. They have a bunch of people that are like them, they think they're all okay. God says, none of you are okay. You're wicked. They live for themselves, they're full of themselves, they talk about themselves, they sing for themselves, they dance for themselves, they write stories for themselves. Or some false God. These are ungodly people. They're disobedient to the gospel of Jesus Christ They are those who ignore the Bible or scoff at the Bible or push the Bible off to the side and say, I can't believe it. The man who leaves God out of his life is a wicked man. The man who refuses to believe after hearing is a wicked man. God has no excuses for the wicked Ah, I should have maybe just given them a little more time to believe. Maybe I should have just given them a little more evidence. Oh, they were coming around. There's no excuses for not believing Now, one of the problems with Christians today, I think, is that we don't seem to understand this very strong divide that the Bible talks about. We read passages like this, and there are lots of passages like this in the Bible, and we're like You know, the Bible's pretty emphatic. There's a group of people here and there's a group of people there. What happened to the middle class? We all like to be part of the middle class, you know? One foot on this side of the fence, another foot on that side of the fence, most of us would describe ourselves that way. You know, you got a devil on one shoulder, an angel on the other shoulder. You see the benefits of being a little evil, a little bit good But there's no room for that. You're either on this pathway or you're on that pathway. God doesn't acknowledge another pathway. He doesn't even say one exists. So if you think you're on the middle ground, you're really not on God's side. You think you're somewhere in the middle, you're one of the wicked. You're on the wrong path. There's no middle ground, there's no middle class. There's just two camps, that's it. This is where God Himself makes the division. Oh, let the evil of the wicked come to an end, but establish the righteous, he says in Psalm 7. 9. Listen to 2 Corinthians 6. 14. Listen to this. Do not be bound together with unbelievers. For what partnership have righteousness and lawlessness? Or what fellowship has light with darkness? Doesn't mix, see? What harmony has Christ with Belial? What's the answer to that? No, they don't sit down at the table, you know. Well, what has a believer in common with an unbeliever? Ultimately, not a thing. Sharp division. Listen to what Jesus says when he returns, when the Son of Man comes. This is Matthew 25. When the Son of Man comes in his glory and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. All the nations, that is the Gentiles, will be gathered before him, and he will separate them, separate them from one another. Just as the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats, and he'll put the sheep on his right and all the goats on his left. Sorry, you goats, you'll be separated. Sheep, goats, giant separation, no middle class. There'll even be eternal separation that's coming. That's where the psalm is leading So, what the Psalm is trying to say is: if you're wise, you need to understand that your behavior, your thoughts, your actions, your beliefs in the present, your behavior now determines your what? Your destiny then. Many who claim to be Christians today don't live as Christians. Here's a shocking conclusion. That's because they're not Christians. In many churches today that last statement that I said would be heresy. Oh no, they're just you know backslid and you know that Having a hard time and him is living like the devil. That's okay. I remember when that boy raised his hand when he was eight years old and asked Jesus into his life, and he said, I know it for sure. I was a Sunday school teacher. I was right there when Has he been living for Christ for the last ten years, yes or no? If the answer is no, he's not a Christian. The prayer didn't mean a thing. Jesus didn't come in. There's no forgiveness of sins. He's still a child of Satan, and he acts like it, and he imitates Satan. No, but I remember little Susie, you know, and six-year-old Susie, and there she was in Sunday school class, and we read the Bible story, and she was pouring tears and asked Jesus how Susie lived the last 15 years. That tells who you are. Behavior reveals what's true about your faith. That's the whole point of the book of James and the book of 1 John. Jesus put it very simply in John 14: If you love me, you'll what? Keep my commandment. Now, if you love me, you'll sing loudly. And feel good when you sing. And I love singing loudly and feeling good, nothing against that. Well, there's a divide. So you have to pick which side you're going to be on. And to help you make that choice, you notice the illustration. Back to verse 4, second half. The illustrations back to the plant world. It's not a fruitful tree, it is chaff. But they are like chaff which the wind drives away So God is the beautiful, wonderful picture of the tree with its roots and leaf and fruit. And now the psalmist wants you to have before your eyes another picture. Chaff. Cha. Most likely he's pointing to the harvest of the wheat plant and what was known in agrarian societies very well at that time. We plant actually a grass, a kind of a grass that grows two or four two to four feet high. It was the very last of all the cereal plants to ripen in the land of Israel harvested around on the first harvest at the time of Pentecost, which is either late May or early June. The goal of growing the wheat plant was to get the seed for baking, for breads, and all of that. It's still one of the main staple crops in our world, as we know, along with rice and corn, one of the most eaten Foods in the world. To harvest it, the harvesters would put the sickle into the field, they'd cut down the stalks, they'd gather them in bunches or in sheaves, then they would tie them together and carry them over to the threshing floor. The threshing floor was usually round and the ground was quite hard on an elevated spot, top of a hill, or a little knob, so that it would be able to catch the wind up there. At the threshing floor, they take out a stick or more commonly a special board made for the purpose and they just begin to beat the wheat. To release the seeds from the stalks and from their husks surrounding the seeds. Sometimes they would use animals to trample down the stalks as well to dislodge the seeds, letting the hooves do all the work of threshing The process was not then yet complete because as they beat the stalks, much of the crushed straw and the husks mingled in with that pile of seeds that they wanted, so they would take their winnowing fork or some other instrument, and they would get into that pile and they would throw it up high in the air, toss it up high in the air, right there over the threshing floor. And what would happen? Well the heavier seeds would fall back down into that pile they want, and that light, useless chaff, the crushed straw, the papery husk stuff around it, would catch the breeze, hopefully up on that hill, and would then what? Blow away. Because the guy doing all of that work doesn't want the chat. He wants the C's. He could care less about the chat. Legends blow away. The chaff was light. The chaff was useless. It was inconsequential. And so by design, you toss it up there, repeat that process over and over and over again until the chaff is all blown away as a nice pile of seeds, and he can begin using that for food. That shaft blowing off there in the wind, useless, not even being looked at, is the wicked. Picture that. There's the wicked. What are they to God? Useless, light, inconsequential You know, the ancients often would give value in weight. Things that were weighty had value. In fact, the uh word for uh glory has to do with being heavy, weighty, of significance, meaningful. So to be light's not a good thing. Now we like to light, we lose a few pounds, but this is not this is not that kind of light. This is inconsequential light. They are the kind that easily blow away in God's judgment. They get carried away. Nobody thinks about them anymore. Nobody gathers them up. If they do gather them up, it's just to burn them. Listen to Isaiah 17, 13. The nations rumble on like the rumbling of many waters, but He will rebuke them, and they will flee far away and be chased like chaff in the mountains before the wind, or like whirling dust before a gale. That's blow it on out of here. It's nothing. It's unstable. Or how about this? Psalm 35:4: Let those be ashamed and dishonored who seek my life. This is David. Let those be turned back and humiliated who devise evil against me, let them be like chaff before the wind. If you wanted to describe something that was useless, of no consequence, that was a waste, just get it out of here. It was Chad. Fruitless, lifeless, dry, dusty, without consequence, their lives amount to nothing. It's just a giant waste of talent and time and treasure They're just waste. Alexander McLaren describes it this way: Nothing could more vividly suggest the essential nothingness of the wicked than the contrast of the leafy beauty of the fruit-lady and the chaff. Fruitless, lifeless, light, and therefore the sport of every puff of wind that blows across the elevated and open threshing floor. Such is indeed a true picture of every life not rooted in God and drawing fertility from Him. Another way of looking at this is a quote from John Phillips. The unsaved man is at the mercy of forces he does not see and which he cannot control. The ungodly man is not the master of his own soul, the captain of his own destiny. He is being relentlessly driven. He is as powerless against these forces or as the chaff is before the wind. Okay. So whatever the ungodly appear to be right now, that's not who they actually are, and time will reveal it. Their money, their families, their posterity, their house, their happiness. They have it now, but it's fleeting You know, wicked people laugh at Christians and religion, you know. What are you doing wasting your time studying the Bible? What are you doing with your life? What do you do on Sunday morning? I go to church. Why why would you want to go to church? How long as you preach, you preach. Well, I preach is like an hour. If I was going to go to church, I'd just go where to preach maybe five minutes and be out of there. What are you doing? You're not having any fun. Look at the people around you. They're getting places. They're advancing themselves. No, they're not. They're wasting their lives. I'm not trying to make you stay in this church. We welcome you, but the idea is to go where you can please God and serve Him. The joke is on them. They're blind. They don't see it. They don't get it But it's not a joke, is it? Look at verse 5. Therefore, that Hebrew term is Achan, and it means that uh let's draw a conclusion from this. Therefore, the wicked will not stand in the judgment. To stand means to be able to remain To be firm, to abide, to pass the test. They're not going to be able to keep themselves erect. They're not going to be able to stand when the judgment of God comes. The context points to the image there in verse 4 of when They do not stand because they're blown away. They're swept away in the winds of judgment. They're light, they're inconsequential. If God would test something of value there before him, let the wind blow, the weighty stuff would remain, the light stuff would go away. Do you remember the days of Noah? Right, everybody that was safe was inside the ark, right? Everybody on the outside, what did God do? He didn't blow them away, he swept them away with water. Everybody. Very, very small number of people got saved on that ark in the ancient world. In fact, I think it was just eight, right? How many were outside? Eight million? I haven't done the math to know how many might have been there from Adam to Noah, but a lot more. The judgment came and swept them away. God wasn't pleased with them. He looked down and there were men and women and children and he drowned them. Our God did that. He wiped them out. In fact, he says there in Genesis 6 that God was sorry that he had made man because he was always thinking about evil. And so rather than negotiating with man or compromising with man, being the sovereign God that he is, he said, I'm going to send rain and wipe them all out. Now if there was some kind of a committee on earth that wanted to talk to God about being politically correct, they might say, God, you can't do that. That's hate language. That's hate language. God wasn't calling for a vote. God gave him a preacher Man named Noah preached righteousness for so many decades. Listen to this man. Avoid the judgment. They treated God's word inconsequentially. I got a life to live That's unimportant to me. They treated his word inconsequentially, so God treated them what? Inconsequentially. That's what God's value of them was. Just wipe them out, start all over with Noah. He's already done that in history. Quiz question: Does God change over time? Same God. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, yes, and forever. Hebrews 13, it unchanged God wasn't interested in preserving them. They had no intrinsic value to him. They turned away from him. They didn't please him. He didn't have to keep them. Unbelievers talk big about themselves. Do you ever notice that? A little recorder around there, listen to what they're talking about. It was about, let's see. Their awards, their achievements, the fun they're going to have this weekend, the places they're going to travel, me, me, me, me, and more of me, and then lots of me. And then pile on a little more me on top of it. Me. But they're all lightweight. They're all without substance. They're living for the wrong thing. They're not a big enough cause to live for. And all of this we're told is going to be revealed on the day of judgment. Mispat. It is an awful thing to fall under God's judgment. Malachi four For behold, the day is coming, burning like a furnace, and all the arrogant and every evildoer will be chaff. And the day that is coming will set them ablaze, says the Lord of hosts, so that it will leave them neither root nor branch. But for you who fear my name, the Son of Righteousness will rise with healing in its wings, and you will go forth and skip about like calves from the stall. You will tread down the wicked, for they will be ashes under the soles of your feet on the day which I am preparing, says the Lord of hosts. All people will be judged by God. Believers are not condemned. They will stand in the judgment. Unbelievers will blow away into the fire. John the Baptist said this of Jesus. In Matthew 3, of Jesus he said, His winnowing fork is in his hand. And he will thoroughly clear his threshing floor. And he will gather his wheat into the barn, but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire. That is the time where you will see outwardly what is true of people inwardly now. Naked and shameful, they will be on that day. See, right about now in the sermon, you should be not envying the wicked too much. You following? Because if you're there at that point, you're starting to say, I don't want to be one of the wicked, then you're listening. I could tell you're listening. But if you're still hanging on to but what about the convertible? Then then you're really missing it. You really miss the swimming pool. You're not with me at all Revelation 20, the great white throne. It saw the dead, the great, and the small, standing before the throne, and books were opened, and another book was opened, which was the book of life. And the dead were judged from the things that were written in the book, every one of them according to their deeds. How they live, which proves faith, right? Anyone can say they have faith, who shows it? If anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was. Where's another way of putting blown away like chaff? thrown into the lake of fire. Lake of Fire, final destiny. Some of you in here Might be one of those standing at the great white throne judgment and then have your life played back and you played around with God And he knows it. And now he looks at one of his strong, scary-looking angels. Possible. That's it. It's over. Can't buy off the judge. What are you gonna do? Can't go back and live another life? So now's the time. Now's the time where you choose a pathway for yourself. You don't choose it then that I won't even say it. It's too late. Thank you, it's too late. Yeah, you have loved ones. You should be praying for them. Praying for them. And he goes on, nor sinners in the assembly of the righteous. Now the assembly of the righteous is a good thing. We have a bit of the assembly of the righteous right here, don't we? It's a good thing to be part of the assembly of the righteous. There's some Hebrew parallelism going on again. It's a similar statement, though not exact. Sinners are paralleled with the wicked, you may have noticed. The assembly of the righteousness For the righteous shows the righteous have passed the judgment, and they've assembled together there in the presence of God, and it's happy. God is a being that is just in you know to think about being with God I mean there are a lot of things people get excited about. I get excited about things. We get excited about all kinds of things. I'm gonna make some more money, you get excited. I'm gonna get to go to you know the Caribbean, you get excited Somehow when you think about I'm gonna see and be with God, your heart ought to go over all over the place. If you're understanding it right. He's the kind of being that you just will be weeping and crying and falling before. His presence will be too overwhelming. And it'll be exhilarating and scary at the same time. The assembly of the righteous gets to be with God, a being like this forever. We won't be bored hanging around God. That's the devil's lie. The assembly of the righteous. It might picture the resurrection of the righteous, by the way. Some feel that this points to the first resurrection before the thousand years. where the first resurrection is for the righteous and then they inherit the land and they come into the thousand year reign of Christ. The second resurrection, Revelation twenty says, is after the thousand years, and you don't want to be part of the second resurrection, because that resurrection leads to So these are ones that rise in the first resurrection, inherit the land for a thousand years and all of eternity beyond that, i. e. , Revelation 20 and then to 21 and 22. The righteous are the Siddhakim, those who keep the law. How do you define righteousness? By faithfulness to the covenant. The covenant says, keep my law, the righteous keep it. Not perfectly, none of us do. But the course of their life is that's what they want. They're the righteous. In the New Testament sense, we're faithful to the gospel of Jesus, right? We're faithful to his commandments. We're carrying out and doing in our homes and in our churches and in our lives and our hearts the love commandments that he gave us The spreading of the gospel, we're doing what he tells us. We know the righteousness is not a righteousness that we generate from ourselves. When we practice good things, we understand that really comes from Christ. He imputed his righteousness to us because we're not righteous. But that righteousness that's imputed has to be worked into the fabric of our being and shown If it doesn't show itself through a regenerate heart and the walk in the Spirit, if it doesn't show up at least some in some direction, if there's no fruit there, then there's no life of Christ in a man. To be in this assembly, you have to practice righteousness. And you'll be blessed with the very presence of God. We should look forward to the assembly of the righteous. We're going to be a lot nicer and happier to be around each other up there than we are even down here. If you look forward to Sunday now, it's going to get a lot better. Because everyone's going to be wonderful then. You know? Now we're getting there. You know? And look at verse 6. For here's the reason they the wicked won't stand in the judgment. For God knows, the Lord knows the way of the righteous. But the way of the wicked will perish. So we come at the end of the psalm to the two pathways, the two ways. The two tracks that are long, but they're going to reach somewhere. Please notice again, due to math, there's two and only two. Am I correct? If you got a third one in there, you got a bad translation. You know, get another Bible. There's only two. You're on one of the two. I'm not going to ask you today to get on one of the two. You're already on one of the two. Nobody's off these pathways. These are the two pathways of life. What the scripture is encouraging you to do through wisdom is to get off the path you're on now and get on to other What are you waiting for then? Want to wait till you perish to figure out all on your own that oh wow, the Bible was true. The Lord knows only one of these ways. It's the way of the righteous. Way means the way of a life. The way of living, by the way, when he says he knows the way of the righteousness, that doesn't mean he hasn't figured out that there's another way. He hasn't seen it. God knows everything. We just quote 1 Corinthians 3:20: The Lord knows the reasonings of the wise that they are useless. Everybody thinks they're so wise. He knows the thought processes they go through, and he says it's useless. He understands everything. Nose means he is familiar with it. It's something that he holds dear to him, is intimate with it. He knows it in that sense. In fact, that word nose sometimes is used of relationships He approves of the way of the righteous. It's the way that he wants us on. It's the way he protects. It's the way he watches over. This is the good path. You're on the right road here. This is the way you want to travel. You're going the right direction. It's the way you're to be living now. This is good. This is blessed. This is where God is. He sees it. He loves it. He knows it. He watches over it. It's a way of justice, a way of love, a way of mercy, a way that honors and worships God the way he said to. It's a way of thanksgiving. It's a way of doing what is right. It's a way of delighting in the Word of God. It's a way of Following the example of God and of Christ. God knows that way. The other way, God doesn't know that way. No, he he doesn't he doesn't watch over those on that way. He's not there to help them. He's not protecting people on that road. He's not approving of the travelers there. He's patient with them. He's going to have pity on them. He'll care for them in the sense that he delays his wrath, he gives them time. There's a pity and a compassion God has even on the wicked. Give them time But then they take advantage of his patience so they start living any way they want, and they close their ears and they come up with their excuses, and sooner or later it just ends for them. They perish. This is not scare tactics from preachers behind pulpits. If I scared you into making a decision you don't want to make, you wouldn't keep it anyway. This is wisdom, this is truth to get into your mind to change you, put you on a different path The thing about these pathways is they're apart now. But they just keep growing further and further apart. And when we get to eternity, they're never going to be joined together again. There are people on this planet you and I will never spend any more time with. Ever. We'll never be with them, we'll never talk with them, we'll never sit at a meal with them, we'll never tell jokes with them, we'll never tal Talk about the past life with them It's eternal separation, not only from God, but from the righteous. And there they perish. Well, God is urging you to make a choice and not wait Sometimes you try to figure out, well, what would you wait for? To waste more of your life? To roll the dice on eternity? You know, the thing about the Christian life is, and those of us who tried the other way pretty strongly for a while kind of know that it was a mirage. You know, some of us have a part of our life we're very ashamed of. Sometimes Christians in church go, wow, what a powerful testimony. You did all that bad stuff. And then you came to Christ. Not too happy with all the bad stuff. Didn't really do anything beneficial. You get a few years and you're like, wow, what a waste of time Life as a Christian is better anyways. Thing about being a Christian is I get to eat my cake. I mean have my cake and eat it too. I get to have Christ now and I get to have Christ in eternity. I get to be blessed now, even with the pain that I have. And I get unbelievable blessings that Paul, who was shipwrecked and beaten and imprisoned, and all kinds of stuff, said, Ah, the sufferings of the present day, they're not even worthy to be compared with the glory that's going to be revealed to us Wow. Because he suffered a lot. And he said, mehs nothing. Glory to that something. So talk to yourself. This is the message of Psalm 1. Talk to yourself. Make sure you're on the path. Make sure today we're going to pray for you now. Lord, thank you for creating us with a choice Thank you for giving us at least one of the two choices that leads to something wonderful. How terrible it would be if we had two choices and both ended up perishing. And here we have one that leads to life. Help everyone in here to make that choice today, God. Make them sense the fear of judgment. Make them sense the shame of living a wasted life. Help them to see the joy of delighting in something they don't yet taste and have, even if they've hung around church before. And think that they had it, but they really never had it. Help them to see there's something better. We ask it in the name of your son. Amen.