Today is truly a wonderful day for our church family. It's not just a special day because of celebrating Father's Day. Although thank you. That was very nice and appreciate the gifts and the sentiment and to all you other fathers, yes, happy Father's Day But this morning we have the privilege of highlighting actually an aspect of our ministry here that is vital to our existence as a church. This ministry is deeply ingrained in everything that we do. It is a ministry that has to do with the mission of the church. I am so grateful as one of five pastor elder overseers here at Hope Bible Church to have the opportunity to highlight the mission of the church. But I think what fills my heart with even greater joy is that at the conclusion of our service this morning We have the opportunity to send off one of our first short-term ministry teams in years. It is a team that has been preparing for a 10-day Teaching opportunity in Columbia, South America. And that team, as Christopher said earlier, is preparing to leave this Friday. Well, today not only do we want to take an opportunity to pray for them, but we also want to continue to pray for Pastor Gabe. Pray for him right now as he is in the east coast of Africa, there in Ethiopia, preparing for a week-long ministry alongside of his dad. Just so that you're aware of it, he is seven hours ahead of us, and so he will have preached his sermon by now and awaiting for the opportunity this week to minister the word of God. So we want to pray that the s that the sermon that he preached this morning on Psalm 34 would have a significant effect upon those who heard it And that both Gabe and Billy would be prepared to, again, give everything they have to preaching and teaching the Word of God this week. And we're going to take some time to pray for them at the end. No doubt this is an exciting time for all of these folks. But this morning I want to take a moment and I want to remind us as a church family how you and I can participate in their ministries. by devoting ourselves to prayer, and as Paul put it, so that we may speak the mystery of Christ As I was thinking about what to say to you today, I remember Gabe said before he left, Mike, give them something about the mission of the church. And I just was racking my brain out of what text do I settle on because everything in the Bible talks about the mission of the church But as I was thinking about it, in light of these opportunities, my mind immediately went to the most essential opportunity that you and I have to advance the cause of Christ, and that's the opportunity to pray. to pray. Sure, we can give. We can go. We can get involved in so many activities. Doing the work of the ministry. But do you realize that the most crucial aspect of any ministry endeavor is the necessity to pray? Sadly, that aspect of ministry involvement oftentimes gets minimized. But I believe the reason it does so is because we don't know how to pray. We don't know what to pray. And we don't really know how to beseech the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers who know what to say. This is what brings me to our text today. If you haven't already, please open your Bibles to Colossians chapter 4. Colossians chapter 4. This morning I want to draw your attention specifically to verses 2 through 6. Colossians chapter 4 and verses 2 through 6. Paul, one of the greatest missionaries of the Christian Church, understood the necessity to pray. In fact, most of his letters, all thirteen of them, have some aspect of soliciting prayer requests. It would behoove us to take the time to study each and every one of those prayers. In this text before us, not only does he teach us the importance of gospel-centered prayer, but he actually models for us what we need to ask for and how we need to pray. What are the crucial aspects of gospel-centered prayer? In this brief text, he brings together some of the most essential components. of any kind of evangelistic ministry. And it really can be boiled down to two pronounced effects. Prayer and proclamation. Those two things go hand in hand. And this is because these two aspects are at the heart of every true evangelistic effort. As we consider this passage before us, Let me just say that even with the most robust understanding of the person and work of Jesus Christ and God's redemptive plan to reach the world for Christ Prayer is the most effective means that we have to boldly proclaim his gospel in the world. And this is because any true gospel proclamation must remind us why we must pray. Well, today, as we consider the opportunities before us, I want to try to answer the question of why we should devote ourselves to pray? Paul gives us four reminders. And today I want to briefly just go through each one of those highlighting to you. How you and I can support the mission of the church by praying in the way that seeks to glorify the Lord of the harvest and to accomplish exactly what He's designed us to do. Again, if you have your Bible open and ready, let me read the text for you, and then we'll consider each one of these reminders. Beginning in Colossians chapter four, verse two, Paul writes this: Devote yourselves to prayer, being watchful in it with thanksgiving. Praying at the same time for us as well, that God will open up to us a door for the Word, so that we may speak the mystery of Christ. for which I have also been bound, that I may make it manifest in the way I ought to speak Walk in wisdom toward outsiders, redeeming the time. Let your words always be with grace, seasoned with salt. So that you will know how you should answer each person. A very simple text, a very straightforward prayer request But what I love about this passage is that the exhortation that Paul gives falls directly in line with the purpose and the intention of this particular letter. This letter, though focused on the supremacy, the superiority, and the sufficiency of Jesus Christ, is at the same time gospel-oriented. It is gospel-centered. And that's because not only does Paul exalt and affirm the person of Jesus Christ as the center of the Christian faith But this letter shows how we are to honor Christ in light of his supremacy over all things. In short, chapters 1 and 2 tell us who Jesus Christ is, and then chapters 3 and 4 tell us how we are to live. in such a way that truly glorifies him in an unbelieving world. I love that. I love that Everything that Paul says in this letter is meant to shore up our faith. It is meant to orient our heart, our soul, our mind, our strength. toward a greater emphasis on teaching, preaching, and living out the very gospel of Jesus Christ. Like someone once told me, when a person becomes a Christian, not only does their lifestyle change, but so does their language. Because of the saving gospel of Christ, we begin speaking different from the world. The subject matter is different. The focus is different. The person is different. And that's because not only does the gospel begin to transform our thoughts and our actions, but our lifestyle begins to conform to the very pattern of heaven itself. We begin to speak with an accent from heaven As Paul put it in chapter 1, verse 10, we begin to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, pleasing him in all respects. And not only do we speak differently about the things that are most important to us, but we begin to speak more purposefully and intentionally about the God who saved us. We begin to learn the language of heaven. And as I said, even our accent begins to conform more purposefully to the very word of truth This is the focus of verses 2 through 6 here in chapter 4. If I could put it simply, Paul wants us to lose the accent of the world and begin to speak with the language of heaven. To be more gospel-centered in how we pray in order to advance the cause of Christ. And that's because the how is implicit in the text before us. But the question that we need to answer today is why? Why? The why reminds us of the responsibility to live pleasing to God, to Christ. In other words, if Christ is supreme, if Christ is superior, if Christ is sufficient to meet every spiritual need, if he is sovereign over every endeavor, why do we pray? Well, that brings us to the very first principle that Paul gives us here in this marvelous prayer request, and that is because gospel-centered prayer reminds us to put on the mind of Christ. It reminds us to think like Christ. As God's redeemed people If we are to live pleasing to him, chapter 1, verse 10, if we have been created to live through him and for him, chapter 1, verse 16. If we are to proclaim him and present every man complete in Christ, chapter 1, verse 28, if we are to walk in him, chapter 2, verse 6. If we're to be alive with him. Chapter 2, verse 13, if we're to set our mind on the things above and not on the things that are on this earth. Chapter 3, verse 2, if wives are be dis to be subject to their husbands Chapter 3 verse 18. If husbands are to be loving their wives, chapter 3, verse 19, if children are to be obeying their parents, chapter 3, verse 20 If fathers are not to be exasperating their children. Chapter 3, verse 21. If workers are to work with integrity of the heart and heartily after the Lord rather than those of men. Chapter three, verses twenty-two and twenty-three. And if employers are to do right and fair, chapter four, verse one, then let me tell you, we need to put on the mind of Christ. Amen. Again, what better way to do this than to center our mind on gospel-oriented prayer? Gospel-centered prayer that advances the cause of Christ. I want you to listen again to how Paul reminds us what to do in an unbelieving world, verse 2. He says, devote yourselves to prayer, being watchful in it with thanksgiving. The first reminder regarding gospel-centered prayer is that every believer in Christ must be committed to being courageously persistent and thankful in prayer. The reminder here is that as God's redeemed people, we need to put on the mind of Christ daily as we devote ourselves to evangelistic prayer. That phrase, devote yourselves to prayer, is absolutely jam-packed with meaning and implication And without going into all of the details, being devoted to prayer means to be strong in prayer. Persevering in prayer, committed to prayer, and courageous in prayer. It is living in a conscious state of prayer for the purpose of advancing the cause of Christ. And by implication, it is joyfully accepting the responsibility to pray, never giving up in prayer until an answer is given. As Jesus described it for us in Luke chapter 18, it is pounding the gates of heaven until an answer is given. Until an answer is given. Why? Because the promise is that God does and will answer our prayers. 1 John 5, verses 14 and 15. I can't wait to get there. But this is the confidence which we have before him that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests which we have asked from him. Don't you want to have that kind of confidence in praying? The qualifier here is that we ask according to his will. That is what it means to put on the mind of Christ. That is the kind of gospel center prayer Paul is modeling for us in this passage right here. That as God's children, we not only have the privilege to pray. But until we storm the gates of heaven, we will never really know what it means to have our prayers answered. And let me tell you, let me remind you that the reason we need to put on the mind of Christ is because we need to be much more specific and attentive to the details of those things that we request of God. In other words, We're not to be generic about our request. Oh God, bless the whole wide world. What is God to do with that? He's already doing that. In other words, we need to be much more specific, much more purposeful, much more intentional in our praying. Otherwise, we'll never truly know how sufficient God is to answer our prayers. Notice the last phrase of verse 2. We are to devote ourselves to prayer how? By being watchful in it with thanksgiving. Why are we to put on the mind of Christ when we pray? Because when God answers those specific details of our prayer requests, we need to be ready to receive those answers with thanksgiving. And that phrase, being watchful in it, is just another way Paul tells us of saying, stay alert. Again, watch for the answer because it's coming. The temptation for us is to give up, especially when it comes to disciplining ourselves in the matter of prayer. Paul says you need to go beyond the physical alertness here. You need to be training your mind to be spiritually alert. And that's how attentive we need to be in regard to prayer. Again, one of the reasons we give up in prayer is because we're not only being too generic and not specific enough in what we should be asking of the Lord But again, we pray too vaguely to even know how to stay alert in our prayers. We need to stop asking in generalities. We need to zero in on what we're truly asking God for And a God-centered prayer is pleading the specifics of what we're asking God to do. It is pounding away at the gates of heaven with such urgency and expectancy. It is staying alert. By meaning that we need to watch attentively, keep our spiritual eyes open, have our sanctified mind fixed on that which is specific and definitive. Because let me tell you, those are the kinds of gospel-centered prayers worth thanking God for. Why? Because we know specifically how He answered those prayers. Need to be ready to receive then God's answer to our prayers. And the reminder is that when we devote ourselves to prayer Thanksgiving comes as a result of seeing those answers with the mind of Christ. It is like Elisha having his eyes open to see the hosts of heaven answering his prayers. The mind of Christ sets the boundaries for the requests that we ask specifically of the Lord. It is then the mind of Christ which makes us ready to receive those answers with joy and thanksgiving of heaven. The first principle here of putting on the mind of Christ is then, it precedes the second principle, which then is gospel-centered prayer. reminds us to proclaim then the mystery of Christ. At the heart of True, gospel-centered prayer intercession. This leads us then to bold proclamation. And this is exactly what Paul is asking for. Don't just devote yourselves to prayer and be ready to receive the requests and the answers with thanksgiving, but here's how you need to specifically pray. Here's what I'm asking for, Paul says. God, open the door. Open the door. And when you do, give us the words to speak. Help me to proclaim it then in the way I ought to say it. Because that's the reminder concerning gospel-centered prayer. Look at verses 3 and 4 again. Praying at the same time for all of us as well, that God will open a door for a door to us. a a door for the word of the word, so that we may speak the mystery of Christ, for which I have also been bound, that I may make it manifest in the way I ought to speak After commanding the church to be courageously persistent in prayer, he says, pray for an open door to speak the very word of God. But not just speak it, but to say it in the way I ought to speak it. In other words, not my way, but God's way. That I'll be able to do so boldly, thoroughly, and without any hesitations. To say exactly what God wants me to say, and in the way that He wants me to say it. If I could put it another way, it is to pray for the right opportunity and to make me attentive for looking for that opportunity. And when that opportunity then comes to pray that I would say exactly what God wants me to say, no more and no less. Not what's right for me, but what is right for those who are listening. Why? Because this is not about pushing my agenda. This is about ri being ready, as Peter put it in 1 Peter 3. 15, to make a defense to everyone who asks you to give an account for the hope that is within you. Are you ready to do that? Pray for an open door. Pray for the opportunity. Pray for the right words to speak it. And then be ready to do so. And in doing so with gentleness and with respect. Notice that Paul says it's God opening the door, not me demanding to push my way through it. It's being ready to proclaim the mystery of Christ when He makes the opportunity available. What is the mystery of Christ? It is nothing less than everything that Paul has already said to us about Christ in the first two chapters of this letter. It is proclaiming the supremacy of Christ. It is proclaiming the superiority of Christ. It is proclaiming the sufficiency of Christ. It is proclaiming the sanctification of Christ. It is proclaiming the fullness of Christ. It is proclaiming the saving grace of Christ Jesus. Gospel-centered prayer reminds us that we have every opportunity to proclaim the glories of Christ when God opens up for us a door for the Word. And we should not hold back. We need to be ready for that opportunity. This is why praying for this is so absolutely crucial. A mind stayed on Christ is made aware of these kinds of opportunities. And Paul wants us to be ready for every one of those opportunities, and especially those that came his way. The question that we need to ask ourselves is, are we ready? Are we praying this? Are we looking for these opportunities? Keep in mind, Paul was under house arrest when he made this request. He was more than likely shackled to a Roman soldier. 24 hours a day, seven days a week for two years. And yet he never looked at his imprisonment as a negative circumstance He never saw it as a hindrance to the gospel. It was always a God-given opportunity, and you can bet that every person who came to see Paul heard the proclamation of the gospel of Jesus Christ let alone every single soldier that was shackled to him. Th there's a time when I was reading and studying this when I thought, wouldn't it have been fun to just be shackled to Paul for at least a week? This is the kind of opportunity we need to be shackled to. The opportunity that God uses to open a door to preach and to teach his word. And again, you can bet that every person who came to see Paul heard that proclamation. And it's the reason why he then writes in the book of Philippians. that my circumstances have turned out for the greater progress of the gospel. How so, Paul Because by proclaiming the gospel boldly, even the cause of Christ has become well known throughout the whole Praetorian Guard and to everyone else. The very guard who was responsible for again protecting the Caesar Had heard the gospel. Every change of guard heard about the mystery of Christ. And most likely it was because Paul preached that message to somebody else and they heard. You never know who God is going to bring you your way. We just need to be ready. We need to see it as a God-given opportunity, an open door for the message of the Word And again, what was the message, the mystery of Christ? It was every detail veiled about Christ in the Old Testament that became revealed in the New. And what sort of details did some of that mystery encompass? It was the fact that the Messiah himself was God incarnate That was a shocking reality to New Testament believers, especially the Jews. Jesus Christ is God in human flesh. Also, that God would set aside Israel for a time because of their unbelief. Why to usher in the coming of the church? That both Jew and Gentile would then be united together in Christ. That the Holy Spirit would then take up residence. in our life and permanently indwell us to teach us, to bring us into conformity to the person of Jesus Christ Himself. That one day soon Christ would return for his church and rescue us from the coming wrath that is to come. That when he returns, he would establish his kingdom here on earth for a thousand years And he would usher in then a complete righteousness, a perfect peace, a swift justice to all the nations of the earth And that when all is accomplished according to God's good purpose, all of his promises concerning Israel and all of his promises concerning the saints would then be fulfilled in their entirety, and Christ would then be at the center of every single bit of it. How would you have liked to have been there next to Paul hearing this kind of message for two years? This was the kind of proclamation that we pray for. This is why gospel-centered prayer is so essential. It is essential because we need to be ready to proclaim the fullness of the gospel message. This is why in verse 4 Paul asks To make it manifest in the way I ought to speak. Not only do I not want to miss anything, anything, saying anything. Of something I should have said, but that I'd speak it in a way that God intended it to be said. Gospel-centered prayer reminds us to put on the mind of Christ. Gospel-centered prayer reminds us to proclaim the mystery of Christ. And that then brings us thirdly to the principle that gospel-centered prayer reminds us to practice the manner of Christ. The manner of Christ. How should a believer be ready to conduct themselves in light of an unbelieving world? Verse 5, Paul says, Walk in wisdom toward outsiders redeeming redeeming the time. Paul says we need to exercise the wisdom of Christ, put the mind of Christ into practice. And how we do that is by redeeming the time Again, what I love about Paul's letters is that often he tells us how to do what he's instructing us to do How do we walk in wisdom and redeem the time? Well, if you turn back to chapter 1 and look at verses 9 and 10, Paul's initial prayer explains how it is that this can be accomplished. Paul says, here's what I'm praying for you as a church. That you may be filled with the full knowledge of His will. In all spiritual wisdom and understanding, why? Look at verse ten of chapter one So that you may walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, to please him in all respects, bearing fruit in every good work, and multiplying in the full knowledge of God. That's specific, isn't it? This is the exact reason why gospel-centered prayer is so essential. Because in order to practice the manner of Christ, We must be filled with the knowledge of Christ. In its most basic sense, it's getting our head out of the world. and into heaven centered on the person of Jesus Christ himself. It is filling our mind with the word of Christ so that we can walk in the wisdom of Christ. And this is why Paul commanded the church here in the book of Colossians, chapter 3, verse 16, to let the word of Christ richly dwell within you. When you have the Word of God richly dwelling within you, what comes out of your mouth but the language of the Bible, the language of Christ? And that is why gospel-centered prayer is so essential. As God's word settles into our mind and transforms our heart and our will. This is when, with all wisdom, we began teaching and admonishing one another with psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with gratefulness in our hearts to God. It is as though the language of heaven begins to fill and motivate our lives so that every day we are singing the gospel to an unbelieving world and to the church. And once again, it all comes through us by being centered on a gospel-centered prayer. It is a prayer request that God would fill our minds with this word, that our lives would be lived differently from the world. That when we begin to live like Christ, that is when we truly exercise the mind of Christ. And then people start coming to us and ask us to give a reason for the hope that is within you. The word walk here has to do with setting a pattern. It has to do with finding one's stride, one's rhythm, so to speak. It's like a long-distance runner. setting a pace that that can be accomplished in finishing the race itself. That race then is patterned after the manner of Jesus Christ himself is modeling our life after his. We are running to chase Christ. We are running to fix our eyes on heaven above the author and perfector of our pa our faith. So that when the time comes for us to enter into heaven, that's when we have finished the race. And again, when we begin to walk consistently in a manner worthy of the Lord. Pleasing him in all respects, this is when God begins to produce real spiritual fruit in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God. Gospel-centered prayer reminds us that Christ is the goal of every Christian life. Christ's life is the manner on which we base our model, our example for others. And again, we're not only to walk in wisdom toward those outside the faith, but that every encounter is an opportunity to redeem the time. The Lord knows Those days are few. They are few. It's one of the reasons why I'm so thankful that God gave Pastor Gabe the opportunity just last week to preach the message that he did on the Lord's day because so for many of us our time is almost up. It's almost up. The pattern Christ set for us while he was here on earth for those three and a half years was to proclaim the message of God's forgiveness and his grace. And that same opportunity is afforded us today. Every single day. And the question is, are you praying for this in your own life? Are you praying this for the leaders in your church? Are you praying this for the upcoming hotel ministry, the Love the Sojourner event that's coming up with local outreach? Are you praying for those who are leading and beginning to prepare to teach vacation Bible school? Are you praying for the ministry events and activities? that are just inside our church that are going out to spread the gospel to the to our community this summer and in preparation for the fall. Let me tell you, now is the time to pray Now is the time for us to walk in wisdom and redeem the time. And right now, God is laying out the preparations needed. For Pastor Gabe and his father to proclaim the mystery of Christ for the next week to two weeks. And God is preparing the congregation, our congregation in Columbia, to receive this short-term ministry team that is coming to do exactly that. The question is, are we are we ready to show them Christ? Are we ready? Not only does gospel-centered prayer remind us to put on the mind of Christ, to proclaim the mystery of Christ, And to practice the manner of Christ, but lastly it reminds us to present the message of Christ. If I could be a little bit more specific here, it reminds us to be more conscientious about how we present the message of Christ to others. Given the fact that daily we need to be preparing ourselves to proclaim the gospel of Christ, we need to pray how that message is then delivered. How it's delivered. And that's what Paul addresses in verse 6. Paul says, let your words always. You might want to highlight, underline, draw arrows pointing to that particular word, but always. Be with grace, seasoned with salt, so that you will know how you should answer each person Gospel-centered prayer reminds us not only to be ready to proclaim the truth about Christ, but to seek to do so. in a fitting, gracious, and loving way that addresses the need of the moment and complements the person of Christ Himself. This is why Paul reminds the church to let their speech always be with grace seasoned with salt. Why? Because that's the kind of language that edifies, that truly edifies. Grace is this wonderful word that attributes favor at the cost of God's own beloved Son. And it's one reason why I always remember this word grace by its acronym, G-R-A-C-E. Because at its heart, grace is God's riches at Christ's expense. That is exactly what it is. It's his favor. But how Paul is then using this word grace? In the context of this particular prayer request, it can also be defined as a qualifier or attractiveness that invites a favorable reaction. And that's the reminder of being gospel-centered in our prayers. To put it another way, Paul says in Ephesians Chapter four, verse twenty nine, let no unwholesome word proceed out of your mouth, but only such a word as is good for building up what is needed, so that it will give grace to those who hear That's the kind of proclamation we need to proclaim to an unbelieving world. That's the kind of language that should come out of our mouth. When Paul says it should be always with grace seasoned with salt, he's telling us that this is how the believer ought to speak. Grace is what is truly spiritual. It is what is fitting, what is wholesome, what is kind, what is loving, what is truthful, and what is divine. And when it comes out of our mouth as though seasoned with salt, it becomes this purifying agent of change and opportunity. It's what then results from an open door for the gospel to be received. Sometimes we open our mouth and the truth is met with personal attacks and specific criticisms and maybe even false accusations. We need to examine our responses in those moments The believer must not respond in a defensive way. We must not be argumentative or self-righteous. Why? Because we need to respond as Christ responded. Because he's the model of how we are to proclaim the gospel. And again, it serves absolutely no purpose for us to argue with those who may be hostile to the gospel of Christ. God has to be the one to open their heart. God has to be the one to open their mind. God has to make them ready to receive this word. The truth is, we just represent Christ. And so it's Him that we seek to please, and not the world. Grace should permeate every aspect of our gospel-centered witness, from our reactions to suffering and hardships to the hard conversations that we need to have with those around us, gospel-centered prayer prepares us for those exact moments. And it reminds us that the way that we communicate the message is just as important as the message of Christ Himself. And why is that? Because if that message has made a difference in our life, then we can truly give thanks to God as Paul did in 2 Corinthians 2, verse 14, by saying this. But thanks be to God, who always leads us in triumphal procession in Christ, and manifests through us the aroma of the knowledge of Him in every place You need to stink of Christ everywhere. Probably stink is not the right word. You need to smell lovely of Christ everywhere you go. That when you walk by, somebody says, I smell Christ, and it's lovely. As I said, gospel center prayer reminds us of how thankful we are to God and for the work of his salvation in and through us. But the bottom line is this Christ's supremacy reigns supreme over every mission endeavor, and gospel-centered prayer and proclamation is how then God uses his church to advance that cause to an unbelieving world. This is why prayer plays such a crucial role in the mission of the church. It is why God commands us to be courageously devoted to prayer, being watchful and thankful. And that the kind of gospel prayer that we should be praying reminds us to put on the mind of Christ, to proclaim the mystery of Christ, to practice the manner of Christ, and ultimately present the true message of Christ. His exhortation here in these wonderful little verses underscores the importance of prayer and proclamation in any evangelistic effort. And this is how we glorify then the Lord of the harvest. As we become more specific and intentional in our request. As we reflect on the mind of Christ and are ready to receive those answers, my prayer is that God will then embolden you to be ready always to speak the truth. with grace, with love about Jesus Christ. Again, it's not about you and me. It is about Him. And to do so in a way that truly honors God. Just remember, prayer is the language of heaven. It is the air that we breathe. And unless we begin to intercede more specifically and more fervently. We will never really know how to thank God for the work that he accomplishes through his church. I pray that there will be much more persistence in our praying, much more opportunities. Every Sunday morning we gather together as a church at 9 o'clock to pray. We gather to pray and lift up our needs. It would be wonderful if every single person sitting here was gathered at that time to pray for the needs of the body of Christ. But wherever you are As believers in Christ, be praying that God would be at work, that He would do His work, and that ultimately He would receive the glory and the praise for all things. Again, God will indeed open a door for the Word. He will. And He will then continue to use us, His redeemed, to reach the world for Christ. Amen? Let's pray. Father, we are so thankful. So grateful for what you have revealed to us in your word and how you have helped us to see why it is so important for us to have a gospel-centered prayer. Father, we are so thankful that when we pray, when we pray the Bible The Bible is accomplished when we pray in the Spirit of Christ. The Spirit is at work. When we pray for the gospel and the glories of Christ, we see Christ manifest. And we see the glory go to you. O Lord, guide and direct our prayers. Help us to pray more specific. Help us to pray more diligent, more fervently, more courageously Help us to be bold in storming the gates of heaven, to ask what we are asking of you and expecting an answer. Because God, you have said that you would answer our prayers. So long as they are prayed according to your will. Lord, we do now pray for your will. Accomplish this in our lives. Help us to be mindful of what it means to pray. And then, Lord, strengthen us as we seek to redeem the time and know that there are those who need desperately the saving gospel of Jesus Christ There may be even those sitting among us today who just have not embraced you with saving faith. Lord, do a work in their life. Open their eyes to the truth of the gospel. Open their eyes to the glories of Christ. Draw them in. Save them. Sanctify them Build in them a foundation of faith that will never be shaken from this world. And pray that you would grow them in the grace and knowledge of Christ. It is to this end that we pray that you would also strengthen us as a church to keep you at the forefront of our mind. To fix our eyes on you, the author and perfect of our faith, to set our mind on the things above and not on the things that are on this earth, to truly glorify you, because your will will be done. We thank you for this in Christ's name. Amen.