Our text for today is John 48-59. And in this text we see he who is full of grace and truth responds to the to the malice of the Jews. I promise the title of the message is not a grammatical error. Grace and truth is Jesus Christ, and he meets the malice of the Jews. Today we come to the culmination not only of John 8, but really the major section of John's Gospel, which began all the way back in chapter 7, verse 1. The tension between Jesus and the Jews, and especially the religious leaders, the Pharisees and others, has been building up over the la over the course of the last several days in the context of this section of Scripture. And here in our passage, it reaches its highest intensity, where emotions are sky-high, blood is boiling, rationality has fled, and violence is about to break out. Have you ever been in a conflict like that? Have you ever been having a conversation with somebody of mutual interest, uh the topic that you're talking about, and then all of a sudden realize, oh, we we have a disagreement on this topic And in the course of talking about your different perspectives, emotions starts to rise up and then it begins to take over. R reason kind of goes out the window. Which leads to verbal assaults, which then can culminate into some form of violence Well, whether or not it has gone all the way to violence in your experience, many of us have experienced that very difficult sequence of interaction with someone. And we are not alone. This was a common occurrence in the life of Jesus Christ. And in our passage, Jesus models for us Really what Peter described about Jesus and how he handled situations like this. Peter says in 1 Peter 2, 21-24 For to this you have been called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving an example, so that you might follow in his steps. He committed no sin, neither was the seatbelt in his mouth. When he was reviled, he did not revile in return. When he suffered, he did not threaten, but he kept entrusting himself to him who judges justly. He finishes, he himself bore our sins in his body on the tree that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds you have been healed. Now, Peter wrote that primarily in reference to the reviling and the suffering and the death of Christ at the cross. But what Jesus does here six months prior to the cross is an example of how he lived six months later at the cross. How could Jesus respond in a way, in this way, in the face of malice? It's because, as John put it in chapter 1, verse 14, Jesus exhibited glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. This is to say that when Jesus exemplified grace and truth, he imitated his Father, whose majestic glory is distilled down to those two qualities of grace and truth. Jesus did that. He lived that way to bring glory to the Father. He did that to redeem our souls from sin. And he did that to give us an example that we would follow in his steps. And so as we walk through this text and study this exchange between Jesus and the Jews. We see the glory of Jesus on display for us to praise, but we also learn a pattern for us to follow. So follow along as I read John chapter 8, verses 48 to 52. The Word of God says The Jews answered him, Are we not right in saying that you are a Samaritan and have a demon? Jesus answered, I do not have a demon, but I honored my father, and you dishonor me. Yet I do not seek my own glory. There is one who seeks it, and he is the judge. Truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death. The Jews said to him, Now we know that you have a demon. Abraham died, as did the prophets. Yet you say, if anyone keeps my word, he will never taste death. Are you greater than our father Abraham who died and the prophets died? Who do you make yourself out to be? Jesus answered, If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father who glorifies me, of whom you say he is our God. But you have not known him. I know him. If I were to say that I do not know him, I would be a liar like you. But I do know him, and I keep his word. Your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. He saw it and was glad. So the Jews said to him, You are not yet fifty years old, and have you seen Abraham? Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was, I am. So they picked up stones to throw at him, but Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple. Let's pray as we get into this passage. Father, we need your help. As we look at your word. You have given us all those who believe in you, the Holy Spirit, to open our eyes, illumine our minds, and give us understanding. And so grant us that understanding that we might know Christ more today. That our hearts would be thrilled with the truth that He speaks, and that we would see in Him our model to follow. And Lord, if there would be any among us who are standing in the position of the Jews, who are yet in unbelief. Who are apathetic or even hostile. Would you use this truth, these words, from the Lord Jesus Christ to open their eyes and grant them life? For his sake we pray. Amen. Well, I don't normally do this, but in light of John MacArthur's call to glory this week, I decided to listen to his sermon from this passage which I realized our family I was actually at the church uh back in twenty fourteen when he preached that message. But um I resisted, I promise you, the the temptation to just come up here and read his sermon to you. Um if you want to be encouraged by God's work through him, just go online and listen to his sermon and uh just don't tell me afterward. Um But I couldn't resist the temptation to borrow his outline. And part of that is because I was struggling to come up with my own. But more than that, really more than that, it's because it's the smallest of ways To honor one whose ministry has shaped my life and the history and life of our church. In fact, I forgot to mention earlier that uh Mike and I are planning tomorrow to record a conversation Just to talk about how the Lord has used John MacArthur in our lives as men, as pastors, and how the Lord has used the influence of John MacArthur to establish and uh preserve and strengthen our church, Hope Bible Church, over the last 28 years. We'll of course send that out through uh various means. We'll post that through the Reading Scripture Together podcast and get the link out to you But um just be looking for that later this week, Lord willing. Well, with that in mind, that this the the general outline uh comes from our our dear brother who's now with the Lord, John MacArthur What we find in this passage is a structure of three cycles of attack, truth, and a gracious offer. Three cycles of attack, truth, and a gracious offer. Three times there's an attack against Jesus, three times there's truth that Jesus responds to the attack with, and at least twice there is a gracious offer. The third time there is grace extended, but not in the form of an offer. Now, before we really dive into this text, to feel some of the tension that has risen over the course of the last several days, we need to review where we have uh studied over the last uh few months uh in the context of of our church life. Jesus, beginning in chapter 7, had been spending several months in the Galilee area And he did that because chapter 7, verse 1 tells us he knew that the Jews wanted to kill him. Jesus knew the animus of the Jews, he knew that his hour had not yet come. And so he he stayed away from Jerusalem until the right was the time was right according to the Father's plan. And so in working through chapters seven and eight, we see that Jesus didn't come to Jerusalem because the time for him to die had come, but he really came for two reasons. And first of all, he came to Jerusalem because He needed to obey the law of God. As a sinless man, he needed to obey the law of God, and the law of God said that all people needed all the Jews needed to come to the Feast of Tabernacles every year. And so since that was the feast At that time, Jesus went to Jerusalem to fulfill the law of God. But secondly, we could say this, he could came he came to Jerusalem to intensify the hatred of the Jews, to bring them closer to the brink of killing him. Now that may sound a little bit odd, but the fact is that Jesus was on a mission He knew the purpose for which he came, which was to give his life as a ransom for many. He knew that he was the Lamb of God who would take away the sin of the world, and he also knew that he was on a timetable. He had about two to three years from the start of his ministry to the end, and so he didn't waste any time. He didn't linger where he didn't need to be. He moved from place to place with intentionality and with purpose In fact, Luke 951 uses this language, when the days drew near for him to be taken up, he set his face like flint to go to Jerusalem. Sorry, it says he set his face to go to Jerusalem. And that reflects the language of Isaiah fifty, verse seven, which prophetically conveys the words of the Messiah, saying But the Lord God helps me, therefore I have not been disgraced. Therefore I have set my face like flint. That's where he got that in the other passage, and I know that I shall not be put to shame. And so what Isaiah prophesies about the Messiah in his uh in his work, Jesus lived out. He was focused, he was intentional. He could not be moved away from the plan of God. Now, obviously, Jesus could have gone to the Feast of Tabernacles. He could have obeyed the law of the Lord and stayed hidden. Stayed in the shadows, didn't he he could have done that without drawing any attention to himself. But that's not what he did. Chapter 7, verse 14 tells us that up about the middle of the feast he went up to the temple and began teaching. And that's what he did for the next several days throughout the rest of the Feast of Tabernacle. Not only did he teach, but he also interacted with the crowds who were around him, who responded to his teaching with a mix of interest. of belief, of confusion, of disbelief, and of course hatred. Now what did he teach there over the course of those several days? Well he declared in general that he taught the word of God. That he sought the glory of God and that he did the works of God. He proclaimed that he had been sent by the Father and was going back to the Father. He cried out that he was the fountain of living waters, and he offered the water of life to all who would believe. He announced that he is the light of the world. And that he would deliver anyone who comes to him from the darkness, and he would grant them the light of life. As we learned in those passages, though he didn't say the words, I am the Messiah, everything he did say conveyed, I am the Messiah. And more than that, his words convey that he existed before his birth, and he took to himself language that Yahweh used of himself in the book of Isaiah. And so, in subtle and not so subtle ways, Jesus identified himself as the divine Messiah, that he is, in fact, God. And so that's when the Pharisees stepped in in chapter 8, verse 13. And from there through the rest of this chapter, Jesus has been interacting with the Pharisees who made every effort to discredit him. When Jesus declared that he is the light of the world, they said, Your testimony is not to be believed because you're testifying to yourself rather than letting somebody else testify to you. When Jesus declared that the Father testified on his behalf, they challenged the identity of his father. When Jesus said he was going where they could not come, they mocked him and said, Are you going to kill yourself? When he said that he is not of this world, they feigned ignorance and said, Who are you? When he declared himself, or rather that those who abide in him will be set free, they said, We don't need what you have to offer. And so, as we saw over the last two weeks, he led them to the ultimate conclusion that the evidence of their life showed that God is not their father, in fact, the devil is their father. Now hearing the comparison between their actions and their character to that of the devil, and what they were doing was the desires of the devil, that did not open their eyes or soften their hearts. In fact, it intensified their hatred. Jesus spoke the truth to these lost souls, but it was the purpose of God to harden their hearts. Their initial confusion led to anger, which led to malice. And so that brings us then to the first cycle of attack, truth. And a gracious offer. Let's look at verse 48. The Jews answered him, Are we not right in saying that you are a Samaritan and have a demon? I mentioned a couple weeks ago that when backed in a corner in a debate, you have two options. You can either humble yourself and admit you're wrong, or you can say something outlandishly false and hope you throw the other person off. Well, here's a third option. Just attack the person. And this is called an ad hominem attack, where instead of addressing the issues at hand, you just attack the person. And when personal attacks begin to fly, you know that the person is out of rational arguments. And all they have left are epithets and name-callings, slurs, and accusations. Well, here they accuse Jesus of being a Samaritan and having a demon, being demon-possessed. And really by saying, are we not right in saying the implication is they've been saying this perhaps to themselves or to one another. for some time. And in fact, they've already said back in chapter 7, verse 20, you have a demon. So these are things they've been thinking and perhaps they've been saying, maybe they haven't said it as directly in terms of the Samaritan statement, but this has been going on in their hearts, minds, and on their lips. You are Samaritan and you have a demon. Let's deal with that second one first. To be clear, this is not the same idea of accusing Jesus of being empowered by the devil. You may remember that in Matthew 9 and Matthew 12 that the Pharisees accused Jesus of doing his miraculous works by the power of the devil, of Beelzebal specifically, which is a nickname for the devil. That was blasphemy of the highest order. It is, in fact, the unforgivable sin, because it's to listen to the words of Jesus It's to observe the works of Jesus, in other words, to personally experience the conclusive evidence that he is empowered by the Spirit of God, and yet conclude that he is actually empowered by the devil. There is no turning back from that. That's not what's happening here Here in chapter 7, verse 20, as well as chapter 10, verse 20, where the same accusation is made, it's more of a an emotional superficial response that just accuses him of having his mind distorted and confused by a demon such that he is insane. In fact, in chapter 10, verse 20, that's exactly what they say. They says, he has a demon and is insane. Why listen to him? The unforgivable sin is blasphemy against the Holy Spirit. This is blasphemy against the Son of Man, which Jesus said in Matthew 12 is forgivable. Now why would they call him a Samaritan? Well, we know that there is deep animosity between the Jews and the Samaritans. They despised each other for many different reasons, but among those reasons it's because the Jews said that Jerusalem is the place of worship And the Samaritans said that Mount Gerizim is the place of worship, and so they really accuse each other of being idolaters and false worshipers. Now what has Jesus just done? He has just said to these Jews, your father is the devil. You are false worshipers. In the minds of the Jews, Jesus has just sided with the Samaritans, which is tantamount to renouncing his Jewish heritage. And so not only is he identifying with the Samaritans, but why else would he say such things unless he had his mind distorted by a demon? This is the attack that they throw at him. Now, how does Jesus respond? He speaks truth. Look at verse 49. He says, I do not have a demon, but I honor my father, and you dishonor me. Yet I do not seek my own glory. There is one who seeks it, and he is the judge Jesus responds with clear, objective truth. He doesn't repay evil for evil. He doesn't revile in response to their reviling. He doesn't stoop to their level of personal attack. He keeps his focus on the issue at hand and calmly states the truth. I do not have a demon. Now notice he could repeat what he has already told them. He could say, I do not have a demon, your father's the devil. And he would be speaking the truth. But he doesn't say that because that would be reviling. That would be attacking them. He kept his defense to a bare minimum, and he spoke only the truth necessary to not let the false accusation stand. He goes on to say, I honor my father and you dishonor me. Now this may be a reply to their Samaritan accusation where He's e essentially denying taking the sides of the Samaritans and saying, the only side I'm on is God the Father's side. What he has said about himself and what he has said about them has not been to take sides in their political, religious skirmishes. It is to reveal who he is so that And the need that they have, and that all people have to come to him. But because of their response to him, they are clearly dishonoring him, and by dishonoring him, they are dishonoring God. Up to this point, the Jews have not engaged Jesus with a rational, thoughtful, investigative study of what he was teaching. They have not asked questions to seek understanding so that they could then compare what Jesus says to Scripture and discern whether or not he truly is the Messiah? If they had done that, they would be honoring him and they would be honoring God, giving him a legitimate opportunity to articulate and defend who he is. as they sought understanding. But instead of fulfilling their duty to probe and research and consider if he's the Messiah, what they did was they mocked him and they scoffed him and they rejected him and they hated him. In short, they dishonored him. Well, Jesus goes on in verse 50 to say that he does not seek his own glory. He doesn't seek his own glory. Yes, it's true that he proclaims himself to be the Messiah. He says everything he needs to say to identify himself as the Messiah, but he doesn't do it for his own glory. He doesn't do it to draw attention to himself in the sense of trying to win some popularity contest context or trying to win as many people to follow him as possible What he said about himself was in obedience to the Father and for the good of the people. And how can you believe in the Messiah if you don't know who he is? Of course he has to identify himself as the Messiah. But the fact that he spoke truth when it wasn't popular, when the people didn't want to hear it? The fact that he wasn't crushed when the crowds dispersed and the people turned against him show that he sought not his own glory, but the glory of the Father. He refused to submit to the demands of the people to perform miracles so that they would believe. He didn't stay in those places where people seemed to be believing in him. He would often move on before There was an end to the popularity. And he refused to do everything possible to prevent the crowds from going away. Everything Jesus did was not for himself, but for the honor and glory of God, his Father. In fact, Jesus prays in chapter seventeen, verse four, I glorified you on earth, having accomplished the work you gave me to do. No, he didn't seek his own glory, but that doesn't mean his glory is unimportant. He says there in verse 50, I, or rather, there is one who seeks it, and he is the judge. More literally, there is one who seeks and judges. Jesus didn't perform miracles for his own glory, but the Father empowered Jesus to perform miracles to glorify the Son. In John 11, when Jesus receives the news that Lazarus is sick and about to die, Jesus knows that Lazarus is going to die, and he knows he's going to resurrect Lazarus from the dead. And so he says to his disciples, This illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it. The Father sought the glory of the Son. The Father is not only the one who seeks the glory of the Son, the Father is also the one who judges. God the Father is the judge of all, and he determines who is right and who is wrong. Jesus is not concerned with the judgment of the Jews, Jesus is concerned with the judgment of the Father. Now you may remember back in chapter 5, verse 22, where Jesus says, The Father judges no one, but has given all judgment to the Son. He has given him authority to execute judgment because he is the Son of Man. That's speaking of the future judgment which Jesus will perform at the end of days, and the Father delegates that future judgment to the Son, but that does not mean that the Father stops being the judge at all. As the judge, the father can delegate judgment to the son, and in delegating, the father does not renounce his authority as the judge. He is the judge, he will always be the judge even while that while for a time he may delegate that judgment to the Son. Well, with Jesus claiming to honor the Father and the Jews dishonoring Jesus, Jesus is saying with this The Father is the one who will decide between you and me who is right and who is wrong. And of course we know what that verdict will be, don't we? We know that God the Father judged the Son to be righteous, not only because he empowered him to perform miracles, but Most importantly, because after Christ gave up his life for the redemption of sinners, the Father accepted that sacrifice by raising him from the dead. Jesus speaks the truth to these Jews. The truth about himself, the truth about them, and the truth about God. Now comes the gracious offer. Look at verse 51. Truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death. This is an offer to turn from your malice and keep my word, and instead of being judged by God, you will have life. Again, the phrase here, truly, truly I say to you, signals that whatever is about to come out of his mouth is of eternal significance. And we must all pay attention to what Jesus says. That's obviously true of everything Jesus says, but the 25 times that we find this statement, this phrase, In the Gospel of John, it elevates those statements to a level of extreme importance. Anyone who keeps my word will never taste death. To keep his word means to follow it, to observe it, if you will, as if uh in the sense that we observe a holiday, which means we keep a holiday. Ultimately ultimately it means to submit to it, to obey it. It's not merely about accepting his word. It's not merely about believing his word. No, to keep his word means to trust. His word to the point where we place our lives into his hand and do whatever he says Jesus is not looking for Facebook followers. He is not looking for media consumers or subscribers. He is not looking for fans or groupies or associates or affiliates. He is looking for those who will bow the knee, worship, and submit to his word. Anyone who does that will never see death. Now it's interesting how the Jews, when they quote Jesus, they're In verse 52, they use a different word than see. They say, how can you say, if anyone keeps my word, he will never taste death To see or to taste death means that you will not experience death If you follow Jesus, you will not experience death That is an audacious statement. How can that possibly be true? How can Jesus, who knows he's about to die, say that if you follow me, you will not die? Are you actually saying, Jesus, that if someone believes in you, they will never die? What are you saying about all of the faithful followers of God in the past who died? Well that's obviously where the Jews immediately go next. Verse 52. Now we know you have a demon. Abraham died as did the prophets. Yet you say, if anyone keeps my word, he will never taste death. Who was more faithful to the Lord than Abraham and the prophets? Sure, we know that Elijah was taken up into heaven without having died, but all of the rest of the prophets You're not going to say that Isaiah or Jeremiah or any of the other prophets were any less faithful to the Lord than Elijah. You won't say that, Jesus, will you? Of course not at all Their response here would seem to be a rational response to what Jesus has just said. It would seem to be if you ignored what the scripture says about reality Now clearly Jesus isn't talking about physical death here. How can he, who again knows he's going to die, declare that following him prevents death? He can't be talking about physical death. He has to be talking about the second death, everlasting death. Yes, all people die, but as the saying goes, If you're born once, you die twice. But if you're born twice, you die once. This is the reality that must be ignored for their response to seem rational. They claimed that Abraham and the prophets died. So how can Jesus claim that those faithful to God won't taste death? The answer is, Abraham and the prophets are not dead. They're not dead. Let me give you three proofs very quickly. The first proof In Matthew 22, 32, Jesus grounds the doctrine of the resurrection on the basis that Abraham is alive. In quoting Exodus 3, verse 6, he says. I am the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob. And then Jesus says, he is not the God of the dead, but of the living. Second proof. In Luke 9, Moses and Elijah appeared to Jesus on what we call the Mount of Transfiguration, and they conversed with Jesus about his upcoming suffering, death, and ascension. Those two prophets were very much alive. Third proof. In Luke 16, Jesus tells the story of the account of the rich man and Lazarus, how they both died. Lazarus went up to the bosom of Abraham, the rich man went to Hades. And Abraham had an interaction, a conversation with that rich man while he was Well, the rich man was in Hades. And that is not a parable. That is a real event. So, yes, Moses and Abraham and the prophets died, but they are not dead. They are alive. Again, Elijah had the privilege of being taken up alive into heaven, but the rest of the prophets experienced death, and yet they are alive. And so what Jesus says is true, all who keep his word will never see death. Revelation 20, verse 6 says, Blessed and holy is the one who shares in the first resurrection. Over such the second death has no power, but they will be priests of God and of Christ, and they will reign with him for a thousand years and then forevermore. On the other hand, those who do not believe, those who do not keep, those who do not submit to and follow his word will face judgment. God is the judge. He has handed his judgment over to the Son, and all who reject Jesus Christ in this life will stand before the Son and receive their final judgment, which is Everlasting death in hell. Revelation 21, verse 8 says, But as for the cowardly, the faithless The detestable as for murderers, the sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars Their portion will be in the lake that burns with fire and sulfur, which is the second death. If you're born once, you die twice. If you're born twice, you die once. Jesus has been, or rather the Jews have been mocking and ridiculing and challenging and accusing Jesus But true to his word, at other times, when he said the blasphemy against the Son of Man can be forgiven, he makes this gracious offer to them Turn from your malice. Turn from your wicked ways. Keep my word, and instead of judgment, you will receive life. You will never see death. Well, that brings us to the second cycle of attack, truth. and a gracious offer. We've already seen their initial response, but look at verse 53 to see their second attack. They go on to say, are you greater than our father Abraham who died? And the prophets died. Who do you make yourself out to be? In their hierarchy of humanity, Abraham and the prophets were at the top. Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob were not only Patriarchs in the sense that they chronologically preceded the nation of Israel, but they actually establish and define Israel's very identity as the people of God And the prophets came along when Israel had lost their way, and they proclaimed the word of Yahweh and called the people back. to faithfulness to Yahweh, and in a sense they they called the people to be who they were as children of Abraham, to be true worshipers of Yahweh. And so, in at least one sense, to be greater than Abraham would mean that Jesus has the ability to shift the center of Israel's identity off of Abraham and onto himself. And in another sense, to be greater than Abraham who died would mean that Jesus could do what Abraham couldn't do, and that is offer life and save people from the tyranny of death. So is that what you're saying, Jesus? Are you greater than Abraham? Who exactly do you make yourself out to be, they ask? Now, don't think for a minute that this is a genuine question on their part. From their point of view, there can be no one greater than Abraham, and based on their faulty theology, no one can be freed from death. The Pharisees did in fact believe in the resurrection of the dead, but that was in their minds a fixed reality, meaning they did not understand that Abraham and all true believers would in fact be resurrected on the basis of the redeeming work of the Messiah So their question is disingenuous. It's mocking. It was an attack against the power and work of Jesus. Now, how does Jesus respond? Well, of course, he responds by speaking truth. Look at verses 54 and 55. Jesus answered, If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father who glorifies me, of whom you say he is our God. But you have not known him. I know him. If I were to say that I do not know him, I would be a liar like you. But you do not know him. Or rather, but I do know him, and I keep his word. Jesus speaks the truth, but he doesn't answer their question, at least not yet. He has one bit of truth more to communicate before he unveils his full glory. He knows they're not interested in the answer to their own question. He knows this is just another volley of hostile unbelief And so for now he goes back to what he said earlier in the chapter, verses fourteen to nineteen, where he really rested his case on his own identity, on the testimony of the Father Again, he says, I don't glorify myself, but my father, it's my father who glorifies me. As a reminder, the Father glorified the Son in three particular ways. First, the Father glorified the Son by sending the prophet John the Baptist to identify Jesus as the Messiah. Second, the Father glorified the Son by declaring from heaven at his baptism: This is my beloved Son. And third, the Father glorified the Son by empowering him to perform innumerable miracles. The Father's testimony of the identity of the Son is complete and compelling. Unless, of course, you don't know the Father. So you don't believe that John the Baptist was a prophet from God. You don't believe that the account of the heavenly voice and you think that Jesus was empowered by the devil. And so here again, Jesus presses the point that they do not know God as their Father. If they knew the Father, they would know the answer to their question. Because they would see and embrace the overwhelming and the compelling evidence. But as it is, they do not know the Father. And he goes on to say in verse 65: if I were to say that I do not know him, I would be a liar like you, but I do know him and I keep his word. Jesus is the Holy One of God, as Peter calls him in John 6. Jesus is, in the words of Hebrews, the holy, innocent, separated from sinners one. He is God in the flesh, and so he would have to violate his own nature to do what they wanted him to do and back off of his claim. If he did that, he would be conforming to them and their nature as children of the devil. Jesus loves his father way too much to deny himself and disobey the Father. Well, what he does next is tell them that they are wrong about Abraham and at the same time make a gracious offer. He makes a gracious offer. Look at verse 56. Your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. He saw it and was glad. They claimed Abraham is dead. And Jesus says, that's where you're wrong. He is alive and well. That would certainly shock the Sadducees who didn't believe in the resurrection, but that would even shock the Pharisees who, while believing in the resurrection, thought the resurrection would take place at the end of time, therefore Abraham would still be dead in their point of view. But no, Jesus says Abraham is alive. He was alive the moment that he died. And not only is he alive, but Jesus knows him. And not only does Jesus know Abraham, but Abraham knows Jesus. And not only did Abraham know Jesus, but the the first part of verse 55 indicates that there was some point in the past where Abraham learned, he realized, I'm going to get to see the day of the Messiah, and he rejoiced. Now there's some debate over when that was. Was that sometime during his earthly life? Was that when he entered into the presence of of God? uh biblical passage where that would be uh revealed to us. So I'm inclined to think it must have been when he went to heaven and realized he's gonna actually have access to observe the plan of God unfold But whenever it was, Abraham rejoiced. See, he got excited at the fact that he would get to see the coming of the Messiah And more than that, when the day came, when the Messiah came into the world, Abraham was glad. Now, rejoiced and glad really are synonyms. In fact, the word glad is the primary word for rejoice throughout the New Testament. But he was ecstatic. He rejoiced. Now again, if you're thinking on the from the perspective of the Jews that Abraham is dead, he's been dead for 2,000 years. This is an astonishing claim. Abraham lived on the earth 2,000 years before Jesus, so for nearly 2,000 years, Abraham has been waiting to see the redemptive plan unfold And when he finally saw it, he rejoiced. What are you talking about, Jesus? Well, before we think about the primary theological implication of this, consider how this is a gracious invitation. It's really an implied invitation, but an invitation nonetheless. Remember that back in verse 39, the Jews claimed that Abraham was their father. Do you remember why Jesus said, that's not true? It's because they did not do the works that Abraham did. They did not follow his example of believing in God. And so by saying here that Jesus says, Abraham, your father, seems to be reversing his prior rejection of their claim, what he's doing is he's inviting them to do what Abraham did. Not only believe in the Word of God, but embrace and celebrate and rejoice in the Son of God, the arrival of the Messiah. Friends, Abraham's example of faith doesn't didn't end 2,000 by our standards, 4,000 years ago. Simply when he believed the promises of God. No, his model and example to his descendants continues on even to this very day because in heaven he celebrated the coming of the Messiah. Who is Jesus, the Son of God. And so the gracious invitation is: if Abraham is your father, follow his example. Not only believe God, but believe in me. Now consider the theological implication of what Jesus has just said here. For Jesus to know that Abraham rejoiced To see his day means that not only did Jesus know Abraham and vice versa, but Jesus himself existed before his birth. We've already seen that. In other passages, but this is this is a claim by Jesus at a minimum of his preexistence He existed before he was born, not as some amorphous spirit being, but as a person already identified as the Messiah. This is a glimmer of his glory, which he will reveal in just a moment. But the Jews didn't get that far in their thinking. They're not thinking about the theological implications of what Jesus is saying. The the hostility in their heart has created a blockage. in their mind preventing them from understanding the full import of what Jesus has just said. So they they jump to the first and more s most superficial reality and ask, wait, wait, wait. You know Abraham? And this begins the third cycle of attack, truth, and grace. Cycle number three. Look at verse 57. You are not yet fifty years old, and have you seen Abraham Now the age of fifty really is an arbitrary number pulled out of the air. It's simply just pointing out that Jesus is not all that old. He's maybe a little bit over thirty at this point, but whether he's fifty or five hundred He'd have to be 2,000 to have interacted with Abraham. And so in this attack, they dismiss what he says and once again scoff at him. They don't even give a moment to consider the significance of what Jesus has said. Jesus has been standing there, he's been speaking divine truth of eternal importance and he who has who is full of grace and truth has met their malice with divine patience And he's brought them to the place where they think Jesus is full of insanity, and they were totally unprepared to hear Jesus revealed, reveal the fullness of his glory. Look at verse fifty-eight. Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was, I am Again, of the 25 times that we see this phrase, truly, truly I say to you, this one is perhaps elevated above them all. If this one isn't true, none of them are true. And Jesus would turn out to be the great deceiver. But if this is true, he is the truth, and everything he says is true Now what sounds to you and I like a grammatically incorrect statement is a di uh a rev revelation of infinite significance. Before Abraham was. Well, obviously that means before Abraham lived, before Abraham came into existence, before he existed. Abraham was a man who lived on the timeline of history. He came into that timeline and he left that timeline. Abraham occupied a small hash mark on the line of the history of the universe. But unlike him, Jesus says, I am. I am. This is to say that he had no beginning and he has no end. He exists outside the timeline of history. But Jesus means even more than that. I am is not just a statement about his existence, it is a title identifying who he is. Back in verse 53, the Jews asked him, Who do you make yourself out to be? Answer: I am. When the Lord commissioned Moses to take to go to Egypt and deliver his people, Moses asked the Lord, Who should I tell them, sent me? Yahweh says in Exodus 3. 14, I am who I am. And he said, say this to the people of Israel, I am has sent me to you. Now Jesus has never hidden his identity. He was always somewhat indirect And spoke in ways that implied who he was, but here he removes the veil and says, without any filter, without any hint, without any plausible deniability, I am the I am. I am Yahweh your God. Now if the Jews knew their scriptures rightly and they had been paying attention They would have understood this long ago, but the clarity of this statement makes it impossible for them to miss the full meaning of his words. And by the way, their response to what Jesus says means that we're not misunderstanding his words. Some people say, oh, Jesus isn't claiming that you're putting too much into that passage. Well, look how they respond in verse 59. So they picked up stones to throw at him. In their minds, Jesus has just committed the greatest act of blasphemy possible by mankind. He's not just claiming to be divine. They've already wanted to kill him for that. But here he's claiming to be Yahweh himself. And so even though it was against the law, the Romans forbade it, they were ready to take Stones and be the judge, jury, and executioner on the spot Now here's the irony that magnifies the character of Christ as being full of grace and truth. The Jews were about to carry out the most unjust act in human history. They were about to kill their creator. And Jesus had the power, authority, and right, and he would have been just to not only kill them on the spot, but send their souls to hell. And yet, when their argument turns violent, instead of bringing judgment, Jesus shows that he is the I am. The Lord Yahweh revealed himself to Moses there in Exodus 3. And in Exodus 30 33, Moses pleaded with the Lord to show him his glory. And the Lord effectively said, My glory is my character, it's who I am, it's it's it's what I am, and so let me tell you that. And so here is the glory of God. Yahweh, Yahweh, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. keeping steadfast love for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, but who will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children, and the children's children, to the third and fourth generation. That is the glory of God put into words And that Mount Everest of divine self-revelation casts its shadow across the rest of the Old Testament. And just as a shadow gets narrower as it grows, this description of God's glory narrows down to the two attributes of steadfast love and faithfulness. And then with the transition from Greek to, or rather from Hebrew to Greek, John uses the words grace and truth in chapter 1, verse 14. And so what we've seen Jesus do throughout this whole passage and really this whole section is speak truth in response to their attacks. And he has shown grace all along the way, but here, at the highest point of their hostility, he shows extraordinary grace. He hasn't reviled in return. He hasn't threatened. He knows that the time for judgment will come, but that today is not that day. For today he just slips away quietly. Whether that was the miraculous departure or not, we don't know, but This is grace that that he would repeatedly speak the truth in the face of attack. He would repeatedly offer them a way out of their hostility and back to a right relationship with God And now he would, for the time being, allow them to remain uncondemned. And instead, what he does is he entrusts himself to him who judges justly. Beloved, you and I can face hostility from various people for different reasons. And our Lord here models for us the right way to respond to attack, and that is to speak truth and extend grace. This is not a strategy for winning friends and influencing people. This is not even a guaranteed way to resolve conflict. This is just how we imitate the one who saved us and put his glory on display for others to see. How others respond when we speak truth and when we extend grace depends on God's purposes for their lives. My friend, if you are here and you have yet to believe in Jesus Christ, God has been gracious to you your whole life. Well, you have Lived in unbelief. He has not yet brought the judgment of death upon you. And I would urge you to not test his grace. Recognize it for what it is. Recognize him for who he is. And entrust your life to him for the forgiveness of your sin, and he will give you everlasting life. Well, there is so much more to say. But we will see more of God's glory as we move into chapter 9, Lord willing, in September. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this word from the Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you for the example that he has set before us. We thank you for the truth of who he is. I just have this gr great sense that there is glory to behold here, even in this text, which we do not have the time to unfold. But may your spirit cause our hearts to rise in praise and worship and obedience to the one who is the I am. And because he did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, he humbled himself and was obedient even to the point of death. And you did that to save us from our sin, to deliver us from the wrath that we deserve, to free us from slavery to sin, that we might have everlasting life. And experience your glory, your love, and your grace forever and ever. Lord may we live in light of that truth. Let us not live as children of the devil. Let us not live being deceived by the lies of the world, the flesh, and the devil. Let us live for him who is the truth and gave himself for us. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.