So ladies, you ready for this? I've been asked by Karen to do a simple overview and a reminder of what spiritual gifts are. So I won't dive into any particular gift today, but I will Give an overview. For some of you it'll be a review in the sense of like, oh I'm an expert on spiritual gifts. That's okay. You can give a testimony later at the table, right? But for some of you, it might be a refresher, and a few of you in the room might be more new to these things. And so for that purpose, we're going to go through a general overview, and then there'll be a Q<unk>A time at the end of that. Okay? Let's dive in. So we're on page one of my notes today. We're talking about grace, gifts, and the joy of serving. And so I want to start in Romans 12 because I think these three verses, six to eight, are a great summary of the idea of spiritual gifts in the whole New Testament. Let me read for us Romans 12. 6-8. Since we have gifts that differ according to the grace given to us, each of us is to exercise them accordingly If prophecy, according to the proportion of his faith, if service, in his serving, or he who teaches, in his teaching, or he who exhorts, in his exhortation. He who gives, whoa, we like this as elders with liberality. And he who leads with diligence, and he who shows mercy with cheerfulness. Here's what my outline is. So if you get lost, here's what it says: the principle and practice of using grace gifts, in those three verses, I see two points. We all have grace gifts And number two, these grace gifts are the guiding principle in the discovery, use, and enjoyment of our gifts. So I want to look at three things. Grace enables our gifts, grace empowers our gifts. And grace enriches our gifts. But let me stop for a minute and just give the pastoral point. Far too many Christians are struggling with not only what is my gift, But being overly zealous for serving in the church. And serving in areas that they are not gifted in. And that they are not graced to do. When people ask, how do I know what my spiritual gift is How do I know what my spiritual gift is? There's a lot of ways, and we'll talk about it at the end, but it's primarily this in this message. Paul says you should serve with your gift according. In proportion to the grace that you have received, not the need of the church. Because often we serve with a good heart. We all need to serve. Like in a family Families have stuff that everybody has to do. Somebody has to clean the kitchen, somebody has to clean the bathroom, somebody has to take out the trash. Those are all family jobs we all share. But not everybody in the family is equally gifted at the things that really they should be doing And so just like a family that you walk back to, your church family is the same. You should not be doing everything. You should be doing primarily, should serve everybody, everyone should serve, but everyone should minister through their gifts in the primary area of their calling. If you get nothing else today, that's my point. So here we go. We all have grace gifts. Paul says, since we have gifts that differ according to the grace given to us, we should do the following. Well, here's the reminder. Five or six things. Number one, each believer is given at least one gift. We all know that. 1 Corinthians 12, Paul says, but to each one is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good. Check. Everyone knows that everyone gets a spiritual gift. Really? Even that guy named Herman, who's been at our church for nine years and doesn't do it, he's got a spiritual gift. Alright? It might be playing Donkey Kong in his mother's basement. But he's got a spiritual gift. Number two, the Holy Spirit determines who receives those gifts, right? So this is just a refresher. Everyone gets a gift. And it's the Holy Spirit, not the church, and not the experience. I sought a gift and I got it. Yeah, that's Christmas shopping. Okay First Corinthians twelve says, but one and the same Spirit works all of these things, distributing to each one individually, just as he wills. Okay. Two points we all know. We all get a gift, and we don't get to choose our gift, but it's the Holy Spirit who sovereignly gives things. Number three, we are to use our gifts to serve others for the benefit of the body. Alright, now it's getting real. I get a gift given to me by the Holy Spirit for the good of others. Ephesians four. He gave some as apostles and some as prophets, some as evangelists, and some as pastor teachers, for the equipping of the saints for the work of service. To the building up of the body of Christ. Let me stop there just for a second. Saint Gregory, not calling him a saint because I grew up Catholic, but as he's commonly called in the 500s, 600s, he said this. If any man, and by extension woman, is gifted to serve the body and does not, they do not love their brother Right? That's as simple as a gift. Why did I get a gift uh for you? Why did you get a gift uh for the other people? Those gifts are not ours. And it's the parable of having the gift given and you hide it, the talent given. That's the motif. Those three things. We're all given a gift. They were given specifically by the Holy Spirit to us individually and uniquely And it is for the benefit of the other person in the room. So when I do not exercise that, I do not love my neighbor. Alright, next point, page two Number four. Each gift is equally valuable. We know that here. But because the church gathered primarily sees people up front, like even this moment Primarily, our situations gathered are corporate teaching and worship. It is sometimes hard to keep in mind that the gifts are equal In terms of God's distribution and purposes, they may have different roles, but each of them is equally important for the establishment of the church equally necessary. That will be Paul's point in 1 Corinthians 12, where he talks about the body. Hey, you take your heart out of your body and you see how the rest of it functions Right? I mean that's Paul's point. It's like, yeah, you think you got this together. No, we don't need you. That's Paul's point. Yeah, take your heart out and see how that works for you. Okay? Bad weekend So point number four, page two. Each gift is equally valuable. Romans 12, the verses preceding where I am at. For just as we have many members in one body, and all the members do not have the same function, So we who are many are one body in Christ and individually members of one another. Everybody's given a gift. It was given by the Holy Spirit, the purpose for the other person And that fourth point, it's equally important that we all do our gift. Yeah, but I have the gift of mercy, you might say. And you've got the gift of awesomeness. I hope Carla thinks so. We have been married thirty-eight years and it's wonderful she's my best friend She's my only friend. But she's my best friend. Gotta start you gotta be somewhere. Each gift is equally valuable because it was given by the same person, the Holy Spirit. And it's equally valuable in God's sight. Number five, we are commanded to use our gifts. That's where it's real. We got a gift, he gave it to us, it's for the common good, they're equally valuable. But number five, we are commanded, not simply encouraged, to use our gifts. 1 Peter 4 says, as each one has received a special gift Employ it in serving one another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. It's a stewardship issue. Again, it's the same as the parable. I got ten cents, but I put it in my pocket and I waited for Jesus to come. Before I moved to Montana and got a wheat grinder and moved up on a mountain and hoped Jesus would return before the evil happened. Don't hide it. And then number six, exercising our gifts must be done in spiritual service to God with sound judgment regarding our gifts in the context of shared ministry. Blah, blah, blah. The three S's in there is spiritual service to God. It's with sound judgment that you're going to evaluate which gifts you have and why. And then thirdly, it's a shared ministry, all of this together. We often end up silos or or lone wolves in ministry. I'm doing my thing, I'm good. Romans 12, 1 to 5, hang with me as I read this little lengthier passage. Therefore, Paul says, just in front of the verses we've been in, I urge you, brethren. by the mercies of God to present your bodies, a living and holy sacrifice, acceptable to God, which is your spiritual service of worship. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, so that you may prove what the will of God is, that which is good and acceptable and perfect. Let me stop there. Before we get to verse 6 where we started today, there's verses 1 to 5, and Paul's starting point before he gets to spiritual gifts is simple. Have you given yourself to God? Because if you have, you'll know the gifts are from God. And you'll know that you should use them from God. But are you surrendered to God in your life right now? Romans 12, 1 and 2. And it's not based on guilt, is it? See, uh Carl and I once did a skit. I was a pastor of children's ministry at one point, and then a pastor of youth ministry. And we did a skit one time to recruit people, and we called it recruiting through the ages. And we showed in the caveman days, just making that up. And we showed like the medieval period. And then we even did a future one, what it will be like in the future. And in each one of those skits, we use guilt as the primary motivation. Show VBS pictures and babies. If you love Jesus, you'll be down there. If you're surrendered to God and willing to do His will, and you said, Lord, I'm available, then verse 3, for through the grace given to me, Paul says, I say to everyone among you not to think more highly of himself than he ought to think, but to think so as to have sound judgment, as God has allowed allowed it to each a measure of faith. Surrender yourself to God and see that your life is an act of worship, but then have sound judgment about where you fit in with these gifts he's about to say. Some of them were quite intoxicating. Speaking gifts are intoxicating. She looked like I'm doing something really awesome. Or leadership. Or administration or any kind of gifts that get you out there But he says this basically nobody act big, nobody act little, everybody act medium. He's saying be sound in your judgment about where you really are. That would include don't act small. Well, I only got the gift. I'm not hunky donkey. Yeah, neither am I. I'm not that person. But God has called you to use your gifts. And I know we say that we're we're Christians, we say that a lot But when the body of Christ functions like a good family and everybody uses their gifts, it's fun. But when it's a pocket of people, it's not as fun. And then finally, in verses four and five of that section, for just as if we have many members in one body, and all the members do not have the same function. So we who are many are one body in Christ and individually members one of another, which I simply say is shared ministry. It's a potluck. Alright? But if you're the person who's great at roast beef and you don't bring it, and I'm eating beanie weenies or the 13th potato salad casserole, I'm not I'm not having fun. I'm not fun. Everybody's got to do their part. So at the bottom of the page, now we'll get a little more specific, okay? Bottom of page two. A spiritual gift is a God-given ability for service. It's not a place of service, nor a ministry to a particular age group, nor a procedure. Abilities can and must be developed by the one to whom they are given Let's go to the next page. But you get that point. Everybody's given a gift sovereignly by the Holy Spirit for the common good of the church. We have to exercise those gifts. But the secret sauce is you have to exercise them They're not magic gifts that you all of a sudden say, I have the gift of and you just I am now unleashing the power of God upon the congregation through my awesomeness. God's like, no, you gotta practice You gotta practice. And that's why that's also a secret to finding your spiritual gift, right? You you start practicing in different ministries and people start saying Uh don't practice that anymore here. Yeah. You know. That that is not cool? Alright. All right, page three, top of page three. Grace is the guiding principle in the discovery, use, and enjoyment of our gifts. That's my primary point today Let me say it one more time. Grace is the guiding principle in the discovery, use, and enjoyment of our gifts. What do I mean Back to verse 6. Since we have gifts that differ according to the grace given to us, each of us is to exercise them, the gifts. Accordingly, according to the grace you'd have been given. And then Paul even goes on and uses the word proportion. You see the idea? According to, in relationship to, in proportion to the grace that you'd have been given. This may be a new concept for you, but I want to kind of challenge your thinking here on these two points under there. Number one, grace enables our gifts. When I say enable, I mean it ignites them. Oh, yeah, I get that. It's a grace gift. You know that these ideas a spiritual gift, a grace gift, is uh charisma or charisma, and that is charismatic comes from that Say, oh, the charismatic gifts? The word just means grace gift. That's the word in Greek for grace. But number two, grace empowers our gifts. When we exercise them according to the grace we received, we are to use our gifts in relationship to the measure of the grace given to us. Our involvement is thus weighted by the grace and gifts given to us The exercise of the gifts is according to the proportion of faith and the measure of grace. So I've given you that amazing chart in the middle. Yes. Here's what Paul is telling us. The Holy Spirit has not only given you a gift, a conduit for service. But he has given you a measure of the ability to pull it off. What is grace? If you're hearing this about grace, you need to change your thinking, and that is this. When you heard grace, you might think God has been gracious to me. He gave me a gift. So Paul is simply saying, according to his kindness, exercise that. So it's a motivational talk. But that's not what Paul's talking about. The use of the word grace in the New Testament is two things. God's graciousness, he gives you a gift. And it's also used as God's grace is the empowerment for service. It is the desire and the power to do his will. God gave grace to you to do something. He's not being gracious to you, he's empowering you. Let me try to show you in scripture where that's found. Here at the bottom of page three. Sometimes we talk about unmerited favor, God's gracious stance towards us. And scripture says, being justified as a gift by his grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus, that's God's goodness to you. But these other verses are the ones we quote. And you have to see that grace is empowerment. Take a look at these in the box at the bottom According to the grace of God which was given to me, Paul says, like a wise master builder, I laid a foundation, and another is building on it. But each man must be careful how he builds on it. Paul says he planted churches and built them by this thing called grace. Paul wasn't just saying, I feel like God's been good to me. But rather he says, something happened to me, the grace of God. That's why I could pull that off. The next verse. But by by the grace of God I am what I am. He sounds like Popeye. I am what I am. And his grace towards me did not prove vain, but I labored even more than all of them, yet not I. But the grace of God in me Grace is an empowerment to do his will. It's the desire to do his will and it's the power to carry it out. Without the grace of God in our lives, we cannot do the work of God properly. And if we're not graced to do a particular job for God and we try to do it over a long period of time, you think, well, God will just make that up because He loves me serving him. Not where he didn't design it. Do you think he sovereignly gave you a gift so that you could do other stuff? That's a waste of an eternal plan. God graces you to do the gifts that He gave you. And the other ones is a waste of your time. Everyone serves, but not everyone ministers through the particular gifts. Alright, let me just go on to the other verses there real quickly. Paul says, and God is able to make all grace abound to you, so that always having all sufficiency in everything, you may have an abundance for every good deed. And this is some of the favorite verses. And he has said to me, Paul says, My grace is sufficient for you. For power is perfected in weakness. Most gladly, therefore, I will rather boast about my weaknesses. So the power of Christ may be dwelling in me. You, therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. And each one has received a special gift, Peter says Employing it and serving one another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. Alright, last page. Best day ever. So what's the point? The point is that these gifts which we have been given, they direct us to what we should be doing. How do they? Because you want to do it and you have the power to do it. What does the power look like? The desire, the interest, the abilities, the time, the energy, those are also part of the larger providential grace gifts of God. That God has called me to this work, I get excited about doing it. Okay, so if I'm happy and excited about something, then that measures whether I should obey God and do this? Yeah I mean it's Piper's thing. Piper didn't write the Bible. But God is most glorified in us when we are most satisfied in Him. And in the grace gifts, God has given you the ability to do what he called you to do, and you can run, as Eric Little said, and feel his pleasure. Now, what if I'm not happy or excited about doing a task? Should I not do it because I'm not all it's all about me? No, there's stuff you gotta do. You still gotta take the trash out. You don't have to love trash taking. Alright, page four then. Grace and riches are gifts. My point is in this, God wants you to enjoy the gift And there is a there's a fruit that comes from doing his will. A. Being different in good relations is good in relationship to gifts. We don't need to seek the gifts because they were given. Romans 12, 1 Peter 4, Ephesians 4, and 1 Corinthians 12. We have to devote ourselves to exercising these particular gifts. So don't waste your time trying to use other people's gifts. And each gift has its particular pitfalls. Let me stop there. Some of you have the gift of discernment Okay. If I ask you to raise your hand you'll be glad to. Right, it's a gift everybody wants to be able to say I I know. I I've got discernment. I do. Did you discern the room before you put your hand up? Yeah, sorry. But but the gift of mercy may not even raise their hand Mm-hmm. Yeah, I do. I don't I want anybody in the notes. Let me talk to you about Mercy Gone Wild. I worked for a Christian ministry years ago that did stadium events and I was a stadium I was a manager for lots of volunteers. And we were doing something in Los Angeles at a stadium. And on our staff was a lady named Betsy, who was a very dear friend of Carl and I've. But she had the gift of mercy. Capital M, her picture in the dictionary by the word mercy. She was in charge of vetting volunteers to make sure they met the requirements to serve in our ministry. Oh great. So we start doing a stadium event in LA. Yeah, it's all it's a bad idea right from the beginning. Wrong gift, right? Well, she's vetting people theoretically, and I end up in one of the tents with all these men and they're there. And there's this lady who's serving. She has a badge from the ministry. She's obviously been vetted, I thought And she's trying to bite another person. And she has this person on the ground trying to bite this person. Two police officers have to come in and restrain the woman, and she keeps yelling, I'm gonna give you AIDS. It was a bad day. I was like, dude, it must be my lunch break. So when that all unraveled and the police took the lady away, I went to Betsy And I said, Betsy, um so so what was the betting process here? Just what she told me That poor woman is a homeless person. I said, Oh, I I feel bad. What can we do? Well, I decided to give her a badge which put her inside the ministry to do whatever she wanted so that she could get lunch Yeah. Yep. And three people will no longer be able to eat because they're going to die of AIDS. Alright? That's mercy going well. On the other end is She gave her her Bible. Yes. Nice lady. All of us can exercise our gifts too far. And mercy gone wild looks like that because Because mercy gives up truth in order to serve. And then what does discernment give up? Mercy. Because it becomes judgment. I have a quick read on people. You're bad. You're bad. And I'm good. Okay? All gifts have to be in proportion. That's why we have to surrender ourselves to Christ. F, how can you know what your spiritual gift is? Tell God you don't care what you do as long as He is using you. That's how you start. Romans 12, 1 and 2. What kind of ministry do you desire? What do you want to do? What intrigues you? Try it. And see what God does in that. And then serve where there is a need. with an open heart. And for those who are in children's ministry here, they're saying, Dave, this is a bad message. We need more workers. Try various ministries and ask others to confirm your gift. It's a simple formula. That's usually how it goes. And then finally, and the last question, which I cannot deal with time-wise very well To simply do this, um Karen had asked me, so I'll blame her, uh uh on G, should I seek the sign gifts? That is, what about tongues, miracles, healing today? Now if you're from Hope Bible Church and you're a member here, you already signed a doctrinal statement where you said, I'm a cessationist Even if you didn't know what that meant. It means you're gonna get a lot more money. So just it's gonna be that. But a cessationist means something ceased and then today there are good and godly people out there Who also don't think all the gifts see or some of the gifts sees they are continuationists. So let me do this in just a couple minutes. If you have questions after this I'd be glad to do two things. I have a summary of this particular talk by Tom Pennington on a PDF I'd be glad to send you or send you in the direction to watch this. But I want to address the question, what are we at Hope Bible Church saying by what we believe? And that is we use the title we're cessationist. We believe something ceased. What is it? A lot of people would think that what we think ceased is miracles, or the work of the Holy Spirit, or that God stopped working in this age and now it's all up to us. We sound like rationalists to people But the reality is we don't think everything ceased or all the gifts ceased or the Holy Spirit stopped working, and we still believe there's miracles. People are healed. Salvation is a miracle. But the point is, what do we think stopped? We believe that in the first century, at the end of the first century, 65 years after Jesus died, the last apostle died, that is the apostle John. having written the book of Revelation and completed the canon, the twenty-seven books of the New Testament were done. And when that was closed and the the Old Testament all came into one book, the Bible, at that point God stopped doing one thing Giving individuals the ability to be miracle doers. You see, the apostles were miracle doers. They didn't just have miracles done through them. God said to certain people in history, you're going to be able to do miracles. Why? To authenticate the message that you're bringing until it's all been recorded in Scripture. It's a common and on my outline here seven reasons why we think that all cease cease really quick. Number one, the unique role of miracles Do you know that in the Bible, 4,000 years of biblical history, creation to the time of the apostles, that only three times in that entire time people could do miracles? And each one of those periods was 65 years long. Moses and Joshua, for about 65 years during the Exodus, could do miracles. And then there were 700 years without anybody could do a miracle. God did miracles. David never did a miracle. Abraham never did a miracle. Adam never did a miracle. There's no miracle doer from creation until Moses. It's 2500 years before the first person could do miracles. Read the Bible. Everybody's doing miracles. No, they weren't. And then from that period of Moses and Joshua, it went to Elijah and Elisha, right? Seven Okay. And then to the apostles. Those are the only three periods of time where there were miracle doers on earth. And when that closed, why? Because the New Testament's closed. Okay, point two. The gift of apostles ceased. Even charismatics agree, except for a couple of crazy people, that nobody is an apostle in the New Testament sense anymore Why? Because nobody can walk into a children's ward at a children's hospital and clear it. Nobody can say in the name of Jesus everyone be well Nobody can do the miracles that the apostles did. And there were three signs how to be a mirac how to be an apostle. You had to have seen the risen Christ, he had to have told you you're going to be an apostle, and you had to have been able to do miracles. Thirdly, the foundational role of the apostles and New Testament prophets. In Ephesians 2, it tells us that they were the foundation of the church, and the foundation has already been laid. No need to do it again. Fourthly, the nature of miraculous gifts in the New Testament. Let's just do that really quick. The ones that are claimed today, tongues or healing, or prophecy. They have the same name, but they're not the same thing as in the New Testament. Pretty simple. Who has a gift of healing today? Is it the guy who's stretching out somebody's leg on TV? Your leg will now be awesome, it'll match up. The ability to just clear people and do healing is not happening today through individuals. Prayer is. But not healed. And then prophecy. Not the way it was done in the Old Testament or the New. This is gonna happen, it happens. Or now it's a holy hunch. But I will haunch the baby in the scent. Something will happen cool. All right You guys are about done. Let me finish. The crowd about three minutes ago went, yeah. Okay. Church history. Basically two things. That only in the when we talk about the gift of tongues, you realize that it only happened three times in the whole book of Acts over a 30-year period. And each one of those was to authenticate the opening of the gospel to a different people group When the Jews came in, when the Gentiles, and then when the Old Testament believers who have been bap John the Baptist group, they were brought into the faith, that was the only other time. And you know that in the entire New Testament only one book Cor First Corinthians mentions gifts, like a gift of tongues. Like it's not even in the other books. Why? And Paul's blasting the Corinthians. You're the worst church. And this crazy stuff going on there is not what the new what we're teaching. That's it. Alright, number six. The Bible is sufficient. We don't need the miracles for today. And one of the great stories is Jesus talks about Lazarus and the rich man die. And they end up in Hades and and the waiting place. And they're speaking across that, of course And in doing so, the rich man says, Can you send someone back to my brothers? So that when they see this, that miracle of somebody back from the dead will prove to them that they need to believe. And Abraham says to him, son. If they don't believe Moses and the prophets, neither will they believe anyone who rises from the dead. Miracles do not save people. The Holy Spirit saves people. And then finally The guidelines for miraculous gifts. When I was uh pastoring in another place, people would ask me, hey, can we exercise some of these gifts? Now it's a long story. I said, yeah Let's do them in church. I'm gonna get fired today. But what did I say As long as we follow the New Testament order of it, only two or three people can exercise the gift. There must be an interpreter present who can interpret from that particular language. It has to be a known language It must be evaluated by the prophets who are in the room because it's subject to that. You can't just say whatever you want. Only one at a time are you allowed to speak. There cannot be chaos or confusion. And women are not allowed to prophesy in the corporate worship. What has happened every time I said that, people go, oh well wood but that's that's not what we're talking about. Alright Ladies, God has given you grace to exercise a gift, find out what it is, and use it. Let me pray. Father, thank you so much for this delightful group. I pray, Father, this year, through the teachers, through the time together, through the fellowship, through the conversation, and most of all the work of the Spirit through the Word of God. That each lady would not only know what their gifts are, but feel the grace to do them and find greater joy in serving you. And we thank you in Jesus' name. All right, thank you, ladies. All right, ladies. So um this is a good time because we have him here. Um if anyone has any questions about anything that he taught about or anything else, um please let us know. If you this this microphone comes before it so come up here with me. But if you can talk loud enough it'll be great too so everybody can hear your questions. Is this like some to chump? So does anyone like to ask any questions any past Hi everyone. Uh my question is for people love to serve in church and are not you know part of their in life. How do you sort of have a gift and not serve And at home, like you mentioned, they are supposed to do and that's what so how do you um balance that? Yeah, how does God see that Yeah. Wow, this looks good back home. Yeah. You can see those two feet It's a great question. I was asking the question, what do you do to balance that out? I have a gift I want to serve, but I have home needs and responsibilities in my family. Ioh, you've hit the main point, like when a man becomes an elder, he comes up for eldership in First Timothy. He says his home life must be in order in order for him to serve. And you see it right when guys are like the the man I'm all about serving the Lord and their home life's not in order. And so I think by principle It's pretty simple. You know, God's three areas of authority. Hey, God has given responsibilities in our home. If Carla and I are not at a good place, if I'm not spending right time with my children If I'm not guiding my home the way I should, the reason that you have to have your home life in order to be a spiritual leader in the church is because the church is also a family. And some pastors, I'm just using that as an illustration, choose the corporate family because it's somewhat easier to hide than be in your real family And so the answer is, your family is first. And now some people in the room will go crazy over that. God's church, Jesus bought it, all of those things. But that doesn't shirk the responsibilities we have at home, which we coveted together when we went and said, I will. And so we have responsibilities to cover those. But we never want it to be a mask for not serving Right, you know, so oh I'm at home, I can't you know. Yeah, you're just watching you know, Lion King, you know, so spending time with my family. You know, so it's a balancing act, yeah. Yeah Anybody else? Oh, go ahead. I just have a quick question to piggyback on on her question. Yes, ma'am. So what if you are a married couple and you're living with a non-believer And she you know, you're trying to honor your marriage but you're restricted from serving and using your spiritual gifts, but you had that desire I see. It's a great question. And uh let's close them prayer. You know that good and god people disagree about where that line is. Alright? I've heard the council both ways. I've heard the council uh you always submit to authority. Because that is the authority and that is true authority. If your husband said, I don't want you doing these things. But you also have the examples in the New Testament, where Jesus talked to some people who said, I can't follow you, my I have to go bury my father. Uh it's family honor, it's tradition. I'm honoring my father and mother, and he said, let the dead bury the dead. So In my you know that in a biblical counseling appointment, if you came and talked to Carl and I, this would be quite nuanced and it'd be quite pastoral. I'm answering it theologically a little bit, okay? I suggest that there's room for both of those. What do I think I think you should submit to your husband and appeal to him in a Daniel way, how Daniel appealed to authority, and said, hey, what if I tried this? What if I did those things? But if a husband says you cannot serve Christ, you are commanded to attend church. And so there is a there's a problem, right? There's a you know I'm not saying balance. There there is a nuance there. I'd rather deal with that conversation in private, you know, to nuance it, but th I I just wanted to weight it that it's not as simple as just obey your husband. Okay. Because Jesus is ultimately your husband. You know, we we have authorities on earth that at a certain point authorities on earth go beyond their authority. And a husband who's commanding you not to obey Jesus and attend church is beyond his authority. But he but he'll he's allowing you to attend church but it's not allowing you where your heart is to serve at church is really the big question. Yeah. And again you you know wisely I should not make because I don't know the nuances. This isn't a this isn't me on the I've got I've got no then I've got advice. I got advice. I got advice. Don't marry that guy. It's a good question. It deserves a better answer, but I don't think I could nuance it here. Can I go answer that? He's the husband I learned how to go to church She could serve during the church hours. I mean except that clean church, clean after. So she doesn't have to wait till another time to exercise those gifts. So it's a good thing that the husband is allowing her to go to church. During that short time she could serve ministry, welcome ministry, children's ministry, whatever. But she has to make use of the resources that she You realize on answering that question I divided the room, right? I'm here to speak about the resurrection from the dead and the Pharisees and the uh you know certain people heard, oh don't submit to your husband or certain people heard do whatever you want and uh I think Lisa, you had a question on the U. S. I was just gonna say, would you comment about natural abilities in using MC in the spiritual sense. Sure. Some people think you know, I've heard people say, well, if it's a natural ability, it's not a spiritual gift. Sure. Um there's kind of a balance There is Linda, that's a great question. That's really well done. And you know, and I think even asking the question, there are godly Christians who don't believe that there are spiritual gifts in the sense, but rather somewhat natural gifts that have been empowered for service. And they might argue, look, you didn't get the gift of teaching when you became a Christian. You were many people are able to teach and then it's energized by the work of the Spirit. And so I would say that you have the use of God's giving you natural abilities, which he then turns into usefulness for his kingdom when they're surrendered. and used by him because they have there's many outworkings of gifts that are not in the lists that clearly can be used within the church when surrendered to Christ. That's the starting place. As to whether that's the motif of how spiritual gifts are excited, I look at those lists and I see things that are uh could be natural gifts made spiritual and then there's some things which seem to be beyond that in the list of of answers so So depending on your view, I may not have satisfied that. question. What am I doing for a job? Um with a lot of different teaching in the different churches. Um Um we are always exposed to people who are very charismatic. And we even we even have brothers and sisters um like Wayne Groom who believes that this Gifts have not ceased, they're just not used as much as they used to be used. How do we maintain relationship with our brother and sister? Parts who do think other immediate Um I use this phrase a lot, but not liberally, I just use it in those kind of things, which is good and godly people can disagree. And if they if they believe the gospel, they are orthodox in the essential doctrines of faith And they believe in the Trinity and the Blood Atonement and all of those things. We can have fellowship with any Christian. Whether we would unify to do ministry corporately together, we need a closer doctrinal statement In the charismatic movement, you all know there's at least three wings of it. There's the there's the Pentecostal, there's charismatic, and then on the other side Pentecostal is crazy. Right? So if they're Orthodox And they're not saying the gifts are tied to your salvation or your assurance of it. But rather they believe the manifestations of the gifts are still you can argue with those people as long as they're not also surrendering the sufficiency of scripture by saying there's new revelation. I would draw the line at new revelation where it questions your salvation. And that's a lot of the movement. But you can have fellowship with good people who are charismatic. But are mildly so or are are not um extreme. So that's my opinion. And just I had a question is can a person, the Lord, give you a gift for a moment Well he can and he did Samuel I mean uh Samson, you know, empowerment to do something you know, you're standing there and all of a sudden you can knock down pillars. Uh that was the Old Testament motif, right? The Holy Spirit would come on and empower people. Yes, I mean he can. I don't have a direct thing, but I think it you know, it's a little bit like Jesus saying at the end of the age that if they just take you before the Sanhedrin or the judges, I will empower you at that time to say the things you should say and whatever. So can God give you a gift for the moment? Yes. Is that normative? Um no. Yes, ma'am. Which would say that even Oh I'm sorry Karen. I I started your job now. It's like yeah, go ahead. Do you think that's cool? Go ahead. I was just gonna say that um that maybe even um Sometimes we look at people going through extreme situations and they are they are they are practicing Yes. But I mean the grace was given during the crisis and God gave it. So maybe in situations like that you could say, yeah, the grace for the moment, for the speech, but it's grace given to walk through. an extreme situation and to the case. Oh, I see what you're yeah. Yeah. It wouldn't be that to be a gift. Right. But Like there is a gift of faith or Mercury or there's like things that are somehow happened in an ex uh more um more volume. It's just it's just beautiful how God provides in the moment Corey I'm sorry, Corrine, I was gonna say that it's a good that's a good connection. I think if we use the word gift, then it makes it uh a particular box. But yeah, if we're only using the word grace, then it's back to Paul saying, his grace is sufficient for me. He gave me the grace to do this particular thing. That is true. And they're not always exercising through the channel of a particular named gift. But it's the ability, the desire and the power to do God's will in a particular moment. God gives more grace to the humble. That's more of a you know so question uh moment and do so what about you then That's okay, me neither. I told you it was very something, you know, it changed and I feel like everything has run you know the closer I go to the scout the more I know the word empower the main thoughts. Yes. I feel like the measure I understand the measure crazy sounds. Um but the it changes And so I mean for me I even then I still I still have the ability the ability for administration basically a great desire to serve in that way. Yes. And so that's a great question. And where I would connect is there is no such thing as a gift. There is only the giving of the grace to do things, but God has given names to those events. So uh because you don't get a gift. It doesn't go in your heart right. I have the gift administration. Uh He capa he gives you a capacity, mind will and affections to do certain things, but it's the empowerment to do them that that gives you expression in the time of the season of your life. And there are seasons where God draws back some of that as well That that he he's not empowering you to do certain things. And you know, this nuanced conversation is many parts of the Bible where, you know, God is at work and he's seasons is a motif in the Bible. You know, we're in season, out of season, and sometimes the fruit is bearing John 15. God's pruning you. That's for moral and Christ-likeness. But there are seasons of pruning where you're not as active publicly And God's intention is to draw you back, right? For for deepening. And so we're not just fruit machines, you know? So yeah. Well, there is a spiritual gift of falconry. But I've never seen anyone exercise it. It's a great question. Amy's asking if if gifts are just for the church or are they exercised at home at all and those things. You know, one that comes to mind is the crossover of evangelism Right? The gift of evangelists. In that, in Ephesians 4, it says God gave gifted men to the church, and it's an office slash gift, but the office of apostle, prophet, evangelist And so the evangelist is going to do their primary work outside the confines of the local church. But largely, and you're right, Amy, largely these are given for the building up of the body. It was Ephesians 4, the building up of the body, 1 Corinthians 12, the building up of the body. And the extension though is once the body is functional, that our mission is really out there So it's not the building up of the body to be Clifford the dog or outrageously huge and sit at home, but rather to function in the Great Commission and the Great Commandment And so a a body that's working well will eventually do outreach. If it's not healthy, it won't outreach. Okay. Families that don't operate well don't invite people to dinner. I have another question. Can we give five more minutes? Uh that's up to you and the ladies. So if you want to have a leave I understand. Oh, I have to leave. That's a uh important topic and we wanted our passion. to hit those heavy areas. And so we're so grateful to have you here. So if you give us five more minutes, if anyone has to leave, go ahead and do so. But um I think someone put their hand up over here and we can get over here. Yeah I don't know if you can believe Oh yes ma'am. Yeah make it really easy on me. Okay? Then we'll be friends a long time. What how do we go for people trying to serve in areas What harm results in when people serve in areas they're not gifted? It That's a good question. I should have put that on my paper. Here's the two arms that I think of. Okay. We're going to assume for the moment the person is spiritual, they're trying to serve Jesus. They're not doing any harm morally. Okay But two things happen when a person serves in a ministry they're not gifted for. Two things. It takes the place of the person who is And that person, you know, there's not there's not just one slot to serve in certain ministries, but but certain ministries, when you're in that slot, you're holding it back for somebody who's actually the one God sent here to do it And so that person now has a glass ceiling they can't go above. They're like, well, I guess there's nothing to do here. I mean I can serve, but that's not my gift. I'm a teacher, oh, they got all the teacher roles done, or I'm a you know. The other thing it does is to the person who's in the slot they're not supposed to be in. And the longer you serve in an area where God has not graced you You will eventually be bitter towards God. Because you're like, I tried to serve you, and you didn't show up I heard them say they needed this or they needed that. And you signed up for third grade Sunday school because you're a good Christian. And you got in there and three weeks later you're like I hate children. And I hate this church. And I hate Brian Wilson. And then they're gonna blame the elders for letting them up there. Alright? Pastor Dave, right? So though those are the two effects that I have seen year in year as a pastor. Serving where you're not gifted will eventually lead to bitterness or exhaustion or burnout or whatever you want to call it And you'll blame it. I serve the Lord hard. No, you served you were just you were in the wrong spot. And then the other person just leaves and thinks, I'll go to another church because there's no place for me. And this is probably kind of just another one that you want two questions, but more yeah. I guess my question is mostly like, okay, so I know at the beginning of your talking match that Yes. Not necessarily according to the need of the church. Yes. So obviously everybody in the ministry is always needing God Like how do you know when to kind of pull back or give it? Maybe and sort of revisit something someone that necessarily said, Oh it's definitely not gonna get back. But maybe you just like how do you know like okay Can you repeat the questions? I'm sorry. Can you repeat the question? She asked, how is it that we hired such an amazing pastor? And and Glennis, I didn't know what to say. It was embarrassing. Uh Elizabeth, um can you repeat the question so I can repeat it if you want to protect better. Um Basically, how do you know when to stop or when to pull back? How do you know that there's no one says like this is not for you? How do you know that maybe it's time for you to hang out? Yeah. Um the the the parallel being two things. One is in just general life. When a husband and a wife and they've got three children and these children ra let's make it four children, just to make it complex. I won't go five. Four children and they're a ton of different ages, but they're trying to homeschool. That seems to be a thing here. We we we homeschooled our two boys and our count we're the therapy that we're in is really going well. Okay, okay. But they're homeschooling, they're serving in ministries, they're leading a small group Their kids are now at the age of travel baseball and travel soccer and travel ping pong or whatever they're in And because you're homeschooling, you're guilty all the time, so you're always trying to educate your kids to an extreme degree. I'm taking them to the Washington Conservatory of Music on Tuesdays, and I'm taking them to you know the branch rubber to number number. Okay You could ask the same question about that. How is it you're balancing that out? And who's telling you to do all that stuff? And In simple, this is so simplistic, in simple version, Romans 12, 1 and 2 is a surrender to God's purposes and saying, what does God want me to do? And prioritizing all of life in light of some great values. Everyone everything can't be equal. So what I'd say on the other side of the ledger is the problem with being a church member, okay, and you come in here, it's like a buffet of ministries. Right? And we've got the buffets and there's no equal there's no values given them. We need you serving here and here and here and here. They're all equal, but they're not A need does not constitute a call. And at the end of the day, I I'm not answering your question like specific seven things. But I I embraced the pain of it and I would say back to you And again there are people in the room not because you you're against me or something but this is to take this in it can sound like I'm saying don't serve in the church but I'm not I'm saying when people get in their right slot. So the answer is you know your schedule. You know the grace that you have You know whether you have energy and abilities to do those things. And if a person prays, seeks counsel, reads God's word, and attempts to serve the Lord and determines not to do a particular ministry. Then the heart is right. And the church, we as leaders, need to accept the fact that people go through seasons where that's not their gift At the end of the day, people's joy in serving and the body's health will come out when people are properly aligned. It'd be better to let a ministry die than to populate it with ungifted people. Yes ma'am? I think that when you're doing your spiritual gift, you really delight in it. Yes. Yeah, you're telling you through and that's probably not pretty much. And if you would just start teaching, you'd be a lot happier. Elizabeth, uh that's a That's perfect application. What we're saying is, how do I know what it is? You have the desire, the desire, the desire to do it, and the power to do it. You have the abilities. And when you do it, you run and feel this pleasure. To Anne's point, when you're in your gift zone. You're you're excited. And it and this is what often I asked someone the other day in the office. I said, Is this your gift? Blah blah blah. And they were like, I don't know if it's my gift, but I love doing it. And I feel joy in doing it and I'm good at it and it's easy for me. I told I'd abandon that and get into children's ministry. Yeah. Alright. We done here, ma'am. Oh, is there more? Okay. Okay, just one thing I'd like what Anne said because it's also you can work hard in that gift and enjoy working hard in that gift. Yes. Yes. Um personally in the deck at logic. I oh you used up all your your questions. I was just gonna say that some people say you're blessed by doing it and other people are blessed by receiving it And your daughter's Ola Sola? Yeah. Okay. Does she have a question? She you can use her as a question. Okay. Linda, can you repeat that again? Sorry, Linda. I I just said that uh some people have said you're blessed and other people are blessed. So so true. So true. I think we're open on some people would say don't feel good before you serve Rather serve than see it making tools for it. What's not about that? So people like, I don't feel like service, I don't da da da. The one which is white moving with serve Um ser and see how we can hurt how you feel. What do you think about it? I I think you know the answer before you ask it in some way, right? Is obviously it could be an uh it could be an excuse And we don't decide to serve the Lord because it's easy or fun, but to all of our points the things that you do that you're gifted at will be easier and I'm not gonna use the word fun, but great joy will come from it. And so the point is that's where you look at the heart. Are my motives laziness or slothfulness or uh am I bitter towards people at church and I'm using that as an excuse. I don't want to serve because y you know, the heart is a weird thing And it's th that that's the the part. We have to explore our heart. Why don't I feel I should serve is is a legitimate question. So if you haven't signed up, be get involved in Children's Ministry. Well ladies, I think that's it. Um so thank you so much, Pastor. Would you pray about? Oh please, yeah. Thank you. Let's pray together, ladies.