One of the joys of the Christmas season is gift giving. And one of the joys of gift giving is preparing the gifts and then opening the gifts. All kinds of packages. Now under our tree we have a variety of packages just like your tree. There's your standard cube-like package. With ribbon and bow, neatly folded edges, unless I'm the one that wrapped it. Then there's the gift bag. That's easier to prepare with the fancy colored tissue folded just right inside so you can't peek and see what the gift is. Some like gift baskets because there's so much variety you can give there, a little bit of this and a little bit of that. Then there are those tiny little boxes. Usually invisible because they've fallen down behind another one. But you are wondering about that one because you know what they say? Good things come in small packages. Sometimes we also get some weird packages. There's some trapezoidal kind of looking packages under there. Who knows what kind of a gizmo is wrapped up in something like that. Then there's the wrapping job that pretty much amounts to a blob. Probably a lot of long johns piled in there and just folded around like that. Of course there's the gift envelope as well, and that's one you want to pull out, maybe sniff a little bit. There might be a nice little note from your honey there. Maybe even tickets to a wizards basketball game Ah yes, the tinsel, the paper, the bows and ribbons speak of wonderful gifts to be had, to give and to be received. And it's a joy of Christmas time. But I want to talk to you today about a better gift. Yes, better than any gift you have under your tree. Though the wrapping of this gift, as we already sung about this morning, is quite different. See, this gift came all wrapped in swaddling clothes. And it was delivered not under a tree, but out there where the animals were sleeping. And when it was taken out of its wrapping, it was displayed high up on a tree, there for all to see But when it was bruised and abused and broken, it was taken down from that tree and was laid in a rock tomb. But now this gift lives forevermore. And even better, it is a gift that is available for you and for me. This is the gift of grace that is offered only by God and only in one package. The gift of God's grace comes in the person of Jesus Christ. You know why this gift is so much better than any other gift we have ever received? Because this gift will do more for you, will rescue you from the greatest dangers in the future, bring you continuous peace and joy for your soul. This gift can only grow better with age and it certainly will outlast every other gift that you will receive. Have you ever noticed that sometimes, usually a child is given something very special at Christmas, and they take the package and they rip all the packaging off of it. Only to open up and have this face of disappointment, even though it is a very expensive gift, because they really don't understand the value of what they've been given And so they're disappointed. You could have spent ten cents and gotten more joy out of it out of them that Christmas. Well, I am fully convinced that most people don't really understand how wonderful a gift God has given to this world the gift of grace. And I think that most people don't understand how wonderful this gift is because Well, let me just state it frankly, because most folks don't understand their desperate need for the grace of God. They don't really know why they need it. They know they're supposed to know that they need it, but they don't really see why they need it. Now, one event in the life of Jesus illustrates very well what I mean. And I'd like to read it to you. You don't need to turn there. Just listen. It's from Luke chapter 7, verses 36 through 50. And it says this. Now, one of the Pharisees was requesting Jesus to dine with him, and he entered the Pharisee's house and reclined at the table. And there was a woman in the city who was a sinner. When she learned that Jesus was reclining at the table in the Pharisee's house, she brought an alabaster vial of perfume, and standing behind him at his feet, weeping, she began to wet his feet with her tears. and kept wiping them with the hair of her head, and kissing his feet, and anointing them with the perfume. Now when the Pharisee who had invited Jesus saw this, he said to himself, if this man were a prophet, he would know who and what sort of person this woman is who is touching him. That she is a sinner. And Jesus answered, Simon, I have something to say to you. And he replied, Say it, teacher. A moneylender had two debtors, one owed 500 denarii, and the other fifty. When they were unable to repay, he graciously forgave them both. So which of them will love him more? Simon answered and said, I suppose the one whom he forgave more. And Jesus said to him, You have judged correctly. Turning toward the woman, he said to Simon, Do you see this woman? I entered your house. You gave me no water for my feet, but she has wet my feet with her tears and wiped them with her hair. You gave me no kiss, but she, since the time I came in, has not ceased to kiss my feet. You did not anoint my head with oil, but she anointed my feet with perfume. For this reason I say to you, her sins, which are many, have been forgiven. For she loved much But he who is forgiven little loves little. Then he said to her, Your sins have been forgiven. And those who were reclining at the table with Jesus began to say to themselves, Who is this man who even forgives sins? And Jesus said to the woman, Your faith has saved you. Go in peace. Now, if you were to grab ten random people out there somewhere on the street and you were to ask them a simple question, Do you think you're basically a good person? I'm not a betting man, but I would bet that seven or eight of them would say something like, Yeah, I'm not all that bad. I'm a pretty good guy. I'm a pretty good gal. I haven't done anything All that bad. That, my friends, is exactly how this religious Pharisee dedicated to the Bible, dedicated to prayer, an outstanding citizen thought of himself. He was a law-abiding person. He respected the rights of other people. He was hardworking. He even was hospitable and invited Jesus into his home. And that, beloved, is why most people do not react to Jesus the way this sinful woman reacted. When you heard that reaction, did you think, well, that's rather bizarre? To Jesus, it was a wonderful and a blessed thing, the way she reacted. I just want to ask you, as you're listening to the message today, this question and think about this. Are you more like Simon, the respectable person who thought well of himself? Or are you more like that woman who understood that she was a sinner? Realizing deeply her need for forgiveness, and ran humbly to Christ and debased herself in his presence. What is the truth about your condition before God? Do you really know? And how would you find out? Well God's holy scriptures tell us the unfiltered truth. If you want a no-spin zone, if you want something that's going to tell you it like it is, the Bible is the book that will do that for you. It doesn't hold back any punches, the truth is truly humbling, but there is a happy ending for those who will open up their heart to receive the greatest gift. Now if you don't have a Bible, again just look on with someone next to you. Maybe you'll find one on the seat next to you. But all of you, if you would, please open your Bibles to Paul's letter to the Ephesians in chapter 2 We're going to actually do verses 1 through 10 this morning. Ephesians 2, 1 through 10, and I want to read it for you. You can follow along as I read. Ephesians chapter 2, verses 1 through 10. Paul was writing, and he says, and you were dead in your trespasses and sins, in which you formerly walked according to the course of this world. according to the prince of the power of the air of the Spirit that is now working in the sons of disobedience. Among them we too all formerly live in the lusts of our flesh, indulging the desires of the flesh and of the mind. And were by nature children of wrath, even as the rest. But God, being rich in mercy, because of his great love with which he loved us even when we were dead in our transgressions Made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. And raised us up with Him and seated us with Him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. So that in the ages to come he might show the surpassing riches of his grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. For by grace you have been saved. Through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not as a result of works, so that no one may boast For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, so that we would walk in them. Well, what did you notice about this passage of the Bible? I want to point out just a few things for you as we get introduced to it. First of all, please notice that Paul is writing this letter to believers in Jesus Christ, and Paul is reminding them of their former life. In verses 2 and 3, notice he uses the word formerly. This is how you used to be, church, at Ephesus And I also want you to notice the little word and at the beginning of verse 1. That tells us to connect chapter 2 and all that he talks about in this passage back to chapter 1. There in chapter 1, if we had time to read it, we'd see that God did some amazingly powerful things in the life of Jesus, including raising him from the dead. And so that resurrection is connected to us in what we need. Also, in this passage, I want you to notice that it moves from the bad news to the good news. If you look at verses one through three, you see a lot about sin and judgment and evil. And then if you start at verse 4 and you go to verse 10, you see there's a lot about love, and there's a lot about mercy, and there's a lot about kindness. That's the way that the text moves And lastly, I want you to focus on verses 7 and 9 because it tells you who gets the credit for all this salvation. In verse 9, it talks about human boasting being excluded. No one's allowed to do that But back in verse 7, it talks about the surpassing greatness of God's grace being put on display that God wanted everyone to know. So who gets the credit? God does. God's gracious and loving character is put front and center in this passage, and all the failings of man are also on display. So I'm going to tell you ahead of time, this is not a self-esteem passage. This is not a passage of the Bible that will make you feel good about yourself. This is not a place to learn pride in oneself or to learn the power of positive thinking. None of that is in this passage at all. Rather, what we'll see in here is people's enormous need for God's great gift, the gift of grace. I think again, and I'll say it again, only as you and I become honest And we realize how much we need God's grace, can we truly appreciate the gift that He provides? And that's all we're going to do. We're going to go through two steps this morning. Step number one is to understand our grave condition, the gravest condition, and step number two to understand the greatest gift. The gravest condition and the greatest gift that God would supply. First The negative side, the hard side to listen to. And I pray God will just soften your hearts and you will listen. Look again at verses 1 through 3 a little more closely this time Let's read it again. And you were dead in your trespasses and sins, in which you formerly walked according to the course of this world. According to the prince of the power of the air, of the spirit, that is now working in the sons of disobedience. Among them we too all formerly lived in the lusts of our flesh. Indulging the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and we're by nature children of wrath, even as the rest. Now that's not a pre-picture of the human race, is it? I don't think so. Verse 1, you were dead in your trespasses and sins. Verse 3, you were by nature children of wrath, even as the rest. Even as the rest, that little phrase shows you that everyone in the world is in this condition before having Jesus. I think you would agree these are not politically correct designations here. But you have to understand, Paul was not running for public office. Paul was a prophet and an apostle of God. Popularity meant very little to him. Truth was valued greatly. The Apostle Paul was known for trumpeting a pure message from God all throughout the Roman world of his day. And that's why you and me should be so thankful for these words that we are reading here, because this man was stoned, he was whipped, he was He was imprisoned. He was beaten to bring this message to the world. And we ought to be thankful for it. All of this teaching was motivated by the Apostle Paul, not out of any hate for people, but out of a deep concern. Paul wanted his readers and his hearers to avoid future failure and agony. Listen, if Paul were a false prophet, he would have found an easier message. One that jingled in his times and made money for himself. But he would not be God's messenger, and this would not be God's message. So I want you to think this morning of Paul as a friend. Yes, a friend. A friend pulling us over, as it were, to the living room couch where he gets out an old photograph book and he and he opens it up And he wants those who are born-again Christians to remember who they were. So he turns on the bright lamp there next to the couch. He points into the picture album and he says There, do you remember that picture? That's how you were. Do you remember that? Oh, and there's another picture showing how you were You were dead in your sins. You were sons of disobedience. You were children of wrath. That's who you were. Not pretty pictures. These not so charming photographs are all dated BC before coming to Christ. These words reveal that humanity is in a desperate and a depraved and a dangerous condition before God, whose eyes are penetrating and go throughout all of the world and see all of the evil, public or private. This entirely negative view of the human race is absolutely alarming to many people who hear it. Even those who have attended church their whole lives never have been told this. I didn't really hear it until I was 18, though I'd gone to church my whole life. But this, my friends Is consistently what all of the Bible teaches from Genesis to Revelation and every book in between. Here's a sampling Just listen. Genesis 8. 21, God said, The intent of man's heart is evil from his youth. Some of you ladies are saying I know what he's talking about. But it covers women as well. All of us. That is a general description of the entire human race that God testified long, long time ago. Ecclesiastes 7. 29 God made men upright, but they have sought out many devices. Ecclesiastes 7. 20. Indeed, there is not a righteous man on earth who continually does good and who never sins. Isaiah 53, 6. All of us like sheep have gone astray. Each of us has turned to his own way. In Matthew 7, 11, Jesus called all of his disciples evil, and they were the better ones. Jesus warned in Luke 13, 3, unless you all repent, you will all likewise perish. Does the Bible really teach that all people are bad? You listen and judge for yourself. Romans 3, 10 through 12. As it is written, Paul writes, there is none righteous, not even one. There is none who understands, there is none who seeks for God All have turned aside. Together they have become useless. There is none who does good. There is not even one. And that's why in 1 John 1:8 we are told: if we say we have no sin, we are deceiving ourselves, and the truth is not in it. We don't deceive God. He knows. Listen, this book that we hold in our hands tells us the very mind of God And so it can be trusted. It communicates to us the very belief that God has in his mind about the human race. It confronts us with our failure to please him. Does God lack love and compassion for telling us this? I think not. It is always, listen, it is always more loving And more compassionate and kind for God to speak the truth to us, even if it is so unpleasant at first. For what good would flattery do for us? So understand the truth. Listen with all of your heart. This text says right here, God declares right here that every single person Outside of Jesus Christ is dead in their trespasses and sins. That may not flatter our egos, but it communicates also vividly You see, dead in sins communicates a complete lack of life. You can't really be half-dead, as we say. There's no such thing as being half-dead. Someone who is dead is dead to the things of God. They're dead to knowing God. You can poke them, but they don't respond to God. They're a dead corpse as far as God is concerned. Yes, many even celebrating Christmas are completely dead to the things of God. They may be running around and partying. They may be singing jingle bells. They may be having a good old time, but they're dead to God. They may even display a manger scene in their front yard, but their soul has no life from Christ. They don't know God. They can't respond to God. They don't receive God's instructions. Listen, they're not even aware of their own deadness. That's how dead they are. And God says right here in verse 1, they live and move in the sphere of their own trespasses and sins. There's a couple of important words we should know: trespasses and sins. Trespasses pictures the person who has stepped outside of where they're supposed to step. God has given them a boundary, a beautiful way to live, and they've decided they'll live their own way. They've stepped outside of that. Sin pictures a, just picture an arrow that's headed towards a target, but it falls short. It strays. It misses the target with God. It doesn't live exactly the way God wants. That's what sin is. When people fail to do all that God wants with their lives, people, that is sin. And sin has completely infected the human race. No one is exempt. When people cuss and complain and swear, rather than give thanks to God and worship his name and bless his name, that beloved is sin. See, many in the land today say they worship God, but the love of their hearts is not God. Truly, if you were to listen to what they talk about all day long, you'd find out what they love. They love money. They love pleasure. They love drugs or sex or success or popularity or winning. Or comfort or thrills or whatever it is. So many people have a wrong understanding of sin. Sin is not chewing tobacco. It's not disco dancing. Sin is much deeper than that. It's not restricted simply to murder and adultery. So we say, well, I haven't done those. Sin is wanting to live your life your way. That's what sin is. It's not yielding all of your heart to God and to his will as expressed in the Bible It's not loving the one true and living God with all of your heart. Are you a sinner? I know I am. The truth is what Romans 3. 23 declares, all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. All. Yes, some sin more, some sin middle, but all sin. Everyone sinned. Some have likened falling short of the glory of God to people standing on a beach facing the ocean and wanting to see if they can span the ocean with one leap and jump to the other side. Some of them make it five feet, some ten feet, some thirty feet. Well, I guess no one's quite made it 30 feet yet from the record. But no one leaves the shore of sin. That's how far short of God's standard we all fall. Many, of course, I know strongly object to this teaching. They point out all of the good things people do, even the many good things non-Christian people are doing. They give to charities, they make sacrifices, they volunteer time, they visit the sick, they try to live good lives and not wrong their neighbors. But I ask, to whose honor and glory do they do those things? Not for Christ, the coming King of this world. That is why Isaiah the prophet cried out in Isaiah 64, 6 All our righteous deeds are as a filthy rag. If the best things that we can do in God's sight are filthy, I wouldn't want to see the worst things we do. That is why Jesus said, if you do good to those who do good to you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners do the same in Luke 6:33. Trust me on this one. God is not impressed with our good deeds. Not even in the least. The popular advice that says, listen, you don't have to listen to the Bible, just follow your heart. That is not helpful advice Listen to what Jesus said is down in the human heart in Mark seven. For within, out of the heart of men, Jesus said, proceed the evil thoughts, fornications, thefts, murders, adulteries, deeds of coveting. We've done a lot of that this Christmas season, yes? And wickedness, as well as deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, pride, and foolishness, that sounds like our day Oh people, just look around you at the world of entertainment. Look what people are glorying and playing in and delighting in in the movies and games. Just take a look at it. Do you not see that our world delights in sin? To this Jeremiah in Jeremiah 17, 9, he said, the heart is deceitful above all things. Why is that? Because it does evil and then it turns around and says, Oh, it's not all that bad. It's not all that bad. And he goes on and he says, the heart is desperately corrupt. Who can understand it? Now you might be saying to Paul, okay, okay, Paul, give me no more. This is Christmas time. Let's be cheery now. Let's close this dusty old picture album. Let's think of chestnuts roasting on an open fire or something like that. And Paul says Not yet. Please sit back down, my friend. If you are to receive and appreciate the greatest gift that someone could ever give you, you really have to understand more about yourself. As dark an image as spiritual death is, glance at verse 3. It has an even more sober look at people apart from Jesus. He says, We were by nature children of wrath, even as the rest. Oh, I mean to be dead in sins is bad enough, but there might be some hope that somehow we're not responsible for the things we did. You know, it was my mother's fault. It was my father's fault. I couldn't help it Hey, everyone is like that anyways. We're all sinners down here, so maybe God should lighten up a little. I'm only as bad as the next guy. Maybe God should grade on a curve. And to that, Paul now adds that we are also guilty for our sins. He says we are children of wrath, not children of God, as so many like to claim. But children of wrath. We were so deserving of God's judgment, so subject to his wrath that we are actually wrath's children. People destined for the wrath of Almighty God. Oh my, here we go. Talking about judgment again. You know most people these days dismiss even the consideration of a thing like judgment from God, don't they? Do you really hear about it anymore? Does it sound weird when I preach about that from up here? That is so passe That is an archaic message. Preachers used to just pound the pulpit on that one. The wrath of God. I don't even hear it anymore. I don't know where it is. One person on a community survey we did once told us flatly, God never gets angry at anyone or anything. People actually believe that an absolutely holy and just God will never punish sinners for their sin, even though we who are not quite as holy know enough To punish sinners and criminals for their crimes. We know that should happen, and we're not even all that holy. And we think God would do less. Listen, God's anger against wickedness is an expression of his love of justice. God's anger His wrath is actually a form of his intense love for what is good. He loves what is righteous and good, and so he hates evil. And that's why his wrath flares up. Of course God will punish sin. Of course God will do that. God is the judge of all the earth. And listen, in your heart, when someone does something wrong to you, you wish that God will judge evil. Yes you do. You cannot read the Bible objectively and miss the wrath of God. Just start in Genesis 3. From Adam and Eve's expulsion from paradise for one sin. to the worldwide flood that drowned every single human being on the planet except for eight inside an ark, to the plagues that struck the Egyptians, even killing their firstborn children. To the teachings of Jesus, who talked about a burning Gehenna more than any other person in all the Bible. The wrath of God permeates all of the scriptures, not just the Old Testament, it is alive and well in teaching in the New Testament. In fact, God's holiness has already put wrath into operation in the world in which we live. Yes, wrath is present here In Romans 1 eighteen it says, The wrath of God is revealed, present tense, from heaven against all ungodliness and the unrighteousness of men. Why do you think we have death and disease and natural disasters and deformity and wars and dissension? And disunity in our world today. Why? Because they were worse sinners than us? No. Because God has cursed the entire world because we're all sinners. That's why Christ said, if you don't all repent, you'll all perish. The entire human race is under a divine curse for sin. Romans 3. 23 says, the wages of sin is death. We earned death by our sin. It is only God's wonderful mercy that things have not gotten a lot worse on this planet. Enough of God's wrath has already been revealed on this planet. One Filipino man I spoke with in Los Angeles said that hell is right here on earth. It's right now. There's absolutely nothing worse than this. You must have had a tough life. But make no mistake about it. There is a wrath to come. There is a wrath that is still coming from God upon all of the world. That wrath will not be quenched anywhere outside of his Son Jesus Christ God has sworn that this wrath will come on this world, and there is nothing we can do to prevent it. It is going to get worse. The wrath of God is by no means exhausted with present troubles In 2 Thessalonians, the prophecy says this: that when Jesus returns, he will deal out retribution to those who do not know God and to those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. These will pay the penalty of eternal destruction away from the presence of the Lord. Revelation nineteen and fifteen says so graphically that when Jesus returns, he will tread down the wine press. Of the fierce wrath of God the Almighty. He will trounce on the grapes of wrath, and he will unleash a flood of God's fury against mankind, as has never been seen before. And listen, beloved, the worst kind of deception that anybody can have in this world today is to say to themselves, it won't happen to me. I'm okay. I'm pretty good. There is no hope in that. There is only deception. Too often people come to the Bible and try to interpret it by what they think is exactly Acceptable behavior for God, as if Almighty God, who flung the stars and galaxies into existence, somehow has to conform to the latest poll. That he has to somehow change the way he does things because we disapprove. The Lord God is a roaring lion. He cannot be tamed. He does not answer to human commands. Jesus said in Luke 12, 5, I will warn you whom to fear, fear the one who after he has killed has authority to cast into hell. Yes, I tell you, fear him. Because there is a hell. Jesus guaranteed it. I would be lying to you if I said anything other than that. And hell is forever. And there is no escape from hell. And there is no mercy inside of hell. And hell will be filled with millions of people. And so listen to this warning, a warning of the greatest kind of love that anyone would have for your soul. Listen. How do you escape the wrath of God? The one thing you need to know first is that you cannot escape the wrath of God. There are far too many powerful forces working against you and me. Quickly just notice back in verse 3 unbelievers they are called children of wrath by nature. Did you see that? By nature. That word nature, thusis, means that is the way we naturally or innately or intrinsically are since the fall of man. As corn is to corn As corn is to a corn stalk or fur fur is to a bear, that is the way we are. Sin is to us. Some people say, why if I have a sin nature and it's natural to me, do I not feel that I have a sin nature? For the same reason that a fish doesn't feel wet. It's the environment they've always been in. They don't know anything different Mankind is dominated and driven along by evil forces he does not understand and he certainly cannot control. Look at verse 2, it mentions the course of this world, the cosmos, that is the world of humanity apart from God and its evil influence. It has on everyone. Are you surrounded by people that teach you to love Jesus Christ and obey the scriptures? Most likely you're not, then you're in the world and you see that it's evil. People don't live for Christ 1 John 5 19 says, The whole world lies in the power of the evil one. Another force that's listed there also that has power over us is called the Prince of the Power of the Air. Who's working in the sons of disobedience that prince there? The word Arkon means a ruler or a chief. The Bible clearly presents that there is a personal and evil spirit who has power and rule over the world. Christ repeatedly referred to him as Satan, the adversary, and he works behind the world system to energize a spirit of disobedience to God. There's another force also. This one's an inward force. It mentions the lusts of our flesh and of our mind, and this is very personal. Every one of you know what I'm talking about. Because every one of you had inner desires and inner thoughts that you know are wrong. Your conscience bears witness with the Word of God, and you know there's sin in your life And there are lusts and there are desires inside of you, and you want to deny them and suppress that truth, but they're there. And it's not just about drunkenness and adultery, it's also about the lusts of our mind, what we covet, the the the Zeal that we have for things that are wrong and the jealousy we have for things that other people have. This is all the sin that is inward. And you can go to any therapy you want, it will never remove that sin nature from you. You cannot dream it away, you cannot drug it away, you cannot meditate it away These lusts, these personal passions saturate your entire being. They are the way that you are, and you can't escape them. So beloved, these powers are too great for you and for me. So how would we ever escape the judgment against our sin? Well, beloved, we have to have another greater power working on our behalf. If we don't have a greater power working on our behalf, we're all doomed. Every last one of us. So now let's talk about the greatest gift. Now let's step into the second half of this text. Now listen to what God says is the greatest gift that there is. On the heels of all of this hopelessness and dread and judgment, you arrive then at verse 4, and the entire message of despair changes with two words. What are they? But God. It doesn't say, but you, but some religion, but I'll try to do better, God. I'm sorry. It says something that God is going to do on our behalf, but God God is rich in what? Mercy. And it goes on because of the great love with which He loved us. Even when we were dead in our transgressions. Do you know what that means? That means even when we were useless to Him and unresponsive to Him Even in that condition, he did what for us? He made us alive. And not just anywhere, but where? In Christ. Together with Christ. Beloved, we were dead. God made us alive. Do you know what this refers to? This is the new birth that Jesus said a man must have if he is to see the kingdom of heaven in John chapter 3. He is referring to the new birth, being born again. That's what he's talking about here. This is being born from heaven, being born from above, receiving a new life from Christ. Life you were not born with. Yes, your mother loves you, but she cannot give you this kind of life. Only by God's mercy in Jesus does this new nature, new life, new birth come. Remember Hark to Harold Angel sing? Jesus was born to raise the sons of earth, born to give them what? Second birth. The new birth comes only because of Jesus. And only because of what he accomplished, look just briefly at verses 5 and 6 and 7. God made us alive together with Christ. And it goes on, God raised us up with Christ and seated us in the heavenly places in Christ. Each time it's in Christ and with Christ. If there's no Christ, there's no life. If there's no Christ, there's no future. If you're not joined to Christ, you have none of the blessings this passage so graciously tells us about. Our new life, our future, our hope, everything we have is so vitally connected to Jesus Christ, not to anyone or anything else. If you have Christ, you have everything you need. If you don't have Christ and have the rest of the world, you have nothing at all. Paul says that what happened to Christ, God translated and in his mercy made it happen to us. to every believer in Christ. Do you see that in the passage? Do you see it? That's so important. The power that was exerted in the life of Jesus to raise him from the dead is the same power that God exerts to bring us out of the spiritual grave, so to say, to deliver us from evil, as the Lord's prayer says, and to launch us into the highest heavens with Christ. It is the same power operative, the same power God's power. Oh, let us pause again this Christmas and consider why God would accomplish so much for us who are so undeserving. There are two reasons they're here also. Etch this in your minds. Again, verse four. Why did he do it? Because God is rich in mercy, and he's great in love Standing by the ocean at Hilton Head, looking out over the vastness of the water. I thought, there is an ocean Of God's love that is expressed in the person of Christ. It just goes on and on and on, and we cannot fathom the depth of it. 1 Peter 1 3 says, According to God's great mercy, he caused us to be born again. And verse 7 gives a second reason why God did it. He did it because he wanted to put something on display. We all have Christmas trees and various ornaments, and we like to put those things up this time of the year. We want to put some things on display. Well, God is like that too. He wanted to display his heart of grace. He wanted everyone in the world to know how wonderfully compassionate and merciful he was. It says in verse 7 that he wanted to display the surpassing riches of his grace toward us. in Christ. That word surpassing means to throw beyond, to exceed. Whatever we think is loving and is merciful. God's mercy and grace is so far thrown and beyond that and exceeding that, we can't even understand it God is passionate about displaying his gracious and loving character. He wants us to see not our beauty. There is no beauty here. It's external and it's fleeting. Losing faster for some of us than others, I know. But we all need to know the external beauty is just it doesn't not gonna last. He wanted us to see true beauty, the beauty of his grace. What is grace? Some have said, using the word grace, that it is God's riches at Christ's expense. That idea comes from 2 Corinthians Which says, For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor, that you through his poverty might become rich. You know what the word grace really means? Chorus grace? It just means this, a free, undeserved gift. That's all it means. It's a gift. We get it, and we don't deserve it. Grace is an unearned, undeserved gift from Almighty God. Some say it this way, it's God's unmerited favor. Look at verses 8 and 9. It says it so clearly. For by grace you have been saved. So salvation is by what? By grace. You can't miss the parallelism in these two verses. He says, by grace you have been saved. Not of yourselves. And then he goes on and he says, it is the gift of God, it is not of works. They're laid side by side, so you can't miss it. See, whatever God's grace is, God says it cannot be earned, it cannot be merited by you or by me In Romans 4 it puts it so clearly. Now to the one who works, his wage is not reckoned as a favor, but as what is due. In other words, you go to your workplace it's payday on Friday, you hold out your hands and a paycheck is put in your hands. You don't say thank you because you what? You earned it. It's yours. You work for it. Make sure they got the right amount on there They made a contract with you. That's yours. You earned it. But to the one who does not work, the scripture says To the one who does not work, Romans 4, but believes in him who justifies, listen, the ungodly. His faith is reckoned as righteousness. You don't work for it, you beg for it. You don't deserve it. See now why I read the story of the harlot who came. Crawling in there probably and just kissing Jesus' feet, taking the glory of her head or hair, and wiping it on the smelliest part of his body, and walking on all kinds of the roads, their feet were filthy. And she kissed those feet. And she poured her most costly possession on the feet, because that's all she could do to show her her gratitude and her desire to be forgiven. And Jesus turns to her and says, It is your faith. That has saved you. Go in peace. That's all she had. See, salvation is either your work Or it is God's work by grace, but it cannot be both. You cannot help God save you from his wrath. When someone raised in the church says, I'm hoping to get into heaven because I feel like I've been a pretty good person, you know that person has not yet come to understand the grace of God. He still thinks there's a measure of his religion or human merit that will help him. But like oil and water, you can try to shake them together in a jar, but put them back down on the table, they're going to separate. Romans 11, if it is by grace, it is no longer on the basis of works. Otherwise, grace is no longer grace. You start adding you into it, you've robbed God of the display of his marvelous grace. You've taken away from God what he has done for you, and he'll have none of it And that's why he'll have nothing to do with religion where a religion says it will be my good works plus God's grace. It cannot be that way. Grace is not a shot in the spiritual arm to help us do what we can already half do ourselves. Christ did not come to help man while he was doing his best, but to rescue him while he was at his worst. You want to escape the wrath of God, beloved, you have to have grace. How do you get God's gift of grace? Well, let me ask you a question. How do you get any gift this Christmas morn, whenever you open your packages? How are you going to get a gift? What's going to happen to you? Someone's going to walk across the room, they're going to hold out a gift to you and say, this is for you. And what are you going to do right then and there? You're going to hold out your hands, right? And you're going to take that gift into your hands. And you're going to say what? Thank you. That's how you get a gift from God. There's no other way. Those hands represent faith. You have nothing to bring, you have nothing to earn. You hold out your hands in a humble fashion. You say, I need that gift. Oh Lord God, thank you for the gift, and you receive it with gratitude, and you believe. That's what saving faith is. That's what it means. Listen, if people could earn their way to heaven, if people on their own could please God, they might have something to boast about. But look at verse 9. It says there that we were saved by grace with the effect that no one should boast before God. Do you see that? No one gets to brag. Now someone who goes around saying, I've lived a pretty good life, or I don't need religion, I I come to God some other way. They're boasting. They may not sound to you like they're boasting, but before God, they're boasting. And they sound much more like the Pharisee than they do this woman And as I said, God hates that, for it ruins his display of grace. It turns his beautiful gospel on its head. The only one who gets to boast is the one whose generosity goes way beyond Santa Claus. And that is God, the greatest gift giver. God gets to say, look what I did. Look at the thief that I have now saved and brought into my kingdom. Look at the one who was persecuting my church that I turned into an apostle and told him to preach the gospel throughout the world. Look at what my grace has done in the lives of sinners. Look at the glory of my grace and worship and understand who I am. He gets to say that. James 4, 6 says, God is opposed to the proud, but gives his what? Grace to the humble. There's only one way to receive this gift that avoid the wrath of God, and that is to humble yourself completely. Leave not a shred of you remaining. Like that woman groveling before the feet of Christ, that's what he calls you to in salvation. You bring nothing to him. You cannot. As we read in our scripture reading in John 1, as many as received Jesus, to them he gave the right to become children of God. No one has a right to be a child of God until they receive Christ. Even to those who believe in his name who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but were born of God. I know some still think, but what about the good works that we're supposed to do? Shouldn't we still do good works? That's why verse 10 is there. He says, For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand so that we would walk in them. Do you see the order? First we're saved by grace alone. Then we become a new creation. We receive the new birth. And then we do good works. Faith is the engine. Good works is the caboose. Faith comes first. Good works follow. Good works do not contribute to our salvation God takes us as we were walking in sins back in verse 2 and indulging in the desires of the flesh. He creates us anew And he gives us new life and a desire to serve him. Good works do not contribute to your salvation in any way. They are the product of the salvation and the changed life you receive of God. Well, I ask you this Christmas, do you really now see, maybe more than before, how wonderful and amazing this great gift of grace truly is? I'll put it this way. Without grace, everything you own, you're going to lose. And with grace, everything you don't have now, God will give to you in the inheritance of the saints. Makes what we own now and what we have now seem pretty unimportant, doesn't it? You need grace. That's all you need. So here's what God wants you to do this Christmas. God wants you to hear his message, and God wants you to open his heart. Open your heart to him to receive the gift of grace. I'm going to tell you how you can do that, because some of you I know are struggling with this. Here's the first step. Give up your pride. Give up the struggle. Give up any false righteousness of your own. God will not recognize it. Bow your knee to the babe in Bethlehem. Humble your heart, receive Christ, accept the gift by faith, be born again today. That's why he came into the world. That's the reason. That's the message of Christmas. So that we would have a new birth. And if you already are born again and you know it and God has changed your life, and you have great gratitude for the greatest gift that was ever given to you, here's what God wants you to do. Take this message, even in CD form today. Put a bow on that CD and take it to someone on Christmas Day and say, this is the greatest gift I could ever give to you. And urge them to listen to it and urge them to respond. Pass it on to someone who needs the gift of grace. And then thank God. Thank the Lord of heaven that He has shown grace to your soul And serve and worship him with all of your might. Amen? Would you stand for our closing prayer? Remember, following the worship service, we have a time of fellowship and joy and some food in here as well. Everyone is welcome to stay. We have no second-hour classes, so please avail yourself of great conversation. Maybe you'd like to think more about this message as well. I'll be available to talk to up front if you'd like to come here and speak to me. Let's all join our hearts in prayer. O God in heaven, we thank you so much. For Jesus Christ, we say once again, thank you this Christmas Eve day and on and tomorrow that we have this time of the year to remember all that Christ has done for us. We pray, God, you will humble the hearts of the proud and break through and grant to them this marvelous gift. We pray that you will extend your love and your mercy even to them who have listened and heard and who desperately need the greatest gift ever given. For it is in the name of the gift giver, the Lord Jesus Christ, God in human flesh, we pray this prayer. Amen.