Most of you who know me pretty well know me that I'm a morning person. I enjoy the morning. Try to get up as early as I can and I sing with the birds. I don't sing all that well, but I do sing. I enjoy the morning time. I start to fizzle out in the evening. But the truth is that uh there's a special aspect to the nighttime that I enjoy as well Nighttime is a great time to get out in the neighborhood, especially with weather like this, and just to uh look up at the sky, enjoy the fact that nobody can see you. We have a darker neighborhood, there's not as many lights in the neighborhood, and so you can get out and just walk and pray and enjoy the nighttime. Just a chance to be alone with the Lord. So there's a beauty to the night in my heart, at least in my thinking. We all know, though, that the darkness of night has some distinct disadvantages as well. There are some times where we feel quite unsafe at nighttime. Many folks are just plain fearful of venturing out at night, and really for good reason. That's when criminal activity is heightened. The police are probably most aware of this, but all of us know I once heard an interview with a policeman and he was stressing the importance of having lights out the home, making sure there are no dark spots around the house. This discourages criminal activity someone from sneaking up on the house, but really it is good to have it throughout the neighborhood It's interesting, isn't it, that criminals don't want to do their crime where they can be seen. Make sense? Kinda know that. They tend to work at night. They want to work in the shadows. They don't want to be seen for what they're doing. You know, it's it's really true that even law-abiding citizens, when they're thinking about doing something wrong, something shameful, they just want to let loose, go wild, they tend to do their shameful deeds when At nighttime. Isn't that interesting? First Thessalonians 5. 7 says, those who get drunk get drunk at night. Kind of know that. Hey, that was 2,000 years ago. It's still true today. There's a foolish young man described in Proverbs 7. He is described as sneaking away to the house of an adulteress. And it's at the twilight, right before night is coming. So he can sin at night time. Night is a cover. It's a cover for shameful deeds of all kinds. Darkness allows sin and crime. To happen and go unnoticed. But when the dawn comes, the light returns in the morning, that sunlight brightens the sky. There it is, a new day, and the light shines once again. much of the shameful outdoor activity ceases. Light is consistently effective in exposing darkness. It just does that, doesn't it? Each day. Brothers and sisters, as we're going through this two-part message on being light, I want you to understand, and God's Word wants you to understand, that spiritual light Functions the same way, has the same kind of effect upon a dark world. Jesus came into our world Jesus descended down into our world and he came here as the light of the world, right? Not a light, but the light of the world. He said, He who follows me will never walk in darkness, but shall have the light of light. He is the light of the world. And he came into a dark world. Matthew 4:16. States, according to the Isaiah the prophet, which is quoted there, the people who were sitting in darkness saw a great light, and to those who were sitting in the land and shadow of death upon them a light dawned. How did the people respond when that great light came into the world and shone on them and the light dawned and they were sitting in darkness and there came this wonderful light? How did the people respond? Do you remember? They tried to put out the light, yes? John three, the light has come into the world and men love what? Darkness. Get that light out of here We enjoy the darkness. Why? Well, maybe they like looking up at the night sky and praying and enjoying God. No, it's not what it says in John 3. It says they hated the light, for their deeds were what? evil. For everyone who does evil hates the light and does not come to the light lest his deeds should be exposed. I'm not going to do that. Come into the light, now you're going to know what I'm up to, what I'm doing. Why would I do that? I want to get away with what I'm doing I'd like to express my sin, and I don't want any light shining on me. Well, we know that. This works in the world of crime, does it not? Could you imagine a policeman's searchlight all of a sudden being beamed in lawless criminals at night? You just hear them turning to the officer and saying You know, thank you very much, Officer, for uncovering our deviant behavior. We're so glad that you stopped us in the middle of this drug transaction. It's really good for us that you did that. My mama told me not to do this when I was younger, and here you are delivering the light to us, and we're so glad we were exposed. Please free us of this nasty habit. It doesn't work that way They scatter like nocturnal cockroaches. If possible, if they have to, they'll shoot out the light. They don't want it shining on them. So it doesn't want to be exposed. He really doesn't want it. He hates it. He just doesn't doesn't like it. I think sometimes people come in here and the light of God's word is coming forth in song and prayer and sermon. They see it in your lives and they had enough of that. They run. They don't come back We have a lot of first-time visitors who don't come back. I don't know, we have bad breath. I don't know what it is. We're one of the friendliest churches, which has something to do with, you know what, I'm not ready for that much light in my life. Turn it off. You know, not everyone in this world though is sitting in darkness anymore. Is this true? In Acts 26, 18, Paul declared that God has opened some people's eyes. Quote, so that they may turn from darkness to light and from the dominion of Satan to God. Who are these people that now are in the light and have turned to the light? They are Us. They're us. We have been turned to the light. Followers of the light of the world. We have been transformed now into little points of light in a dark world. That is what our Bible text is teaching us again today. It's what it's all about. We are children of light in the midst of a dark generation. We are here to be separate from darkness, and yet at the same time we have another duty in this world, that duty we will learn today. Would you open in your copy of God's Blessed word to Ephesians 5, verses 3 through 14. Verses 3 through 14. I'll read it again Paul writes, but immorality or any impurity or greed Must not even be named among you as is proper among saints. And there must be no filthiness and silly talk or coarse jesting which are not fitting, but rather giving of thanks. For this you know with certainty that no immoral or impure person or covetous man who is an idolater has an inheritance in the kingdom of Christ in God. Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. Therefore do not be partakers with them. For you were formerly darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. For the fruit of the light consists in all goodness and righteousness and truth Trying to learn what is pleasing to the Lord. Do not participate in the unfruitful deeds of darkness, but instead even expose them. For it is disgraceful even to speak of the things which are done by them in secret. But all things become visible when they are exposed by the light. For everything that becomes visible is light. For this reason it says, awake, sleeper, and rise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you. Now last week was part one, and in part one We began learning how a believer is to relate to an unbeliever, how someone who believes in Jesus Christ is to relate in this world to someone who does not believe in Jesus Christ. We learned that Our overall duty mentioned in verse 8 was to walk in this world, that is, live, walk in this world as children of life. That's our overall duty. The duty, however, involves two main aspects. The first is to remain separate from the darkness. We covered that last week. That's seen largely in verses 3 through 7, although Paul comes back to that theme later as well. The second duty is exposing the darkness. That's going to be covered today in verses 8 through 14. Exposing the darkness. Last week we dealt with what it really means to be separate from unbelievers That command to be separate was in verse 7. Remember, do not be partakers with them. Believers are to be separate from any sinful expression of an unbeliever. Like what? Well, it's listed for you right in there. Like what? Like immorality, like greed, immor impurity, filthiness, coarse jesting. Gee, doesn't that describe the lives of many people, you know? The command to be separate is simple, yet it's far-reaching. Think about all of those activities that are out there, and all that they engage in. You're to have no part in any of it at all. Wow. The command is to be separate. We are not to join ourselves to unbelievers when they express themselves in any way that is impure, immoral, greedy, covetous, idolatrous at all. That's very clear. We want to know how w when am I supposed to be separate from an unbeliever? When my involvement with that unbeliever begins to taint me and I began to be sinful. That's where I cut it off. You say, well, I might have to cut off quite a bit. Well, you might have to cut off quite a bit. That's what we talked about last week. Why? Well, verse five and six provides the answer. Because unbelievers are defined as sons of disobedience there in verse six. They will face the wrath of God. If we start to join ourselves to them, And our life becomes like that, it would prove we're really not children of light at all. We're not saved. We have no part in Christ at all. If our life became that joined to them, then we also would face the what? The wrath of God So we're not to be deceived by that. Their commitment to a lifestyle of sin is really a commitment that involves worshiping something other than God. They worship their lust, they worship themselves, they worship their money, they worship their comfort, they worship their pride. Whatever it is, we're not to be worshippers of those things. We're not to join them in those things. This a warning is written in scripture in a letter written to the churches. So it's an appropriate warning For those who come to church and sit down in church, why is it an appropriate warning for us? For myself included. Why Because anybody in the company of believers singing hymns, praising God, acting like they have a personal relationship with God. And think they can go on living the same way an unbeliever does is deceived. And so he says, let no one deceive you with what? Empty words. You get no inheritance whatsoever in the kingdom of God and of Christ. It just says it plainly right there. You don't need me to interpret that for you. Who surely face the wrath of God? Don't be deceived, he says in verse six. You're not going to heaven. Your life is like the life of an unbeliever. You say you've done a lot of religious things. You're in the evangelical church. You ask Jesus to be your Savior. None of that matters. If you're transformed by the light, it'll show in your life. Not perfectly, but it'll begin to show. You're not going to gain an inheritance. You know, every Christian gets an inheritance according to chapter 1 and verse 11 of this letter, so that means you're outside the realm of Christianity. If your life is like in unbelievers. So though Scripture gives us many good reasons to associate with unbelievers, and we talked about that also last week. We don't want to exaggerate our separation from them. There are many reasons for us to connect with unbelievers, witnessing to them. We surveyed all of this last week, conducting everyday business with them, uh submitting to authorities where that is appropriate, where we're supposed to, doing good to them as we have opportunity Still, we must, as Jude and his little letter warns, outreach to them in a spirit of reverent fear, not even wanting as we outreach with mercy to help them to be saved, to have ourselves polluted. Boy, that's a great principle, and it applies to many situations. That's what we covered last week. Now today we go beyond the first duty of separation, light separate from darkness. We go to our second duty, and that is the duty of light shining on darkness in order to expose what is in darkness. And that's in verses eight through fourteen. Here's our outline for today. First, our identity is light in verse eight. Our identity as light, second, our characteristics as light, verses nine and ten, and then third, our function as light, verses eleven through fourteen. Really it's leading up to a climax So we have our identity, our characteristics, and our function as light. Let's begin with identity. Verse 8, look at it again. Verse 8, for you were formerly darkness, but now you are. It doesn't say that to try to be this, it says you are light in the Lord. So walk as children of light. Verse 8 sounds one of Paul's favorite themes. What you were before Christ. Those were your BC days. You remember them? Before Christ. And now who you are in Christ, in union with Christ, who God has made you to be now. That's one of the favorite themes of the Apostle Paul. Look at the transformation that has happened in your life. BC, now in Christ. Back in chapter 2, the Apostle Paul, same letter, he wrote about this contrast. He said, Formerly you were dead in sin. We read that earlier in our scripture reading. But now by God's grace you have been made alive in Christ. There's your regeneration, your new birth. Christianity is not a moral reformation of the outside, it's an entirely new life that you have, a new birth It also says in chapter 2, formerly you were cut off from the promises of God. You had no part with the people of God. Now you're fellow citizens with the saints. You're of God's household. Later in chapter 4, Paul wrote: Formerly you were futile in your mind and darkened in your thinking. Now you are going through a process of renewal in the spirit of your mind. You're being changed. And here it is again in chapter 5. This contrast, Paul as formerly you were darkness, now you are what? Light. You're light in the Lord. Children of light. Being of the light or in the light or children of light is a common designation of believers in Scripture. Of course it is. First Peter 2. 9 says God called us out of darkness Into his marvelous light. Isn't that beautiful? Think about the marvelous light that you and I are now in. It's like there we are in darkness, and through salvation, God called to us, and he called us out of darkness, and we came in the light. In Colossians chapter 1, verses 12 and 13, it says that the Father has, quote, qualified us to share in the inheritance of the saints in light, for he delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son. As saints in light, every true believer is qualified by Jesus Christ, not by our good deeds. We're qualified to share in Christ's inheritance. He's inheriting the whole world. We're going to get that as well. First John two, nine through eleven, the Apostle John also teaches that those who believe in Jesus Christ and demonstrated by a God-based sacrificial love towards one another are living in the light. He calls that walking in the light, and therefore they're not in darkness. Common designation for believers. We are light, we walk in light, we shine the light. The scriptures repeatedly say that believers are no longer in darkness. The very definition of a believer, Jesus said, I am the light of the world, and he who follows me will not what? Walk in darkness. It's not going to happen anymore. Are you a follower of Jesus Christ? You're not walking in darkness. You're walking in the light. That's what Jesus said. That's what he promised. But really here, Paul, I think very interestingly takes it a step beyond merely being in the light. He says, I know I'm in the light. I've got that, I've got the truth, it's shining down on me. He's taking it a step beyond that. He says we actually are children of light. He says we actually are light in the Lord. We now are light. We're not just in the light, we are light. In our relationship to Jesus, we have turned into light. How is that possible? That we who formerly were darkness are now turned into light? Well, because God's light. Says that in 1 John 1 5. God is light. We're so used to quoting it. God is love. You see that everywhere, but it's God is light is also true. He's totally holy. He always speaks the truth. He's righteous in all his ways. Add to that first Timothy 6. 16. God dwells, that is, he lives, he continues to exist in, listen, unapproachable light. So bright you can't even get near him. It's so bright, it's so brilliant, it's something beyond. what we even understand. James 1. 17 calls God the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shifting shed, just this amazing, brilliant bright shining light, the very character and nature of God going forth from him constantly with no variation. God is light, he lives in light, he's the Father of lights, and we are God's children, so now we are children of the Father who is light, so we are children. 1 Thessalonians 5. 4. You are all sons of light and sons of day. That's who I am. That's who you are as a believer in Jesus. We are sons of the day. God has made us light. We now have been changed. This is our identity. This is who we are. So to be in the Lord is to become a son of the light yourself. All of us are like lighthouses, you know. They're the they're people in treacherous waters and we're the lighthouse, shining the light, saying there's danger, there's danger, watch out for the cliffs and for the rocks and all of that. And we are the ones God has put in the world to do and sound the warning. We're like lampposts in the world. People stumbling around in the city. They don't know where to go. Oh, thank God there's a lamppost. They see that. Now they know where to go and turn the corner. That's who we are. We have to point the way. It's exciting. I mean, that's an exciting. We have a very important role in this world, and it's exciting. We are not only transferred out of darkness, like, oh, I'm not in darkness anymore. Now we're turned into light. We're like a chandelier. We have no light in ourselves, by the way, but that electricity of the Holy Spirit shines through us, and all of a sudden we're we're beautiful and we're brilliant and it shines all over the foyer there. We're like, wow, and that's who we become in the world. Paul wrote in Second Corinthians four six the God who said light shall shine out of darkness, that's uh Genesis one, let there be light, and poof there was light in the creation, is the same one who has shown in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Christ. To see in Christ the glory of God, and so that light is in us So light's our identity. We are light in the Lord. And He is the light in us. And you have to think of yourself that way. You have to consciously be aware of your identity, who you are. I am light in the Lord. You know God makes many things and He has a purpose for each one. Roses, He makes roses, they look good, they smell really nice. He makes trees, they stand tall, they provide shade, He makes the wind blow the leaves, clean the air out a little bit And he also makes light. What do you make light for? To shine. Lights have to shine. That's the function of light. Your light, you have to shine. That's your purpose. Yeah the children have that little song, you know how it goes. This little light of mine, I'm gonna what? Let it shine. I was talking to the kids. I heard all the adults sing that one, right? SSL, let it shine. Where do you let it shine? You let it shine in your homes. You have unsafe people in your homes, you let it shine in your home. You have unsafe people at work? Who doesn't? Let it shine in the halls of your workplace. That's where you are. You are there. You're a light. Let it shine. Let it shine in your backyard barbecues. Let it shine wherever you are. You're constantly light. Keep it on. Let it shine. Wherever there's darkness, we'll constantly let it shine, let it shine, let it shine. Always. Walk as children of light in this world. That's your job. It's your job description. But how are we supposed to do that exactly? Does Paul tell us here? I mean I I can say I know my face doesn't shine like Moses' did, remember he came down off the mountain, his face was shining, put the veil over it, said, Well, the guy's shining from the inside out. I don't know, there's radiation coming from God or something, it just spilled over into Moses and he was like that. I don't know what happened. My face is not like that. And you look at all that fancy artwork, you see a little light halo over somebody's head, you know, some s some ancient saint, you're like, I don't see any halo over my head. There's no light. How am I supposed to really shine in this world? Well that brings us to our second point. Our characteristics as light. Verses nine and ten. Our characteristics as light. For the fruit of the light consists in all goodness and righteousness and truth, trying to learn what is pleasing to the Lord. That's simple, isn't it? There it is. By the way, there's a textual variant, just to get a little bit technical here for a minute. The Greek manuscripts have some variations in verse 9. Some of you will read the fruit of the light, and others will read the fruit of the spirit Frankly, it makes little substantial difference. It only changes what imagery Paul is using to show God at work in us. I take the correct reading to be fruit of light. And then the picture is a fruit growing out of the believer under the influence of Christ's light on us, just as a fruit tree from a garden. you know, would uh would materialize and there'd be the f the fruit from the tree and it's under the influence of daily sunlight. That's who we are. It's produced in us, the fruit of the light. The more important thing to notice is the connection between verses 8 and verses 9 and verses 10. Look at that a minute When Paul calls us children of light in verse eight and also light in the Lord, he does not simply mean that we know the truth about Jesus. You might think that and say Well, I'm a child of light. What does that mean? That means I cognitively know the truth now. It's not just about information or about truth. That little word for at the beginning of verse 9 means that verse 9 is a reinforcement of verse 8. It is a further explanation of what walking as children of light really entails, namely practicing all what? Goodness and righteousness and truth. Notice also there's a contrast in these verses. Verse 11 says that there are unfruitful deeds that naturally flow from darkness, so also these three attributes are called The fruit of light. Unbelievers can be identified by the way they live, also. They're called sons of disobedience, believers, as light, are identified by the way they live. Light consisting of all goodness, righteousness, and truth. I'd like to think of verse 9 then as Paul taking a glass prism. And holding it in line with the light coming out of a believer's life. There's the light shining forth from the believer, and it hits the prism, and it breaks into three separate colors. There's goodness. And then it splits righteousness and then splits truth. Look at each one of them individually, but they're really all part of the light, and they all are part of a light shining from a believer's light. But by taking them apart a minute, it allows us to analyze the beauty of the light and understand its properties. Take a moment and just analyze your own life here. Before the prism of verse 9. This is what the fruit of a life of light is really about. How are these three colors, so to say, flowing from your life? Goodness. Is that in your life? Agathotsune. It's just a general disposition of being beneficial to other people. A good person is one who looks out for others. He's benevolent. He's not selfish. He's not self-centered. He's not thinking of himself first. A good person concerns himself with what other people are going through. He tries to help out, tries to be a blessing to other people. God, of course, is good. He's concerned with the misery in the world, unhappiness. He does good for us, even does good for his enemies. Well, this light is not only goodness, but it is also righteousness. Righteousness often refers to the perfect righteousness that was uh given to us. In Jesus Christ, but in this context, it refers to the practice of righteous living before the world. Of course, that's all comes from Christ and is empowered by Christ. The term righteousness is a little narrower than the term goodness. It means more specifically conformity to practicing and doing what is right. Your life is measured against the straight stick of God's righteousness, God's moral law. How straight really is your life You know, you you you we think we're straight, we think we have a straight stick in our life, and you put it against this perfect righteousness of God, and we hold our stick up there, and we see some of the curves in it. We're not as righteous as we thought But we're to live righteously. We're to manifest justice and equity. We're not to be crooked in any of our dealings with others. We're not to be impartial, we're not to take bribes, we're to live righteously. That's what a believer does. The third part of this prism, this color that breaks out there is the truth. There's never any deceit in truth. Should be no deceit in a believer There's nothing underhanded or dishonest that is in the light. Everything's out in the open. Everybody can see what's going on. There's no smell of hypocrisy there. The one who is of the truth and demonstrates truth is above board in his dealings with other people. He also accepts the truth of God and has the truth of God in him, and he speaks the truth of God to others. These are the three. How does your life measure up to that? Are you good and righteous and true in your dealings with others? There's another passage in Romans 13. Verses twelve and thirteen. It really complements this passage well. Listen to it. Let us lay aside the deeds of darkness and put on the armor of light. Let us behave properly as in the day, not in carousing and drunkenness. Not in sexual promiscuity and sensuality, not in strife and jealousy. There it is. Dark deeds just get rid of them. They're not helpful. Hey, a Christian's not perfect. We're not saying that. Ephesians chapter 4 and 5 says we're going through a series of walking lessons. We're learning how to be a Christian more and more You know, uh we're trying to learn how to walk worthy of our Christian calling, chapter four and verse one said. We're trying to learn how to walk in love better. Sometimes we try and we realize, wow, there's a lot of selfishness still in me. I need to learn, I need to be more loving towards other people. So we're going through uh walking lessons, how to be loving. And here, the same thing, we're we're learning how to walk as children of light. But the point is we should be learning how to walk. It should be improving in a Later in chapter 5, verse 15, it's saying, learn to walk as wise men. Make your decisions wisely. God's priorities. Make the most of your time. We have to learn how to walk. You've seen toddlers learn how to walk, right? There's your lesson for you spiritually. Look at this little toddler that comes running towards daddy. What does he do? Boom, falls down. Gives up? No way. He hikes his rear hand back up, you know, pushes his hands up, straightens himself up again, all over the place, and he comes walking again, just to fall down again. And he does this over and over and over again. Bumps and bruises, a few cries. But he learns to what? Walk. We all did it. That's how you have to learn. So I I I've been messing up, I've been sinning. We have to learn to walk. I haven't been loving, you have to learn to walk. I haven't made wise decisions, you have to learn to walk. You should get yourself back up again. The grace of God says get back up again And get going. He'll empower you. Learn how to walk. That's what God wants you to do. That's his will for you. Learn how to walk as a Christian. You've been given that new life. Now learn how to walk as a Christian. Learn to live that way You're going to stumble in many ways, sometimes grievously. They'll pierce your heart. You'll be weeping. You'll be crying. Other times you'll be tempted to be dishonest, try to act like a really spiritual person in church, but you know you're not You know you're not having your quiet times at home. You know you're not living righteously. You know your mind is getting into all kinds of dirty things. You're s you're sneaking some kinds of entertainment that are impure and you like those things and you're going after them. You need to put them away That's not light. That's not who you are. You're like getting a little bit less and less and less and less. You can't shine on anyone living like that. You gotta clean up your thinking. You gotta clean up your mouth. You gotta clean up your behavior. You gotta be light in the Lord. You gotta learn to walk Verse 10 makes our need for progress even clearer. Notice it says the Christians should be trying to learn what is pleasing to the Lord. This verse is attached to the command to walk as children of light in verse 8. The verb in verse 10, trying to learn is dokimazo, and it really carries two ideas here. examining or testing something and then after examining or testing it approving that object that was tested. This uh word was used in testing metals, for example, to discover their quality. What what quality were there? Good results from the test proved that you had something that was a precious metal there. The same verb is used in first Corinthians chapter three and verse thirteen, where a church leader's ministry works would be tested by fire If it was acceptable to the Lord, it would stand at the fire. If not, it would be burned up. According to 1 Timothy 3:10, a man should never be made a deacon in the church until he's first been tested, and then he would be approved So the meaning here in Ephesians 5 is that we are to discover through examination what is pleasing to the Lord. We are to find out what God approves in our life and then live it out. How is this learning and proving process to be done? Well, we're not told here. Romans chapter 12 and verse 2, write that down. Romans 12, 2 really helps out. It says this: Be transformed by the renewing of your mind. You see, we need to be taught. Scripture, so that you may prove, that's the same word, prove what the will of God is. Learning what pleases the Lord takes learning the word of God As it is illuminated and applied by the Spirit of God in your mind, so study the Bible, study theology, study the truth of God, learn who He is and what His will is, and through that you prove what the will of God is. How should I relate to other people? Maybe someone who's being hard to get along with? Well, I have to learn in that relationship what is pleasing to the Lord. How should I handle my finances or you handle yours? I need to learn what is pleasing to the Lord. How do I choose the right church? I need to see what the Scripture says and learn what is pleasing to the Lord. Really covers all of life. 1 Corinthians 10, 31. We just went over this. Whether then you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. And Paul will even get more into this later in the passage where he says, understand what the will of the Lord is in verse 17. You see, this is what distinguishes us from unbelievers. We're grateful to God. He's been merciful to us. We're trying to live in a way that pleases him. So we have to learn what pleases him. We're discovering and learning and growing. Non-Christians don't do that Galatians 1:10, Paul writes, Am I now seeking the favor of men or of God? Or am I striving to please men? If I were still trying to please men, I would not be a bondservant of Christ. Can't follow Christ and be pleasing to people all the time, can you? You can't be pleasing to everybody. You gotta decide who you're gonna live for. You want to please Christ. You can't please people. You got friends that are not so happy with you? People in the family not happy with you? You following Christ? That's good. Keep doing that. Who really are you seeking to please? Your friends? A boss? You have to please your boss even though he wants you to do things that are shady because hey your your your family security is tied to that. Who's really the security in your life? Try to please your mother-in-law? An unbelieving spouse compromising because you're afraid, you're afraid, you've got to please the Lord. In that situation, that's where you've got to please the Lord. Pleasing Christ has to come first in our lives. You can't even live to please yourself. It won't work because you know what yourself is going to say. I love this insight from D. Martin Lloyd Jones. He writes this: quote, the Christian, unlike the good moral man or the good religious man, is not living to please himself. There are men who say, well, now I believe in having a standard. I believe in having a code. And I'm going to do my utmost to live up to that code. I'm going to be unhappy unless I succeed. But the man is doing it to please himself. He is doing it in order to live up to his own standard. He says, I would lose my self-respect if I did not do this. I would be ashamed of myself, yet the whole time his motive is to please himself. And this is very different from the Christian's ambition to prove, and to prove always, what is acceptable unto the Lord. We have is our ambition, whether at home or absent, to be pleasing to Christ. 2 Corinthians 5. 9. Now we come really to the focal point of our message today. How does all of this truth affect our relationship with unbelievers. Look thirdly at our function as light, verses eleven through fourteen. Our function as light. Here we go. And this is going to be hard, but we've got to look at it Do not participate in the unfruitful deeds of darkness, but instead even expose them. For it is disgraceful even to speak of the things which are done by them in secret. But all things become visible when they are exposed by the light. For everything that becomes visible is light. For this reason it says, Awake, sleeper, and rise from the dead, and Christ will shine. Notice verse 11 just echoes the command back in verse 7. Do not participate, do not partake, be separate, don't join in with unbelievers. Oil and water don't mix, Christian and the world doesn't mix. But verse 11, I think, adds something not said back in verse 7. The deeds of unbelievers are labeled the unfruitful deeds of darkness. In other words, you can take the way they live and the deeds that they have and how their life amounts to, all that they're going through and doing, you can take everything they do and you can kind of lump it all together as one giant pile of garbage, basically, the deeds of darkness. And you can see that all of that is garbage to God. None of that pleases him. Ah, I think we need to know that because we look at the lives and we hear the lives of celebrities and famous people and powerful people out in society and we think like Wow, I wish I was like them. I wish I could sing like them. I wish I had their money and their accomplishments. You know, their whole lives consist of unfruitful deeds of darkness. It's just a giant pile of garbage to God It amounts to nothing. He's not pleased with anything. It smells. He doesn't want it anywhere in it. Throw it out of God's house. It's garbage. That's what God thinks of an unbeliever's life and how they live. And then we come to the second duty of ours, verse eleven. Just like God is not pleased with any of that. Our duty goes beyond being separate from it. We are also supposed to expose them, right? Here's our second duty: we are to expose them. We have to expose the deeds of darkness. That's what we have to do. That's what light does. It shines in the darkness. As soon as it shines in the darkness, look! There are deeds of darkness in there. And that's who you are. You can't turn the light off because you're afraid of exposing them. You've got to leave the light on. Does that sound scary? That's what you and I have to do. That's what this church is about. It's what this ministry is about. It's what you're about in the place where you are among unbelievers. That's your primary duty. To live separate, to shine the light upon them. Sounds scary? It's a necessary duty of light. The word expose is a length. It's a verb really with a wide range of meaning Originally it meant to put to shame or to disgrace, and it came to mean to convict or convince someone that they've done wrong. The context here Relating to light, I think the word exposed is a good translation. The light convincingly uncovers all of the hidden dirt of people's lives. It shines right down on them. Well we know about being uncovered. We Christians know about what it means to be exposed. We wouldn't have become Christians if we weren't exposed. We were living for ourselves. We were living for our own way, and then the light of the gospel shone upon us, and we realized I'm wrong. I need to repent. My life is unacceptable to God. There's garbage here. And we were exposed, and we became true with God, and we confessed sin and light shone upon our hearts, and God saved us, and he had mercy on us, and he cleaned us up. Yes? He did that. Well, this is what we, and God wants to use us to do with them as well, to use the word of God to penetrate inside their heart and expose them for who they are. You know, not everybody who's exposed is going to feel good about it. And I said honestly, that's why some people you start a conversation with and you bring up Jesus and they're like change the subject, right? Boom, just like that. They're skilled at it too. Or they just what? Leave the room. I guess a religious nut. I'm out of here. That's why people don't want to come out here the Bible. We need to learn to be good lights in a dark world. John the Baptist did. John the Baptist said, I'm not the light. Jesus is the light. Remember? He testified of the light. But when people came down, he he saw the religious hypocrites and he said, Who warns you to flee from the wrath of God? You need to bring forth fruit in keeping with repentance. Remember that? And then other people said, Well what are we supposed to do? The light's shining on us and we feel convicted and we want to be baptized and the kingdom of God is coming. He said the soldiers don't take any money by force. You know, you who have a lot of belonging, share with those who have very little. Live in a loving manner and live righteously and don't pervert your station in life. And he was a light shining for Israel. And what did they do with that light? Even pointed at the king and said, you're committing adultery in a king. Cut his head off. Want to be a light? Want to expose sin? Want to be a light shining in darkness? Wanna do it? Doesn't matter whether you want to do it. It's what God has called us to do. You need asked God for some holy boldness. Holy boldness How many have been keeping your mouth shut when you know you ought to be speaking? And I don't mean just the gospel of Jesus Christ. I mean there's perversion going on in front of you, and you have a say, it's your workplace, or it's Your house or whatever it is, and you're just letting it go on, and you say nothing. Because you're scared. Because you're putting out the light that God gave you. How many of you are letting darkness fill in around you because you're unwilling to expose the deeds of darkness Now I know sometimes people can get excited about this and go out and they can be very obnoxious. I'm not talking about that There's still wisdom in when you do that and how you do that and to what person you do it. There's still wisdom in when you speak up. It's volatile when you do this. You have to be wise. You have to be ready for the consequences. There could be economic consequences for you. So let it be. There could be relational consequences for you. So let it be Well, you have to be a light in a dark world. God has put you here to do that. You must allow righteousness and truth and love and all of those features of The goodness of God in you to be seen, but you can't just do it with your light. It starts with your life. Your life does speak. It's good that you live righteously. But sometimes They just look at you and say, well, you're different from me. They can't tell that that's good and that's bad. They have no discernment. You have to speak up. You have to let light come out of your mouth and you have to speak as John the Baptist did And you have to tell them what is right and what is wrong. The silent rebuke only goes so far you have to speak up. We live in such an unrighteous society. People have standards that are upside down. They don't know what's right, they don't know what's wrong. And you gotta tell 'em. You gotta tell 'em. Well there's one last thing here in this passage and I want to make sure we deal with it too. And that is it says in verse 14, for this reason it says, awake sleeper and arise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you A loose quote from Isaiah 60, verse 1. Paul quotes it to show that Christ can shine even on the spiritually dead and awaken them from their perilous slumber. No matter how deep somebody is in darkness, I mean no matter the blackest of darkness that their life is, one ray of light can penetrate the deepest darkness. Yes? Try it out sometime. Take the deepest, darkest room you can find, shine one little light, and it lights everything up. Even a small light. You might be here this morning and you might say, I'm still in darkness. This verse is saying, wake, sleeper. Christ will raise you from the dead. He'll let his light shine in your mind and in your heart, and he will transform you into a child of light. He'll save your soul Because right now in darkness you're under the wrath of God and you need to turn from your sins and let Christ shine on you. And I want us to bow our heads as we close the sermon here, and before Doug comes, just bow our heads, and if you You're not sure that you have a relationship with Christ. You're not sure you're in the light. I'd like you to pray in your heart right now. If these words are true, you just pray this prayer. And I'm going to lead you in a prayer and you pray quietly in your heart Almighty God, we know that we are sinners. In ourselves, we've got darkness. Lord, we've disobeyed you. There's so many sins it's can't even count. We've lied. We've been selfish. We haven't given you thanks. We've had perverted thoughts at times. We've had hatred in our heart. Lord, it's not good, it's evil. We ask for your mercy. Lord, we pray that you would save a soul here today. Anyone that knows they don't have a relationship with Jesus, save them today. Help them to cry out to you, say, Lord Jesus, save me. Let your light shine down upon me. Turn my darkness in the light. Give me your new life because of your mercy. Thank you, Jesus, for what you've done for me on the cross, dying for my sins on the cross, being raised from the dead. I believe that. And God help me to learn to be a child of light. If you've prayed that prayer or something like that, just know that God wants to save your soul today. And we pray for you now. We pray, Lord, that you would work in the lives of our congregation. Those maybe who have been coming for a while, children, visitors, new people, help none of them to lie before you. Help them to be sure they have a right relationship with you. Save their soul. Be merciful to them, Lord. Shine upon them this morning We ask it in Jesus' name, Amen