I wonder if you have ever gone through trials and felt so tossed by the storms of life. That you thought you might lose your grip on your faith in Christ Or if you've ever seen literature, a book, an article Or a documentary, you just saw it listed, and you thought, ooh, I don't know that I want to watch that. That might shake my faith and cause me to doubt everything I believe. Or if you have ever done something that you thought might just be beyond God's willingness to forgive. I think we all know someone, a loved one, a friend, who went through trials that they would say caused them to Reject Christ, because how could a loving God allow them to endure such things? Maybe we can think of the name of someone who Read a book, went to a seminar, watched a documentary, and began to doubt and ultimately rejected everything that they believed. Some of us can call to our minds the face of someone who at one point in time dipped their toe into sin and then The water rose to their legs and before they knew it they were so enveloped by a life of sin that they ultimately turned away completely by uh from Christ. And whether you yourself have experienced those things or those thoughts or you have observed that in others, the question has undoubtedly come up. Could I ever do that? Would that ever happen to me? Well in such a moment we might be tempted to just quickly throw that s thought off to the side and say, I don't I don't I don't want to think about that. That unsettles me. Or we might be tempted in pride to say, that would never happen to me What we really must do in circumstances like that is ask the question and then seek a robust answer from Scripture. so that we're not caught off guard if and when such things happen to us. And that's what our passage today helps us Whether you have wrestled with these things or not, my prayer is that we will grow in our confidence today, not in ourselves. but in him who holds us fast. Turn in your Bible, if you haven't already, to John chapter 10. John chapter 10 as we continue to make our way through this gospel. My hope is to uh finish John chapter 10 next week. Uh and then we'll have a little break uh until January uh from John chapter ten that is, not from the church. Don't think you can get out of it. John chapter 10. Follow along as I read verses 22 to 30. At that time, the feast of dedication took place at Jerusalem. It was winter, and Jesus was walking in the temple in the colonnade of Solomon. So the Jews gathered together around him and said to him, How long will you keep us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly. Jesus answered them, I told you, and you do not believe. The works that I do in my Father's name bear witness about me. But you do not believe because you are not among my sheep. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me I give them eternal life, and they will never perish. And no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father, who has given them to me, is Greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. I and the Father are one This is the Word of God. We need to begin by considering the context and finding where we are in the life. of Christ. Notice that that the passage begins there in verse 22 with that phrase, at that time. Now that that phrase would seem to connect the Good Shepherd discourse which we've just studied in the last few weeks with the feast of dedication. The Greek adverb translated at that time can indicate the time of something that has just happened, or it can indicate the succession of time, the progression of what's about to happen next, in which case It can be translated, then this happened, then that. And the context is what determines what the author intended Now, as we think about the context, though the Apostle John throughout his gospel is not trying to give us a chronological account of the life of Christ. Most of the accounts that he gives us are taking place around the various feasts. of Israel. And based on the time markers that he does give us, John chapter 7 through John chapter 10, verse 21 all take place in about a two-week period around the Feast of Booths, both before, during, and after. And the Feast of Booths begins on the 15th month of Tishri, which I'm sure we all know. is around our September October time frame, depending on the year, because it's a lunar calendar. The the feast of dedication begins on the twenty-fifth day of Kislev, which corresponds to our November-December timeframe. In other words, there is a two-month gap between the Feast of Booth and the Feast of Dedication And in addition to the time gap, this is an entirely new scene. There's a new location, the temple, that's not where Jesus was earlier in John chapter 10. There is a new audience or people who are part of this encounter. There's new weather. It's winter. And there's a new topic of conversation. And so for that reason, those translations which some of you have that start verse 22 with something like, now it was the feast, or then came the feast. more clearly and accurately convey that there's been a time gap between verse 21 and verse 22. Now the feast of dedication is what today is more commonly called Hanukkah. That begins this year on December 15th. The Feast of Dedication is not one of the prescribed feasts of Israel because it celebrates an event that took place after the writing of the Old Testament. From history class, you might remember that when Alexander the Great died in 323 BC, the Greek Empire divided into four different kingdoms. Israel happened to fall within the area of the Seleucid Empire. In in 167 BC, the Seleucid king, Antiochus IV, or uh otherwise known as Antiochus Epiphanes, tried to enforce the Greek culture on the Jews. And as part of his effort to force The Greek culture on them, he declared that the temple in Jerusalem needed to be transformed away from worship of Yahweh and become a temple for Zeus. And so carrying out that order, the agents of Antiochus IV offered pagan sacrifices on the altar in Jerusalem, and they also turned the temple grounds into a worship place for Zeus, which involved, according to Greek worship practices, unspeakable debauchery. That sacrifice on the altar to Zeus took place on the 25th of Kislev in the year 167 BC. Now, if desecrating the temple wasn't enough, the Greeks forbade anybody from owning a copy of the scripture, what we would consider the Old Testament or the Hebrew Scriptures. And so they would murder anyone and their family who was found with a copy of the scripture. They would even go from house to house a couple of times a year to check to see if anybody had a copy of the Scripture. For three years, faithful Jews endured incredible oppression and horrifying suffering. There were those who engaged in guerrilla warfare against the Greeks, but they were effectively more annoying than actual threats to the Greeks. and showing their cruelty, the Greeks would actually go after those guerrilla groups on the Sabbath day because they were Faithful pious Jews who were so committed to keeping their Sabbath law that they refused to fight on the Sabbath. And so they accepted, and you might even say, welcomed, death when the Greeks attacked them. The leader of the revolt of the Jews is a priest, or was a priest, named Matathias. And when he died of old age, his son, Judas Maccabeas, which might be a name you are familiar with, took over the resistance against the Greeks. Now he ended the practice of not fighting on the Sabbath. You realize that was not a winning effort. And so after the Greeks unexpectedly lost some battles, they underestimated Judas and his soldiers. They took the shock and awe approach They came at Judas and his soldiers with 60,000 soldiers and 5,000 cavalry, where Judas only had 5,000 soldiers. It seemed, though, that the Lord was on his side because with his 5,000 soldiers, he was able to defeat and repel the 65,000 Greek army. And so, having repelled the Greeks, they went into Jerusalem and removed everything and destroyed everything that had anything to do with pagan worship. They removed the altar itself because they did not think it could be cleansed after all of the paganism that had been done on it, and they built a new altar according to the biblical descriptions. And they established, or rather re-established, the true worship of Yahweh, having cleansed the temple from the false worship. of Zeus. And so in 164 BC, three years to the day, on the twenty fifth of Kislev The Jews reconsecrated and cleansed the temple as a place of worship to Yahweh. Since they weren't able to celebrate the Feast of Booths just two months prior to that, they really imitated some of the elements of the Feast of Booths in their celebration and established the Feast of Dedication, or as we would call it Hanukkah, as an eighth day celebration, which is what we see in the Feast of Booths. So all that to say, the Feast of Dedication or Hanukkah is a celebration of the reconsecration of the temple in Jerusalem. Now, John doesn't tell us anything that would lead us to search for hidden meaning in the timing of this event, but there is an interesting correspondence to consider. Remember that at the beginning of his ministry, Jesus cleansed the temple. And he will actually do that one more time in a few months from this period, just in the same week in which he is put to death. The reason Jesus cleanses the temple is because even though the temple is ostensibly a place of worship to Yahweh, the entire religious system of the Jews had become commercialized. and ritualistic. And so while the Jews here are celebrating the cleansing and the rededication of the temple that had happened a little less than 200 years prior. Jesus, the Son of God, the one for whose worship the temple is supposed to be devoted, is in their midst. And not only are they not worshiping him, they are preparing an attack. Notice what it says there at the end of verse 22 and into 23. It says, it was winter, and Jesus was walking in the temple in the colonnade of Solomon. The colonnade of Solomon's, or some translations say Solomon's portico or port, was the eastern side of the temple. That was in in a women's court where anyone could be, Jews, uh Gentiles, men, women Uh that's where the early church would meet day after day to worship before the church was scattered in persecution. This colonnade was walled along the back, and it had a roof over it, making it the most protected area from the weather of winter, which is why people would gather there at this time of the year most especially. Now, whether what Jesus was walking just observing the other rabbis teaching their disciples, or if he was looking for a place himself to settle down and teach his disciples, we're not told. Whatever his purpose was, he gets interrupted. Look at verse 24. It says, So the Jews gathered around him and said to him, How long will you keep us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly. To say here that the Jews gathered around him is really to put it mildly. The reality is they surrounded him. Jesus uses this same word in chapter twenty-one, verse twenty, when he says, But when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then know that the desolation of Jerusalem has come near. Or the author of Hebrews uses it to describe the walls of Jericho, saying, by faith the walls of Jericho fell down after they had been encircled for seven days. Now the word doesn't inherently have a hostile meaning, but there's no doubt that these Jews were malicious in their surrounding Jesus who had escaped all of their previous attempts to arrest him and stone him. Now when John refers to the Jews here, he usually means those antagonistic leaders And their followers. So this is most likely a mob of Pharisees and Sadducees and those who had already made up their minds about Jesus. We've seen time and time again that by this point in Jesus' ministry, the Pharisees, the religious leaders, were no longer curious about Jesus. They were no longer wanting to know more about him In their eyes, he was dangerous and he needed to be taken out. But what they did not have yet to build their case was a clear and direct statement by Jesus saying I am the Messiah. So they ask him, how long will you keep us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly. Jesus has been using one metaphor after another, one figure of speech after another. They were tired of what they construed to be ambiguity or obfuscation or plausible deniability. They wanted a direct and a clear, yes, I am the Messiah, or no, I am not the Messiah. The problem is Jesus can't answer their question on their terms. Because their definition of the Messiah is different than his. And so if he were to give them a direct yes or no answer, he would immediately misrepresent and miscommunicate. the truth. More than that, they are honestly not interested in the answer. All they're interested in is getting ammunition for the charges that they want to bring against him. And so Jesus, in turn, is not going to give them a satisfying answer. Instead, he addresses an entirely different issue. Now, when you read Jesus' response in verses 25 to 30, on one level it's not hard to understand what Jesus has been saying. After all, he basically repeats in various ways what he has been saying. Which John has recorded for us throughout this gospel. But what perplexed me was to try to understand why he says what he said. After his initial response, it almost seems like Jesus goes on a tangent and just addresses some random topic. He does speak to his identity, but then he goes in an unexpected direction. Or does he? There is an easy-to-miss theme here that I believe ties all of this together. Notice again verse 24 where they asked, How long will you keep us in suspense? And then notice in verse 29 at the end of it where Jesus says, no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. The Jews use an idiom there in verse 24 that literally could be translated, until when will you pick up our souls? It's an idiom that means how long will you keep us in the air? We would say, how long will you keep us hanging? It's the idea of being suspended in mid-air. And what is our natural response to being suspended in the air? We flail. We flap. We kick. Our feet look for solid ground to stand on. Our hands look for something to grab onto. To be stuck in midair is to lack certainty or confidence, stability, and security. In their blindness, the Jews were unanchored. They were unsecured. They were vulnerable to be swept away, to be blown away in any direction And we've seen that time and time again, even though there's an overall antagonism toward Christ, yet there were still disagreements and divisions between the people and their leaders about what we should really think about Jesus. Now, in contrast to them, Jesus reveals that those who believe in him are not suspended in mid-air. They are secure and held in the infinitely powerful hands of God, who is our rock. Those who do not belong to Jesus Christ go through life in a constant search, searching for truth. Searching for meaning, searching for purpose or happiness, searching for relief from guilt, searching for comfort from all the pain. They desperately want solid ground to stand on. They live life as it were suspended in mid-air with no stability and no security. Not so those who know Christ and are grounded in Him. Jesus teaches us this by revealing the divine hand behind unbelief. Belief, perseverance, and security, so that we might know who holds us fast Let's walk through this brief outline, starting with the divine hand behind unbelief. The divine hand behind unbelief. Look at Jesus' response in verses 25 and 26. Jesus answered them, I told you, and you do not believe. The works that I do in my Father's name bear witness about me, but you do not believe, because you are not among my sheep. The reality is what Jesus has said and what Jesus hasn't said isn't the problem. The evidence of his claims is not the problem. And in some ways, their unbelief itself is not the problem. The problem, the reason that they are suspended in the air, is because the divine hand has kept them suspended in the air by virtue of not making them his own. That's really what Jesus teaches here. Let's unpack this. Notice that in verse 25, he says, I told you. I've told you. He's already addressed their question in his teaching. He's already said plenty that would that would be sufficient to answer their question. Now it's true that as we read the recorded words of Christ, not only in John, but in all the gospels, there is no place where in public to the leaders or to crowds that Jesus says, I am the Christ. That's not recorded if he did. It's not. given to us by the Holy Spirit. He said it most directly in private to the Samaritan woman He said effectively the same thing to the man who was born blind, but again, never publicly. But as we've seen in our study of this gospel, what Jesus has said directly and explicitly and publicly and repeatedly expresses that he is in fact The Messiah promised by God. The reason he hasn't said those words, I am the Christ, again is because the Jews of that day had a false expectation of what the Messiah would do. And instead of being the military and the political leader that they were hoping for, which is what he will be in his second coming, Jesus actually said, I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall never hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. He said, if anyone thirst, let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. Jesus said, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life Jesus said, truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was, I am. Jesus said, I am the door. And he said, I am the Good Shepherd. These statements are drawn from the Old Testament scriptures that speak directly about God Himself. Or about the Messiah that He promised. For example, when Jesus says, if anyone thirsts, let them come to me and drink, Jesus is calling back to mind the words of Isaiah in chapter fifty five, where the Lord says, Come, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters and he who has no money, come buy and eat, come by wine and milk without money and without price. And he goes on from there To say, listen to my words, believe in me, and I will give you life. And then as we've just seen in our study of the earlier section of John chapter 10, when Jesus refers to himself as the good shepherd, he's declaring that he is that one shepherd that God promised in Jeremiah 23 and Ezekiel 34. Jesus might not be the Christ that the Messiah, or rather, that the Pharisees and the rest of the religious leaders were hoping for, but he is the Messiah that God had promised. More than that, Jesus didn't merely make grandiose claims like these. He actually gave sufficient evidence in the form of displays of divine power. He turned water into wine. He healed a young child from afar. He healed a lame man. He created food for 15,000 people or more. He walked on water. He healed the man born blind. And that's just a small handful of signs that John himself tells us. You can read the rest of the Gospels for many more signs. And it's not just that he does these works. It's also that he does these works in the Father's name. Did you see Jesus say that in verse 24? The works that I do in my Father's name bear witness about me. Now this doesn't mean that Jesus would use some kind of formula, like go up to the lame man and say, In the Father's name I heal you, as people will sometimes do today. Using Christ's name. No, what Jesus means is everything he did was to point up to the Father. In other words, Jesus didn't heal to draw attention to himself. He healed to draw attention to his father. In fact, virtually every interaction that Jesus had with the Jews, both pr both privately and publicly, somewhere in that interaction or conversation, he refers to the Father. Just think about this sampling. In chapter 3, verse 16, as Jesus spoke to Nicodemus, he says, For God, the Father, so loved the world that he gave his only Son. When speaking to the Samaritan woman in chapter 4, Jesus says, the hour is coming and is now here when true worshippers will worship the Father in spirit and in truth. In chapter 5, when the Jews are persecuting Jesus because he healed on the Sabbath, he says, My Father is working until now, and I am working And he went on to say, Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of his own accord, but only what he sees the Father doing, for whatever the Father does, that the Son does likewise. In chapter 6, he says to the crowds, all who the Father gives to me will come to me, and I will never cast out whoever comes to me. He says in chapter 8, when you have lifted up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am He, and that I can do nothing of my own authority but speak just as the Father has taught me. And then of course in chapter 10, verse 18, Jesus said, I have authority to lay down my life, and I have authority to take that up again. This charge I have received from my Father. These are just some of the statements that Jesus made showing that his purpose was not to glorify himself and gather people to himself, but rather to glorify God, his Father. So the words Jesus performed and the uh spoke and the works Jesus performed in his Father's name provided ample An irrefutable testimony of his identity as the Christ, the divine Messiah sent by the Father to give eternal life. But he says, both in verse 25 and 26, you do not believe. Verse 26, you do not believe because you are not among my sheep. Their unbelief cannot ultimately be explained because of ignorance or by their misunderstanding or their confusion or even their willful rejection. The most fundamental explanation for their unbelief is that they do not belong to his flock. In other words, he has not purchased them, therefore, he does not own them, therefore, he has not trained them to hear and know and follow his voice. Anyone who is not among his sheep remains in their natural condition of hostility against God. They are, in the words of Colossians 1. 21, hostile to God and alienated from him. They are, in the words of Ephesians 2. 1, dead in their trespasses and sins. Earlier in Colossians, they are citizens of the kingdom of darkness. They have no taste for heaven's joy, no ear for God's word, no eye for God's glory. Now their will is free to express itself in the realm of darkness. They're free to eat the things that delight their corrupt soul. They are free to listen to the voices that tickle their ears. They are free to see beauty and distortion. Within the bounds of their natural condition, they are free to roam. And effectively do whatever they actually want. But just as pigs can't fly and birds can't live in the sea, neither can a person in their natural condition desire, delight in, believe. and glorify God. Now somebody might ask, where is the hand of God in that? And in the words of Romans 1, it is in giving them up over to their sin. Now, in bearing measure, God in his grace. restrains us, those who are lost in their sin from being as evil as they possibly could But he effectively lets them go and says, you wanna you wanna live that way? You can live that way This is the condition of all people who do not belong to Jesus Christ. This is why they do not and they will not believe. No matter how many words of Christ they hear, no matter how many works of Christ they observe, there is no evidence, there is no logic that will change a person's mind and cause them to believe. This is the divine hand behind unbelief. The only way, then, for a person to believe is for the divine hand to bring that about. That's what Jesus says next. Look at verse 27. This is the divine hand behind belief. He says, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. Though this is about two months later, Jesus effectively repeats a summary of sorts of what he has said in verses 1 to 18 of chapter 10 here. He doesn't use the word belief in this verse, but that's precisely what he means when he says that he should hear his voice and follow him. And by saying that the sheep hear his voice and follow him, Jesus affirms the responsibility that we have to respond and the inevitability that we will respond to what we hear. You know, when scripture gives us accounts of the gospel being proclaimed, like in the book of Acts. It usually just tells us the facts. The gospel was proclaimed. There were those who rejected, there were those who believed. But there are some times where we are given insight into what What is going on behind the scenes that causes one person to reject and one person to believe? And of course we have here Jesus saying that what causes those to reject is the fact that they are not of his sheep. On a positive end, Acts 13. 48 gives us some background insight when Paul and Barnabas shift from preaching to the Jews to preaching to the Gentiles, explaining that salvation is possible for them. It says, when the Gentiles heard this, they began rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord, and as many as were appointed to eternal life believed. Or in Acts 11, Peter tells the church in Jerusalem about what had happened with Cornelius and his family, how they believed and were repented and received the Holy Spirit. It says the church glorified God, saying, Then to the Gentiles, God has granted repentance that leads to life. Now to believe and repent means to change your mind about God and His Son Jesus Christ, and now to believe that He is the Lord who gave His life for sinners. It is to change your mind about yourself and believe that in fact you are a sinner deserving of the wrath of God. It is to change your mind and believe that you cannot save yourself, but only Christ can save you. It is to change your mind about life and believe that living for Christ is not only the right way to live, but it's the best way to live. And you know that repentance and belief is genuine when you follow Christ and live out this new frame of mind. That's what Jesus' sheep do. They hear his voice and they follow him because he has trained them to hear his voice. So then the question becomes, how do you get to the position of being one of his sheep to begin with? Well, in seeking to preserve Some definition of human freedom, some would say that in eternity past God looked down the corridors of time and he saw who would believe, and on that basis he chose them and made them his own. So the answer there would be that we become his sheep by God knowing in advance that we would choose him, therefore he makes us his own, and now in space and time we're just manifesting what God knew. in advance. Now, while that might seem to make sense on the surface, when you think about it, it uh it assumes that a person who is born hostile to God is somehow able to change their disposition and desire God. And so, recognizing that problem, some would say that God has extended a measure of grace to all people, lifting them out of their Abject hostility making it possible for them to believe. Or, if you will, taking all people from a condition of complete deadness to partial deadness. The problem is that explanation subverts really the teaching of Scripture as to the nature of humanity under the curse. If all people are given sufficient grace to believe, to be able to believe, then Paul was wrong to write. That no one seeks after God. He was wrong to write that we are hostile in mind. And he was wrong to write that apart from the Spirit of God we cannot understand the things of God. No, what the Bible actually says is that we are born under the curse and naturally hostile to God and we remain in that state. unless and until God changes us at the core of our being. And that's exactly how he describes what he does For those whom he has chosen before the foundation of the world, as it says in Ephesians 1:4, Christ was pierced for their transgressions. He was crushed for their iniquities. And our iniquity has been laid on him, Isaiah 55, or rather 53, 5 and 6. And then according to his preter predetermined time in our life, his spirit causes us to be born again. As it says in John 3. 5. This means that he regenerates us by giving us a new heart and a new spirit, as it's promised in Ezekiel 36 And with that new life whereby we have the ability to see and hear and understand, we believe and we repent. So he forgives us of our sin and adopts us into his family and grants us eternal life, which is an eternal and everlasting relationship with him. And so now, as citizens of heaven and children of God, we live by the power of His Spirit, and we put our hope in His promises, and we aim to glorify God in all things. That's how the scripture describes what God does. And the reason people, so many people disagree and debate about these things is because they They think of salvation in the very narrow terms of that moment of decision. But the scripture describes salvation as being given life. In other words, Jesus didn't come to make converts. He came to give life. He didn't come to get votes He came to capture people who were enslaved to the darkness and bring them into his kingdom of light. Or in modern terms, he didn't come to get a whole bunch of likes. He came to redeem a people for himself. Jesus says in John 6, No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. He said, all that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never cast out. Jesus' sheep hear and follow him. Notice also that Jesus says there in verse 27, and I know them. We would almost expect Jesus to say, my sheep hear my voice and they know me. That would certainly be consistent with what he said earlier in the chapter. But here he's making a different point. He's explaining why it is that some believe and some don't. And the issue is not that his sheep know him, but that he knows his sheep, and because he knows that they are his sheep, he will ensure that they come to him So the divine hand behind unbelief ensures that those whom the Father has chosen for his Son are redeemed by His Son, and when His Spirit causes that person to be born again And they believe in the Sun, the Sun welcomes them. Now that brings us to the divine hand behind perseverance. The divine hand behind perseverance. Look at the first part of verse 28. Jesus says, I give them eternal life, and they will never perish. In a remarkable economy of words, Jesus here asserts that what endures to those, or rather What ensures that those who believe him and keep believing him is his divine hand. You see, it's not uncommon for people to think about salvation something like this. Salvation is Jesus knocking on the door of your life. And you go and open the door and you have a decision to make. Do I accept this gift that he's offering to me? And if you decide to accept that gift, you have a second decision to make. What influence do I want Jesus to have in my life? Some could some say that you can decide to accept the gift, but just leave Jesus out in the cold. Some say, well, you can invite Jesus into your house, just don't give him the keys, or you don't have to give him the keys. And because these are transactions that you have complete control over, some say that you can decide how much influence you want him to have. over your life. And if you change your mind, you can always kick him out and throw that gift back after him. Though there are those who would say, no, once you accept the gift, it is non-returnable, whether you want it or not. Well so much discussion and debate and teaching about salvation treats it like this transition oh or rather transaction over which we have complete But again, that does not reflect the way the Bible talks about salvation, especially what Jesus says here. Notice the first statement there: I give them eternal life. Eternal life is something that Jesus gives. The present tense verb implies that this is not just a one-time momentary gift like it's some inoculation shot against death that you get once for the rest of your life. No, it is a gift that Jesus continues to give. It's more like an IV that continually flows with life. And this is seen not only in the grammar of the word, but in the gift itself. It is eternal life. Life that is eternal is by definition not going to come to an end. If salvation is receiving eternal life, do not those very words mean that they cannot be lost? And especially when you consider what eternal life actually is, namely a relationship with God. Jesus says in John 17, 3, defining eternal life this way, he says, this is eternal life, that they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. In other words, when Jesus says, I give them eternal life, he means that he establishes a relationship between a person and the eternal God. And as he has just said, that relationship is reciprocal. Not only do we know him, but more importantly, he knows us. Do you know what the most devastating words that a professing Christian may hear when they see Christ face to face? Jesus offers this warning in Matthew 7, 22 to 23. On that day many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and cast out demons in your name and do many mighty works in your name? And then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. Those who are truly saved not only know the Son of God, but Jesus knows them. Can that be undone? Can that relationship be broken? Well, according to Jesus, it can't because Hebrews 13, 6 reminds us of the promise that Jesus makes to his people. I will never leave you or forsake you. And it's for this reason that the next statement Jesus makes here in verse 27 is true. Or rather, verse 28: I give them eternal life, and they will never perish. To perish here doesn't mean to die physically. It means to be cut off from the life of God. Jesus says in John 11, 25 and 26, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live. And everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. In other words, once you are reconciled to the offer and the giver of life, his life cannot be taken from you. We were born dead in sin, which means we were cut off from the life of God. But once redeemed from sin and given the life of God, that life cannot be lost. It is a life that persists because once God makes you his own, he will never let you go. And that brings us to the fourth point that Jesus makes here, the divine hand behind security. Look at the end of verse 28 and to 29. And no one, he says, will snatch them out of my hand. My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. Not only does Jesus give eternal life, and the nature of that life is that it does not perish, but what further secures that life is being doubly held fast by the divine hand. Jesus says, no one will snatch them out of my hand. We are held, as it were, in the grip of Christ. In the face of strong adversaries and hostile enemies and tossing storms and in an unstable world Those to whom Jesus gives life, he keeps protected against all that would steal or overcome or subvert or destroy the life that he has given. Those who belong to Jesus are in his grip, and his hands are infinitely and eternally powerful. There is no one and nothing that can weaken his grip and rip us out That's why Paul writes in Romans chapter 8, those beloved words, Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword As it is written, For your sake we are being cut killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death nor life nor angels nor rulers nor things present nor things to come nor powers nor height nor depth nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus. Well, not only is there nothing that can separate us from the love of Christ, but Jesus Himself will not throw us out. Again, John chapter 6, verse 37, Jesus says, All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me, I will never cast out. And not only is our security ensured by the persevering and keeping power of Christ It is further ensured by the power of the Father. Notice again, verse 29. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. When he says no one is able To snatch them out of the Father's hand, what he means is no one has the ability, no one has the power, the strength, the cunning, the wisdom, the spirit. strategy or any other capacity to outwit or outmaneuver or out overpower God. Why? Because he is greater than all. Period. Full stuff. Paul says in 1 Corinthians 1. 25, the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. If God could be said to have a vulnerability or a deficiency or a weakness of any kind Even that would be greater than the collective wisdom and strength of men and of angels. No person, no devil, no group, or all people put together can overcome God any more than a worm can overcome a fisherman or even a whole bucket of worms. If the mass of humanity from the beginning to the end of time were to come together and unite to try to snatch you out of the Father's hand? As one church and said, he can just wink them all to hell. Well, not only are we held fast by the hand of Christ and doubly held fast by the hand of the Father, but we are also kept secure from the possibility that either one of them will change their mind and go against the other. Notice verse thirty. My father, or I and my father, are one. Now there's a lot we could say about this, but this is to say that they are united. They are two persons, but one in essence. They share the same divine nature, which means that they have the same divine will, the same divine purpose, the same divine goal. The Father and the Son cannot change their minds on whether to hold you fast. Eternal life is an everlasting relationship established by God on the basis of the finished work of Christ and sealed by the work of the Spirit. Beloved, we think too highly of ourselves if we think that we have some control over eternal life. Salvation is not in our hands to gain and lose and gain and lose again. Salvation, Scripture says, belongs to the Lord. It's in his hands. Salvation is a whole new life given by Christ. It is to be forgiven that infinite debt that stood between us. It is to be adopted into his family and made one with him It is to be made citizens of his kingdom. It is to be indwelled by his very spirit, who ministers to us and transforms us. And these things cannot be undone. And so, beloved, if you have heard and followed Christ, know for certain that your security is not dependent on you. Your arms are far too weak to keep yourself in Christ. But as Psalm 89, 13 says, the Lord has a mighty arm He has a strong hand, a hand that is beyond the reach of all creation. And if he can uphold the universe by the word of his power, He can keep you in his hands. Let's pray. As we pray, the men can come serve Father, we thank you for this reminder. Jesus, we thank you for these words that you have given to us. They humble us, and yet when we understand them rightly, they strengthen us and encourage us and give us confidence not in ourselves but in you. Or may it be true that if there are any in this room who have not heard the voice of Christ and followed him, that you would do what only you can do, that you would give them new ears to hear. He would cause them to know the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ, that through him they can find forgiveness of sins and eternal life. And for all of us, would your spirit remind us in our time of need and every day, even when we don't think we need it, of these glorious truths? And even now, as we celebrate the Lord's Supper as a reminder of the work of Christ, which accomplished our salvation. May you work in us and cause us to worship you. In Christ's name I pray. Amen.