Well I gotta tell you right now it just feels like Christmas evening already. Those carols we sung in nighttime, looking outside, look how dark it is out there. It is just so dark And this is ten fifteen in the morning. In eight days, December twenty first, here in the north at least We reach the darkest period of the year. And that's not my favorite time of the year by any means. The winter solstice. I enjoy the sun. I enjoy the light. I like laying out in it. I like walking in it. I like looking at it. I look forward to the days getting longer again, December 22nd and building back up again until we get till June But you know, as long as it is dark, we might as well hang up some lights. Light some candles and make things brighter, right? And that's what many people do this time of the year. They put out lights to express their faith in the light that came into the world. Our family did that the other day out in the front yard hanging up a few white lights in the front. We can look at it through our Dining room in the evening when it gets dark we light a little candle in there and we look through the window and see the lights outside and a little wreath we have that goes twinkle twinkle and all the little lights are nice. They're beautiful I don't know if you ever get out and just drive around some of the neighborhoods to look at some of the lights that are beautiful. I really like the blue and purple ones when they're mixed together with some white lights, but I've seen some red and green, the seasonal colors that look gorgeous too. And it's just as a reminder, as a way of telling ourselves the light of the world is still shining. He's still here, he's still shining. We tell our neighbors that as well. Spiritual light has come down from heaven. Spiritual light has come here to this dark planet, a planet filled with sin and ignorance of the things of God. You ever thought about that, that God made every single one of us, and most people don't know God. They don't know who He is. They don't have a relationship with Him, and darkness permeates. Our morals seem to be getting darker and darker. People's understanding of truth seems to just be washing away and all around us in our culture, in our country. This area of the country, maybe in particular, it just seems that people have lost sight of what is true and where the light really is. Why did spiritual light have to come down from heaven? Because it was dark. We needed truth. We needed to know God. We needed to know what was right and what was wrong. You can't see the pathway of salvation unless the light is there shining on it. Otherwise you're stumbling around and you don't really know which path to go. Many people think all the paths lead to the same place because they're in the darkness. They can't see. They don't know any better at all. Israel was often in darkness. The tragedy of spiritual darkness, I think, is revealed in Isaiah 59, verse 9, where it says Therefore, justice is far from us, and righteousness does not overtake us. We hope for light. But behold darkness. For brightness, but we walk in gloom. That seems how it is sometimes here. We come and we hope for light and it just seems that all around us is so incredibly gloomy. That's why we need the light. The eternal life that came down out of heaven is the light. That life shines in the dark world, and that life is the light. I want you to join me again as we read about this light of life in John's prologue, the Gospel of John. And we'll pick up where we left off last time We left with that thought that the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not, I think it's better translated, overcome it, could not have victory over it The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not overcome it. That's verse 5 of chapter 1. We're going to read verses 6 through 11 this morning. Follow with me then as I read God's word. There came a man sent from God whose name was John. He came as a witness to testify about the light, so that all might believe through him. He was not the light, but he came to testify about the light. There was the true light, which coming into the world enlightens every man. He was in the world, and the world was made through him. And the world did not know him. He came to his own, and those who were his own did not receive him. And then next week we'll get to these words. But as many as received him, to them he gave the right to become children of God, even to those who believe in his name, who were born not of blood. nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but born of God. Today we're going to look at verses six through eleven And how light has indeed invaded this dark world, and for that we are thankful we are better for the light that it has come. In James chapter 1 and verse 17, it says, Every good thing given and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights. Isn't that wonderful? God is a father of lights and he has so much blessing to give and every good thing in our lives comes from him He goes on to say that with God there is no variation or shifting shadow. In his nature, he never changes, so the good things that he was willing to pour out before, he continues to do so now. Yet incredibly, though God gives light, and he himself is light, as we read in 1 John 1, he's light, and in him there's no darkness at all. People love the darkness rather than the light. That's an amazing thought, isn't it? Maybe we're so used to it being down here, we know how it is But that really is the truth. People love and enjoy and bask in the darkness rather than the light that God wants to give them. Why do they love the darkness? Why is it that they're attracted to the darkness? Because their deeds are what? Evil. They practice what is wrong. They're selfish. Right? Selfish? They're vain about their good looks, and so everything comes back to them and it builds up their pride. They're greedy about getting more possessions for themselves. They may give, but they give to get because they're greedy. Foul things come out of their mouths as pour out of their mouths. The humor, the cuss words, the way they look at life, the way they talk about their family, it's just wickedness that pours out of their mouth. They're envious of others who have more than them. They're jealous that they can't have what they have. It's darkness. They become contentious. They fight for what they want. They become divisive. Children become disobedient to parents. They like the praise of men rather than doing the will of God. They're lovers of things that please themselves and their own bodily appetites Rather than lovers of God. They're filled with images of their future in self-glory rather than in giving glory to the Lord Jesus Christ. That is darkness. It's spiritual darkness, and it's everywhere. And that's what Christ came to shine a light upon. They don't want the light of Jesus Christ, because when the light of Jesus Christ shines on them, they don't have excuses. They can only hate the light or try to scurry out of the light. They're not in favor of turning on the light They have shameful activity. Mostly light is rejected in this world, but A credible and sustained witness toward the light still needs to be maintained for the world is still dark. And that's where you and I come in We are in a dark world, but rather than mourning the fact that we're in a dark world, we can still shine a light. And that's what I want to exhort you with today as we look at the example of John the Baptist and what the Lord Jesus did as he was coming in as we continue our study of the prologue. I want to just exhort you that though things are dark, don't despair. Don't turn out the light, keep shining the light, for that is our role. That is our duty. were sons and daughters of the light. There are two actions that are described in this passage. One is by John the Baptist, we'll call this the witness to the light. That's in verses 6 through 8. Did you see that? He gave a witness, a testimony to the light. The second action is the shining of the light itself, and that's in verses 9 through 11. So we want to look at these two actions and learn from them. First the witness to the light by John. Look again at verses six through eight. It says very simply, there came a man sent from God whose name was John. This is a little bit startling because it's been so eloquent to read the first five verses about the Word who was with God and was God and He is the light that shines the light and the light shines in the darkness. And all of a sudden we start talking about this man named John. There came a man. There came a man, came to be, he was not always there. He came to be, and he was a man, and he was sent from God, and his name was John. Now John's not writing about himself. This is not John the Apostle here John's not saying, let me tell you a little something about myself. He's talking about another John, John who? John the Baptist. You know that. The Apostle John, who's the author of this fourth gospel, really didn't even like referring to himself. You never find his name anywhere in the fourth gospel. He's humble about it. Whenever he refers to himself, it's something like in John 13, 23, where he says, There was reclining on Jesus' bosom one of his disciples whom Jesus loved. And he gives all the credit to Jesus' love and he barely even mentions himself And so this theme of this disciple whom Jesus loved comes up over and over again to give glory to Christ, and he won't even mention his own name. So when he writes about a man named John, he's writing about another John, John the Baptist John the Baptist is going to be discussed in greater detail when we get all the way down to verse 19, which is the very first verse beyond the introduction, beyond the prologue. But I just want to say a few truths about him that will help us understand his witness better. He was given his name. His parents were not allowed to choose it. God gave it through the angel Gabriel. His name was John. John was a common Jewish name. It means Yahweh is gracious. The Lord is gracious. So it was clear that God was intending to be gracious to his beloved nation through this prophet named John. John was born of a priestly line, but his role would primarily be that of a proclaimer of truth a true prophet of God. They had not seen a prophet in Israel for four hundred years. That's four centuries, and all of a sudden John the Baptist or the baptizer, for that is what he did, appeared on the scene and everyone was enthralled with him. And they came out to the Jordan River where he was walking back and forth, often in the wilderness out there, proclaiming repentance to the nation. Turn back from your sins, the Lord is coming, make ready a way for the Lord, make ready a highway for him. And people were confronted with the message of God by this prophet once again. This was his assignment. And for his assignment, he had to be given unique power. And so from the womb, he was filled with the Holy Spirit. He had such a special role of announcing the arrival of the King of Israel, the Messiah, that God made sure he didn't blow it. He filled them with the Holy Spirit when he was still inside his mother's womb. One of the testimonies of that was when Mary came into the presence of the of John the Baptist's mother Elizabeth, the baby inside him did what? Leapt with joy, and he was full of the Holy Spirit there. He also lived a very distinct life from the Gospel of Luke. chapter one and verse eighty we learn that John grew in spirit and and in might living out in the desert eating locusts and things like that and he was a sturdy and a a tough and a rugged man. He lived in rugged conditions. He was strong in spirit and strong in body. And John's ministry was a one-of-a-kind ministry. No one would ever have this exact ministry. It was uniquely given to him. And right here in the Gospel of John, just as we read in the Synoptic Gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, the beginning of the whole public testimony about Jesus Christ begins not with Jesus, but with this man named John. All four of the gospels are clear about this. When a public testimony about the arrival of the Messiah came, it always began with this man, John. Matthew 3 verse 1 records, In those days John the Baptist came. He arrived on the scene. His coming announces the launching of his public ministry, and his public ministry, and it was quite public. He resounded not only through all the nation of Israel but the surrounding nations. He was uh amazingly popular. He shook the entire nation with his preaching But his entire ministry was just simply there to bear witness to the arrival of another person who would come after him, but who existed before him, and that was Jesus Christ. And John was so humble about this. And he baptized people who were willing to repent of sins. The baptism in the water was a way of showing that the sins were washed away and they were preparing their heart, they were being born again, being ready for the Messiah. And so John the Baptist, Matthew says, came preaching. He was a preacher. He was a preacher out in the wilderness. He didn't have a pulpit like this. He made his pulpit out there in the wilderness and he preached. And there was no one there, and the people had to come there to hear him preach. Keruso is the word that's used in Matthew. He heralded the truth. He gave a vigorous proclamation of a message that was given to him to herald the arrival of a king, shouting back and forth, the king is coming. So repent and get ready for him. He was an announcer. He was saying that the light has come. So John was sent on a mission. John was not God. John was not with God in the beginning. John was not the creator of all things. John did not cause all things to come into being. John was not the life that brought light into the world. It was just a man. But he was sent by God to do his role. He was commissioned. And he was commissioned in much the same way that Old Testament prophets like Moses were as well. And yet his was even more special, for he was announcing the arrival of the God-man. Please notice in verse 7 it says, He came as a witness to testify about the light. He came as a witness to testify about the light so that all might believe through him. This is courtroom terminology. Like he's sitting in a courtroom and he's giving his testimony, his witnessing, and other people are to listen carefully to what he is saying, and then they're to come to the point where they believe his testimony and accept what he says about the arrival of the king. His role, his ministry was to be a witness. He was going to talk about what he was told and what he was sent to do and what was about to arrive. Quickly just glance down at verse 15, if you would. It says there that John testified about him, Jesus Christ, and cried out saying This was he of whom I said, he who comes after me has a higher rank than I, for he existed before me. That's his testimony. I'm here, but someone's coming right after me and existed before me and he's greater than me. That's my testimony, John said. So he told everybody about Jesus Here's the light. Now usually that's kind of interesting. Usually you don't have to tell people where a light is. I mean if this was a dark room, we turned all the lights off and all of a sudden the light came on. We wouldn't have to say, oh look, there's a light. Everybody but see the light Unless they were what? Blind. This shows why would John even have to come in and point to the light, because the people wouldn't recognize And God knew that and sent this forerunner to try to prepare them. They were blind. John had to testify: here's the light. They weren't just in darkness, they were in darkness and they were blind. And what was John's purpose for bearing his testimony? Why did he give his witness? What was he trying to accomplish? Well, it's right there at the end of verse 7, isn't it? So that all might what? believe. That was his goal. I mean he wasn't just exercising uh uh preaching skill he wasn't doing an intellectual exercise he wasn't trying to gather a little school out there in the wilderness You know, have them join him eating locusts and graduate with a certificate or something like that? No, I said, I want to preach to everybody and I want everybody who hears me to believe. To believe Of course, the word that he most often used was repent, and that's a synonym to turn away from sin and back to the truth and believe the truth. Let your faith rest in the truth. It does not say that all would believe. Do you see that? It does not say that all did believe, but it does say what John's objective and bearing his testimony was that all would believe. Remember that is the very purpose of the Apostle John even writing the gospel. Do you remember that from our introduction, chapter 20, verse 31? He says, I've written these things so that you might Believe that Jesus is the Son of God, the Christ, the Son of God, and believing you might have life in his name. So the John the Apostle Who wants us to believe in Jesus Christ is using the testimony of John the Baptist in order to help us believe Believe is the word testuo in Greek. We're going to see it some 100 times in the Gospel of John. It's one of the most important words in all of the Gospel. It is the very point of all the testimony about Jesus Christ that people would believe. If you're sitting there and you're wondering what is the response I'm supposed to have to the things that are proclaimed in the Gospel of John, it's really quite simple. Here's what you're supposed to do: you're supposed to believe. You're supposed to believe it all and believe it with a full heart. That's what God wants you to do. God wants you to believe. God wants you to trust him. Accept all that he says. Put your reliance upon him. Believe fully in Jesus Christ. You know, true belief, as John will show in this gospel, moves beyond an intellectual agreement or an intellectual assent to certain truths Many times people might say certain facts and folks that are sitting and listening to professors might say those facts, that sounds true. I think I believe those facts, but that's not the kind of belief that John is talking about This goes beyond acknowledging that certain facts are true about Christ. This is a personal kind of believing. This is a believing where you rest in Christ, where you have a reliance on what God has said. You personally come to trust Him. That's the kind of belief he talks about. In fact, this belief must result in obedience. John 3. 36. Just turn ahead to that verse, because I think that's important to understand belief John chapter 3 and verse 36 so succinctly states: He who believes in the Son has eternal life, but he who does not obey the Son will not see life But the wrath of God remains or abides on him. You see, what's the opposite of a failing to believe? It's disobeying. It's disobeying. If they believe, then that's obedience. If they disbelieve, then that's disobedient. Faith is more than agreeing. You must personally choose to trust in Jesus as the Son of God, the Savior. And that's why John the Baptist was testifying about the light. Beloved, that is what you and I are here to do. It doesn't matter what your occupation is, your role is to bear a light's testimony to those who are in darkness around you. Sometimes it can be so discouraging because in times past you have attempted to bear a testimony, to invite people to church, to explain the gospel to them. And you've been rejected and people don't like you and you've been ostracized and you feel you haven't been all that effective, beloved, it's still our old. It's still what we are supposed to do. I've been discouraged at evangelism. I feel like maybe I'm the most rejected one sometimes, people I talk to. I'm like so thankful when I hear someone's listening to one of you. I'm like, praise God But we need to keep each other encouraged. You still have neighbors. You still have co-workers. You still have moms who are on the same Have kids on the same soccer team as your kid. You still have connections in the world. You still go out shopping. You still go to Christmas parties. You still have those connections. Keep them and bear a testimony And don't be discouraged. You're there to preach the light. You don't have to be in a pulpit to preach the light. People will come to believe because you bear a testimony. People came to believe because John bore his testimony. Paul bore a testimony too. He writes about it in Acts 20, verse 24. He said, I do not consider my life of any account as dear to myself. Could you say that? What a statement. What a statement. I don't consider my life of any account as dear to myself. Now that makes someone a good testimony for Jesus, because they're not about themselves or about giving a public witness to Christ And then he said, so that I may finish my course and the ministry which I received from the Lord Jesus to testify solemnly of the gospel of the grace of God. John the Apostle also bore his testimony. We read about it in 1 John chapter 1. The life was manifested, and we have seen and testified, and proclaimed to you the eternal life which was with the Father and was manifested to us. Later in that same letter, he would write this: We have seen and testify that the Father has sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. They saw it It wasn't a matter of pure faith for them. They walked with him and talked with him and touched him, and they bore their actual eyewitness testimony. John's going to continue to employ the terminology of testimony throughout this gospel. In John chapter 4 with the Samaritan woman, it says, From that city, many of the Samaritans believed in Jesus because of the word of A woman who had testified, the woman by the well, the woman who had had five husbands, the woman who would not seem like a very good candidate for giving a testimony, and she doesn't, an entire city comes to believe Say, Pastor, I'm not qualified to give a testimony. She was less qualified. Less. Turn to John 5. I want you to see how important this whole theme of testimony is throughout the whole gospel. Start at verse 31. There's so much in the chapter, but you know how it is. I only have so much time. Verse 31, and we're going to get here anyway. So I can't I can't gripe about it. But look at verse 31 of chapter 5. Jesus was speaking, he said, If I alone testify about myself, my testimony is not true. And if you can't bear testimony of yourself, someone else has to testify for you. That's the way it works. You can't go up and stand in the court and say, you know what, I'm innocent. It doesn't work that way. That'd be easy, wouldn't it? Just come in and say, Well, Judge, just trust me, I'm innocent. I didn't do those things. Everything's fine. He says, If I alone testify about myself, my testimony is not true. There is another who testifies of me, and I know that the testimony which he gives about me is true. You have sent to John See, they sent uh messengers to John to find out what he was saying. And he has testified to the truth. But the testimony which I receive is not from man. But I say these things so that you may be saved. He was, John the Baptist was the lamp that was burning and was shining, and you were willing to rejoice for a while in his light. But the testimony which I have is greater than the testimony of John, for the works which the Father has given me to accomplish, the very works that I do Testify about me that the Father has sent me. All of the miraculous powers that people say are impossible today are in history and time, and people saw it and said, This happened. And those works bear testimony to it. You are to believe because of the power that I brought. And then it says in verse 37, and the Father who sent me, he has testified of me. And you have neither heard his voice at any time nor seen his form, and you do not have his word abiding in you, for you do not believe him whom he sent. In fact, while we're here, let's go to John fifteen, because this continues. John chapter 15 and verse 26, when Jesus is in the upper room and he's talking about leaving and departing, and the apostles they are supposed to engage in witness and testimony as well. And we see there in verse 26, when the helper comes, chapter 15, when the helper comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, that is the Spirit of Truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will what? Testify about me. You say, Pastor, we we didn't get to see Jesus and touch him the way John did. How do we bear a proper testimony? You have the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is working in harmony with our words and the words of Scripture to bring about conviction of sin to people. to bear testimony towards Christ. You've been equipped to be a powerful testimony in this day and age as alive. Use the power of the Spirit. Pray that God will use you. And God will open up the eyes of those who are blind. Jesus told the entire church, not just the apostles, in 1 Peter chapter 2 and verse 9, it's Peter writing, but it's the will of Jesus. You are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God's own possession. What are we going to do with all that? Here it is so that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who has called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Isn't that beautiful? You were in darkness. Bear testimony to others and pray that God's power would be used to bring them out of darkness. Sometimes it takes patience. Don't give up Now I want you to turn back to chapter 1. I want you to notice in verse 8 and chapter 1 it says he was not the light, but came to testify about the light. John seems redundant, doesn't he? If you notice that this is his style, he's done this before. Remember back in verse 2, he had already said that the word was with God, and he decided he wanted to say it a second time. And the Word was with God in the beginning. Why to emphasize it to show that it's important and also to make a transition into the next point he wants to talk about In verse three, he kind of doubled up on himself again. He says, You know, all things came into being by him, and he turns right around and says, Nothing came into being that has come into being except through him. He doesn't want anyone to misunderstand what he's saying, so he repeats what he says. He makes it all clear. That's his style. No misunderstanding him. John was not the light. Oh, he had a little light, Jesus said Lamp. But he wasn't that true light. As great as John the Baptist was as a man, as true as his testimony was, people needed to know then Some were still following John the Baptist by that time, by the way. You meet followers of John the Baptist that never got the message of John the Baptist that he didn't want anyone to follow him on and audio, pointing to someone else. And so John uh towards the end of the first century has to write this out so that People who are still following John the Baptist would understand he was not the light. He came to testify about the light. There was an eternal life that came into the world, and it wasn't John. Just notice John's words down in verse 19, if we can just sneak ahead here for a minute and look. Verse 19, chapter 1. This is the, here it is, testimony of John. When the Jews sent to him priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who are you? And he confessed and did not deny, but confessed, you see the repetitive nature of John here again. I am not the Christ. They asked him, well, what then? Are you Elijah? And he said, I am not. Are you the prophet? And he answered, No. Then they said to him, Who are you, so that we may give an answer to those who send us? What do you say about yourself? And he said, I am a voice of one crying in the wilderness, make straight the way of the Lord as Isaiah the prophet said. Now jump down to verse 32 It says, John testified, saying, I have seen the Spirit, the Holy Spirit, descending as a dove out of heaven, and he remained upon him. That's Christ The Spirit came and landed on Christ and rested on Christ. And he testified about that. Verse thirty-three, I did not recognize him. But he who sent me to baptize in water said to me, He upon whom you see the Spirit descending and remaining upon him, this is the one who baptizes in the Holy Spirit. Verse 34. I myself have seen and have testified that this is the Son of God. Again, the next day John was standing with two of his disciples, and he looked at Jesus as he was walking and said, Behold the Lamb of God. And look at verse 37: what happened? The two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus. They didn't follow John. And John was okay with that. That's what John was there for. Point people to Jesus. He's the light. If that's all that our life accomplishes from the time of our birth to the time of our death, our life mattered for eternity. And let me turn that around so that it's perfectly clear. If you don't ever at least attempt to point people to the Lord Jesus Christ, what are you doing down here? What are you doing? Talk to them, tell them, point, attempt, pray, ask God to use you. Sometimes the ground is hard and the plowing is slow, but it just means we have to work that much harder. John testified publicly about Jesus. John pointed people to Jesus, not to himself. All he considered himself to be was a voice, and that just crying out, and there just in the wilderness. Get ready for the Lord! Do you ever think the Lord Jesus may be coming back a second time in our generation and this parallel to John the Baptist is uh quite close to us? Just like in those days, hundreds of years went by. People were like, yeah, I guess the Messiah is going to come someday. They're kind of tired of all that prophetic stuff, and all of a sudden John arrives and says, He's coming. Some must have gone, yeah, yeah. People are tired of hearing about the second coming of Jesus Christ. It's been 2,000 years. Even try to talk on eschatology sometimes with people like, I've heard that all before. He might be coming in our generation. What are we doing to get people ready for a second coming? We should be pointing people to the light, testifying to the light. It's not good enough to be in general a person of faith. We need to have faith in the true light. Who's the true light? Well let's look on. Come to our second action, the shining of the light in verses 9 through 11. Verse 9, there was the true light, which coming into the world enlightens every man. Now, ladies, don't be disturbed with that. That doesn't mean you're not enlightened. It means every human being. It means he came in to enlighten every human being. It's an interesting statement. We're going to look at that in a minute. But look at that word true first. There was the true light. That's a word that doesn't fit too well in our postmodern culture, does it? This one's the true light. Yeah, yeah, they're all true. That's your truth. That's fine for you. No, no, you kind of missed what I'm saying, so try listening again. He's the true light, that means the others are Well listen, this is a very exclusive state. This just doesn't fit. There's counterfeit, and then there's true. In fact, the word true thanos means real or genuine, authentic, not counterfeit Later, John will use the same word in chapter 4, verse 23. It says that God is seeking after true worshipers. Were you a true worshiper this morning? We are really worshiping God in Christ this morning. The Father is searching for those who genuinely are worshiping him, not just going through the motions or saying words, right? In chapter 6 and verse 32, Jesus would say, I'm the true bread that came down out of heaven. In chapter 15, he would say, I am the true vine, and my father is a vine dresser. Others are going to claim to be true, of course I mean we should be used to false claims, right? We all have television sets. We all listen to commercials. We hear lies all the time. Exaggerations. This is this is the way the world is. Most claims aren't true. It's the same thing in the religious and spiritual realm. Many will claim to be the truth. They're not the truth. If they're not Jesus, they're counterfeit, because he's the one. He's the true light. And notice that the true light is coming into the world. That demonstrates again Jesus' pre-existence that we've seen before. He existed before his birth. Remember, he was in the beginning with God, and then he came into the world. Coming into the world is used in John's Gospel to refer to Jesus Christ. Later in John's Gospel, chapter 6, verse 14, it will say, Therefore when the people saw the sign which he had performed, they said, This is truly the prophet who is to come into the world. They knew there was someone that was to arrive, and they concluded, seeing the miracles, this is the one. He's coming into the world, referring to Jesus. In that upper room discourse in John 16, verse 28, Jesus said, I came forth from the Father and have come into the world, and I am leaving the world again and going to the Father. So this is talking about Jesus. He's the true light that's coming into the world. The world, this is the first time John has used this in his gospel. The term is cosmos in Greek. Like life and light, it will also be a key term throughout the gospel. Cosmos, world, usually refers to the world of human beings living down here on this planet. Often, though, it refers to their sinful character in their opposition to God. He comes into the world and he enlightens every man. Well, there's two interpretive questions we need to ask and answer here. The first question is When did the light come into the world? Does it refer to the light of creation that Christ shone from the very beginning in general revelation? Or does it refer to his incarnation coming into the world and was made flesh. Maybe it could be both in one sense because they both fit the context. The coming into the world shows the incarnation is in view. The incarnation is not explicitly mentioned until verse 14, but that terminology, coming into the world, refers to the incarnation when God became man, when the light came into the world. But the verb enlightens is in the present tense here, and it also fits backward with the shining that's in the present tense in verse five, and that's connected to the word and creation that brought life and light. So it could be that both creation and the incarnation are in view. Christ incarnate has indeed come into the world, and he is the fullest and brightest light of God, the fullest revelation of God But he was already shining even before he came into the world with a lesser light, the light of creation, natural revelation. It's mentioned in passages such as Romans chapter 1. The second question might be more important to understand this, and that is what kind of an enlightenment is John referring to here by Jesus? The term enlightened could be taken in two senses. It could be taken as an inner light so that people on the inside of themselves would have understanding. Or it could mean an external light, that is the light would shine upon them from the outside, even if they never came to understand the light or receive the light. I believe it is that second sense that is better and fits the word better. The word in Greek is photizo, and it means its primary lexical meaning is to shine light upon someone. That's a light nut from the inside. So Tizo means to shine upon or to brighten or to illuminate. He comes in, and wherever he comes, he shines a light, and it shines upon all men. Like a searchlight that comes into a darkened area at night and a bright searchlight shines and then lightens everyone up. Inner illumination is not in view here at all. It's not talking about inner illumination from general revelation. It's not talking about inner illumination that would come to believers in receiving special revelation from God. It certainly is not referring as many have taken it to the light of human reason or to philosophy that guides everybody Some have really misused this statement to say that all men get enlightened through reason, and even some say all get enlightened and therefore get saved. That is not at all what he means Others have misused this, such as the Quakers, to talk about an inner light that they are to follow rather than the light of the scriptures. That's not at all what is in view. Dr. D. A. Carson, I think, explains it well. He writes, it is the objective revelation, the light that comes into the world with the incarnation of the word the invasion of the true light. It shines on every man and divides the race. Those who hate the light respond as the world does Verse 10. They flee lest their deeds should be exposed by this light. Chapter 3, verses 19 and 21. But some receive the revelation, verses 12 and 13 And thereby testify that their deeds have been done through God. Chapter 3, verse 21. In John's Gospel, it is repeatedly the case that the light shines on all and forces a distinction. Chapter 8, verse 12. This light shines upon every man, whether he sees it or not. Everyone is not enlightened, but everyone has the light shined down upon them. And that's what it means. Please notice in verse 12 here, the word cosmos again. It's used three times. It says he was in the world. He, the light, Jesus, the word, he was in the world. That's the first indication That he is indeed the light of the world. He was in the world. This is a past tense verb. It refers to his light being in the world through creation, and then later through the prophets, when he spoke his light And then it says the world was made through him. That's an echo of verse three. The same preposition is used back in verse three. The world was made Through Dia, through nothing came into being except through what God created through the Son. The whole creation was made through the Word of God, the second person of the Trinity. And then here's the sad part. He was in the world. The world was made through him, but the world did not know him. Really, that's startling. Paul says, none of the rulers of this age had understood Christ, for if they had understood him, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. How could they possibly understand who he was if they crucified him? They were not in close relationship to him. They didn't know him. He was a stranger to them. There's so much tragedy and even irony in this statement. He is in it, the world, and he's the one who made the world, and the world doesn't know him. You know, it's startling, but it's a truth that you and I live every single day, is it not? We all the time bump into people who are living beings but don't have any idea who made them. We mentioned last time that people should believe in Jesus Christ, not because he's an option among many people. He's their very maker. He made them. They're supposed to recognize him They're supposed to know when he calls to them and what his word is. Jesus is here. Jesus made them and they don't know him. That's tragic. But the sadness gets worse. Look at verse 11. He came to his own. Who are his own? Yeah, the Jews. John's writing very personally here because he was a Jew. His own as opposed to the whole world, the world of Gentiles, he's talking about his own, the Jews. No world can indicate at times the world of the Gentiles, and he's saying came to his own, these are the Jews Throughout the Old Testament, the Israelites are called God's people, they're his very own. 1 Kings 6:13: I will dwell among the sons of Israel and will not forsake my people Israel. Psalm 81, 13. Oh, that my people would listen to me, that Israel would walk in my ways. Isaiah 1:3, an ox knows its owner, and a donkey, its master's manger, but Israel does not know, my people do not understand. And then in Matthew 2, 6, you, Bethlehem, land of Judah, are by no means least among the leaders of Judah, for out of you shall come forth a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel. They were God's people. They were Jesus' people. In Matthew 1:21, in the Christmas story, Mary is told, or Joseph is told about Mary, she will bear a son, and you will call his name Jesus, for he will save His people, his people from their sins. His people were the Jews When Jesus described his mission, he said, I was sent only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. He never went to another nation. He went to Jews and he preached to Jews. And sometimes Gentiles came to him and he received them. He came to the Jews. He was born in Bethlehem. He lived in Nazareth. He yearly went up to the temple in Jerusalem. His trade was worked in the land of Israel. He taught in their synagogues Matthew 4:16 says, The people who were sitting in darkness saw a great light, and those who were sitting in the land and shadow of death upon them a light dawned. He was there! He came to Galilee and preached, which is the fulfillment of that prophecy. And they were his very own nation. He bought the nation. And he brought the nation out of Egypt. I love Leon Morris's quote here. He says, with some vivid touches, John highlights the tragedy of the rejection. We might translate the opening words: he came home. It is the exact expression used of the beloved disciple when in response to Jesus' word from the cross he took Mary into his home, John 19, 27. When the word came to this world, he did not come as an alien. He came home. Moreover, he came to Israel. Had he come to some other nation, it would have been bad enough, but Israel was peculiarly God's own people The word did not go where he could not have expected to be known. He came home where the people should have known him. But what did they do? It says, and those who were his own did not receive him. Receive. That's actually stronger than we see. Paralambano means to take into relationship, to have open arms and to embrace. It's used of Joseph receiving Mary as his wife in Matthew 1. 20 and verse 24. He took her. And it often is translated, take. They didn't take in Jesus. They didn't receive him. They didn't embrace him. They disowned him. They stiff-armed him. They didn't grasp him and take him. They let him go. They didn't know him. They didn't know him. Verse 10. They didn't receive him. Verse eleven. The great light of everlasting life who was with the Father. And was God himself, came down into the world to his very own people whom he loved, and he was utterly rejected. Rejected. He was not embraced. He was hated Oh, rejection will be such an important theme in the Gospel of John too. It's so wonderful each of these themes gets raised in the prologue and introduces us to all the content that is to come. And not only, of course, in the Gospel of John, but in all four Gospels, Jesus' rejection is chronicled over and over. He will say himself in chapter 6, verse 36: I said to you that you have seen me And yet do not believe. We wonder why people don't believe when we go out and share Bible verses and tell them about Jesus. They saw him. They saw him. He stood in front of them. And they didn't believe. And he even told them that: You have seen me, I do not believe. The one who believes in the Son of God has the testimony in himself. The one who does not believe God has made him a liar because he has not believed in the testimony that God has given concerning his son. 1 John 5. 10. Rejection. In chapter 9, he's going to heal a blind man, and the leaders are going to reject him for healing a blind man. In chapter 11, he's going to raise Lazarus from the dead, and they're going to go out and try to figure out how they can kill him. In chapter 12, he's going to enter Jerusalem humbly on a donkey, and a voice is going to come out of the heavens that is God Almighty speaking to the to the city of Jerusalem like thunder from heaven, and they still reject it. And the rejections of builds and builds and builds throughout the gospel to when you get to chapter 18 Pilate doesn't want to reject him. He says, behold, I am bringing him out to you so that you may know that I find no guilt in him. Jesus then came out wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe, and Pilate said to him, Behold the man. So when the chief priests and the officers saw him, they cried out, saying, Crucify, crucify! Pilate said to him, Take him yourself and crucify him, for I find no guilt in him. And the Jews, the Jews, the Jews answered him, We have a law, and by that law he ought to die. Because he made himself out to be the Son of God. Utter rejection. Do you see the irony in that? They have been waiting for centuries for their king to come. And he's there. And he's arrived. And he's demonstrated power. And they utterly despise him. Give to us Barabbas, a murderer, instead. Imagine the red carpets of Hollywood all being rolled out for some superstar to arrive. It's the big night. For hours they've lined the streets. The crowd is massive, the cameras are all poised, the atmosphere is excited And the star arrives, not in one of those long, stretched limos out in the front, but he sneaks in a back door, he comes in in blue jeans, walks into the crowd, comes and stands in the midst of them, and they don't recognize him, and they say, get him out of here And he's the one they were waiting for. Jesus was the long way to deliver and savior, God in human flesh. Prophetic detail told us all about his life and his death and his rejection. He came to the ones who had the very scriptures where he told them what was going to happen He demonstrated a transforming power of his word as he spoke, and people were healed, and demons were cast out, and waves and wind obeyed him. He even raised the dead. He said, I come to establish the long-awaited kingdom. And they threw him out like a bum in the street. Worse than that, a criminal on a cross. Do you remember Isaiah 53? Because it was all predicted. Who has believed our message? Isaiah writes, and to whom has the armor of the Lord been revealed? For he grew up before him like a tender shoot. And like a root out of parched ground, he has no stately form or majesty that we should look upon him, nor appearance that we should be attracted to him. He was despised. And forsaken of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and like one from whom men hide their face, he was despised, and we did not esteem him. The rejection was still part of God's plan. Because with the rejection by the Jews came the salvation for the entire world. His rejection means you're and my salvation. Amazing. God was not confused by this. God didn't go to plan B. He knew what he was doing. Christ was crucified in God's mind before the foundation of the world. And so this rejection is both tragic and triumphant simultaneously. For that is what God does. He turns tragedy into victory. Listen to Jesus' parable from Matthew 21. There was a landowner who planted a vineyard and put a wall around it and dug a winepress in it, and built a tower, and rented it out to vine growers, and went on a journey. When the harvest time approached, he sent his slaves to the vine growers to receive his produce. The vine growers took his slaves and beat one and killed another and stoned a third. Again, he sent another group of slaves larger than the first, and they did the same thing to them. But afterward he sent his son to them, saying, They will respect my son. But when the vine growers saw the sun, they said among themselves, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him and seize this inheritance. They took him and threw him out of the vineyard and killed him. By the way, Jesus was killed outside the city walls. Therefore, when the owner of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those vine growers? They said to Jesus, He will bring those wretches to a wretched end and will rent out the vineyard, the vineyard to other vine growers who will pay him the proceeds at the proper seasons. And then Jesus went on to say, did you never read in the scriptures the stone which the builders rejected, this became the chief what? Cornerstone. His rejection became the foundation of the church. The cornerstone of the whole universal church, as Ephesians 2 says, He is the cornerstone and the author of our faith. You and I are going to receive rejection because we're sons of the light. Kinda have to get used to it. We follow a rejected one. Yes, you'll be victorious in the end, but in the meantime, you will be misunderstood. John writes about that in 1 John 3, verse 1. You're not going to be known, you're not going to be understood. Some Christians try to charm their way into acceptance by worldly people. The only way you can do that is to be worldly. You cannot make unbelievers love you. You cannot make them be attracted to you. It'll take the work of the Spirit of God to do that. But you, if you live for Christ, you're going to be despised. You're going to be spoken against. They're not going to like your light and the way your life lives that shines a light upon them. They're going to want you away from them, and if they can't get you away from them, they're going to curse you. And if cursing isn't enough, they're going to try some other way to persecute you. So make your choice now. Take your stand now. Determine what your life is about. Understand what it means to believe in this light, the true light. You bear testimony for this light, the same thing will happen to you. It's so comforting though, is it not, to know that as you receive rejection, as you are misunderstood by people, as people judge you wrongly, and judge me wrongly? That we have someone who's already been rejected and who can sympathize with our weaknesses. Isn't that true? You can go in your loneliness. Are you lonely? Do you feel rejected? You feel like no one understands you? You can go to one who does. You can pray to him, cultivate your relationship with him. Let these words minister to you. Let them sink deep into your heart. Come to know the one who himself was rejected. Understand how he can minister to your hearts, even if you're lonely in the midst of this Christmas season. Our Lord knows what it means to hurt. And he also hurts on our behalf. And yet he gives us power. And because he gives us power, and because he has given us the Holy Spirit, he still tells us in this dark world. You just continue to shine. So shine. Shine for Christ. Shine brightly for his kingdom. Shine for his glory. Shine for his name. Shine for the sake of those who are in darkness. Don't let anyone cause you to put out your light. Amen. We're going to go to our uh prayer and then we're going to have our new member reception. Pastor Allen will be coming and reading that. Let's just close our eyes and just pray that God will impress these words on our hearts. Our Father and our God, we know that it takes your power to accomplish spiritual work and forgive us whenever we attempt to accomplish great things for you, and we do it only by our own mechanics rather than by the indwelling power of your Spirit. Teach us not to give in to the flesh, but to walk by the Spirit, that your power might be manifest in each one of us individually, in our homes, and in this church collectively. Shine, Lord Jesus, your light through us. In this dark world, Amen