Uh we're up to part thirty-seven of our thirty-nine part series in the book of Hebrews. So we'll be starting into the final chapter of Hebrews, chapter thirteen, we'll be doing the first nine verses. So today we're going to talk about Christian behavior. So we've been talking about mostly doctrine throughout the book of Hebrews, and now uh the writer, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, turns to practical application of what he's been teaching before, and this is going to be about Christian behavior. So we'll talk about brotherly love, we'll talk about sympathy for others, we'll talk about sexual purity, we'll talk about contentment, not covetousness. We'll talk about steadfast faith, we'll talk about doctrinal purity, and we'll talk about grace Not legalism. So the kind of things that should characterize Christian behavior and this is part one because we're gonna do more uh the the author's gonna do more about Christian behavior in the verses that we'll cover next week as well. Uh firstly look back at what we did last time. So last time we had a uh a comparison, contrast between the old covenant and the new covenant as represented by Mount Sinai and Mount Zion. Um and the author goes back for these first century Hebrews, he he he forces them to look back at what it was like at Mount Sinai. And so Exodus nineteen has all the descriptions of what was necessary um before God could give Moses the Ten Commandments, the law. And no one was allowed to go on. the mountain and then the mountain was covered with uh thunder and thick clouds and the sound of trumpet and fire and smoke and violent trembling of the earth. All these things happened at Mount Sinai when the law was given. And and the whole thing uh was designed to show the unapproachableness of God, that a sinful person cannot approach a holy God. That was the whole point uh of all of that. Um uh and so and the and the Jews learned that lesson. And and the lesson continued throughout the history of Israel with the tabernacle. The tabernacle had uh and then the temple uh eventually when it was built in Jerusalem, it had a holy place and it was a holy of holies, and and inside the holy of holies was the the manifestation of the presence of God. And only the priest could go into the holy place and only the high priest could go in the Holy of Holies and only once a year and only under uh he had to do certain things to purify himself to go in there and and so God was unapproachable Holy God, sinful person can approach this holy God. So that was the whole point of that. Um and then uh we talked about the fact that God's law is a mirror that we're supposed to look in and see that we don't know. measure up to God's perfect standard. So uh the law essentially overwhelms us uh and we get this in the Uh the quotes from last week's lesson that the people could not bear the command, and Moses was full of fear and trembling. And so um that sort of thing is w one of the purposes of the law was to show us how far off we are from God's standard of perfection. And um we talked about the example of the Apostle Paul he had he had studied the old testament law his life and but he didn't really understand how far off he was from the God's perfect standard until he had a face-to-face encounter with the risen Christ. And after that he saw who he was, uh as a sinner that uh was hopelessly short of God's Holy standard, and then he wrote about that in Romans chapter 7. And then of course we have uh the new covenant represented by Mount Zion. Um And it's the opposite of Sinai. Um the it's a um i it's it's not a a physical mountain, but it is an approachable mountain. So Sinai symbolizes law, Zion grows, No one can be saved by the law, but anyone can be saved by grace. Uh the law is commandments, judgment, and condemnation. Grace is forgiveness, atonement, and salvation. So this is the contrast between uh the old covenant in Mount Sinai and the new covenant in Mount Zen. Zion. So Zion symbolizes the approachable God. In Christ, we can draw near to this holy God. Radically different and opposite from the unapproachableness. of God but through the law. So um so they're telling her you have come to Mount Zion. You have not come to Sinai so he's talking to this church in the first century, you have not come to that other mountains. uh uh somehow you've come to this mountain, Zion, the heavenly Jerusalem. Um and then there's a list of benefits that we talked about, uh a bunch of things that when you become a Christian you have these blessings, additional blessings. Lessons, the heavenly Jerusalem, the General Assembly, the Church of the Firstborn. Uh you come to God, you can draw near to God, um the spirits of righteous men made perfect, most likely the old uh Testament saints, uh Jesus of course, and sprinkled blood. So then uh at the very end we have um kind of this idea of okay so So what um what do we do with this? We he's explained this difference between the old covenant and new covenant. And so then he gives this kind of warning. Um Don't ignore him who is speaking. Um So the warning there was there were warnings in the Old Testament, um and how much worse will it be for to ignore the warnings in the New Testament that come through his son than the warnings That came in the Old Testament that came through uh human prophets. That's the point that the author is making, both to the first century Jews and to us today. And then we have This uh a couple of quotes from the Old Testament, uh this quote from Haggai um and an explanation of what it means, the shaking, um things that can be shaken uh the the temporary things, the things that can't be shaken, the heavenly things. So there will be things that will be shaken at the second coming of Christ. Uh but those that which cannot be shaken will remain and that is heaven. And that's the the um the inheritance that we have. So um this is an amazing blessing in Christ and we're told that we should show gratitude by which we May offer to God an acceptable service. So out of gratitude for this great salvation that we have, we serve the Lord. And then at the very end it says, for our God is a consuming fire. And so there's there's an additional kind of warning at the very end. And though by the way, our God is a consuming fire. It dovetails in Second Peter chapter three that um the ancient wood was destroyed by flood. and the present world is reserved for destruction by fire. Okay. Any questions about what we did last time before we dive into chapter thirteen? Yes, Daniel. uh um anything about model lines particularly how it kind of represents uh it brings me back to almost like starting at one point one all the bosses Yes, they they very specifically reference Mount Zion in many of those Psalms of Ascent. That's a good point. Excellent point. So So um as with many things that are revealed in detail in the New Testament, there is um indications in the Old Testament of of many or even all of of the things that we learn Uh we learned the complete revelation in the New Testament, but there was revelation of this New Covenant, uh many, many aspects of the New Covenant in the Old Testament scriptures. Good point. All right, let's move on then to uh chapter thirteen so if you open your bibles or tune your devices to Hebrews chapter thirteen And starting with the first verse, we're going to do the first nine verses. Let love of the brethren continue. Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers, for by this some have entertained angels without knowledge. Knowing it. Remember the prisoners as though in prison with them, and those who are ill-treated, since you yourselves also are in the body. Marriage is to be held in honor among all, and the marriage bed is to be undefiled. For fornicators and adulterers, God will judge. Make sure that your character is free from the love of money, being content with So that we confidently say the Lord is my helper, I will not be afraid. What will man do to me? Remember those who led you, who spoke the word of God to you, and considering the result of their conduct imitate their faith. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever. Do not be carried away by varied and strange teachings, for it is good for the heart to be strengthened by grace. not by foods, through which those who were so occupied were not benefited. This is the word of the Lord. So let's take a look. Uh as usual I give you a few uh paragraphs from John MacArthur on his intro to this section of scripture. He says the first eleven chapters of Hebrews do not emphasize specific commands to Christians. There is an obvious lack of practical explanations or exhortations. The section is true doctrine and is almost entirely directed to Jews who have received the gospel but not to be con but not but need to be affirmed in the superiority of the new covenant The exhortations in chapter 12 that apply to Christians are general, encouraging them to run the race of faith with patience and to follow peace and holiness. The specific practical exhortations for Christians are in chapter 12. Chapter 13. This fits the pattern of New Testament teaching, which is always doctrine and then duty, position and then practice. Chapter 13 is not an afterthought, but is integral to the message of the book. Demands true living. Hebrews thirteen gives us some of the essential practical ethics of Christian living that help portray the true gospel to the world, that encourage men to trust in Christ, and that bring glory to God. commanded of his followers, let your light shine before men in such a way that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven. Matthew five sixteen. Ethics has to do with standards of conduct, behavior. or moral judgment. There can be no ethics without doctrine. Doctrine is the foundation on which any practical ethic must be based. It is not possible to have any system of ethics without standards of right and wrong. The idea that doctrine is useless and divisive, that all we need to live by is love, is fantasy and foolishness. Love itself needs a standard. Without a standard, one person's idea of love often will be different from and frequently contradictory to Someone else's. Desiring another man's wife may seem like love to the one who is desiring, but it is something quite different to her husband Trying to throw away doctrine while keeping ethics is like trying to keep your house intact while taking out the foundation. Christian ethics not only demand right doctrine but a right relationship with Jesus Christ. Without a saving relationship to Him, a person will have neither the sustained desire nor the ability to live up to New Testament standards of morality. Every moral command in the New Testament presupposes faith in Christ. You cannot possibly live up to God's standards without God. The standards of Christian behavior set forth in Hebrews 13 presuppose two basic realities, that these standards are based on the doctrinal foundation of chapters 1 through 12, and that they apply to Christian believers. Thus John MacArthur. Okay. So let's take a look verse by verse here, starting with verse one and two. Sure. This chapter feels to me like a lot of this book really hard to slice up into the classes. Sorry, classes. It's difficult because the sections are sometimes long and you can't go y you can't take a whole section together in a hour long class. So that was time somewhere. And w what I uh truthfully what I did is I looked at commentaries of people that have written about Hebrews and how did they divide it up? And that's how I did it. Uh I did it based on uh three different commentaries that all treated this as a chunk. Um I said no good if if if it's good enough for them I suppose that's uh y and and absent any other uh um driving force to to divide it anywhere else this this is how I do it. Okay. But it was hard and and I'm not sure I'm gonna finish these nine verses here in the time that we have. Um okay, so uh the the beginning of this section on uh practice, uh how to how to practice, uh you you how to walk your Christian life. Let love of the brethren continue. Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers, for by this some have entertained angels without knowing it. So the primary moral moral standard of Christianity is love. And the particular love that exorbitant year that's mentioned here is love of fellow Christians, love of the brethren. This phrase love of the brethren in English is one word in Greek And that word is Philadelphia. That's just one word, love of the brethren, Philadelphia. Uh and is often translated by the love in the scriptures, that same Greek word. It is composed of two roots, Philello, uh tender affection, and Adephos, brother or near kinsman. So uh tender affection towards a brother or near kinsman uh is the word that's used here and tr and translated to the English phrase love of the brethren. Uh The admonition to let brotherly love continue indicates that such such love already exists. Uh brotherly love is the natural outflow of the Christian life. And notice we are not told to make it happen. But to let it continue. That should tell us something the way this is phrased. We're not told to make what we love happen as if we have the power to do that But we're supposed to let it continue. Love of other Christians is vital to spiritual life and it's one of the byproducts of obeying God's truth. Uh the apostle Peter put it this way, first Peter one twenty two and twenty three, since you have in obedience to the truth purified your souls for a sincere love of the brethren, fervently love one another from the heart So you have to be born again, not of seed which is perishable, but imperishable, that is, through the living and abiding word of God. So if you're if you have the living and abiding word of God with you, if you've been born again, then it will result in this kind of love for brothers and sisters in Christ. And that's a very consistent teaching throughout Scripture. Since we were given brotherly love and we were given spiritual life, we should exercise this It was given to us to exercise towards others. So the Christians' task is not to seek God's blessings, but to use them. We already possess all the blessings that are most important. 7 Peter 1, seeing that his divine power has granted to us everything Pertaining to life and godliness. He's already given us everything pertaining to life and godliness. Our primary concern should not be to look for blessings or to ask for blessings, but to use our blessings, as we're told in a Ephesians one three. Uh Paul teaches a closely related truth in Ephesians, as he appeals to brothers in Christ to be diligent to preserve the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace. Ephesians four three. We are told to preserve not manufacture unity. Where does the unity come from? The unity comes from the Holy Spirit. It's not something that we do a as a human um striving or as a church program. Unity exists Because we are in the same spirit. Same spirits, same Lord. Um that produces unity. In the same way that we preserve brotherly love by expressing it and nurturing it. We don't manufacture it. Uh we do not need to have more love. We need to use the love we have. We've got all the love we could possibly ever imagine in Christ. We just have to let that love overflow from us to others. Uh we don't need more unity or peace. We need to the unity and peace that are already ours in Jesus Christ. And Paul explains that in Galatians chapter three. That we are one in Christ Jesus. There's neither slave or free, there's neither male nor female. We are one in Christ Jesus, not that we are striving to become one. The scripture clearly teaches that we are one in Christ Jesus. Okay. Any questions? About that so far. The basic principle of beatherly love is simple, and as explained by Paul, be devoted to one another in beatily love, give preference to one another in honor. Uh Romans twelve ten. So give preference to one another in honor. That's uh one of the the ninja pins, one of the foundations of letter of is to give preference to one another. So basically Brotherly love is caring for our fellow Christians more than we care about ourselves. When we are preoccupied preoccupied with self, we strive uh we stifle brotherly love. It it the brotherly love is from Christ. But we stifle its outflow when we are selfish, when we think about ourselves first. And so Paul teaches this. It's a danger that the apostles, that the Holy Spirit. And it prompted the apostles to write about Philippians two, three, and four, do nothing from selfish and empty conceit, but with humility of mind, let each of you regard one another as more important than himself. Do not merely look out for your own personal interests, but also. Also for the interests of others. And so this is Brotherly Love in action. And this is the warning about how it can go off the rails in your life. Selfish ambition, caring for yourself. And so conversely, the way to allow the love of Christ to overflow to others is to consider others more important than yourself. Um so uh Is this easy for any human being to do? No, it's not. In fact it's impossible for a human being to do in my own power. This is a work of the Holy Spirit. It's an overflowing of the love of Christ that's been given to me. a supernatural love that overflows from me because I have hi uh his love in me and I either let that love flow by considering others by having humility and considering others better than myself or I I throttle that flow of love, I pinch it off, I I stifle it by being selfish. Those are our our two choices as followers of Christ. And and so obviously The Holy Spirit knew this was going to be an issue, and so he brings it up over and over again in in different uh letters in the New Testament, including here in Hebrews. Leather and love is nature and humility and Humility grows out of right spiritual knowledge. So a right understanding of who I am in relation to Christ, in relation to God, will that right understanding will read humility in me. If I really understand who I am as a sinner, who he is as a savior, I will be humble. Um if I lose sight of that, then I can be selfish. When we measure ourselves against the person of Jesus Christ, Christ who is the standard for our living, we are see ourselves as we really are and are humbled. Only then are we truly able to love as God wants us to love. So here we are in the practical part. Uh we've gotten all this doctrine and we can we can all nod and say, Yes, amen. You know, Jesus died for my sins, this is great. And now we come to the part where we're supposed to consider others but than ourselves and in humility uh give preference to one another. And then all of a sudden there's not as many amens. Um And you know, and I when I look in the mirror I say guilty. Um because that's the way we are and um the Holy Spirit knew that we needed to be reminded of this and reminded of us and reminded of this and and so many of the New Testament authors had this sort of exhortation at the end. Right? So you're reading through this letter, you're reading through this letter, and what's the what's the part that will stick with you the most, the part that you hear last. And so the parts you hear last are these exhortations to holy living and to um m to living out your faith in your in your daily life and your interactions uh with others. Uh the hard part in other words is at the end. Okay. Any uh thoughts or questions so far? Well so uh uh in other words uh self must die. Mm-hmm. in order to continue uh following love. That's a good way to put it. Dynasty. Mm-hmm. So is it possible to gotta do it? Yeah, the way the way I can put it is I I no longer live, but Christ lives in me and so, uh who who's the standard for right living, for putting others needs ahead of his own? It's Christ and so yes, that's one way to think about it. Die to self and um alive in Christ. Christ came to medicine under me, you know. Yep, to serve and not to be served. So that's our example. Right. Yeah. God rescued Israel. out of Egypt and repeating it first. Yes, he did. But all the doctrines up front like this is who you are, this is what I've given you. Yep. Whether you know it or believe it or think it, this is who you are, this is your position. Yeah. to continually rem remind them. And so as we talked about last time, if you read the the giving of the story of the giving of the Ten Commandments in uh Exodus nineteen and Exodus twenty, the the commandments themselves are in Exodus twenty. twenty but notice the verse one, uh what the introduction to the Ten Commandments says, I am the God who brought you out of Egypt and rescued you from the land of slavery So that's right in the preamble of the Ten Commandments is a reminder of what God had done for them, who God was. Yeah. Yeah, so God did rescue them up front, before he gave them the law, before any of that. He rescued them. He did that first. And so before we're required to um live out this Christian life, Christ has rescued us. Rescued us from our um slavery to s and bondage to sin. Yeah. So that's a good point. So we can think about it that way. You asked us first. Okay. Uh any other questions or comments so far? All right. Still on verse one. Um our first uh so now we're gonna go to verse two though. Uh uh Our first responsibility is to our brothers and sisters in Christ, but our responsibility does not end there. First responsibility, brothers and sisters in Christ But not our only responsibility. So what does it say next? Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers. For by this some have entertained angels without knowing it. So the Apostle Paul tells us while we have opportunity, let us be good to all men, and especially to those who have the house of faith. So especially the house of faith, but also all men. That's Galatians six ten. And then see that no one repays another with evil for evil, but always seek after that which is good for one another and for all men. So for one another refers to brothers and sisters in Christ and also for all men. So same consistent teaching throughout Scripture. First priority is the brothers and sisters in Christ, but that's not where your responsibility ends. Also for others who are outside of the faith. And of course this is following the teaching of Christ. So All these followers of Christ that wrote us the New Testament under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit are following what Christ Himself taught during his earthly ministry. Jesus taught all men, includes even our enemies. You have heard that it was said, you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy, but I say to you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you. Matthew chapter five and uh the Sermon on the Mount. Yes. Um we're gonna talk about the entertaining angry noise. It's telling you that uh you should uh be careful how you uh how you react to some people, but there may be some brothers and sisters in Christ that you don't know. That's true. Uh although um uh we'll talk about this here in a minute, uh w we're not supposed to um give hospitality in hopes that one day it'll be an angel that can reward us. That's not really the point uh there. Uh Uh yeah. But yes, i uh you we don't know what people are going through uh when we offer help. Yeah, very good point. Uh strangers by definition are people we don't know personally. Uh consequently it is easy to be Deceived when helping strangers. So I I don't know what this person's gonna do. I don't know, you know, what if I invite him into my house and he attacks me. You know, there's all sorts sorts of things can go through our mind to tr to stop us from helping strangers. And of course we should use common sense in deciding how to help, but our primary concern should be to help. To help others, including strangers. Yeah, so um you help again. Right. You learn. I mean you gain wisdom if you get burned when you try to help somebody and you and you try to think of a better way to help if if it didn't turn out to be the way you hoped it would be. But you don't but the the the the larger point is don't don't use that as an excuse to help still help stop to stop helping. Yeah. Uh Uh in the ancient world hospitality often include putting a guest up overnight or longer. Uh there were few ends and they were usually of poor repeat and were expensive and so um if a stranger happened into your town it was common for them to be put up by somebody in the town. Among Jews and other people of the ancient Middle East, hospitality even to strangers and foreigners was a great virtue, considered a great virtue, and so uh as Christians we would certainly not be expected to be held to a lower standard than the pagans. Um hospitality is a New Testament's to New Testament standard for elders in 1 Timothy chapter 3 and Titus chapter 1. Church leaders are to have open homes ready to serve. Excuse me, meet the needs of others. It's one of the requirements that's listed for people to become Adders, pastors, overseers within the church. Uh showing hospitality to strangers is the work of the spirit. So really hospitality should be a characteristic of all Christians, not an incidental or an optional practice. And then we get this little phrase there, for by this have entertained angels without knowing it. It's not given as a basis or motivation for hospitality. We hope to get some kind of a reward. Uh you know, we might find ourselves ministering an angel and perhaps reap some reward. That's not the point uh of this. It's just kind of a reminder that But we don't know who it is we're entertaining and what their circumstances are. We are to minister out of brotherly love for the sake of those we help. and for God's glory ultimately. Uh the so the point of the second half of verse two is that we can never know how important and far reaching a simple act of helpfulness may be. Uh we minister because of need, not because of any consequences we were able to foresee. Abraham went out of his way to help the three men who were passing by his tent. He did not wait to be asked for help, but he volunteered. He seemed to consider the greater service was to himself, saying uh in uh Genesis 18 that's recorded how he greeted these three Men, my lord, if now I have found favor in your sight, please do not pass by your servants. So he considered it an honor for them to stop and be served by him That's the way it it comes across in Genesis chapter eighteen. And so that's the model of the attitude that we're supposed to have. It's a it's an honor for us to to serve others. And of course at the time we had no idea, but two of the men were in We see that come out in um uh later on in chapter nineteen. Uh and if they had been ordinary men it would have been more or less right for him to be hospitable Right? He he did it assuming they were ordinary people, and if they had in fact been ordinary people, it would have been the same obligation to help and serve them. Uh in a sense, we always minister the Lord when we Jesus said in Matthew twenty-five, truly I say to you, to the extent that you did it to one of these brothers of mine, even the least of them you did it to me. So in a sense we're serving the Lord when we serve others. And that's how Jesus put it in Matthew chapter twenty five. Alright, any questions about that? Strangers, hospitality. Alright, all the way whiping forward to verse three. Next, remember the prisoners as though in prison with them, and those who are ill-treated since you yourselves also are in the body. Uh has anybody here been involved in a prison ministry? Prison ministry. Uh how was that? I mean how I tell people, you know, when you first go in there everything was new to us and like you're looking around everywhere. But like anything, a as you get used to it you just it's there are people. Right. You know and you strip that facade away and and if you especially if you find commonality So uh this uh so he keeps going, so remember the brothers and uh uh uh and remember the strangers, be hospitable to strangers and then remember the prisoners as though in prison with them yourself. So much more top that we should do our best to identify with those in need, to try to put ourselves in their places. Uh we know that if we were starving we would want someone to feed us. That if we were in prison we would want somebody to visit us. Uh we should do for them what we would want done for us if we were in the same position. If we were in pr prison. we would want somebody to come visit us. It is the principle of Jesus Golden Rule, therefore, however you want people to treat you, so treat them, for this is the law and the prophets. Matthew seven twelve. Among other things, this is a warning against spiritualizing Christian life. The Bible does not teach that the person in touch with God transcends physical pain and hardships, like some of the Eastern religions teach. The Bible does not teach that hardships It teaches that we should um help others that have experienced hardships. Uh our true home is in heaven, but we are still in the body, which is what the the author points out. out here at the end of this verse. We still get hungry, we still get lonely, we s are still hurt physically and emotionally. Our own trouble should make us more sensitive, hospitable, and loving, and not less. One of the shortest for self pity is loving service to others. Yes, Sam. It seems by your next to Louis comment that at the end where it says you yourselves are also in the body that has the physical body. How did you how did you change the body of Christ? Yeah, because he's talking about physical things all in this whole passage. So it seemed that it's more talking about being in the in the body and and being subject to these things like imprisonment and ill treatment. So in in this string of things, which are physical things, physical, physical hardships, um you yourselves are also in the body seems to um seems to fit better with this idea of somebody else is experiencing these physical hardships of imprisonment and ill treatment. I also in my physical body could be subject to this kind of ill treatment or imprisonment and so therefore I want to help that person because I also am in the body and could be subject to ill treatment and imprisonment and those sorts of things. So I I think in the context it's that's what it seems to be indicating. Game James basically separated basic all this thing. Yeah. Yeah, so it it is useful sometimes to look at other translations um to to be sure when there's an ambiguity like that. Um yeah. How how does the James are injured. King James says uh remember the prisoners as it came with them, those who are mistreated, since you also since you yourselves are in the body also. Yeah. So yeah, I I think that it it you know I mean there there could be some confusion or ambiguity, but I think in the context it's talking about the physical body. Yeah. Okay. Uh any other questions or or comments there? All right. Next is So we we're going through these practical things, these things that we encounter in our uh in our lives as Christians The next is marriage. Marriage is to be held in honor among all. The marriage bed is to be undefiled. For fornicators and adulterers, God will judge. In God's eyes, marriage is honorable. He established it at creation. There were only two people in the world in Genesis chapter two. Uh there were no countries, no societies, no uh cultures uh God uh in created marriage and he's honored it ever since. In much of the world today marriage is anything but honored. A great many couples who married do so as a temporary convenience, not as a divine requirement for living together. And so uh s the latest passages saying marriage is to be held in honor among all may have also been a reaction to certain ascetic influences in the early church that held celibacy to be a holier state than marriage that it started to creep in even in the early church. Um in the first couple the first century of the church and the s and s and increasingly in the second and third century you had these ascetic movements that thought that celibacy and uh simpleness were a higher calling and more spiritual than marriage. Um but that's not what the scripture says. So s uh scripture says that um marriage is to be held in honor among all. Not just some, but among all. Uh Paul warns that in the last days apostate teachers will forbid marriage, first Timothy four three. So uh the Holy Spirit was already warning about this during The New Testament church. But God holds marriage as honorable, and we are to have the same high regard for it. God honored marriage by establishing it, Jesus honored marriage by performing his first miracle at a wedding, the Holy Spirit honored marriage. marriage not using it to picture the church in the New Testament. The Holy Trinity testifies that marriage is honorable. And so that's a practical point made yes, Daniel. Yeah, so he's he's talking about uh he's talking about his situation um and he's talking about this the evangelist and the spread of the gospel and his personal situation being Um he has in his mind less complication because he's single and he can focus on nothing but this particular task that he's been given to to go around. Now, not everybody's called to walk the same path that the apostle Paul was, to be shipwrecked and imprisoned and beaten and all these sort of things. Um so I I I think that he is he's talking about a particular circumstance. He's really talking in reflection of his own circumstances. But he he later on says things like, Don't we have a right to take a believing wife like all the other apostles? He he says that about himself when he's he's talking to others later. So he certainly saw it as his right to have a wife and it wasn't something he he couldn't do. But he said he was called to singleness and in the circumstances he found himself, I think he saw that as the better thing that God had called him. I it was right for him to to be single in his circumstances. But I don't think he's saying that I don't think he's really teaching that we should strive for singleness, for example. I think Jesus also honored marriage by calling us the church his bride. Yeah, so and and so yeah, the whole the the way the Holy Spirit puts it in um through uh Paul in the book of Ephesians that this idea that the the husband loves the wife as the Christ loves the church, yes, that's a clear teaching. that that honors marriage by comparing it to the relationship between Christ and the church. Yeah. Okay, any other questions, comments? Okay. Uh Scripture gives at least three reasons for marriage. The first one is propagation of children Um or going all the way back to Genesis chapter one, at creation mankind was commissioned to be freeful, multiply and fill the earth. Uh marriage is necessary for that. Uh marriage is also provided as a means of preventing sexual sin because of immoralities that each man have his own life. and let each woman have her own husband. First Corinthians seven two. And unmarried with those um uh are to marry if they do not have self control, verses eight and nine. Uh marriage is also provided for companionship. God says in Genesis chapter two, it is not good for the man to be alone. I will make him a helper suitable for him. So three reasons given in the scripture for um marriage. And of course God is Jeres about sexual purity and he said it says here in the marriage bed is to be undefiled. Men and women may play around with illicit sex and be perfectly within their rights in the eyes of most people in the secular world. But in the eyes of God it is always sin and fornicators and adulterers. God will always judge. So that that's the teaching. And so that's the practical application of doctrine that we've been thought so far, up to this point in uh the book of Hebrews, about the institution of marriage. Any questions about that? Alright, verse five. Make sure that your character For he himself has said, I will never desert you, nor will I ever forsake you, so that we confidently say, The Lord is my helper, I will not be afraid. What will man do to me? So covetousness and greed follow a principle of increasing desire and decreasing satisfaction, a form of the law of diminishing returns. Um John MacArthur in one of his writings said that he And his fifty plus years of pastoring had had people come to him and admit and and repent of and uh many sins, a whole uh the whole gamut of sins, but he said he had never in fifty seven years had somebody come and um and admit to and repent of covetousness. Wow. So a very, very common sin that people are reluctant to admit to. Covetousness and greed follow the principle of increasing desire and decreasing satisfaction. The law of diminishing returns. The more you have, the more you want, and the less satisfied you are with what you have. Uh Ecclesiastes five puts it this way, he who loves money will not be satisfied with money, nor he who loves abundance with its income This too is vanity. The more you get, the more you want. How many millions are enough? How many billions are enough? It's it's never enough. So when we focus on material things, our having will never catch up with our wanting It is one of the tragedies of this particular sins. It's a death spiral. The more you have, the more you want. The love of money is one of the most common forms of covetousness, partly because money can be used to secure cure some of the other things that we want. Uh loving money is lusting after material riches in whatever form that takes in each person's life. A Christian should be free from such love of material things. That's the teaching here. Note that, rich or poor, it is equally possible to desire more than we have. It's not just rich people who want more. Um one of the um one of the wonderful th I I ri I really enjoyed Charles Dickens. Um and in Charles Dickens novels there there are four basic character types. There is the the wicked rich person, the good rich person, the wicked poor person, and the good poor person in all of his novels. And I think that reflects really reality. The the amount of money that you have does not determine what kind of person you will be. And it also doesn't determine whether or not you're going to want more than you currently have In other words, whether you will covet. Covet what you're what somebody else has and I don't have. A a poor person is is just as um uh just as open or just as vulnerable to the sin of coveting what somebody else has as the rich person is. Okay. Love of money is sin against God, a form of distrust. Why? Because he himself has said, I will never desert you, nor will I ever forsake you. forsake you. In other words, uh I'm here for you. W why are you running after mummy instead of after me? Um this quote, I will never desert you nor will I ever forsake you is in a couple of different places in scripture. Uh it's given through Moses to all the people of Israel in Deuteronomy chapter thirty one. I will never deserve you, nor will I ever forsake you, God said to the people of Israel. He also said it individually to Joshua in Joshua chapter one. I will never desert you nor will I ever forsake you. God said to Joshua, Joshua 1, 8. So it's in there, it's actually twice in J in Deuteronomy 31 and another time in Joshua 1. This exact same quote. So he could be quoting either one of those Places. Uh loving money is trusting in riches rather than the living God. Looking for security in material things instead of in our Heavenly Father. And it is utterly foolish. It's not uh obviously it's not wrong to earn or to have wealth. Abraham was an extremely wealthy man. Job was an extremely wealthy man. Uh the New Testament mentions a number of faithful believers who had considerable wealth. Um and that was not considered to be a black mark against those believers, against Abraham, against Job. It's the love of money, not the fact that you have a certain That is described in the scriptures as a root of all sorts of evil and some by longing for it have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many a pang, First Timothy six. extent. It is longing after it and trusting in it that is sinful. So whatever form of money may take, uh I just gotta have the nice newer designer clothes. I gotta have a bigger house. I gotta have a a better car. Um, I gotta be able to take better vacations. Uh the spiritual result is the same. It displeases God and harms our relationship to him. But God tells us to be content with what you have. Notice that. Be content with what you have. That's not easy. It's not easy in a world where every commercial that comes on the T V or the radio the internet tells us that we really gotta have this new shiny object. We gotta we gotta have it. You know, I don't have the I don't this is a new garden game. I don't have that garden gnome yet. I I gotta have that garden gnome. I gotta have it right now. Now. And so being content with what you have is what we're commanded to do, and the entire world uh under the inspiration of Satan is trying to tell me that what I have is not good enough. I that I'm I shouldn't be content. I need to reach for my wallet and give somebody some of my money because I need to have more stuff. Or better stuff. Or newer stuff. Um and the entire corporate advertising world is revolves revolves around uh convincing people not to be content with what they have. Um Okay. But the scripture tells us we are to be content with what we have. of course it's not just uh this is talking about the love of money but it can be anything. Um you know, it could be um better uh relationships or, you know, a new wife or a new husband or whatever it is that, you know, I I gotta have something newer, better, different. Um it's what I have is I'm not con uh i I'm I'm I'm I I shouldn't be content with what I have 'cause there's something better out there. Yep. It does be content because that's what he has chosen to give us. Exactly. So in in God's sovereign will, this is what he has given me And when I say that I'm not content with what I have, what I'm saying is I'm I'm I don't I disagree with God and I don't trust that God has my best interest in mind and that what God is given me is what's best for me. I don't trust that. I have a much better idea than God has of what I should really have, or what I really need. That's what you're s that's what we're saying in covetousness. That's what the the root of covetousness is, is God doesn't know uh as well as I do what I should have or sh what I need. Yeah. It does. Yeah, very good. Okay. Exactly. Yep. Yeah. They they wanted to have a king like the surrounding nation Right? It wasn't good enough to have God as my ruler. Uh the other countries have a king. Why don't I have a king? Gotta have a king. Give me a king Um yeah, so it it's it is the same sort of thing, yeah. Uh many of those blessed Hebrews may address significant possessions. Um as they knew they had in 1034 a better possession than an abiding one, they may have lost possessions coming into the church. Some of them might have been long to get back where they lost, thinking the cost was too high They were told not to return to trusting the two of friends, and uh the author uses a quote from Psalm 118 here. Uh we confidently say, The Lord is my helper. I will not be afraid. What shall man do to me? That's Psalm 118. If we have the Lord, we have all we need. Loss of anything else is just an inconvenience. And if we are surrendered to the Lord, the loss will be for our own good anyway. If we trust that the Lord has their best in mind and they lose some material possession, then that loss was for my own good. Material possessions are temporary and we're going to lose them sooner or later anyway. If the Lord decides we should lose them sooner, we should not worry When you are near to God and Jesus Christ, you are overwhelmed with the riches that you have in Him, and earthly possessions simply will not matter. If you fix your eyes on Christ, then the things of earth grow strangely dim. In the words of the the great hymn. Uh okay, number told to remember those who led you who spoke the word of God to you and consider the result of their conduct imitate their faith. So think think back and remember somebody that um that led and taught you, that led an exemplary life. and imitate that person. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever. Do not be carried away by varied and strange Teachings. Just as those who read you who spoke the word of God, and just as Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever, so we should be in our doctrine and practices. There is nothing new Um there there are no there are no wonderful, strange new doctrines and and teachings that are better than what Christ taught. That what we learned from Christ. That we what we learn from uh the scriptures from the apostles. Um because Jesus is the same yesterday and today and forever, so um so if there's something new we should um what's different from what we've already been taught, then that's obviously wrong because Jesus didn't change. Uh we are not to be carried away by varied and strange teachings. One of Satan's most settled approaches to the Christian is the slowly moving away from sound doctrine to beliefs that sound right but are not. Bad doctrine always results in bad living. And we see this happening even in the first century church. Paul was amazed that some of the That's another A few years after the church was established there already there's these false doctrines, false gospels sneaking in there. So we wouldn't shouldn't be surprised that Satan was still trying to sneak false teaching and false gospels into the church. He was doing it in the first century church. Uh Paul also warned the Ephesian elders. So in uh Acts chapter twenty, uh as Paul's about to go to Jerusalem, he doesn't he's he knows he's not gonna be back again to see these Ephesian elders. He calls the elders from the Ephesian churches together, and he tells them, I know that after my departure savage rules will come in among you, not sparing the flock, and from among your own selves, so from among the elders, men will arise speaking perverse things to draw away the disciples after them. So Satan has been at this from the very beginning, trying to sneak false teaching into the church. And so the New Testament ones over and over again about The worst false teachers, of course, are those who try to pass themselves off as orthodox. And a valid cultist or an atheist is easily seen for what he is. If you know if somebody introduces themselves as an atheist, y you know that he's not gonna have great doctrine. But if somebody claims to be a pastor, c claims to be uh teaching the word of God That's the tricky one, that you have to exercise discernment and you have to really pay attention to what he's saying, uh, to to understand if it's false doctrine or not. Satan's best workers are the deceptive ones, who know they will get a better hearing from God's people if their heresy is coded with biblical ideas and scripture quoted out of context. When Satan tempted Jesus, he quoted Scripture to tempt Jesus. And so we should not be surprised. if false teachers who are trying to learn their way into the church quote scripture while they're doing it. Um they'll quote it out of context, it won't be right, but they will use scripture to make false points and false doctrines. And then uh Paul runs about these people in Second Corinthians chapter eleven, for such men are false apostles, deceitful workers, disguising themselves as apostles of Christ. Even Satan disguised themselves. himself as an angel of light. 2 Corinthians 11, 13, and 14. So this was happening in the first century. Paul was warning about it in the first century. It's happening today. It happened all the way throughout the The history of the church, it's it's happening today. Uh Satan's primary target is the church. He does not need to pervert the world because it's already perverted And already on his side. This is why the New Testament is so filled with warnings for Christians to beware of false teaching. Every bad practice can be traced to bad belief. So we have to watch out. So the popularity of preaching and teaching is that we are no longer to be children tossed here and there by waves and carried about by every wind of diet. doctrine by the trickery of men, by craftiness and deceitful scheming. Ephesians four fourteen. So what's the best antidote to uh false doctrines creeping into the church? It's a biblically liberate body of Christ. I mean if the body of Christ is studying God's word, when you hear something that doesn't sound quite right, the s the spirit of God within you will rise up and you will instantly say instantly think, that doesn't sound right, and cause you to question. Um and and that as legal, that's what we want. We we want uh the body of Christ educated in the scriptures so that if you hear something, you hear something from one of us that doesn't compete with scripture, it doesn't resonate with the with the whole council. of God, then your hand goes up. Quick a minute. That doesn't sound right. Well I hope that all of all of you will be. Um that's how we keep false doctrines out of the church. Um by being uh s just being uh seeped in the word of of God being filled up with the the Spirit uh such that nobody can sneak a false doctrine by anyone. The sad part is that there are a lot of churches that are, you know, uh to passes or deceiving and they hold fast to this authority around the descriptions. Yeah. So they they they they want to hear what they're what they're tickling ears wanna hear the yeah, they they want to have have their ears tickled. Um and so you know in in in some instances what you have is a whole church full of that. Um you have a a preacher who's preaching false doctrine because that's what the whole congregation wants to hear. Yeah, they need to know. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So anyway, so yes, so we strongly desire as your elders for the entire body to be equipped um with knowledge of the scriptures, uh and filled with the Holy Spirit so that no one can sneak a a fast one by you. Uh no one can sneak a false doctrine by any of you. Okay. Yes. Yes. Yeah, and so i the way that's put, it sounds like um i i i it sounds like he's talking about the past. So i i i it's it sounds to me like he's talking about m not the not the maybe the present leaders that they have in the church, but it could be them. But it sounds like the the leaders the the people that taught you from the beginning, remember them and remember what their life looked like and follow them Because in in that case you have you have some sort of track record that those people have not turned out to be false teachers or something like that. They they forgot this long track record. They taught you, they lived it and maybe they were even passed away, but they lived this exemplary life and you can look at that and imitate that. Now that could also apply to current leaders, but um you know remember those who led you past tense. not remember those who are leading you. Um, it seems to me to be having asking them to cast their mind back to maybe the apostle that you first heard m first were taught by or um, the the person that led you to Christ, that led this exemplary life over all these decades. That's what it seems to be to me. Not not pointing them not necessarily, at least in this case, pointing them to the people that are their current church leaders. There's a good guard in here too, I think, just a along agreeing with everything that you said is where it says incentive. Yep. Because it's perfect. And and it's important for us Yep. Imitate their faith. Um consider the result of their conduct. So what was the result of their conduct throughout their life? Maybe not every single thing that they did, but their conduct conduct wit wit large, what was the result? Well they re they attained the the reward in heaven. I I think that's what this is pointing to. Okay. Uh do not be carried away by very strange teachings. We need that That for it is good for the heart to be strengthened by grace, and not by foods through which those who were so occupied were not benefited. Jews were used to having religious regulations for everything. And it was hard for them to adjust to freedom in Christ. It was difficult for them to accept that food will not commend us to God. We are neither the worse if we do not eat Nor the better if we do eat. Otherwise they had been taught and had believed that what you ate and did not eat was extremely important to God Even how it was prepared and how it was eaten was important. Now they are told that those who were thus occupied were not benefited. A right relationship to a holy God comes from grace, not by foods. Paul uses the harshest possible words for anyone who would replace grace with anything. Read that whole passage. I just put a little bit of it there, First Timothy four one to five. But the Spirit explicitly says that in later times some will fall away from the faith, paying attention to Deceitful spirits and doctrines of demons. And what are some examples of deceitful doctrines and doctrines of demons? Many forbid marriage And advocate abstaining from foods. Those are two of the examples for uh deceitful spirits and doctrines of demons. For everything created by God is good. Alright. Uh Um any last questions about this? This is our first part of Christian living. Yeah. Just a comment about what we talked about. probably understand the inference in location. That's where a lot of documentary, whether the inference is necessary or moderately or strong and reasonable or weak. That's an important thing to understand. when data function. You understand the infances that are being made whether or not those are are worthy of accepting. Right. Hermeneutics is important. Um how we draw out the meaning of of scripture. Yes. Uh any other questions or comments? Daniel. being caught right. Then it's string. Yep. But at the same point, that's the entire point of the first of that. So now that's an installation here. Now before we're saying, here's how this person went. You've already seen, you've already known all this. This is rooted in surface quote after quote after quote after quote of what they already give from the moment. And now we're just seeing, oh here's the actual outflow of that same Yep, that's that's right. And so one of the practical applications especially for these first century Jews was grace, not certain foods. Okay, any other questions, comments? Let me close this in prayer? Do you have any time