All right, good morning everybody. Let's get started. If you'll uh work your way toward a seat, we're gonna get started here. Let's uh let's start off with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day. We thank you for the wonderful privilege we have of gathering as a body of Christ to worship you on this Lord's Day. We thank you for your word which we're about to study. We thank you for the way you've revealed yourself. and your great plan of redemption in the Word. We thank you for your promises, Lord. We thank you especially for your your plan of redemption in Christ Jesus. We thank you that that He died on the cross for our sins. Thank you that you raised him from the dead. We thank you that he ascended to sit at your right hand and uh to be an intermediary on our behalf as uh the perfect high priest. We thank you, Lord, that uh that you sent the Holy Spirit uh to each and every one of us that believe, uh to guide us, uh, to help us to be the helper. We thank you for the opportunities that you give us to be ambassadors for Jesus Christ to those around us and we pray that we would take full advantage of every opportunity that you give us. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, part twenty-five, and so um Um as we go through uh Black History Month I told you I'd give you uh one example from the eighteenth century, one from the nineteenth century, one from the twentieth century, and one from the twenty first century. This is the this is my twentieth century uh entry, although he started out in the eighteenth century. This is Booker Taliaferro Washington, Booker T. Washington, born April fifth, eighteen fifty six, actually born in slavery, um, and lives until nineteen fifty. He was an educator, an author, an orator, an advisor to multiple presidents of the United States between eighteen ninety and nineteen fifteen. He was the dominant leader in the African American community of the contemporary and of the contemporary black elite of his day. He was from the last generation of of black American leaders born into slavery and became the leading voice of the former slaves and their descendants. He was a key proponent of African American businesses and one of the founders of the National Negro Business League. His base, of course, was the T Tuskegee Institute, a historically black college that he founded in Tuskegee, Alabama. Uh he mobilized a nationwide coalition of middle class blacks, church leaders, white philanthropists and politicians with a long term goal of building The community's economic strength and pride by a focus on self-help and schooling. He was an early key proponent of education. He really pushed education. And this is a quote from his autobiography. If you haven't read his autobiography, I strongly recommend it. His autobiography is called Up From Slavery. And he said this if no other consideration had convinced me of the value of the Christian life, the Christlike work of which uh which the church of all denominations in America has done during the last thirty five years, by which he meant eighteen sixty five to nineteen hundred, for the elevation of the black man would have made me a Christian. In other words, he saw the Christ like behavior of Christians in reaching out and helping those who were less fortunate and oppressed and and that made h made Christ attractive to him by seeing the Christ-like behavior of Christians. Now of course that's not always the case. But his experience as a black man in America was that the church was uh was doing this kind of work of racial reconciliation from eighteen sixty five to nineteen. nineteen hundred. Uh oh one other thing I wanted to point out. So uh there's a fairly new book uh that is really good. It's called Teddy and Booker T And and it's about the the close personal friendship between President Teddy Roosevelt and Booker T. Washington. They were good friends and and uh President Roosevelt used to invite Booker T. Washington over to the White House on a regular basis to eat with his family. Close personal friends, Booker T. Washington and President Roosevelt. Um and so this is a book all about their their friendship. Um, I don't know for sure about him. No, I don't. I I've never um heard much about Yeah. I I don't know too much about his his spiritual life. But uh this is a book about their those two people um who were prominent um leaders in America in the er late eighteen hundreds, early nineteen hundreds and how uh their friendship developed um uh together. They did have seemed to have similar personalities. That's that's right. Okay, so uh Up From Slavery, the autobiography of Burger T. Washington and this book Teddy and Booker T, uh recommend those. Okay. So uh uh part twenty five, which is the second to last part in this quarter, which means it's time to sign up for next quarter. So I think the sign ups are already involved. uh available on Life at Hope. Uh so you can go there's a link on l the weekly newsletter on Friday, Life at Hope. You can go there and sign up for next quarter. We will be doing part three of our series in Hebrews, finishing off the book of Hebrews. Hebrews and of course there are other choices as well. Uh one other announcement is still behind me is uh the international dinner, international missions night on the twenty first, international dinner on the twenty second, and you can sign up for those as well. Okay, uh so today we're going to talk about rejecting Christ. So last time we talked about accepting Christ, this time we'll talk about rejecting Christ. Uh we'll talk about the marks of apostasy Uh the fact that the truth is known, but the truth is rejected in apostasy. The results of apostasy, there's no longer any sacrifice for sin. Uh there's a greater judgment for apostasy, and we'll talk about that. And the end of this passage talks about deterrence to apostasy. Uh remember it remember suffering and service and look forward to rewards, ways to avoid uh apostasy. That's so that's what we'll talk about today. Uh but first we'll look back at what we did last time and last time we talked about accepting Christ. And that was the middle section of chapter 10. Today we'll do the end of chapter 10. So there's really only two possible responses to knowledge of the truth. So if you know the truth of the gospel, you can either accept it or reject it. And so a positive uh res uh response of course results in salvation. Uh Paul made clear in First Corinthians thirteen that salvation involves faith, hope, and love. And so we talked about those three aspects uh that are more brought out here in this passage in Hebrews. Of course the basis, the basis upon which we can draw near uh to a holy God is faith in the blood of Jesus. Um in the New Covenant, through Jesus' blood, we have confidence to enter the holy place. And the author here, as a fellow Jewish person, is is urgent his his Jewish brethren uh on the basis of all the doctrine he's gone through in the previous chapters to take hold of Christ. And so uh Jesus' way uh to draw near to to God is a new and living way. It's different from the old way. Um it's the the author points out with this word picture of it's going through the veil, that is his flesh, and so in the old covenant you had the veil to the Holy of Holies and so that's the word picture being painted here and Of course, on the cross, when Jesus said it is finished, the veil was torn from top to bottom. Um and so God was painting word pictures. uh for people to be able to understand this transition from the old covenant to the new covenant. And coming to God with full assurance requires commitment that is genuine. So um when we come to God in faith we are sprinkled Clean from an evil conscience and our bodies are washed. These are pictures uh that that hearken back to the old covenant and the washings that they did. So um when Jesus' blood removes sins and that gives us uh freedom from the evil conscience. Um and the the symbol of the uh our bodies being washed pure is the righteousness that we're given uh in Christ. So these There's two aspects of cleansing. When a person comes to Christ, Christ's death pays the penalty for sin and that so God's justice is satisfied. And then we have the uh cleansing act of the Holy Spirit which begins to change us on the inside, and that's God's righteousness. being satisfied. So both both God's justice and his righteousness are satisfied in the new covenant when we come to Christ. Um so we have uh a faith that honors God that's from the sincere heart. Um a person uh has uh it doesn't have to a hundred percent fully understand uh comprehend everything about the doctrine of salvation before he can be saved, but does need to know something. Let's know the basic content that Christ died for our sins, God raised him from the dead, um the the gospel that we see in First Corinthians chapter fifteen, and the Climax of that faith is commitment. A believer has to totally commit his life. Jesus in Luke 9 said, 923 said he must take up his cross daily. uh a believer, a true believer has commitment to Christ. So that's faith. Uh the second part of a positive response is hope. A person who genuinely trusts cannot help but hoping. And a person who has genuine hope, of course, will hold fast. So that's perseverance in the faith. A true believer may become discouraged or frustrated and occasionally fall into a sinful habit, but a true believer will hold fast the confession of his hope without wavering for he who promised is faithful. So this is all accepting Christ. Christ. Uh so that's faith and that's hope. And then after faith and hope is the third mark of a positive response and that's love. And the expression of love that's particularly pointed out here is the fellowship love among believers within the church. Uh so the best way to hold fast to these the the real things of God, the uh instead of the imitation that are found in the the real things of God found in the new covenant is to be in fellowship with uh his people. uh where we can love and be loved, serve and be served. And so um and in that context of course we're called to stimulate one another to love and good needs. So faith, hope, and love involved in uh in true salvation. Any questions about any of that that we talked about last time? What it looks like to accept Christ. Yes. One uh just thinking about the veil being on two from top to bottom, that that that was the connotation that someone was there actually witnessing that. But otherwise it seems like it would be difficult. Yeah, so uh two two things I would point out about that. Um the Holy Spirit who prompted the author to write that down would certainly have seen it even if there was no people there. However, I think your point is probably correct that the temple was never empty. There were always priests in the temple. And so the the priests To went into the holy place uh to the to the holy place, not the holy of holies, but what was outside the holy of holies every day to put the incense and the showbread and and that sort of thing. So they were in there every day. So there would have been priests, to your point, to see that that thing. And so uh because of that Um it would have been difficult it it would have been unlikely that that would have been covered up, that that would have been um uh unknown. It it probably became known Because a priest saw that thing tear down from top to bottom as he was going in to do his his daily incense and his daily showbread and that sort of thing. And so the the The talk of that probably spread. But even if it didn't, even if they tried to cover it up, the Holy Spirit saw it And the Holy Spirit had it recorded in in Scripture so that everybody could read that that in fact happened. So the Holy Spirit testifies to it, regardless of whether any people did, but most likely there were priests who saw it. Yeah. Yeah. Yes. Uh so that was like thirty, thirty three something like that. Something like thirty three eighty, yep. The template wasn't stored until seventy. So correct. Uh I don't know. That's a good question. What did what did they do? Because then of course you could look right into the Holy of Holies and you weren't supposed to be able to do that and there are records of ordering repaying. Could be. Could be. Yeah, it could be. Uh somebody had to sew it up or somebody had to make a new one. Yeah. And if you yeah. I if yeah, it's interesting that when you look at the original um when the tabernacle was made, when the temple was made, uh God supernaturally infused people through the Holy Spirit with special skill to be able to make all that stuff in the first place. Um so it was spectacularly made everything in the tabernacle and the temple, uh, supernaturally by infusion of the Holy Spirit of special skills in those people. Um and of course this uh just speculating God probably didn't do that again for remaking the curtain when when he had when he wanted the thing torn in the first place. He probably didn't supernaturally infuse somebody with the special skill to be able to make the greatest curtain ever. Like the first time around. Um reading the Bible from Africa. We we could stop do that. Yeah, we do that always somebody's named and rename and it's on and all detail. Mm-hmm. Yep. Yes indeed. Uh it was thick. Um Yeah, so it was a cubit thick, which is eighteen inches. So a a cubit is from the tip of your finger to your elbow, and that's how thick the curtain was. Not not how long or how wide, but how thick it was. It was. So the question would be how big how big that is it? Yeah, so yeah, who could rip that thing? Yeah. Only God. Yeah. Somewhere it said four teams of oxen to only fully couldn't could Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Um Yes, go ahead. I was just gonna point out that just politically, no one had any idea that Jesus' death was anything miraculous until the resurrection. So the curtain being at the moment that he gives up his spirit, that definitely would have like been widened out by the resurrection problem. At least inside Jerusalem. Maybe it wouldn't have spread. I think that's probably right. The the priest I mean that would have been But I mean think about what the pre the first priest who walked in there to do the incense and saw that curtain torn. What a disaster that is. When he observed the uh r the the the crucifixion, yeah. Yeah. Okay. Uh so Good. So there's there's lots lots there um in our lesson from last time. Any lingering questions? Yes. Oh yeah, I didn't talk much about the last phrase. The last phrase is the day drawing near, and the scholars are divided. Many say that that's 70 AD, because we see drawing the day drawing near when the temple will be destroyed and everything that he's been talking about. He's been Talking about that old sacrifice system, new sacrifice system, and the days draw near when it'll be very spectacularly stamped completely out. Um and and others say that it's it's talking about um uh the second coming. Yeah, it just sort of bothers me that it's it's capitalized in some versions. The word day is capitalized. And it make an inter they make an interpretation for you. Right, yes. That's yeah you have to watch out for that. Uh you have to watch out for that, uh, because the original Greek it's it's uh you know, it's this day, it's not uh there's no Capitalization in the original Greek. Yes. You do have to watch out for that. And it's the same with the capitalization of the uh pronouns like he. Uh the the translators make the best guess that they can about if it's referring to God or Christ, uh you know, the Father of God God if it's referring to one of the Godhead, then in our English translations you get a capital He. But that's the translator um doing the best he can to to figure out what that what the antecedent of that pronoun is, who who it's talking about. And and it's that's not inspired whether or not the he is capitalized and whether or not they is capitalized here. That's that's Good point. Yeah. Oh, because Nature does not have the articles. Also the UK has articles. Yeah, so you do have to be careful about that. That uh the translator were wise men in most cases doing these translations, but they're still only men. Um and so you do wanna check. You wanna check um you wanna check the context to make sure you understand what it's what it's talking about. Um Uh I I think it's likely, based on the context here of what all the authors have been talking about, that it's probably talking about the destruction of the temple, uh, here. That's but that's just my my guess. Okay, uh good question. Um okay, so let's move on then to the the last part of chapter 10. So we're going to start in verse 26, where we left off. And this is really about the the other possible uh reaction to knowledge of the gospel. Is rejecting it. Hebrews ten, we'll start in verse twenty-six. If you open your Bible or tune your device, and this is the word of the Lord. For if we go on sinning willfully after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there are no longer Remains a sacrifice for sins, but a terrifying expectation of judgment, and the fury of a fire which will consume the adversaries. Anyone who has set aside the law of Moses dies without mercy on the testimony. How much severe punishment do you think he will deserve who has trampled underfoot the Son of God? and has regarded as unclean the blood of the covenant by which he was sacrificed, and has insulted the spirit of grace. For we know him who said, Vengeance is mine, I will repay And again, the Lord will judge his people. It is a terrifying thing to fall into the hands of the living God. But remember the former days when, after being enlightened, you endured a great conflict of sufferings, partly by being made a public spectacle through reproaches and tribulations, and partly by becoming sharers with those who were. So treated. For you showed sympathy to the prisoners and accepted joyfully the seizure of your property, knowing that you have for yourselves a better possession and a lasting one Therefore do not throw away your confidence which has a great reward, for you have need of endurance, so that when you have done the will of God you may receive what was promised. For yet in a very little while he who is coming will come and will not delay, but my righteous one shall live by faith, and if he shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him. But we are not of those who shrink back to destruction But those who have faith to the per preserving of the soul. So this is a warning. Um in uh John MacArthur's commentary uh in the le the lead up to this section, he says This of the five warnings given in Hebrews, the one in this passage is by far the most serious and sobering. It may be the most serious warning in all of Scripture. It deals with apostasy. When the gospel of Jesus Christ is presented to an unbeliever, only two responses are possible. After he has heard the basic truths and claims of Jesus Christ, he either believes and is saved, or he disbelieves and becomes apostate. Apostasy, as we will see, is the sin of rejecting the gospel for which there is no forgiveness. Apostasy is not new, nor is God's attitude toward it It is the most serious of all sins because it is the most deliberate and willful form of unbelief. It is not a sin of ignorance But of rejecting known truth. Judas Iscariot is of course the classic apostate. No other rejector of Christ ever had the exposure to God's truth, love, and grace as did Judas. He knew the Lord intimately. He was one of the people. the twelve of Jesus' inner circle of disciples. Had he believed, he would have become an apostle. But he rejected the truth and became an apostate. His story is the supreme contradiction to the common excuse I would probably believe in Christ if I had It just had a little more evidence, a little more light. Judas had the perfect evidence, the perfect light, the perfect example. For some three years he lived with truth incarnate and life incarnate, yet turned his back on the one who is truth and life. So the warning about rejecting Christ. Okay. So let's take a look verse by verse through the This starting with verse twenty six and twenty seven. Uh the word says this for if we go on sinning willfully after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice for sins, but a terrifying expectation of judgment and the fury of a fire which will consume the adversaries. So apostasy is an intention intentional falling away or withdrawal, a defection. So Paul speaks of a large falling away when he cautions the Thessalonians not to be misled about the coming of the Lord, for it will not come, the second coming will not come. unless the apostasy comes first. Second Thessalonians two three. Jesus is probably speaking, uh seems to be speaking in the same apostasy in Matthew twenty four. And at that time many will fall away will deliver up one another and hate one another. There are people who move toward Christ right up to the edge of saving belief. They are perhaps convicted of sin, they even make uh some profession of faith, but their interest in the things of God begins to wane. The pressures and attractions of the world distract them until they have no interest at all. They fall away. Our Lord was illustrating this point of the parable of the soils. You have some soils where it initially springs up, uh the rocky soil, and then um then they fall away. Um so he was talking about apostasy there in the parable of the soils, for some of the soils. So we have a definition here. Uh the clearest scriptural definition of apostas apostasy here in verse twenty six. Yes. It's another s of very similar warning, yes. Chapter six twelve one through four was a similar warning. He's returned to it. Uh remember this is a letter to them And you can think of it as a written sermon where he uh repeats important themes. And so he comes back, he did in chapter six, he's doing here again in chapter nine, the very similar warning uh that that we had in chapter. Chapter six. So there's a definition here in Scripture of apostasy, receiving knowledge of the truth That is the gospel, but willfully remaining in sin. So an apostate has seen and heard the truth. But he willfully rejects it. So apostasy has two major characteristics: one, knowledge of the truth, of the gospel, and two, willful rejection of it. That's apostasy. So every apostasy. Apostate is an unbeliever, but not every unbeliever is an apostate. Many people have never had the opportunity to hear the gospel There's many unreached people groups in the world. Not even in part. They are sinful and of course do not believe in Christ. So they're unbelievers because they have never heard of him or his claims, but they're not apostates, because an apostate by definition has a full knowledge of the gospel, the truth of the gospel, and has rejected it, subsequently rejected it. An apostate, on the other hand, is well acquainted with the gospel. He knows more than enough to be saved. He's not one of these unreached peoples. See the difference there. Every apostate and unbeliever, not every unbeliever and apostate. It's kind of a special category of unbeliever. And that's who's being addressed here in this passage. The Greek language has two primary words that can be translated. Knowledge. One is Gnosis, from which we get the uh the Gnostics who thought they had special knowledge. Uh Gnosis has to do with ordinary knowledge, and in the New Testament is often used for general spiritual knowledge. But apygnosis, epignosis, apygnosis, um, the word used in verse twenty six denotes full knowledge, understanding, and discernment. So it's used in a kind of special word to make sure that it's not just a casual uh glancing understanding of the gospel, but this is somebody who really knows the gospel. Um in other words, the person described here has much more than a passing acquaintance with the gospel, they know it well. An apostate has all the information. Um the ultimate example, as MacArthur said, is Judas. He definitely had all the information. Information. Three years with Christ. Had all the information. They are bred almost without exception. within the church, uh in the very midst of God's people, it is possible for a person to read the Bible on his own They'll see the gospel clearly and reject it apart from direct association with Christians. That that's possible. But mostly apostates come from within the church and so that's why he's addressing this passage to a congregation, a first century congregation. That's why the uh the Holy Spirit has it included in scriptures so that we can read it So that churches people in churches have been able to read it from the all the way through the the whole history of the church from the first century to today and all the way to Christ comes again to understand that we have people in our midst. The church has always had people in who are apostates. Uh any questions so far? Yes, duh. And Jesus had them, of course, within his twelve very closest uh followers. There was an apostate. Yeah. It starts with ESD it starts with four. Yeah. Which makes it look back to what happened ahead of it. And that's the consider how to stir one remother up to loving the T. Yes. Yeah, so uh so he's this is a whole passage about um uh what happens in the church. Uh w what happens when we Um when we're we encounter this gospel, this new covenant. What do you what do you do with this new covenant? And he's just gone through the whole thing about what happens when you accept Christ. And then he he's he's being thorough to make sure that he also encounters. includes, well what happens if you reject Christ. So yeah. So it's uh it it's a piece, it's all together. Yeah, go ahead. Then there's two warnings, right? But but I I'm kinda standard and checking this. One is to the apostate The other is to the believer who should be in the act of stirring others up to love and good deeds. Absolutely. That that a part of stirring one another up to one eleven new and good deeds is within your church you you have these people that are on this dangerous path, this path that is as dangerous as any path could possibly be, to be there um with kind of an outward profession of faith but not an inward acceptance of Christ, that that those people People need stirring up to love and good deeds as much or more than anyone else. Okay, but God is sovereign and living salvation. Yes. This seems to put on me so aspect of responsibility. Yes, so that's the dichotomy. So why is it that we're uh we're commanded in the um i in the Great Commission, for example, to make disciples. Isn't that the Holy Spirit's job to make disciples? Yes. However, We're also commanded to to do something, to to go out and make disciples. So God has in his uh sovereign will determine that he wants us to participate in that process. Not that we can regenerate anyone's heart or save anyone, but he has commanded us to Preach the gospel, uh to go into the world and make disciples. Um and So we're supposed to be, in obedience to Christ, in obedience to what's been commanded us in Scripture, go out and be ambassadors for Christ. Does he need me No, he does not. He he doesn't need me, but I I I consider it a wonderful privilege to be uh to be allowed to be part of that process. And so there is a dichotomy there. It it uh Um it at first glance it doesn't make sense. Why, you know, if it's if that's a work of the Holy Spirit, wh why should why would I be making disciples? And in what sense am I making disciples? But in fact, both things are true. It is true that that only the Holy Spirit can regenerate a h human heart and also we're commanded to preach the gospel and to make disciples. Both are are in fact true. Yes. That's why we are here, to be his instruments, to be his hands, his teeth, his his Right, he says very clearly in the scriptures, we are saved for a purpose. What is that purpose? To uh to obey him And to glorify him, to bring glory to him by obedience, to show love to him by obedience, and part of that obedience is to spur one another to love and good deeds and to uh make disciples and to preach the gospel. to be ambassadors for Jesus Christ. Uh all of those things are not things that he needs, but he has given us the privilege of participating in. He goes on to say in the create four, in the device and flesh, in order to have a right to require the law by people building, you want to not export it to the flesh. Yes. So I think the summary of games was based on group. Yeah. There is. Yeah, th yeah, there is. And so there's also passage of scripture that says, uh work out your salvation in fear and trembling. But then the next very next phrase is, for it is God who is at work in you both to will and to work. And so we're told to work out our own salvation. And then the very next phrase says that it's God who is at work in us both to will and to and to do. So the very will to to obey him comes from God. But we're called to work out our salvation in fear and trembling. So this is a this is a cooperation then. Not that I have any power to save myself or to uh to keep myself saved, but we're called to cooperate with the Holy Spirit in that process. Uh and that's a there's a little bit of a mystery there, I I think. I think Doug's got a good point. Uh yes, Ron. I really don't know what I'm saying and maybe you can kind of just clarify what I think I'm trying to share it. It was uh spawned on by the mostly apostates come from within the church and so I think it's a a distinction without a difference in that there those friends and family members we may have that claim to be Christians but do not regularly attend a church and I say to them, uh, you know, like, you may think you're a believer, but unless you're even not even submitting yourself to even an unbiblical church You're not really a believer. Yeah, so this is a good point too. So there are a lot of people, especially in a country like ours, um, that if you if they were thrown out of form would check Christian on there. Right? They wouldn't check the Muslim box or the or the atheist box. They would they would check Christian on there. They wouldn't check the Jewish box or the or the or the Muslim box. But does that make them a believer saved and and bound for heaven? Certainly not. And they may never So we do have there are people like that as well who kind of self-select Christian from a from a menu on a form Um but are in in no wise saved. We we certainly know people like that. Yeah, so I think there are a lot of people in that category who if you ask what the gospel was they would have no ability to explain it whatsoever. Yeah. And and this in in that case I would say that's probably a a garden variety unbeliever, not an an apostate. Yeah. Uh Um yes Richard. We as believe we speak from the president because we have control over that whereas the Holy Spirit speaks from earth. We have no control. Yeah. So, uh I would be careful about saying how much control we have over the present. Um so yeah, I mean there are things that we have control over, we make decisions and things like that, but um but any one of us could be strong. by lightning or hit by a bus or anything like that uh today. Yeah. Yeah. Yes. I was just gonna think uh two points. Uh because we are you know we're we're sitting deliberately, uh the general Sacrifice and we're called to evangelize even though the Holy Spirit is the one who actually does the work. And I think there's an element there where it doesn't really matter how much we are actually accomplishing, we're called to obey and do the commands. So whether or not we actually like if we're necessary to God's things or not, he still called us to do it. So there's a point where it doesn't really matter whether or not we're like absolutely critical because we're ordered to do it by God. Right. to obey. That's our part of it. And so but God does use instruments. He uses means all the time. He uses what we do to accomplish his purposes. But our part of it is simply to obey. That's a good point. Yeah. And second point? The second point was just about the uh gathering together and whether or not that makes you apostate. The the context here, like as you pointed out with the uh setagnosis, makes an emphasis on knowledge of the truth and not just like people thinking that they're doing the right thing and actually they're not that's not good, but it's not the same category where I would argue that, you know, the leader of a false church is pretty much definitely apostate because he should know exactly exactly what it is that he's doing, but not everybody in his congregation might be apostate, so they might genuinely have no idea that what they're doing is wrong. But that doesn't mean that they're believers either. Right. Um and then uh I would argue that even people who go to church every single week if they're going to a false church church then that's still not gathered together as we're commanded as we're called to gather in God's church, not just in a building with people who call themselves Christians. Yeah, I think that's right. There's a there is definitely a category of false teacher and false churches uh that have that have lots of people sitting in their pews who have no knowledge of the true gospel. That's that's another good point. Okay. A any other yes. I think that brings it back around to Paul's reason for Yes, tha that's true. So yeah, so w w we we're so we're called there's m there's many passages of scripture that talk about how the church is supposed to work. and we're called to in this uh the passage before that we did to spur another one another to good and loving good works, but there's lots of one another passages that we're supposed to do be praying for one another, lifting one another up, um considering one another. better than myself. Um but we're we're also called uh to um to be knit together the the Holy Spirit knit the church together with um with spiritual gifts uh distributed among each local body of church such that we fit together and we grow up into spiritual maturity together because of how we're living life together as a church. church. So that's part of how the church is supposed to be working. And if you have people in your midst who are um are not part of that because they're not truly saved, so they don't have spiritual gifts, so they're not kind of knit together and helping one another grow. Um that's something that um that we need to address as as believers to help those people because those people are in a dangerous spot and they're not helping the body grow up together because they don't have spiritual gifts that are that are uh th that w is what the Holy Spirit uses So that's all part of how the New Testament writ large describes the church and how we're supposed to be as a body of Christ. And so the truth that's being told here or shown here is that um it's a warning there there it's and it's a follow on right after this um spur one another to love and good needs d ne deeds this warning about apostasy and where it leads. And that warning is important for all of us to see. It's important for apostasy to see and it's important for believers in the church to see so that you can know that it's there and help people. Yeah. Is it possible for someone who is now apostate to like in church and then we're Christian. Then the particular person I'm thinking of wrote this speech to us all. I don't already consider myself a born again Christian. I you know walked away from everything. Is it possible for her to come So uh we don't know a person's heart and what category they're in. Um and so i it's uh we'll talk about this in l in a few slides, but it's um human wisdom can't distinguish between a carnal believer and an apostate. Well they both exist, but uh God can see the heart and knows who's who but We can't see the heart and know who's who. And so we're called to obedience, to obey the commands of God, to make disciples, to preach the gospel. And so we don't give up on people. Because we don't know what category they're in. The Holy Spirit knows what category they're in. The Holy Spirit knows whether somebody um is going to be saved or not. Um and it's not for us to sh pick what category they're in. Um the the the true apostate according to scripture uh there no longer remains a sacrifice for sins. They can't come back. Um but we don't know who those people are. So it's it's it is not our job to put pr a per a particular person in this category and and condemn them. God is the judge. We are not the judge. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, so yeah, so that's right. So th there there certainly could be people within the church who are not believ not yet believers but will become believers. Um, yes. Yeah, so Jesus said you'll know them by their fruits, and so you see the fruits of repentance and we cannot perfectly see somebody's heart but Jesus told us how we're supposed to observe other people. We're supposed to observe their fruits. What do they do? Do they have fruits in keeping with repentance? Yeah. That's how we're supposed to know. But we don't have perfect knowledge. So A person could fool me by by uh by knowing what fruits of repentance are supposed to look like and outwardly mimicking what they know the fruits of repentance are supposed to look like. I could be fooled. God can't be fooled. Yeah. Okay. Uh let's continue on here. We've only gotten to the first verse. Um eventually, sometimes after years of pretense and self-decep deception, the unbeliever who acts like a believer finally falls away. He turned returns to willfully sitting willfully, uh no more regard for the Lord's way or his people. Uh this is to become apostate. So the process of falling away may be gradual, uh, but at some point a conscious decision is made. to reject God's saving grace and the Lord Jesus Christ. So the Greek word for willfully carries the idea of deliberate intention that is habitual. Uh so not just a one-time thing, but a habitual uh turning away. Uh the reference is not to sins of ignorance, but to those who are those that are planned out. The difference between sins of ignorance and sinning willfully is much like the difference between involuntary manslaughter and first. degree murder. It is also habitual and established way of thinking and believing. It is the permanent renunciation of the gospel, the permanent forsaking of God's grace. And as we just had this discussion Um it's not um i i i it's not always within human wisdom to determine who is in that category. Um so a believer may sometimes lapse into sin and stray from intimacy with the Lord and with his people, but he will come back. Human wisdom cannot always distinguish between a disobedient carnal believer and an apostate unbeliever. That is the Lord's business. He sees into the heart. It's a dangerous game to try to um it try to identify and judge people uh as another uh fallen, fallible human being. There's a there's a there's a warning within the warning uh for us not to judge, not to be the judge of this. Uh a person's concern should be that he himself is a true believer. And faithful to the Lord. Uh there are many calls to self examination in the New Testament. Every time a believer comes to the Lord's Supper, he faces the self examination of the reality of his salvation. When we come to the Lord's Supper, we need to Paul distinguishes between apostates and disobedient fleshly Christians by saying if we deny him, he also will deny us That's an apostate. But if we are faithless, he remains faithful, for he cannot deny himself. That's a disobedient Christian. So deny him, he will deny us. That's an apostate. Faithless, that's a uh backsliding Christian, he remains faithful. That's what Paul's talking about in Second Timothy chapter two, the difference between an apostate and a backsliding Christian. Yes. I've heard another representation of that. Okay. He's faithful. Well, I'm not sure if that I wonder if he's faithful as well. Well, he can't deny himself. But um he's not going to need to speak Yeah. Yeah, but this this way of phrasing he cannot deny himself. means I I think is referring to those who are faithless. He remains faithful being part of him, so he can't deny himself. I I think that's what it's talking about. But I mean obviously there's There's differences in how people can interpret some passages of scripture, yes. And I know none of us know. Um, but if you see someone like this, you know, in your life and what's your book and you think, Okay, I'm gonna pass for this person and I kind of think I think it's based on your and every time you get some people there have a kind of Yeah. Yeah. So um I I I think that's talking about you You only have so much time and energy. Um and so you're called to um make disciples. Now the world is a big place. Um there are what eight billion people in the world, something like that. And so you cannot interact with them all. So you have to make choices about where you cast your pearls. You you gotta somewhere along the line you gotta make choices. What what is it Who who am I going to spend my time evangelizing? Um so if you have spend time evangelizing someone and they've clearly rejected what you said, then it's time to move on to somebody else. You've you've already clearly stated the gospel, they've understood the gospel and rejected it. To then you've got to make a choice. Am I going to go back and talk to Steve again or am I going to talk to Tim? I have to make a choice. I don't have time to spend this afternoon with both Steve and Tim. I can choose one or the other. I've already spent a lot of time with Steve He knows the gospel and he appears to have rejected it. I'm gonna make a choice not to continue to cast pearls at Steve, I'm gonna cast pearls at Tim instead. Um there's a couple of examples in the Bible where um the disciples who went out to evangelize certain towns were told to shake the dust off their sandals. If they had gone to a town and that town had rejected them, they were supposed to shake the dust of their sandals off i in other words they they were to put that town behind them and gone to another town. Um and not to worry about the town that had rejected them. Uh I think those are similar kind of teachings, Proverbs and and what Jesus was doing with his disciples. So for the newer members here, if you do not know, I found the pastor Tom Lee. His older brother was a homosexual and he used that very passage when he explained to us why he was giving us on his mother. Yeah. I mean it it doesn't mean you can't pray for that person, but y you have limited time and energy to reach out to people. And there comes a time there can be come a time when you are certain that you have clearly explained the gospel to a person and they have rejected it. Um and and to keep spending valuable time on that person as opposed to making a choice to spend that valuable time on another person, I think that's what the proverb is talking about. Yeah. Uh he said, I command you to God Yes. And first quickly is it not just that who is it that cause uh says that I have a planet apologist water? that God gave it the increase. So you didn't see that plan as anything, we didn't see that order, but God did give it the increase. So you can move on, but God may bring someone else in his path. That's right. Yeah. What is that fee? Yep. Yep. Yeah. But the seed has been well and truly planted and so if you're the seed planter it's time to go on and plant other seeds, uh, rather than just keep planting that same seed with the same person. Yeah. Yeah, good. Uh so if a believer falls short in his faithful To the Lord, the Lord will still not fail in his faithfulness to the believer, for he has promised never to let us go. So the first result of apostasy is the apostate no longer has a sacrifice that can atone for sins. He is therefore beyond salvation. The only sacrifice That can bring a person into God's presence is the sacrifice of Christ's blood and the new covenant. If Christ's sacrifice is rejected, then all hope of salvation is forfeit. There's no other way There's only the blood of Christ that can save us. And if if a person rejects the blood of Christ for salvation, there's no other way of salvation. Um there's only sin and it's penalty, which is death. The second result of apostasy is greater judgment. The greater the sin, the greater the judgment. Since apostasy is the worst sin, we have the worst judgment. God sees the one who knows the truth and walks away as an enemy or an adversary whose judgment is certain and terrifying. So God's judgment on his enemy. Enemies is inescapable, the fury of a fire from him will consume them. Okay. Verse twenty eight. Anyone who has set aside the law of Moses dies without mercy on the testimony of two or three witnesses, how much severe punishment Do you think he will deserve who has trampled underfoot the Son of God and has regarded as unclean the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified? and has insulted the spirit of grace. So Christ taught in his earthly ministry degrees of sin and judgment when he was preaching and teaching. For example, he told Pilate, He who delivered me up to you has the greater sin. John 1911. Judas' sin was greater than Pilate's. Both were unbelievers, but Judas was an apostate who had evidence far beyond what Pilate had, and was therefore far more guilty. Jesus very clearly said that. Likewise in teaching about judgment, Jesus said, That slave who knew his master's will and did not get ready or act in accord with his will, shall receive many lashes. But the one who did not know it and committed deeds worthy of a flogging will receive but few. So levels of judgment Luke 12, 47, and 48. The worst offenders under the law of Moses cannot compare with those who have heard the gospel of Jesus Christ and yet rejected the Son of God. Such persons will find themselves in the Judas section of hell. Much severe punishment. That's what the teaching is here. That's what Jesus taught during his earthly ministry. You don't want to be in the Judas section of hell, yes. So a lot of the children say try to be justified. Like saying all things are equal, like say that for example you say, I like your dress and you don't really like your dress and and the I'm a homosexual it's the same thing, they just lie and the Yeah, so there's so there's there's some um nuances here. There's there's two things at work. One is all sin separates us from God. So any sin will separate from God and will give you your one way ticket to hell. However, there are levels of sin and judgment. There are levels of punishment in hell. That's what Jesus taught. That's what uh the the Holy Spirit inspired the writer of Hebrews to teach. So there are levels of sin and punishment. But every sin separates us from a holy God. And the only way to bridge that gap Between us and the holy God is the blood of Christ. So it's the punishment that the Yeah, that's what that's how Jesus put it. He said the one who knew his master's will In other words, he knew what he was supposed to do. He knew the gospel in this application and and rejects it. Receives many lashes. But the one who didn't know is Master's Will, the the the person who uh is in in an unreached people group, um will w has his done he's committed deeds worthy of a flogging, in other words, he's sent He will see few, few lashes, fewer lashes, smaller punishment. That's what Jesus taught. So even though you're guilty, you may receive a more severe world more to the Great White Throne judgment in the Book of Revelation. So in the Book of Revelation, there's books that are open. There's the Book of Life. And so if you're in the Book of Life, then you go to heaven and you're not subject to the Great White Throne judgment. But if you are subject to the Great White Throne judgment, there's books open And it goes through exactly what you did. And you're you're judged and punished based on exactly what you you did. So like a court, there's levels of guilt. different kinds of sins, there's different kinds of law breaking. There's a there's a different punishment for somebody who is guilty of petty theft than of somebody who's guilty of first degree murder. There's a different penalty in court for that. Yeah. Yep, there's rewards. Exactly. That's exactly correct. So yes, there's the beam of seat judgment of Christ. There's different levels of rewards based on your faithfulness. You still go to heaven, but there's different levels of reward. You still go to hell, but there's different Different levels of punishment. So severe judgment. Far from being more tolerant of sin today, God is less tolerant. Because men now have much greater light. And Paul taught about this in Acts chapter 17. Having overlooked the times of ignorance, God is now declaring to men that all uh to men that all everywhere should repent, because he has fixed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness through a man whom he has appointed, having furnished proof to all men by raising him from the dead. So once God had furnished this absolute proof of the hi his acceptance of Christ's sacrifice by raising him from the dead, once that was done then there is no excuse. There's there there's less excuse, there's there's um um there's less tolerance of unbelief because of the resurrection is what the scripture teaches. Okay. Uh to have trampled underfoot means to have scorned or counted as worthless. It is a fearful thing to count as worthless the one whom the Father has declared to be of infinite worth, the name above every name. Um the phrase by which he was sanctified probably refers to Christ. That whole sentence refers to Christ, so it would be odd for it to switch right in the middle of the sentence to be referring to somebody other than Christ. Um and also because I the the apostate is described as regarding the blood as unclean. That's definitely not sanctified uh description of somebody who's sanctified. So that that description of uh covenant by which he was sanctified is Christ being sanctified. Jesus spoke of sanctifying himself. He used he used that exact phrase for the sake of those who believe in John seventeen nineteen. He set himself apart unto God, even as he sanctified us, so he sanctified himself by the blood of the covenant. Shed on Calvary. Okay. Um apostasy involves total rejection of the Godhead, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. You see all three here rejected by an apostate. Trampling underfoot of the Son of God, the apostate rejects God the Father who sent him. By regarding the blood of the covenant as unclean, he rejects the Son who shed that blood. By insulting the gracious leading of the Spirit, he rejects the Spirit of That's what the the author of Hebrews is saying here. Um we have, of course, previously in Scripture, uh during Christ's ministry, the concept of Blasphemy against the Spirit, it's mentioned in Mark three and also in Matthew twelve. Uh it's applied to the Pharisees in those cases. They witnessed irrefutable proof of Jesus working miracles in the power of the Holy Spirit and claimed instead that he So in other words, they said that work that was clearly done by the Holy Spirit was actually done by a demon, and that was blaspheming the Holy Spirit according to Christ. Uh the Spirit. So the Spirit uh convicts the unsaved world of sin, righteousness and judgment. That's John 16, 8, when Christ was talking about what the Spirit would do when he came. To resist that conviction and willfully return to unrepentant sin is to insult the spirit of grace. And there's no pardon either in this age or in the age to come for such a person. That's what the scripture teaches. So this is talking about somebody who is willfully rejecting Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. So there's a willful component in there. And so um this is a terrifying warning that unfortunately can also terrify believers. And I don't want you to be terrified if you're a believer. Um it it it has it has caused um distress I think sometimes to true believers who wonder well w what I I've sinned and so what what what about me? Am I am I in this category of apostate? I I I've I've fallen into this pattern of sin. It could be that I'm an apostate. And then you start this worry spiral. Please don't do that. Please don't do that. Do self-examination. The New Testament calls over and over for us to do self-examination. But don't let the devil use this warning to cripple you as a believer. Do not let that happen to you. Okay. Any questions about that? Um yeah. Yes. We we did discuss that in the life committee of the Holy Spirit within the spiritual leadership training. We discussed that verse. And the thought was posed that is probably not repealable today. I I think that's probably right. Think about the context, so it was Jesus himself doing a miracle by the Holy Spirit and then telling Jesus that he was uh uh was w had a demon. Well that that's that obviously is not repeatable today. Right? Jesus is not here doing miracles. Now, how did it apply to those first century Jews? So those first century Hebrews We're talking about mid-sixties. Some of them may very well have seen Jesus do miracles. And more of them probably saw The apostles do miracles by the Holy Spirit. And so the the the original audience of Hebrews is also in a little bit of a different category than than we are today The Pharisees were in a unique category. Jesus himself, doing miracle by the Holy Spirit, and calling Jesus Himself demon-possessed. That's horrific. Um the first century Hebrews, many of them, some of them may have seen Jesus actually do a miracle, some of them were older. There would have been people alive that were alive when Jesus was in his ministry i in that church. Um so m some of 'em may have actually seen Jesus do a min do a miracle and rejected Christ and that would be really bad. Others may have seen the apostles do ministr do miracles and rejected And that would be really bad. None of us today have ever seen Jesus himself in the flesh do a miracle, or the apostles in the flesh do a miracle. So we're in a little bit different category. A and I that's that point is well taken. Yeah. About the blasphem the the specific sin of the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit. Yeah. Any questions about about that? Yeah. Okay. God of course is patient and loving and gracious. We see this him described that way over and over in Scripture, not willing for anyone that anyone should perish, 2 Peter 3:9 But for the one who turns his back on God's grace, there's nothing left that God can do uh for do uh offer or do for him. There's only one way for salvation. If somebody rejects that one way There is no other way. There's nothing else God can do for him. Um so the one who turns his back, there's nothing left. Only judgment remains. And so you see a quote here from Deuteronomy thirty two, Vengeance is mine, I will pay, the Lord will judge his people. Um this is the the uh the the awful reality of God's vengeance against sin and if we if we've rejected his one and only way for salvation from that sin, well then all that's left is God's vengeance and God's judgment. So uh within this severe warning is a loving and earnest appeal not to fall away. Uh so he's addressing first century Jews who have identified with the church but have not yet truly accepted Jesus as Lord and Savior. And they are told to do two things that will prevent their becoming apostate and lead them into full belief. So it it there's a inside the warning is a um an encouragement or an exhortation. Uh they are told to, number one, look back on what they had experienced and two, look forward to the w rewards that would be theirs if they carried through on what they had learned of Christ. So uh and the way he puts that is but remember the former days when after being enlightened you endured a great conflict of sufferings, partly by being made a public spectacle through reproaches and tribulations and partly by becoming sharers with those who were so treated. So the author obviously knew the people to whom he was writing, or at least knew a great deal about them. And certainly, of course, the Holy Spirit knew them perfectly. He was aware of their deep involvement in the church. Uh because he describes it here. Uh they were so So closely identified with Christians becoming sharers that they even experience suffering, reproaches, and tribulations because of it To the world and certainly to their fellow Jews in the synagogue, they already were Christians. They were in this church. They were identified with the Christians. However, this passage is talking to people that are in that context but are not. believers. They're in the church. They because they were part of this church, they were receiving persecutions. Um but they were not believers. They had up even though they were not believers, they had suffered Because they were considered believers. And so the scripture points out that these Jews are intellectually enlightened. They knew all the basics of the gospel. They were well on their way to believing, but they had not yet believed. So they are Told what to do if you're in that situation. To think about how far they had already come, what they had already endured. And to complete the process by putting their trust in Christ. So uh the passage continues, for you showed sympathy to the prisoners and accepted joyfully the seizure of your property, knowing that you have for yourselves a better position. possession and a lasting one. So the Greek word here for remember means more than simply to recall. It means to carefully think back, to reconstruct in your mind. The idea is that these fellow Jews who were so close to salvation should go back truth by truth and event by event and look back on what they had learned and experienced because of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And this was meant to be a strong determination. to apostasy and a strong encouragement to belief. In other words, he's saying that it may not be too late. Not everybody is gonna is already in this category uh that they have apostatized and there's no way back. He he's he's he's putting out um he he's putting out an encouragement and a lifeline to people that are not yet had not yet finally rejected Christ. Those who were not yet believers, who were kind of on the fence, who might fall who who he was worried would fall off into apostasy and he was he was telling him, think do this. If you if you're if you do your self examination you think, oh, I might be uh I I might not be a believer and I might be have fallen off into the into the fence. Think back on these things he's telling these these first century uh uh Jews. Um they had the prospect of a better possession and a lasting one. They had given up many worldly things, reputation, friends, possessions, for what they could see were the better things of the new covenant, but they had not yet fully trusted in Christ, and so they were in danger of falling back into complete unbelief from which they could never return. Um and looking at things from the outside, it's not really possible for us to know who is in what category. And so we should give these kind of encouragements, uh, to people. And we should preach the gospel, and we should make disciples. Because we don't know whose heart has hardened and completely turned away from uh from Christ like Judas Or who is somebody that truly thought they were following God but weren't? like Saul and who still could be saved and become the Apostle Paul. So if if you looked at from the outside at the life of Saul and the life of Judas, w w which which one look from the what did they look like from the outside? Judas was one of the twelve, one of the inner circle, um i from all outside appearances he looked like he was saved. Saul, in his own self-examination, thought he was following God But he was not. But he was someone whom the Lord intended to save. And it's not always easy or even possible for us to figure out who's who from the outside. We're told to look at their fruits We're told to observe. We're told to look for fruits of repentance and to make wise um judgments. But we not we're not we're never gonna be perfect at that. So Therefore do not throw away your confidence, which has a great reward, for you have need of endurance, so that when you have done the will of God you may receive what was promised. Uh to apostasy is the prospect of rewards. Uh they were told not to let their confidence waver but to claim the promises and secure the w rewards. They needed endurance and patience to prevent their present circumstances from causing them to turn back. These are the ones that have not yet apostasized, but could be heading that way. Uh their enlightenment in the gospel and their suffering and persecution because of outward association with believers did not have to be in vain. They had not done the will of God fully, but they had not tr because they had not trusted in his son fully, so they could not receive what was promised, but for some there was still a chance that they could do that. And so that was held out as something to strive for, to look forward to. to to consider the possibility that if if you come to faith there will be these rewards. They knew the promises, rejoiced in the promises, and even had suffered for the promises, but they had not received the promises. And the church, of course, is still has people like this in it. Um Jesus talked about this all the way in his earthly ministry in Matthew 7. There will be some that say Lord, Lord, on that that last day. Okay. Uh we're coming to the end. We're gonna land the plane here. For um the last part of it is a a a quote from Habakkuk two, for yet in a very little while he was coming will come, will not delay. But my righteous one shall live by faith, and if he shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him. But we are not of those And so um what is he saying here? He's saying that he believes that some will be saved. Some of these people who are sitting in this church who are not yet saved, he bel the author of Hebrews believes that at least some of them are going to be saved. He he's holding out hope. Uh i the quote here is from Abakah two, three and four. Um From the human side, faith is the basis of spiritual life, knowledge of the gospel is essential, suffering for the gospel is possible. Serving others, especially God's people, in the name of the gospel is fine, but only faith will bring salvation and the pr preserving of the soul. So the warning and and the finishes so there's a big warning here but it finishes with an appeal on a positive and hopeful note. He seems confident that some of those to whom he's appealing will indeed believe. So much so in fact that he already identifies himself with them and the other true believers. We are not of those who shrink back to destruction. Alright, any questions in the last thirty seconds that I have? Sorry about that. Alright, let me close this with prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for uh the warning in your word as well as the promises in your word. We thank you for uh the body of Christ and our opportunity to worship you here in a few moments as the body of Christ. We ask, Lord, that you would help us to help other within the body of Christ to spur one another on to love and good deeds, and also to help those who are in our midst, who may not yet be saved. Uh we hold out hope and we wish to encourage people that are in that situation to fully trust and to commit their lives to Jesus Christ. We thank you so much for For this plan of salvation, for such a great salvation as we have in Christ Jesus. And it's in Jesus' name that we pray Amen.