Alright, so we've come to part three. Part three is called Christ Superior to the Angels. So we have these comparisons throughout the book of Hebrews, where Christ and the New Covenant are compared. compared to the old covenant. And in this case we're going to be talking about the comparison of Christ to the angels and all the ways in which Christ is superior to the angels. So uh we're gonna talk about the the fact that he's superior to the angels because of Christ's uniqueness, because of the angel's inferior station, his superior station, their inferior station, because of Christ's supremacy of being. being and who he is because of Christ's present exaltation. Uh where he is, w what he uh uh the fact that he sat down on the on the throne in heaven. Uh so that's what we're gonna learn today. But first let's take a look back at what we did last time in the first four verses. So uh the first four verses we got this introduction into the book of Hebrews that launches right in without any kind of introduction about who the author is or who the recipient is. are just starts uh right launches right into God speaking. And God speaks in uh many portions in many ways, we learned last time. Uh there are different books of the uh uh of the Old Testament, there's different ways of communicating within those books. visions and parables and types and symbols, different styles, but there's a progressive revelation beginning in Genesis in the Old Testament where God reveals his plan of redemption in little bits and pieces. And then the final revelation is the fulfillment is in the New Testament in Christ. We we see this phrase last days, but in the last days uh he's revealed himself through his son. Uh and so the original audience we we talked about were Jewish believers, and when they saw this phrase last days, it had a certain meaning to them. Uh they they had seen this phrase throughout the Old Testament in Jeremiah and Micah and Zechariah. Um and so Jesus came in these last days. Unfortunately, his people that he came to uh largely rejected him. And so therefore there are many prophecies uh about Israel, the people that he initially came to, many of those promises are yet to be fulfilled. So we had these four things about Christ that we learned in these first four verses. Verses, um he's been appointed heir of all things. So the first thing is his heirship, the fact that he's heir. Um the second is that he was also creator uh that through him all the world uh he made the world. Uh he made space uh time, space, matter, and energy, um, and then um everything that makes the the world function as well. Then we saw his radiance, the brightness of the glory of God revealed in Christ, that he can transmit the light into our lives, uh, and the glory of God into a dark world. So his radiance was the uh the third thing and the fourth thing was uh his being the fact that he's the exact representation of the Father. Uh we see that in other places in scripture as well. Colossians one fifteen, he's the image of the invisible God, uh that's the Greek word icone from which we get the English word icon. Um and that means that he's in um that that uh that Greek word originally meant a precise copy, an exact reproduction like uh a fine sculpture or portrait. And so that's the word picture that is being painted of Christ. That he's a a a fine sculpture, an exact portrait, an exact reproduction of God. Uh both in uh this passage in Hebrews and And the one in Colossians as well. Then we had the Son upholding all things by the word of his power, his administration. He not only will inherit all things, but he in the meantime, right now, he upholds all things, holds all things together. Everything in the universe is sustained by Christ. That uh he made purification for sin. Uh so that's his redemptive work uh mentioned here in his uh First four verses of Hebrews, that Jesus dealt with the sin problem, the sin problem that separated uh men, uh men and women from a holy God Uh that sin problem had to be dealt with in order for us to be able to approach a holy God and Christ by His work has made purification of sin uh by his death on the cross uh once for all time. And then Then we see that he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on High. Then we get our introduction to angels that really is a segue into today's lesson. So today we're going to talk a lot about angels We talked about him a little bit at the end of last class in verse four. That he's inherited a more excellent name than they. He's the heir, the angels are not. He's better than the angels because he has a better title or name, a more excellent name. Um and so w what we got in those first four verses was uh a little portrait of Jesus. Uh we see the preeminent Christ in all his offices, prophet, priest, and king. Um and so uh going Going back to the Old Testament, uh the Hebrew word Messiah means what? What is what does messiah mean? It means anointed one. Anointed one. What is the Greek Greek word Christ mean? Anointed one. It's the same thing. Messiah and Christ are the same that's the same word, one in Hebrew, one in Greek. It means anointed one. And so what were the offices that were anointed in the Old Testament? Prophet, priest, and king. And so he's the anointed one, prophet, priest, and king. Um and he's not only a prophet, he's the prophet. He's not only a priest, he's the priest. He's not only a king, he's the king. Uh the anointed one. That's what his title is the anointed one. Messiah in the Old Testament Hebrew and uh Christ uh in the New Testament Greek. Okay. Any well any questions about last week before we launch into new verses today? Okay. Uh so if you'll take out your Bibles and turn to Hebrews chapter one. Bibles or devices. Hebrews chapter 1, starting in verse 5. So we're going to do the rest of chapter 1 here, verse 5 to 14. And as we'll see, there's lots of Old Testament. So uh various translations of the Bible do different things to show you that there's a there's a quote from the uh uh the Old Testament. Most of the NASBs put them in those small caps Small caps uh font to show that it's a quote from the Old Testament. But you'll see in this passage the almost the whole thing is an Old Testament quote. Um and we'll talk about that as we go. So uh let's read uh Hebrews 1:5. For to which of the angels did he ever say, You are my son, today I have begotten you. And again I will be a father to him, and he shall be a son to me. And when he again brings the firstborn into the world, he says, and let all the angels of God worship him. And of the angels, he says Who makes his angels win his angels wins and his ministers a flame of fire. But the sun, but of the sun, he says Your throne, O God, is forever and ever, and the righteous scepter is the scepter of his kingdom. You have loved righteousness and hated lawlessness Therefore, God your God has anointed you with the oil of gladness above your companions. And you, Lord, in the beginning, laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the works of your hands. They will perish, but you remain, and they all will become old like a garment, and like a mantle you will roll them up, like a garment they also They will also be changed. But you are the same, and your years will not come to an end. But to which of the angels has he ever said, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet? Are they not all ministering spirits sent out to render service for the sake of those who will inherit salvation? This is the word of the Lord, and we're going to take a look at in detail here. Um I got a little quote from uh one of my favorite commentaries, this one by Dr. Martin. This is this is the one that was published in twenty twenty, so the the really modern one. Um and I've got a quote uh here uh that's uh that's from his commentary. Uh that as he addresses, as he uh introduces this section of scripture. He says, At Hebrews 1 5, the writer inserts a series of scripture proofs to establish his assertion that the Son is superior in name to the angels. His purpose in doing this, of course, is to take his readers to the rule of faith. He expects them to display The nobility seen in the Berean Jews, who received the word with all readiness of mind and examined the scriptures whether the things they were taught were true. Acts 1711. This method in which appeal is made solely to the scriptures and not to tradition or to other alleged sources of truth. Assumes that the scriptures are sufficient to teach us all that we need to know in matters of faith and practice. Ultimately, the writer expects his readers to submit to the conclusions to which such an examination of the scriptures. Scriptures lead. And so and so I hope for us that the Scriptures are sufficient to teach us all we need to know from matters of faith and practice and that we will submit to what we learn from the Scriptures. Scriptures. So let's take a look. Verse 5. For to which of the angels did he ever say, You are my son, today I have begotten you. And again, I will be a father to him, and he shall be a son to me. Before we actually get into the details of these quotes, I want to lay some groundwork, give some preliminary information. First of all, the writer in Every c every occasion in Hebrews is citing the Greek translation of the Hebrew Old Testament, which was then available to his readers and called the Septuagint. Uh called the Septuagint because it was seventy uh Jewish scholars who translated the the Hebrew Old Testament into Greek. And so we can we can look at that Hebr Greek translation of the Hebrew Old Testament and see that every single quote in Hebrews is directly from that Septuagint. And why did he do that? Uh among the Jews of the diaspora, those who had spread out across the Roman Empire, the Hebrew language had fallen into disuse. Most of them did not speak Hebrew. Therefore, it is no surprise that the book of Hebrews Though written to Jews. So think about that. This is a book written particularly to the Hebrew people, the Jews, but it's not written in Hebrew. It's written in Greek, just like the rest of the New Testament. And that's because Hebrew had fallen into disuse so much. among uh the Jews around the uh uh the Roman Empire. Uh in the New Testament, which was all written in Greek, uh, the Old Testament quotations also appeared in Greek And there were two ways an author could accomplish this. One was to use the existing Greek Old Testament, the Septuagint, which was already around, or make his own fresh translation directly from the Hebrew. And in some cases we actually see. We see that uh a New Testament author has decided to make his own translation because it's not the same as the as the Septuagint. But in the book of Hebrews they're all taken from the Septuagint. And in many other books they're taken from the Septuagint as well. But not all. Not all the quotes. And so what's the ramifications when we're when all of us are reading all this in in English. So here's the ramification. So our our Old Testament, the Old Testament in your English Bible, is translated directly from what's called the Masoretic Testament Text. The Masoretic text is a Hebrew, so it's directed from Hebrew to English. So what we're reading here in the New Testament, though has been translated twice. It's it's been translated from Hebrew to Greek, and then it's been translated from Greek into English. So that same passage in in your Old Testament Bible, y y y it's only been translated once when you read it out of the Old Testament. If that same passage is quoted in the New Testament, it's been translated twice And so if anybody's done translation work, you know that it's not possible to do uh it it's it's ne it's n almost never impossible possible to do uh uh exact translation from one language into another. Um There's subtle differences between languages. And when you do that twice, it introduces more subtle differences. And so um that's why when you re Old Testament quotes in the New Testament and then you thumb back through your Old Testament and you say, Well, that's not exactly what it says. Well uh in many cases that's because it's been translated twice. Um so Just keep that in mind as we're going through here. Okay. Most New Testament authors use the Septuagint, which was wise, since that is the only way most of the original recipients could verify the scripture quotes for themselves. So think about the original recipients. They're receiving this in Greek, and they they run across across an Old Testament citation in this New Testament letter that they're receiving. The only way they can check, because the only Old Testament they've got most of them is the Greek one. And so m most of the authors I think did it because that way they're their recipients could actually check, could look up the citation and see and match. Uh if they did their own translation it wouldn't exactly match. Um Okay. Uh so that's just a little background information. as we dive into this passage because it's very heavy on Old Testament quotations. And if any of you look back, you can see, no, that doesn't that's not exactly what it says in my English Bible in the that Old Testament verse. Um okay. Uh so the Writers New Testament also Also had a high regard for the Old Testament context of passages which they cited. uh what are referred to as pointer texts. So they they would quote a small portion of a passage and they would expect the reader to be able to remember the rest of that passage and the whole context of that passage and get the the drift of what the uh what the author was trying to get across, the point he was trying to make with his with his quote from the Old Testament. Um that's the Those are called pointer texts, and that's really what most of these are. They're pointing to a a small portion of a verse or a small four portion of a passage and to really understand what he's talking about you would have to understand the the rest of that passage as well but he doesn't bother to quote the entire whole thing in there. Okay. The rabbis do that quite a bit. We see in rabbinic records. Writings uh that was very common among rabbis uh at this time as well, and and going centuries forward as well, they would quote a small part of a porse of a passage uh to make a point, when really to make that point Point, really to make that point, you needed a big portion of the text, but they would only put a little portion of it in there and assume their readers uh knew the rest or could look up the rest. Um and so as we go forward into this passage, there are seven Old Testament. quotations found in Hebrews 1, 5 to 13, 7 of them. And these are found in three pairs And then one climactic verse. So the first pair. The first pair is Psalm 27 and 2 Samuel 714. We'll see that. And it's about the Son's uniqueness. And those are both in in uh verse five. The second pair is Deuteronomy 32, 43, which is the the very end of the song of Moses. So the song of Moses is Deuteronomy 32, 1 to 43. That's the very end of it. And also Psalm 104, 4. And they're about the inferior station of the angels, comparing the fact that the angels are below Christ in their station. And those are contained in verses 6 and 7. The third pair is Psalm 45, 6 and 7, and Psalm 102, 25 to 27, and they're about the Son's supremacy of being and just who he is. And they're in verses 8 through 12. And then there's a climax, a seven seventh uh verse, Psalm 1101. It's about the son's present exaltation. Um there and that one's in verse thirteen. Okay, so th three pairs and then a a seventh One uh climax to the whole thing. Uh so let's start. Let's take a look at these uh uh these Old Testament quotes. So uh the first one is Psalm 27 To what angel had God ever said, You are my son, today I have begotten you? And of course the answer is None. God never said that to any angel. And that that's really the point. Uh it's a rhetorical question. The answer is no, none. Absolutely God's not uh t calling angels uh his son. Uh or So uh likewise no angel had said, I will be a father to him, um uh and uh and he shall be a son to me. God had never said that to an angel either. That's 2 Samuel 7 14. So the angels had always been ministers and messengers. Only Christ is the Son, so he is unique. And that's really the point that the author's making here. The angels are created servants. Uh the son is not. Uh so obviously it's better to be a son than a servant. We see that in Luke chapter fifteen. In fact sonship in the Hebrew culture spoke of equality, not subordination. We see that in John five eighteen. Um we'll get we'll circle back around to John five eighteen in a minute. Um there is no more lofty title or position, and that's why it's used. That's why uh so that was the the loft uh title for somebody um um that the that the scripture could use, the Holy Spirit could use, uh, to show a relationship with God that was the loftiest and highest one. Um Now when we get to names, of course our culture doesn't um doesn't put much stock in meanings of names. We don't we don't much um choose names from meanings. There are other cultures around the world that still do that And of course the Hebrew culture in biblical times, uh God often chose specific names that re and changed people's names um to something because it meant something, uh related to the to to the character or to some other aspect of the person's life. Yes. Yeah, we'll talk about that in a minute. Um in in a collective way, there are um sons of God and so in the in the Septuagint that's Angolos, Angeloi, so that's definitely speaking about angels in that Job two passage. Um and so in a collective way, both angels and people are talked about, children of God or sons of God. Um but not as as individuals. And so that that's the the point I think the author is is making here. Um so the Hebrew writer would have been a mere aware of this fact that names mean thing ne mean something in that culture and so it's a focus on uh names. Um so the quotation from second Samuel refers to David's greater son. We see that repeated in Luke chapter one, John seven, and Revelation five. Um and here to Richard's point, those things angel had ever been called a son of God. As with Christians, angels collectively are called sons of God. We see that in Job two, we see that in Genesis chapter six as well. Those two places we have sons of God as a collective um collective title for all the angels or uh groups of angels. Um and and we know that uh we know that that's the correct understanding because w again we can look at the Greek translation of the Hebrew Testament, the Septuagint, and the Septuagint uses the word angoloi there, both in Genesis chapter 6 and Job chapter two, angels. And so the the understanding has has always been that that phrase used as a collective or a group of angels. Sons of God means angels. This is different. This is a singular and never was a singular angel ever called the singular son of God anywhere in the Old Testament. And that's the really the point the author is making here. Um so and and what's the r what's the meaning of those passages that call angels as a collective the sons of God and people as a collective the children of God. It's the sense that God created them and that in some ways they reflect his communicable attributes, both angels and people. people have the communicable attributes of God in some degree. Um yes, so that's what those phrases mean in the collective. Uh but in scripture no individual angel is called son of God. Uh nor to any angel has God ever said today, I've begotten you, because angels are not related to God in any such way. So therefore the Son is unique. And that's really what the the writer of Hebrews is driving at here. And of course this text has to be understood uh with great care. There's some uh there's a minefield here uh that have been used and twisted by pseudo-Christian cults, for example. Uh At first glance it appears to speak of the Father's begetting the Son as an event that takes place at a point in time. So we see today I have begotten you. I will be a father to him, and he shall be a son to me. So that that uh if you're not careful, that almost sounds like Jesus came into being at some point or was it created being. And so some of the pseudo-Christian cults actually believe that and will use this passage to say ha ha see look Jesus is cr as a created being Jehovah's Witnesses relative to that. Yes they do. Um so uh let's talk about that. Let's talk about what we sh what we need to say to the Jehovah's Witnesses when they s when they come to your Or uh begetting sometimes of course speaks of a person's origin. When we're talking about people, one a man begot another m man, we have the genealogies. Um and sons are generally subordinate to their fathers in some ways and an earthly sense when we have earthly fathers and sons. Looked at in that light, the title son might seem to suggest a subordinate position or a temporal existence. And of course that would be contrary to the point the writer's making here. His whole point is that Jesus is unique Unique and and not subordinate to the to the Father and he's and he makes that in a whole bunch of different ways. And so we know that that reading that that would be an issue if the Bible was contradicting itself. And so that's not the way uh that's not the way to read this passage. Now, put yourself in the shoes of a first century Jewish reader. The title Son would be a declaration of equality with the Father. Indeed, we can see that in John five eighteen. Jesus was famously accused of blasphemy because he was calling God his own father, making himself equal to God. And so the scripture clearly tells us that that's the the implication of Jesus calling himself the Son of God is is equality with God. That's what the scripture clearly teaches there in in John five. And so um when we see that that phrase Son of God, i it's that's what it means. And and the Hebrews, the the Jews that Jesus was speaking to in his earthly ministry, they understood that crystal clear. They picked up rocks to start stoning him when he said he was the son of God. Because that made him him making himself equal to God. And so we need to read it that way throughout the scripture. And that's why the Holy Spirit put that verse in there so we would understand exactly what that was. Spirit understood that uh you know as the centuries went by, uh people would would lose touch with that uh that original Hebrew culture that understood it so clearly that Son of God, by saying Son of God, Jesus was saying I'm I'm equal to the Father. Um and John five eighteen makes sure that we understand that uh and we don't lose touch with that. Um and so the Jehovah's Witnesses have to ignore that uh when they say that the Son of God means that he's a creature. created being. No. The scripture clearly teaches that that phrase Son of God is Jesus declaring that he is making himself equal with with God. Okay. So the quotation in Psalms two seven that we have here in Hebrews 1-5 has to be read in its original context. The Psalm itself, Psalm 2-7, Psalm 2 itself, has a succession of voices. So it starts out in the opening verse of the Psalm, the first three verses, is the nations raging against the Lord. So it's the nations speaking in the first few verses. And then we have the Father answering. answering the nations. Uh and this is followed by the voice of his anointed. And so who is his anointed? That's Jesus, that's Christ speaking, uh, picks up. So there's several voices there in uh Psalm two. And when we get to Psalm 27, it's Christ Himself speaking. Um and so and and the whole um so the Hebrew author doesn't quote the whole verse two seven, only part of it. The whole verse through two seven says, um I will surely tell of the decree of the Lord. He said to me, You are my son, today I have begotten you. So it's clear if you look back at the whole psalm that it's Jesus speaking. And Jesus says, I will tell of the decrees of the Lord He said to me, You are my son, today I have begotten you. Um and so what is that talking about? Uh so we we have to set uh set in this light the word today in Psalm 27. and in Hebrew one five takes on a new significance. What what is Christ talking about with the decree of the Lord? So the decree mentioned in two seven, which is not quoted that that part of it's not quoted in uh Hebrew one five, it can only The eternal decree of God, meaning the word today, cannot be a reference to one day or any point in time. It's a reference to eternity past. The eternal decrees of God is the that's the whole phrase that sets up the rest of That verse 27. So it's a decl declaration of the eternal sonship of Christ, spoken by the Father and quoted here by the Savior Himself. So it's God's eternal degree decree, that's what the word today is referring to. referring to. And so when Jehovah's Witnesses say, haha, today he begot Christ, that means sometime in history. No, that's not the context of Psalm 27. Psalm 27 is talking about the eternal decree of God and the Father and the Son talking each other from eternity past. Um that's what the the context of that Psalm is that's then only part of it's quoted in uh Hebrews one five, but we need to be able to go back back and look at the whole thing to be able to understand the context to see what it's talking about. And to see that that word today there therefore in context is definitely not talking about a certain day. Uh it's talking about the eternal decree of God. Uh and so what about the implication of the word begotten in Psalm 27 and also in Hebrew 1:5? That expression usually suggests an idea of conception when it's used in the genealogies, for example, uh the temporal origin of the of a person or thing. But the whole point of this argument is to establish that the Son of God is a title of deity. Um and to suggest that the son was begotten at a point of time would undermine that case. And so that's obviously not what it's talking about. Um this that that phrase was well understood, Son of God, to be um a term of deity, an expression of uh by Christ of his deity, and by the rest of the scripture authors as well. And so what does this expression begotten mean then? in in this context. Uh we can see this phrase used in other places in Scripture and get an idea for what it means. The title only begotten Son is familiar to anyone who knows John three sixteen. What does John three sixteen say? For God so loved the world that he sent his only begotten son. Um and so only begotten, begotten son, begotten, is used in other uh places in the scripture, and we can get an idea for what it means there. Uh that saying doesn't Is found a few verses later in John 3. 18. It's in later on in Hebrews and 11. 17. It's in 1 John chapter 4. We also get a variation of it in John chapter 1, John 1. 14, the only begotten from the Father. John one eighteen, the only begotten God. Uh we see that uh so we've got this begotten phrase used in many different places, talking about very specifically, about Jesus. Um and so But all these uh uses of this begotten stress are the uniqueness and superiority of Christ as God. And so the Greek word monogenes um is translated only begotten. But it can also mean one of a kind. That word means only begotten, but it also means one of a kind. And so w what's the implication then of all these uses of the word begotten? So it underscore the all these uses underscore the same truth that's being highlighted here in Hebrews 1 5 that Christ is not only superior to the angels, he also is the very same thing. essence as the Father. In other words, the name tells us who he is, not where he came from. It's an it's an expression of who he is, what his essence is. That's what only begotten Son means. means in all these places and that's what begotten means here in this context in Hebrews one five as well. Yes. Is it like one word in the original? Yeah, yes. It's a Greek word that's And that mono of course is it's a singular singular. Yeah, it means singular. Um one of a kind. Yes. Yeah. And so it's literally one of a kind. And so that's really what the author is getting at. here. Christ is one of a kind. Uh yeah. Uh would you disagree with the position of the eternal blackness of the sun? Oh eternal sunness of the No I I would not I would agree with it. I would not disagree with I would agree with it. So the Nicene Creed puts it this way Jesus Christ is the only begotten Son of God, begotten of the Father before all worlds, God of God, light of light, very God of very God, begotten not made, being of one substance with the Father, by whom all things were made. So So um this is an effort by the early church fathers to stamp out these false doctrines of Christ as a created being. Um yeah. Um I was I was quite wondering too because in the previous slide you said that the sun is not supportive. Right. But if it's eternally sun, he's eternally Yes, so to the Father, though they are equal essence. Yes. Uh glory, power, uh all of that. Uh equal. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Yes. Going back to the idea that in those days the father and the son were equal. This is birthday. Father and son. Did that only apply to the firstborn son? Because I know he got a greater hair than the other son. Yeah, so i there's many cases in the scripture where primogeniture is used as a um um a symbol. And we're gonna see that here in a minute, um where the word firstborn is in the next verse we'll see. Um and that firstborn is once again not a time word. It's a position word. Um the fact that his position is a certain thing, firstborn is not and I'll show you a whole bunch of examples of why we know that that's definitely not there's only one uh his sons that's that one, the firstborn son called that. He has are no greater inheritance. Yeah. And so um yeah, we'll talk about that word firstborn and what it means in this in this context because i there's there's f yeah we'll we'll get to it in a in a couple of slides. We'll we'll talk about there's a couple of other verses that say firstborn and we can see for certain that it's not a a time word. Uh we'll we'll get to firstborn of the dead from the dead. Um when obviously Jesus was not the first person to raise from the dead. Um so it's not a time thing. Firstborn from the dead doesn't mean the first Yes. His divinity i in many c many ways in in many cases. Yeah. Um so yeah, so w I'll let me circle back to that the this idea of firstborn, yeah. position right. Uh yes. So there there is um th there are different um yeah different roles. Um there are different things that uh Father, Son, and Holy Spirit do in salvation, for example. Um the Father elects, the s the Holy Spirit regenerates, the Son justifies. Um they they do different things. Um, but they are equal in substance and equal in all their attributes are the same, their powers the same, um, their their attributes like being eternal are all the same. So they've always been there. But there was one thing Jesus himself says, of that day meaning his return, only the Father knows the son. Yep. Yep, that's true. And so yeah, so the Trinity is a great benefit. Um we there's lots of things in the Bible that tell us um about the Father, about the Son, about the Holy Spirit, and we have a and you can see the Nicene Creed people struggle. using many, many, many, many, many words to say uh that the the the sun was not a created being um because that heresy had arisen at the time and they're trying to stamp it out. And so they're trying to say in every possible way they could to make sure that there's nobody there's no wiggle room, there's no hole to to to maneuver through to say that Jesus is a created being. Yeah. Does the does the word only mean Is is it different here from in Genesis twenty two when God refers to Isaac as the your son, your only begotten son take him and Yeah, so um the word begotten is used many times in the Old Testament about a human father having a human son. And so um remember when we're trying to understand God and who he is and his attributes, many cases in Scripture uh we use what's called anthropomorphisms. We use th uh things that are common things about people, um and we use that as an analogy for God and who he is and and is how he relates and things like that. But those analogies are never perfect. Um and so though the begotten thing with a f human father and a son, it doesn't exactly work for for God and uh God the Father and Jesus. But it's an analogy, sort of. But like for example with Isaac. Isaac was not the one he got because he he had one before. It was a position thing, yes. It's in the same that's a that's a good way of thinking of it. in in terms of a position it was um Isaac even though he had ha already had Ishmael. And also Esau. Uh Esau was um um the considered the firstborn the had the birthright even though he wasn't the firstborn because of the position that God had chosen them in, re i regardless of their actual birth order. Yes. So we know that there was some mystery before Jesus as to what the Messiah truly was and what the relationship between God and the Messiah was, but they already recognized that Jesus saying, I'm the Son of God, made an equal to God. Yep. So like the scholars who translated the Septuagint, like all of those scholars they've seen all this. What was their Yeah, so uh I'm sure there was different ones, so different schools of the the rabbis, but there was great confusion Confusion about many of these prophecies. This Psalm two seven, for example, it's the Father talking to the Son, and um they would not necessarily have understood that this was the Messiah and this was Jesus and Jesus was talking I mean they they w I mean even um even those who were devout actual followers of God didn't understand. And so we get these passages in scripture saying that the old testament prophets didn't understand what they were saying. They were they were saying things and the things that were only really understood later on. And so I think all of The people living in New Test uh Old Testament times were in that boat of not understanding and um and what what exactly the Hebrew scholars made of it is difficult to understand at this time, although there's one that I have read in a number of different commentaries that there were a number of Jewish scholars who said there must be two Messiahs. Because they kept reading all these passages in the Old Testament about a suffering servant and they kept reading all these Old Testament prophecies about a triumphant king. And that can't possibly be the same person. Uh that was very confusing to the the Jewish scholars. Uh now f with hindsight we can see that that's one Messiah and two comings. Uh one says the suffering servant and then as the conquering king. Um and so there are there are prophecies about both. his first coming and his second coming. Uh and they did not understand that. And that caused great confusion. Um but yeah, i at this point it's r it's really hard to to determine what um You know, so the rabbis that were teaching young Paul, what what did they believe about the Messiah? I I it's hard to tell at this point what the what they were teaching young Paul about who the Messiah should be or would be. Yeah. And the other questions or comments? Yes, Raymond. Yes, so uh Daniel's talk full of prophecies. about um the end times for example and Jesus' second coming. Yeah. Okay. So we are th pretty well along here and we've got through one verse so far. Verse of nine, uh ten that we gotta go through today. So I better pick up the pace a little bit. So uh going on to verse six, and uh when he again brings the firstborn into the world, he says, and let all the angels of God worship him. And of the angels he says, Who makes his angels winds and his ministers a flame of fire? So Jesus Christ is not only greater than angels because he is God's Son, but also because he is worshipped. Their station is lower than his. The lower station worships the higher station. And so here we have angels worshiping him. So even though Christ humbled himself, even though he was made for a time a little lower than the angels, the angels are to worship him. Because their true station is lower than his. If angels are to worship him, he must therefore be greater than they. And that's the point that the author's making here. And if he is greater than they, his covenant is greater than the one they brought. The new covenant is greater than the old, and Christianity is greater than Judaism. Um and so we have this and let all the angels worship And so if you look at that passage in your English Bible, it will not look the same. Um it will not look the same. But in the Septuagint the Greek is actually the same. For that passage in uh in uh Deuteronomy and for this passage in Hebrew. Um the Masoretic text, the The the direct translation from the Masoritic text that we have in our English Bible looks quite a bit different. Yeah. One of the things I'm trying to get my head around is is the fact that praise by all ancient worship and it's just not appeared at all of the massive Uh correct. Uh that's great. And so uh some scholars uh say ninety uh Psalm ninety seven seven, but that doesn't say uh angels uh worshiping him either. Um so w so what's the deal? Um so uh I I think what we have to conclude is that whatever the original Hebrew was, we have today some English translation of it, we have some uh Greek translation from that original Hebrew, and They don't exactly match, especially in English. Um but this writer of um Hebrews taking his Septuagint saw in the Septuagint this phrase. And that phrase is um a true representation of the fact that he's trying to make here that that um that God is is saying or has said let all the angels of God worship him. And the fact that we can't find it in our English translation of the Masoretic text is very unfortunate. Very unfortunate. uh because it causes confusion for us. Um but consider the original audience. The original audience is these these Jewish Christians in the first century, and they're able to see in their Septuagent this quote. And that's why the Holy Spirit had the author of Hebrews put it in there that way. Yeah. Uh I think something Well I don't know either is in modern time when we quote something, our concern is exactness. It has to be the exact verbiage. But in ancient times when they would quote somebody else, it was on content. Their concern was getting the same message across. And so they weren't so concerned with the exact verbiage like we are today. Yeah. And and that's part of the reason why there's these pointer quotes, only a very small sampling of it, because the idea was then to go to the text and see what the the meaning of the whole big portion of scripture was. And that's what they're trying to draw out. And in this case, the author used that set Phrase that we can't find in our Masoretic text, and that causes us great consternation. Uh but I would just say remember the context, the original letter being written to these Hebrew and the Bible that they had, the the the the the translation that they had at the time enabled them to s to to look and see Yeah, that's the qu that's the quote from the Septuagint. Um and we conclude from reading this inspired text from the New Testament that that's true, that God really did say and let the angels of God worship him. Um yeah. Well do you know if the tech as it is currently So um th this text here in Hebrews, it is the Septuagint. Yeah. Those those Greek the Greek words here in the he in uh Hebrews one six are the Greek words from the Septuagint for Deuteronomy thirty two forty three. Um you know I'm not sure if there is It is a translation that uses the Septuagint for its Old Testament. I do you know? I I have a DSD and when I went back to my translation S V of Deuteronomy uh thirty two. It has the English translation of the subsuit in in Deuteronomy, let's put note. Yeah. Yeah, so it's um What we say about the Bible is it's inerrant uh in its original autographs. And so um it's important to understand that the Masoretic text is not the original autographs. Um it's the best we have to do our English translation from, but the Masoretic text is from like eight or nine hundred AD It's not the original autographs. So translations are not inerrant. Yeah. And and and we have so we have some really I mean the Masoretic text we have have we have reasons for high confidence in the Masoretic text because of the way the Hebrews uh did their copying of the scriptures. They were very meticulous. Uh very meticulous. And and there's so many different proofs you could use like the the Qumran scrolls have a a scroll of Isaiah and that scroll of Isaiah is from uh the time of Christ and and the Masoretic text is nine hundred AD and they match perfectly and so the Hebrew scroll Scribes from the time of Christ to nine hundred A. D. didn't get a single letter wrong from the whole book of Isaiah, which is a huge book. over over centuries and so we know they're they were really, really, really good and meticulous about copying those things down. So I don't want you to give you the idea that there there's probably all kinds of errors that no, there's not all kinds of errors in the Masoretic text. Yeah. Just the plain reading of that verse in the ESV it strongly suggests angels. I mean, yeah, it does. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, it does. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah, I think it's you know, that's the tr the truth. is that God said this and let all the angels of God worship him. Um we just we just can't r really see that very well in most in many of our English translations. Um okay. Uh so I don't want you to get concerned or wrapped up about that. I just want to make sure you're aware of it. Um, so uh but did not angels always worship Christ? Uh yes they had worshipped him throughout all the time of their existence, but prior to his incarnation they worshiped him as God and now they also worshipped him as son. Something that was new to the angels, evidently, in his arc incarnate character. So uh in this passage also we get well, let's circle back around to this uh firstborn, this title firstborn. Uh we can see also in Colossians 1. one fifteen and he is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. And so once again the pseudo-Christian cults twist this to say that Christ is a created being. He's the firstborn, that means uh uh that's a time stamp there. Uh but the uh the word uh uh prototokos firstborn uh actually has nothing to do with time it refers to position It is not a description but a title meaning the chief one. The concept was associated with firstborn because the oldest son usually was the heir to the father's estate. So uh usually uh the primary, the firstborn, was the one that was the the chief one, but the word just means the chief one. Um it doesn't it's not a time word, it's a position word. Um it's a right to rule word. It's a a word of authority, um, not a time word. Uh and Jesus Christ is the supreme firstborn, the supreme prototokas, the supreme right to rule, son. Oops. Uh he is also head of the body of the church and he is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead. First Coloss Colossians one eighteen. Firstborn from the dead, huh? I think I think Lazarus rose from the dead before Jesus. Um I think Jesus raised uh we have the phrase that Jesus raised others from the dead. We have Old Testament saints who are. came to life at the crucifixion, all of those rose uh from the dead in time before Jesus. So this word firstborn from the dead cannot possibly be a timestamp. It has nothing to The firstborn, Jesus is the most honored one, the most dignified one, the highest one of all those who have been resurrected. And that's what this f term firstborn means throughout. When it's applied to Jesus. It's not a time word. And the pseudo-Christian cults try to make it a time word, but that doesn't fit the context of the rest of Scripture when that word is used. It's a word of position, not a word of time. And so uh if you can get the uh uh the Jehovah's Witnesses to understand that uh then perhaps you can you can help them. Uh help them out of their uh the hole that they've fallen into. Um yes. What do you think is when I call them they come to my neighbor retreat with a late as quite But the sadest thing is if they don't know who Christ is, they are not sages. Oh yeah. You know? Yeah, that's that's absolutely a fact. Yeah. That's a tremendous blasphemy. Um that that yes, that a person who is saved cannot say that Christ is a created beast. And this well, this part of work thinking that they do. Okay. Jesus is also superior to the angels because of his nature. In verse 7, the Holy Spirit shows the basic difference between the nature of angels and that of the Son by citing Psalm 104 The Greek word poieo, to make or to create, is used in verse 7. Since Christ created the angels, as we saw in Colossians 1. 16, he is obviously superior to them. Not only were they created by him, but they are his possession, his angels. Notice that the possessive, his angels. They are his created servants, his ministers, his winds, and flame of fire. They belong to him. He created them. And they belong to him. And that that uh position then shows that he's superior to them. Uh verse 8. Uh but of the sun he says, Your throne, O God, is forever and ever, and the righteous scepter is the So verse eight expands on the difference between Christ's Christ's nature and that of the angels, and this time citing Psalm 45, verses 6 and 7. The Father, so, but of the Son he, so who's he here? That's the Father. That's the Father talking about the Son. Um so of the Son he says, Your throne, O God. So that's the Father talking about the Son as God, calling him God. So the Father says, The Son, your throne, O God, is forever and ever. So God the Father is acknowledging God the Son here. This verse gives perhaps the clearest and most powerful, emphatic, and irrefutable proof of the deity of Christ in the Bible, as the Father Himself calling the Son God. But what if you showed that verse to a Mohammed? There you go. You use that verse too. There's so many verses you could use. There's a almost infinite supply of verses in the Bible that talk about the deity. of Christ. And this is another one. Okay, Jesus Christ has an eternal throne from which he rules eternity as God and King. He is the eternal king with an eternal kingdom and an eternal scepter of righteousness. That's what the author of Hebrews is pointing out here. And verse nine reveals both Jesus' actions and his motives. He not only acted in righteousness, he loved righteousness. Because Christ loves righteousness, he hates lawlessness. If you love God's right standards, you will hate wrong standards. These two convictions are inseparable. And the scripture addresses this in numerous ways. Love of the world is hatred for God. this kind of uh either or uh proposition that the scripture makes over and over again. Uh righteousness or lawlessness. You can't have both. Verse nine is the most direct statement of Jesus superior So that's comparing Christ directly to the angels. That's God the Father doing that comparison. Some commentators say that the companions refer to the first time. Why would this just this one little phrase bring men into it when the entire passage is comparing Christ to angels? Makes no sense. Uh the Greek word metoha. Companion simply connotes an associate. Association, nothing more. The point being made here is that Jesus Christ is greater than angels who are his associates, his heavenly companions. They are only methods. Messengers of God, Christ too is a messenger of God, but more than a messenger, um and therefore much greater than they. He is exalted or anointed above all others. So there's the word anointed again. Anointed one, that's Christ. Christ in the Greek, and that's is the above all others, above his companions. Verse ten uh and you, O Lord, in the beginning, laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the works of your hands, they will perish, but you You remain, and they all will become old like a garment, and like a mantle you will roll them up. Like a garment they will also be changed. But you are the same, and your years will not come to an end. So The next way in which Jesus is superior to angels is in his existence, his being. And this quotation is from Psalm one oh two, Psalm one o two, twenty five to twenty seven. Here the Holy Spirit reveals that Christ is better than the angels because He exists eternally. They don't. They are created beings, so they don't exist eternally, but he does. Since the foundation of the earth. If Jesus was in the beginning to create, he must have existed before the beginning. beginning and therefore be without beginning. So in the beginning was the word John 1-1. So in order to be there to create, he has to be there before the beginning, because the creation happened in the beginning Before that, there was God, and according to John 1 1, there was the Son. Just as he would roll up and throw in an old Worn out garment when you are done with it, Jesus one day will discard the heavens and the earth. One day the elements will be destroyed with intense heat, and the earth and its works will be burned up. And so we have this description which we uh Which you of course there's great details about it in the book of Revelation, but we have the end of the present heaven and the earth, and we have a new heaven and a new earth, and that's what this psalm is talking about as well. But Christ is eternal. Eternal. Uh this present world will pass away, uh but Christ never will. Uh the incarnate word will never pass away. He's immutable, he never changes. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever. We'll see that when we get And here we are coming to the end. Any questions up to this last section we're going to do? Any questions about all those pairs of verses that are quoted. Yes. Yes, that's right. Yeah. And so that's one of the points that the um the author here if he is making to these Jewish believers, um, yeah, you may think of these angels as spectacular beings, but Jesus made them. Um yeah. The Revelation one it talks about Jesus, the revelation of Christ, and the first part it says Jesus sent his angel to John to give the revelation. Yeah. So real quick, does Jesus have an angel? So he has angels and so uh all the angels uh belong to Jesus. And and there were and what we see in Revelation there are specific angels that are given specific tasks. All all throughout the book. Um there are angels that are given specific tasks. Yeah. Okay, anything else before we launch into the final section? Yes, Kurt. I would you say that it's true that there is one sense in which Jesus had a beginning, meaning there was a point in time when he took on human flesh, whereas before that time he Correct. So there was an incarnation. There was a a a certain point in time in Bethlehem where Jesus was born, um, and he was conceived by the Holy Spirit in the Virgin Mary nine months before that. Uh but before that he was the pre incarnate Christ. We see him in the Old Testament and uh Christophanes, the the the angel of the Lord, singular, usually in the Old Testament means Jesus is is there doing something to pre incarnate Christ. Um yes, so he's always existed eternally, uh but he did take on flesh at a certain point in history. Yep. That's a that's a good point. Uh any others? Alright, verse thirteen and fourteen, let's land this plane. Uh but to which of the angels has he ever said, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet? Are they not all ministering spirits? Sent out to render service for the sake of those who will inherit salvation. So here within the first chapter, this is the seventh Old Testament quote. And it's from Psalm 110, verse 1, and it climaxes the teaching of the full superiority of Christ to the angels. So no angel has ever been promised a place at Christ. God's right hand. Only the Son will sit here. The destiny of Jesus is that ultimately everything in the universe will be subject to him. Philippians 2. 10. At the name of Jesus, every knee will bow, of those who are in heaven, and on earth and under the earth. So that's Christ's destiny. Um that's where he's ultimately everything in the universe will be subjected to him. Um no angel obviously was Ever promised anything like that. Uh notice the destiny of God's angels, though. So what is the destiny of the angels? Um are they not all ministering spirits sent out to render service for the sake of those who will inherit Salvation. For whose sake? Whose heirs is that us? Right. So Jesus' destiny is to reign, the angels' destiny is to serve forever those who are heirs of salvation. Uh what a wonderful, awesome prospect for Christians. In addition to being forever in God's presence, our destiny is to be served by angels forever. Um that's a remarkable thing. Alright, any questions about anything that we went through here today comparing Christ to the angels? Because of his uniqueness, because his status and their station, their station below his station. His supremacy of being, and his present exaltation, sitting at the right hand of the Father, comparing Christ to angels for his first century Jewish audience and for us today. Alright, let me close us with prayer