Alright, so uh we're up to the second to last class in this quarter. So this uh class and next week will end the quarter. And of course we've only gotten through five, we'll only have gotten into the fifth chapter. And so that means we'll be continuing Hebrews next quarter. And so that means you need to register for next quarter. Uh so it's that time again. So you should have received a notice in Life at Hope. Um the Friday newsletter that comes out uh with a link to be able to register for classes for next quarter. So today we're going to talk about Jesus as our great high priest. The fact that Christ is in heaven with the Father as an intermediary for us. The fact that Christ can sympathize with us. In Christ we have confidence to approach God And then we'll look at Christ's qualifications for priesthood. First of all, he has to be a man. Check. Second, he must be appointed by God. Check. And third, he must offer the proper sacrifice. Check. So he fulfills all the qualifications for priesthood, and we'll take a look at how the author of Hebrews lays that out today. Uh but first we'll take a look back at what we went through last time. So uh last time we did um uh verses towards the end of chapter four, uh the middle and towards the end we're gonna finish up chapter four. We talked about this uh verse ten and a and all these singulars in there, and some commentators um take all of those singulars and say that it talks about it's referring to all believers. Um however there's some difficulties with that and we went through that. Uh the fact that in this section of scripture, Hebrews chapter three and four, the writer refers to those who is who he's exhorting Uh only in the plural. We us are you and at no point does he use a singular for anyone except for God the Father and God the Son. So this if in fact the singular for the believers he's exhorting or the the people is exhorting Um that would be a departure from how the rest of it is structured. And so I think, and we talked about it last time, that if you take all the information together, it's probably talking, it's probably referring to Christ and his work on the cross. So then we talked about um entering God's rest and the fact that it's urgent. Um this uh Greek word to be diligent, it means to take pains, to make every effort, to s to strive zealously, uh to enter God's rest. Um we talked about the the fact that Christ i is only Christ i in Christ that we can enter that rest, the kind of rest that we're talking about here, um as a analogy or a parallel for eternal life. Uh and the the author is obviously very anxious for his um uh hearers, uh that the that none of them will fall uh through disobedience. And the verb the Greek verb there Uh the word translated disobedience, the verb form of it, to disobey, means to refuse to be persuaded, to not comply with, or to rebel. And so, of course, it's once again hearkening back to the wilderness generation having rebelled against God, disobeyed, and not entered uh the rest in Canaan that is a symbol for this eternal rest, the the ultimate uh entering of God's rest. Then we get this great description of God's word we went through last time, uh the fact that it's not static, it's active, uh pierces right down to the innermost part of the heart. Um and so it's not only the word of God is not only saving and comforting and nourishing, but it's also a tool of judgment in the sense that it sets the standard. Uh so therefore it's part of judgment. It's the standard of judgment. Um and the word analyzes uh every fact perfectly Not only that, but also motives and intentions. We can't in other words we can't hide anything from God. And then Hebrews 4. 13 is a commentary on Hebrews four twelve, there's no creature hidden from his sight, everything is open to God. Um since those things are true, we need to beware of self deception. Um I think that's one of the main takeaways of this uh part of scripture. Um the self-deception of sin uh involved in thinking that God does not notice uh our reception of His Word and our keeping of His Word. He can see right through religious facades, in other words. We've talked about this a number of times in this original uh church that this epistle was addressed to like any church, uh there were almost certainly both true believers and those who had um some sort of a facade of religion, uh, but not true faith. Um and he's trying to pierce that. He's he and he's making the point that God will pierce that. Um Any questions about what we did last time before we launch into today's lesson? Okay. If you will, uh open your Bibles or your tune your devices to Hebrews chapter four starting at verse fourteen. So we're going to go through the last few verses of Chapter 4 and the first four verses of chapter 5. So Hebrews chapter 4 starting in verse 14. As I've mentioned before, of course there were no chapters and verses in this letter. Um and so there's a little bit of artificiality in the fact that chapter four, chapter five, it was a letter and the whole thing could have been uh read all at once. Um so we're gonna do some of Chapter four, some of Chapter Five. Starting in verse fourteen Therefore, since we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God Let us hold fast our confession. For we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who has been tempted in all things as we are Yet without sin. Therefore, let us draw near with confidence to the throne of grace, so that we may receive mercy. and find grace to help in time of need. For every high priest taken from among men is appointed on behalf of men in things pertaining to God, in order to offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins. He can deal gently with the ignorant and misguided, since he himself also is beset with weakness. And because of it he is obligated to offer sacrifices for sins, as for the people so also for himself. And no one takes the honor to himself, but receives it when he is called by God even as Aaron was. So this is a description of Christ as high priest and a comparison to priests uh under the old covenant. And so let's take a look at that. I'll start with uh a little paragraph from John MacArthur and his commentary on this section of scripture. MacArthur says this, the Holy Spirit continues To appeal to Jews who have heard the gospel and turned from Judaism, but have not yet trusted Christ. He has been saying, in effect, you know your dissatisfaction with Judaism and with your own lives. You know the superiority of Jesus, the prophets, angels, and Moses. Moses and the dangers of not trusting Christ and of your need for him. What is keeping you from making the final decision? Hebrews four one to thirteen was an urgent appeal not to delay in accepting God's salvation. His perfect rest in Jesus Christ. Until now, the appeal has been large has largely been negative. If you do not believe, you will be doomed forever apart from God and his rest. God's word has been shown in its all-seeing and judgmental role as a two-edged sword. The message now turns to the positive side of the gospel. Salvation does more than keep us out of hell, immeasurably more. Salvation not only saves from spiritual death, it brings spiritual life. To walk in the fellowship of the living Christ would be a glorious thing even if there were no s hell to escape. So we have reason to receive Jesus Christ and enter into God's rest not only because of fear of his judgment, but because of his beauty, not only because of his wrath, but also because of his grace. Not only because he is a judge, but because he is also a merciful and faithful high priest. That's John MacArthur's introduction to what we're about to study. So uh let's start with verse 14 and take a look at what the scripture is teaching us here. Uh verse 14, therefore, and when you see therefore it always goes back, you've got to ask what it's there for. Uh therefore, because we're you need to urgently we're urgently striving for uh entering the rest Um and because of the h really the whole description of who Christ is, um, he comes to this kind of conclusion about what he's all just said in in summarizing Christ's role as high priest. Therefore Since we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. So throughout the book of Hebrews, this is not the first time and it won't be the last. But the the book focuses the the letter focuses on the priesthood of Jesus Christ. We've seen it going all the way back to chapter one. Uh in fact in chapter one, uh he is the one who has made purification of sins. That's chapter one, verse three. In chapter two, he is a merciful and faithful high priest. Uh chapter two, verse seventeen. In chapter three, he is the apostle and high priest of our confession. Chapter three, verse one. So high priest, high priest, high priest, high priest. This is not the first time we see a w It's not the last time we'll see it. In fact, the entirety of chapter seven, eight, and nine really focuses on the Jesus high priesthood. So um this is a A theme that the Holy Spirit hammers over and over and over again in this epistle to the Hebrews, the high priesthood of Christ. He he he keeps coming back to it over and over and over again and uh this section uh is just one and here in uh four fourteen he is called a great high priest. So uh if we go if we make a comparison which we're going to do here. The priests of Israel were appointed by God to be mediators between himself and his people. Only the high priest could offer the highest sacrifice under the old covenant, and that was o only once a year on the Day of Atonement. at Yom Kippur. All the sins of the people were brought symbolically to the Holy of Holies, where blood was sprinkled on the mercy seat as a sacrifice to atone for them. The high priest represented God before the people. and the people before God. He was a mediator of the covenant. So, uh, before the high priest could even enter the Holy of Holies, however uh much less do his work uh in presenting the sacrifice. He had to make a sacrifice for himself because he was a sinner just like those he represented. And so we're gonna see the contrast between Christ and this earthly high priest who But Leviticus Leviticus chapter sixteen, the first uh part of that chapter, uh goes through the process that the Lays out the process. The Lord through Moses laid out the process the high priest had to go through in order to be able to go himself into the Holy of Holies. The priest had to pass through three areas of the tabernacle. And then once it was in the temple, three areas of the temple, he took the blood and first, number one, he went through the door into the outer court. Number two, through the another door into the holy place. Number three, through the veil into the holy of holies. He did not sit down or delay. As soon as the sacrifice was made, he left and did not return for another year So what's the point of all that? The point of all that is is that God was relatively unapproachable. I mean there's doors and veils and only once in a year can you go in there Think about that how um unapproachable God is in in this circumstance and how he he's made this whole system to show how unapproachable he is, how how difficult it is for a sinful man to approach a holy God. There are barriers, symbolic barriers, th that symbolize the actual barrier of sin between man and God. Yes. They can pull them out, that's right. That we tinkle when he was moving around. And if they stopped moving. That was another dangerous stuff. Yeah, they did. They had some uh extreme measures like that. A rope around 'em to pull 'em out in case God struck 'em down. Uh right, they did. Yeah, and so just think about all these barriers and and the those barriers uh have a meaning. The the meaning of those barriers is that sin is a really impenetrable barrier between us and God. And so he had all these ho hoops that he had to jump through to be able to approach the holy of holies, which was a symbol, an earthly symbol of of God's presence. And you know, as if God could be confined to a little tiny room. Um God can't be confined to a little tiny room, but the the point is that that was a symbol of his presence and approaching his presence was there were barriers. To approaching the presence of God. And we'll see that, of course, Christ knocked down all those barriers. But the point is, of all that, is the the Jews who were receiving this original letter would have understood all these barriers. There's all these barriers between us and God. He's unapproachable. And then the the author of Hebrews is going to point out, well, in Christ we can boldly approach. uh the throne of grace. Uh not have to only go only the high priest and go through three different doors and have a rope around him to pull him out and all this sort of thing. It's such a contrast and especially for the Jews who were familiar with uh this whole system that was in place from the old covenant. Okay. Everybody see that. So every year, year after year, there was another Yom Kippur necessary. So it it wasn't done. Uh in other words, be and between the yearly sacrifices, every day, day after day, there were daily sacrifices. Thousands piled up over years made of produce and animals. So the process never ended and was never complete because the Priesthood was not perfect and the sacrifices were not perfect. And so that was the reality of the old covenant that the the Hebrews that were hearing this would have been very familiar with. And as we're going to see, the author of Hebrews says, Well it's very different with Christ. Okay. So Jesus, our great high priest, after he had made this one time perfect sacrifice on the cross, then here the Holy Spirit says he passed through the heavens. Jesus went to where God himself dwells. uh the holiest of holies. Not just an earthly symbol in a little room, but to the actual heaven where the actual uh where the Father actually is. Um and he didn't leave The priest went in w and made a sacrifice and left. Jesus went to where God really is and stayed. Uh he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on High, Hebrews 1 3. Uh so we see a this tremendous contrast between the earthly high priest who can only go in once a year, as soon as he's done the sacrifice, he's out. Jesus makes a perfect sacrifice and goes and sits down at the right hand of the Father. His sacrifice was made once for all. The sacrifice was perfect, and the high priest was perfect, and now he's in heaven with the Father. Just totally different from the old covenant and the earthly high priest. In John chapter 17 um just before uh his crucifixion, um Jesus is praying to the Father Often referred to as Jesus High Priestly Prayer. Jesus prays, I glore to the Father, I glorify you on earth, having accomplished the work which you have given me to do. Now, Father, glorify me together with yourself, with the glory which I had with you before the world was. And so and now that's happened. He's he's there in heaven, we uh sh uh glorified by the Father as the Father is glory i is glorifying himself uh just like it was from the foundation of the world when they were together before the incarnation and in fact all the way before the creation. Uh and Jesus is praying about that right before for the cross. Uh and then we see that he since he made this perfect atonement for sin, the purpose and it was the purpose for which he came to earth, and the work was completed when he entered heaven and presented himself in the Holy place and we'll talk about that later. Uh as I said, Hebrews chapter seven through nine is all about his high priesthood. And at the end of that section of scripture it talks about the fact that it's actually completed. He's done all his work on earth. He's died the perfect atonement for sin. He's been resurrected. He's ascended to heaven, and he sits at the right hand of the Father, and it's done. And so that's uh that's the story that the author of Hebrews is telling. to these Jewish hearers. So this is a, as I mentioned last time, most likeness to a sermon. He's preaching a sermon to this congregation that's all Jewish, um, some of whom probably had uh just the facade of faith that were that were in a congregation but were not yet believers, and many of whom were were actually believers. And he's he's making this point about their their c collective understanding and knowledge of what God had done in the old covenant And how much better was this new covenant with Christ than the old high priest, the high priesthood of Christ? And he keeps coming back to that over and over again in his sermon. So this is one point he's making in this this long sermon, but he he ends up coming back to this same point over and over again about the high priesthood of Christ. Okay. Verse 15. For we do not have So, contrast how the high priest is. So, uh at the end of verse 14, we have to be able to do that. have our great high priest, he's it and he's identified very specifically Jesus, the Son of God. And of course that blends his human nature, his human name Jesus and his divine title, Son of God, uh, both natures divine and human. And so and then we see the uh the outworking of that here in verse 15. When we are troubled or anxious or tempted, we want to share our feelings and needs with someone who understands understands. And Jesus can sympathize with our weaknesses. Our great high priest not only is perfectly merciful and faithful, but also perfectly understanding. He can sympathize with us in danger and trial and situations that come our way because he lived it He was a man who lived through dangers and trials and and temptations. If you think about the life of Jesus as uh revealed in the Gospels at the tomb of Lazarus, he w he was weeping in grief. In the Garden of Gethsemane, he was uh sweating drops of blood. Um With um great um um he had great emotions about having to go to the cross, about what he was about to face on the cross, the the wrath of God poured out for him uh for sins. He was was about to face that and there was agony there uh for him. Uh he experienced every kind of temptation and testing, different circumstances that people uh that a person would face and right now he's at the right hand of the Father interceding. And so that's the kind of high priest we have, somebody who can identify and sympathize with what we're going through. So the idea that God could and would identify with men in their trials and temptations would have been And revolutionary to Jews and Gentiles alike. But the writer of Hebrews is saying that we have a God who not only is there, he he actually exists, but one who has been here. Um a a key uh distinction, uh a key um uh uh a surprising element to to most to hear it for the first time. Um now this word weakness is, of course, it does not refer directly to sin. Christ didn't have sin, so that's not the kind of weakness he had, but to feebleness or infirmity Uh he was a hundred percent human, man, uh so he had weaknesses and infirmity in his body. Uh it refers to all the natural limitations of humanity And for us, of course, that includes a liability to sin. And so Jesus knew firsthand the drive of human nature towards sin. Humanity was his battleground where he faced and fought sin. In his divine nature, of course, he could not sin. But his human nature wa uh had this inclination towards them that he battled. There was a there was a battleground there. And of course he was victorious But not without going through intense temptation and grief and anguish, uh, in many ways as a human being. Um in all these struggles he was without sin. Horis hamartia without sin. These two Greek words together express Absolute absence of sin. So he was tempted, mercilessly tempted to sin, but not the slightest taint of it ever entered his mind Or was expressed in his words or actions or thoughts or anything else. Um so he was without sin. Yes. But wouldn't it be accurate to say that uh Jesus the temptation of Christ was directed at his command? I think that's right, because in his divine nature he was not subject to temptation. So y so yes, in order to be subject to temptation he had to take a human nature And it was his human nature at which Satan directed the temptation. So think about the things that Satan tempted him with. He tempted him with i things for his human uh on his human side. With bread and with with power on the earth, uh as a human being on the earth, um, and with worship as a human being to a God. And and Satan wanted him to worship him and Jesus said no the the the Father only. That's always one of the things that I've always thought about. Because how could he as as as deity, how couldn't he tempted with something that already belongs against. Right. Yeah. Already belong to them as as as Right. That's right. And so, um the um the this there's a mystery of course with how do you fuse a human nature with a divine nature, uh how does that work and um and and ultimately there's there's mystery there. How does that work? But I think it's clear that his divine nature is not subject to temptation. God cannot be tempted, nor does he tempt others, and so the temptation has to be directed therefore at his human nature. one thing that I remember here so uh uh uh uh McGee always would say that uh the temptations were were not uh to show that he could fall but to prove that he could that he would Right. Yep. Yeah, it was more yes, that positive aspect of of who Christ is. Yep. Yep. And so therefore he was yes, Harlan. You know, it seems like it's saying no. Jesus uh said uh uh for this purpose I came and he also said no and makes the Jews I believe on my own. And yet, uh in regard to the activity, the father in any way takes this cup from me. It seems like he was doing that to the benefit for them to know there's no other way. I think that's right. Yeah. So i i if everything that's recorded in scripture, of course, is for our benefit. It's not for God's benefit, it's it's for our benefit. And so having something that like that recorded in Scripture I think gives us the understanding yes that was the only way. Yeah. Yeah. You know, God used Satan's actions, you know, and since that what he did, he he knowed himself. We know that, you know, but was to see that Christ was standing out, you know, an example of what we should do. Yes, that's right. And so uh goes yeah, circling back to w why why why the particular events in scripture are described and not other events. Um, you know, at at the end of the book of John, if if everything that Christ did was recorded books there would be no room for all the books to be written. But the things that are written are for us to understand. It's to increase our understanding, to help us to understand who God is and understand his plan of redemption and understand how we should live as followers of Christ. So all those things are in there for a purpose and for our good, for us to understand how how is it that Jesus resisted temptation? What did he use? He is scripture, right? He used scripture. And so uh what's uh what are we to draw from that? What's what do we learn from that? What we gotta know scripture And when temptation comes, how do we battle it? Use scripture. Uh that's what Jesus did. Yeah. So uh Satan tempted uh the Lord with uh basic principles of him which is uh lust of the flesh and lust of the love. uh in the Bible. Yes, he did. That's exactly right. And so uh we see John mention those three things in in the book of first John and that's exactly how Satan tempted Eve, right? All the way back to the garden, that's exactly the same. Uh he has one playbook, Satan does. Um those three things are what he t tempted Eve with, those three things are what he tempted Christ with. Same And it's also what he tempts us with. Alright. Very good. Uh any others? Okay. Verse 16. Therefore, let us draw near with confidence to the throne of grace, so that we may receive mercy. and find grace to help in time of need. So the Holy Spirit appears to appeals here to the entire congregation, those who are yet undecided about accepting Christ as their Savior and also struggling believers. We want to We want to draw uh we wanna with confidence, ne draw near with confidence to the throne of grace so that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. That applies to everybody. It it applies to those who don't believe they need to accept Christ so that they can do this. Those who have accepted Christ need to do this whenever we're struggling. Those who are wavering should not only keep from going back into Judaism, but also should hold on to their confession of Christ and go to draw near with the Christ. confidence to the throne of grace. So this is a congregation of Jews. Some are believers and and some are not. By Christ's sacrifice God's throne of judgment is turned into a throne of grace for those who trust in him. As the Jewish high priest once a year sprinkled blood on the mercy seat for the people's sins, Jesus shed his blood once for all time for the sins of everyone who believes in him. That is his perfect provision. And that's what the author of Hebrews. Hebrews is is trying to get them to understand that you've got this perfect provision, and so if you only accept him, you can draw near with confidence to the throne of grace. You don't have to uh go uh through a high w uh a human high priest that only goes in there once once a year and it's got to go through three separate doors and only once through a veil with a rope so they can pull 'em out and all this kind of stuff, you can draw near with confidence to the throne of grace yourself. Uh and receive mercy and find grace in your time of need. Not just Once a year in the Day of Atonement, but in the time of need, you can approach with confidence this throne of grace in Christ Jesus because of his perfect provision. And this would have been very stunning to Especially Jews who are hearing it for the first time. Man, that's really something spectacular. Daniel. Yeah. I think that's what I think that's what the the author of Hebrews is doing by making all these analogies to the uh to the human high priest. And we'll see in the first four verses of uh chapter five that he very specifically is talking about a human high priest and he's kind of making this uh this uh parallel Um that you know, the human high priest goes into the mercy seat and he does it over and over again, but here we have but you can approach the the throne of grace because of Christ. Um and and then you can do it in your time of need, not just on the Day of Atonement. Yep. Yes. It's amazing. That's what Christ does. He's sitting with the Father. He approaches him at any time. And he's saying that we can at any time do that ourselves through any mediator. Yeah, so so here we are, we're approaching the king, and there's Jesus uh sitting on his right hand, and as we're we're moving up, you know, um Y y you know, y the the scepter could come down and zap us or the scepter could say, Come on up and Jesus whispers and guide no that's what a mine. He come on come on up. Um and so yeah, that's the the picture. Uh Jesus is there interceding for us at at the right hand. hand of the father and whispering in his ear, that's one of mine. Yeah. Yep. So and so it's a just a a an earthshaking thing for the Hebrews of that day and for us today. Uh just a uh a amazing thing that we should really stop and pause and drink in. We can draw near with confidence to the throne of grace. So yeah, so so there there are some human institutions um that uh put artificial barriers and and and erect artificial pathways to God. Um and I think the Catholic Church has a number of those. The confession booth where you confess through a priest instead of directly through your High priest Christ to to the throne of grace yourself and also the intercessory prayers that they make through Saints and through Mary. Rather than approaching the throne of grace and confidence in Christ, they m they go through these other intermediaries that the the scripture knows nothing about. Um the scripture doesn't have Peter as an intermediary between us and the throne of grace. There there's nothing in Scripture about that. Uh yes, Richard. So yes, but However, um he's been um addressed as high priest also in the first three chapters. Chapter one and chapter two and chapter three all have instances of uh Jesus described as high priest, which is an intermediary intercessor role. So it's not the first time we see him as an intermediary role. Although the real focus is on salvation earlier um and the main description of him as high priest is still coming in chapters seven through nine. Um so um the the author he doesn't uh he doesn't lay it out in in terms of not talk about his high priesthood in those three first three chapters. He does talk about his high priesthood um in in the sermon that he's preaching. But yeah, I think there's a there's a focus on it here in the end of chapter four, beginning of chapter five. And then there's another refocusing on it with more intensity in chapter seven through nine. Any other questions or comments? Okay. Um so Um and so the author is astounded that anyone could possibly reject uh such a great high priest. Uh how can anyone possibly reject a high priest like this, such a savior, who not only permits us to come before his throne for grace and health, but pleads with us to come in confidence. How can anybody reject that? And so the Holy Spirit is calling us to come boldly to God's throne of grace. Because of Jesus. And to come and receive grace and mercy before it's too late and your heart is hard. The time of need is now Uh there's no no use to wait, uh, if you're still wavering. Okay. Um and then chapter f uh again this the thought really continues in chapter five. Um once again it's a letter that didn't originally have chapter breaks. So let's look at verse 1 and chapter 5. For every high priest is taken from among men is appointed on behalf of men in things pertaining to God in order to offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins. He's just going over what the role of a high priest is in general and what it was in the old covenant, as we'll see here. So a priest has to partake of the nature of the persons for whom he mediates. That's the point that the authors making here if if he's gonna mediate for men, well he better be a man who uh is in the same circumstance. Uh uh a true high priest therefore had to be taken from among men. That's the point he's making. Uh that is he had to be a human being to intercede for human beings. God did not choose angels, for example, to be priests. Angels do not have the nature of men. They can't truly understand men. They've never been men, they didn't create men. God created men so he can truly understand us, especially because he sent Jesus to become a man. But angels are not in that circumstance at all Right? They didn't make us, and they aren't us, and so they can't fulfill this role. Only a man could be subject to the temptations of men, could experience suffering like men, and thereby be able to minister. Minister to human beings in an understanding and merciful way. Only a man could rightly minister as priest on behalf of men. Yes, Ron. Bodies will be above the angels. Correct. Yeah, and in some ways we'll be ruling over angels. Right. So we are different. um from the angels. Yeah. Any other comments, questions about any of this? Yes. a whole piece of the age. The parents of a man that didn't really vary human you know human brail to the high things has to be Yeah, so that's right. And and so um Quite a bit of the uh the work of the early church was to stamp out heresies about the nature of Christ. about his nature. The fact that he is one hundred percent man and one hundred percent God, as the scripture teaches, there were various heresies that w that Satan tried to wreck the church with in the early church. And one of those was he wasn't fully human. He wasn't really human. He only appeared that way. Um and the other extreme of course is he wasn't really God. Um and so those are the the two big heresies that rose in the early church and had to be stamped out. Yeah. And i if you read Hebrews carefully, if you read any of the scriptures carefully, you'll see that those heresies don't hold up. to the truth of scripture. But but nevertheless they arose in the early church. Yes. Oh yeah, I mean yes, there are m ex extreme blasphemies like that that Jesus married Mary Magdalene, I've heard that one. Uh yeah, there's all kinds of things. like that. But uh the scripture I think is clear um when we read the whole thing and uh understand it in context we see it emerged that he was uh fully man and fully god. And the point that the the author of Hebrews is making here is that only a man could minister as priest on behalf of men. And so remember of course the original audience that we're talking to. Um we can see the importance of the point that he's making here about Jesus. To be the perfect high priest, in fact to be a priest at all, he had to be a man. Um this much was completely clear and acceptable to the Jews. Their problem was the incarnation. How could God become a man? The the idea of a man as a priest, yeah, they were very familiar with that. But how could this man also be God? How could God become a man in order to become a priest? That was the big issue. And one of the ways that the Holy Spirit goes about explaining that here is the necessity argument that he had to be a man in order to be a priest. The Messiah who is God could not be a true priest, high priest, unless he was a man. Uh that's the point he's trying to make here, uh that the Jews would have had difficulty with. It's repetition, it is. Two he said we had we make made like us in every respect instead of us. That's right, and so and so that's a one of the tools of a good sermon. W uh and an important point, you repeat it, you you pound on it, you make sure your audience hears this point And so that's one of the reasons why this is often considered as a sermon, because it it hammers points in a way that is typical of how you would preach to make sure people get the key points, there's repetition there. And we see that here in in Hebrews. So unless God could feel what men feel and go through what men go through, He would have no experiential understanding of those whom he represented. And that was critical to the high priest. And we see that uh come out here in this particular passage of Hebrews. So uh under the old covenant, remember, Remember God was unapproachable. Uh approachable o only under very stringent uh circumstances. At the fall God drove Adam and Eve out of the garden. So remember they used to walk with God in the cool of the day and uh um in the garden and you know, talk to him and walk with him. Uh but that all ended with the fall. They were expelled from the garden and didn't have direct access to God's presence like they had before the fall. Also in the wilderness the people were warned not to come too near to Sinai That was a holy mountain. Don't set foot on that holy mountain, they were told, uh, where God chose to manifest himself to Moses when he gave the covenant of the law. In the tabernacle in the temple we've seen before, he's behind a veil, behind all these shut. doors and could be only approached by the high priest and only once a year. And so it was it was a pattern throughout the Old Testament that God was unapproachable. But in sending his son, God no longer kept himself aloof and separate from men. There was a way to go directly to the throne of grace and no longer separated from men in the same way. And so uh w we have symbols of this. Uh one of the most striking is the um when Jesus died and said it is finished to tell us that I paid in full. What happened to that curtain? The very curtain of this holy and holy that we're talking about? It was torn in two, it was torn in two from where from top to bottom, symbolizing that God had torn it. From heaven, from top to bottom, torn open, and there's the Holy of Holies laid bare. And God did that and and He did it right at the moment. when Christ died. Yes. I think by using the term jail, most Americans think of a ride. veil and how thin the veil was. This veil was from eight to eleven inches thick. It was woven so thick it was said that two teams of oxen folding both up couldn't Right. Yeah. It was a this is a a curtain, but it was a curtain that was like as thick as a telephone book book. We don't have telephone books anymore, so you guys don't know what a telephone book was. So yeah, it was like this th yeah, it was a very, very, very thick curtain that no human being could have torn. Um yeah. But God tore it. to open himself to show that he was now uh uh open to being approached even in his holiest place the throne of grace uh through Christ Alright, um and so um verse four is really tied to verse one. Uh verse one, for every high priest taken from among men is appointed on behalf of men and things pertaining to God in order to To offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins. And verse 4, and no one takes the honor to himself, but receives it when he is called by God, even as Aaron was. So a true priest could not be just any man. He had to be appointed by God. And that's the point that the next point that the author of Hebrews makes here. No one takes the honor to himself but he receives it when he is called by God. So it was not an office that a man could fill simply because of his own plans or ambitions. Hey, I want to grow up to be a priest. Okay. Okay, Johnny, no, you can't grow up to be a priest. You have to be appointed on behalf So remember when the priesthood was established, Moses w God gave Moses instructions, and Moses gave instructions to the people. In Exodus 28, bring near to yourself Aaron your brother, and his sons with him, from among the sons of Israel to minister as priest to me, Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, Eliasar and Ethemar, Aaron's son. So the God appointed them priest, no nobody but God appointed the priests. From the beginning of the priesthood, the priests not only were to minister for God, but by his appointment. When Korah, Dathan, and Abiram insisted on trying to democratize the priesthood and claimed that any Israelite could be a priest, the Lord caused the earth to swallow them up. Number sixteen. So it was such an egregious affront to God that somebody thought that they could appoint themselves the priest that he caused the earth to open up and swallow them right in front of the people. And so what what lesson do you think the people learn from that. Don't try to appoint yourself a priest. Um or the earth will open up and swallow you. Yeah. Yes. Um to explain the Lion's data being appointed as high priest. So um I don't know what his lineage was. Uh what was the lineage of Zadok? So it was you know, when God prophesied that he would destroy the house of Eli in first Samuel. Right. And then he destroyed it. Finalized that. When Solomon became king, the high priest was wicked, he was a descendant of Eli, and so he removed him from office and put in Sadak. But who was Zadok's ancestor? So it was still Aaron. Right, so it was still Aaron. So that's who God appointed, Aaron and his sons. So w what happened here was Kura, Dathin, and Abiram were not Aaron's lineage. They they just said, any why can't any Israelite be a be a high priest or a priest? And God said, God just opened the earth and swallowed them up. Um So uh in the case of Zadok he was a descendant of Aaron, and so he was a priest and and could be a high priest. Um yeah. So yeah, so God had appointed Aaron and his descendants. So So Zadok was appointed because he was Aaron's descendant. But these three were not Aaron's descendants, thought that they sh Hey, why well that's not fair. Uh everybody should have a chance to be a priest and and God said, No, that's not how it works. Um, yeah. Okay, good. Good good question, good points. Any yeah. Yes. Yeah, yeah. And so and we also have examples of offering the wrong sacrifice, strange phrase. fire and fire went out from the Lord and burned them up. Um they were the they were the right priests, but they offered the wrong sacrifice. Um yeah. So, um verse We're going going fast here. We're gonna finish early. Uh yeah, the uh if I if I see this right, this is also the first time that the author introduces Aaron and the flow of thought. Uh I think that's right. I think that's the first time his name shows up. Um it's kind of cool in the book of Hebrews that Oscar kind of introduces a thought and deals rules with it and then and then it's almost like you know that weird move you do in a square dance where you keep handing off to another person. It's almost like that. I'm just about done with this argument and then I'm gonna go grab another argument. And that's kind of the s signal I think. that he's in the Atlanta preparing to m move on to the next argument. But from the high priest, the next logical thing is to talk about Karen. Yeah, I think that's uh yeah, he does have a kind of a logical sequence that he goes through, but he does keep coming back to um to hammer on this a similar point again. So like I said he he touches on Jesus high priesthood in chapter one and chapter two and chapter three and then he has this kind of focus on it here, chapter four and chapter five. Uh, but then he has a whole section from chapter seven to chapter nine where it's all about the high priesthood of Christ. Um so yeah, it's it's organized where he goes through arguments and then goes on to another argument But he does come back and hammer um certain points, like Christ's pre uh high priesthood over and over again in the sermon. Um yeah. Okay. A any other questions or Comments here. Alright, chap uh verse two. He can deal gently with the ignorant and misguided, since he himself also is beset with weakness. So as a child, remember uh Jesus' life, we we don't know a whole lot about his early life, but we do know a little bit. Uh but he learned and grew like anyone. He was a child who grew up through his he was a baby and then he was a toddler and he was a young child and he was a young man and he grew up. Uh we see that in Luke chapter two. Uh he chose to experience all our non-sinful weakness. so that he could be sympathetic. So he went through his the whole uh normal growth cycle of uh of a human being. Um and so he knows what that's like too. Um a true high priest had to be sympathetic with those to whom he ministered. A true high priest would be completely involved in the human situation. Uh he needed to be living among men as a man to experience their highs and lows, so he could deal gently with them, is the point that the the Holy Spirit makes here. Um there's a Greek word here that Uh it's translated deal gently. Um Metriopatheo means to treat with mildness or moderation. In context, here in Hebrews chapter 5. 2, it carries the idea of being in the middle of things, kind of in the middle of the human condition, in order to deal gently, in two particular ways. First, the Being in their midst and being fully involved. Second is taking a middle ground of knowing and understanding, but avoiding extremes, dealing gently. A person with this characteristic would show a certain balance between ir irritation and apathy. The extremes, in the face of wrongdoing, he would be patient with the wrongdoer but not condone the wrong. And so we see this in Jesus' life over and over again. He was able to uh to perfectly walk that middle ground of exhibiting uh a sympathy and care for somebody with that was in sin without condoning the sin Uh one of the great examples of that is the woman at the well. He was able to talk to her with great compassion and interact with her and in no way condone her sin. In fact very directly address it with her. Uh and and make sure that it got addressed by asking her, uh, go get your husband. Right? So he made sure that her sin came out front and center, but he did it in a uh kind of a loving way. That's that's what this d that's what this Greek word deal gently means. That that's what it means. To be able to walk that line perfectly. Uh sympathy While not condoning sin. Yes. So um let me see if I can understand what you're saying such that Um dealing with people's mindsets, is that what you're talking about? Right, yes. And so yes, he did explain things, uh, in various ways, parables and other things, to make sure people had the right understanding of of these theological concepts. Uh but he did it gently. Uh he was able to deal gently with people. Um it in including identifying their sins and their and their um wrong ways of looking at things uh in such a way that um he was sympathetic with them while explaining their um the ev anything that was wrong or their misperceptions. Yes. Subject to Joseph marrying Tudorist. Yep. Yeah, he wa he was um i so it would be a sin for him to disrespect his parents, right? That would be a sin. He didn't commit any sins. So he never showed disrespect to his parents. So you can imagine how upset his wrong issue. Yeah, I know. You yeah, you think think about that, his brothers and si sisters little goody two shoes Jesus is always making us look bad. I just want to mention he was somewhat less sympathetic if he chose the bird still when he saw the pattern. That's true. And so um He he had a um he had a some advantages we don't have. He could see people's hearts and see what was in their hearts and he could see what was in the Pharisees' hearts. And so He could he could see what they needed to hear, and what they needed to hear was much harsher than what others needed to hear. And also they were in a unique position where they were supposed to be explaining scriptures, explaining who God was and his relation with people, and they were doing that wrong and causing harm to others because of their position. And so that required a much sterner and stronger word of rebuke to those those people. Yeah And if that was being h him being mono, just imagine that the planet didn't have the military ones. True. Yes, he could have just struck them dead, for example. That would that's one possibility in that situation is just to strike them dead, to have the earth swallow them up. for example. Um but he didn't d he he was gentle with them by not having the earth swallow them up, for example, or fire fall down from heaven. At one point Peter ever wanted fire to fall down from heaven on people that were uh resisting Jesus. right? And what did Jesus say? No, no, he's not gonna do that. So he he didn't um he didn't do He wasn't he was never as harsh as he could have been, even with the with the Pharisees. Yeah. I think Delhi was very chat with the Pharisees. That's true, he was. Yeah. Chop off the ear of the high priest's servant, yeah. Was dying. You know, although who was actually Yeah. Right. And he took he took time to p heal the ear the the that uh Peter chopped off too. Yeah. So yes, he dealt gently. Um even in times when he was harsh he was much gentler than yeah than he could have been. Um yeah. So um So he had this he had this balance perfectly, dealing gently with people in the face of of wrongdoing. the h the priest is to deal gently are those who are ignorant and misguided. That is those who th sin through ignorance. Um and there's a parallel in the old covenant. So in Numbers fifteen, for example, it says this, the priest shall make atonement before the Lord for the person who goes astray when he sins unintentionally, making atonement for him that he may be Forgiven. There was no provision made for unrepentant, deliberate, and defiant lawbreaking. That same chapter in verse thirty, but the person who does anything defiantly, whether he is native or an alien, that one is blaspheming the Lord, and that person shall be cut off from among his people Um and so that's th this is that this is a parallel that the uh the Holy Spirit is drawing here uh with dealing gently with the ignor with the ignorant and misguided with how it was set out in Numbers chapter fifteen in the old covenant Um uh so the emphasis here is on sympathy. Uh the high priest was meant to have sympathy toward those who ignorantly went astray. Um the Jewish high priest himself was a sinner. Um He had the natural capacity and he was supposed to have the sensitivity. Of course they not not all of them did of course. Uh he was supposed to have the sensitivity to feel a little bit of what others were feeling. So he was in it with them. And of course we've seen that there's a parallel there. Christ was in it with us too because he went through, he became a man and went through that sort of temptation, the same sort of temptation we have. Verse three, um and because of it he is obligated to offer sacrifices for sins for the people, so also for himself. And so this is obviously talking about the human idea. priest here. Jesus didn't have to offer sacrifices for himself. This is a he's drawing the parallel and he's going back to the uh the priests from the old covenant. Um so the high priest made two basic kinds of offerings in the old covenant. Gifts and sacrifices. Uh gifts were primarily the grain or meal offerings, the only bloodless offerings prescribed under the old covenant. It was a thanksgiving and dedication offering, and it's uh described in Leviticus. Chapter two. The grain offering consisted of fine flour and oil mixed with frankincense to give it a pleasant aroma and sometimes baked or fried into a cake. Um and so and of course some of the the remnants of that went to the priests. The priests were allowed to eat that after the the sacrifice offering was done. Uh so the offering it represented the dedication of a person And and all his possessions to the Lord in thanks for what God had done. So it was giving back to the Lord from the produce, um, the grain offerings. The sacrifices, on the other hand, were for the expiation of sin. Um Um they could not take away the sin tendency, of course, or the sin capacity, the sin nature. None of those sacrifices could ever do that But were made for the forgiveness of particular sins. Consequently, they had to be continued, repeated. Day after day, year after year, because that's all they were doing is is they were uh a sacrifice uh expiation for particular sins that they committed, but never could they do away with sin the sin nature that we have. Um nothing could do that. Um nothing except the perfect sacrifice of Christ. Yes. Exactly. I'm just saying that it's it's uh well. So yeah, so um so the the overall purpose, what was the purpose of the entire sacrifice? Show people how sinful they are, but w ul ultimately what is it pointing towards? It's pointing towards Christ. It's looking ahead to Christ, to the land that was promised, the one that really could take away sins. And so how was an Old Testament believer saved? Saved by grace through faith In Christ, so in the ultimate sacrifice that was coming, and that all these sacrifices were pointing forward to, and the author of Hebrews comes back to it in chapter ten and says, Hey, all these sacrifices in and of themselves themselves could never do away with sins, but the sacrifice they were pointing towards actually can do away with sins. Yeah. John W. John says that John the Baptist said, Behold, the Lamb of God that takes away the sins. So uh and that's the purpose for which Christ came and all of those that sacrifice system was pointing forward to Christ, the the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. Um Yep. So um It but but those sacrifices uh uh could not take away sin and they were repeated over and over and over again. Um and of course the high priest himself was a sinner and had to sacrifice for himself as well, um as for the people. And that's the point the the author makes makes here. Um so let me uh finish up here with another paragraph. paragraph from uh John MacArthur um that kind of summarizes this whole uh thing that he's uh the author of Hebrews, the the Holy Spirit, the author of Hebrews is teaching um these people. Uh among the first things A Jew might have asked another person about his religion were, who is your high priest? Who mediates between you and God? Who offers the sacrifices to atone for your sins? A Jew during the time of the early church may well have asked a Christian, How are your sins going to be pardoned when you have no one offering sacrifices and no one interfering? interceding for you. How can you claim that this new covenant supersedes and is superior to the old covenant made through Moses when it leaves you without a high priest? The Christian would have replied, but we do have a high priest, a perfect high priest. He has offered sacrifice for our sins. He does not confine himself to an earthly temple, nor does he have to sacrifice yearly, much less daily. He made one sacrifice that atones for all sins ever committed. From the beginning to the end of time. That is how great a high priest he is, and how great his sacrifice was. Not only that, but our high priest is seated at the right hand of God and continually in the That's what the Holy Spirit is teaching here. That's what he was teaching to that original Hebrew congregation, and that's what he's teaching to all believers for all time as recorded in in Scripture. Alright, any questions or comments about any of that? Yes, ma'am? Oh Melchizedek. So yeah, we're gonna get to that. So uh there's a whole section of Hebrews that that uh compares him to uh to Melchizedek, and so um Melchizedek is a mysterious figure in the scriptures we just have this very one this one very brief description of him where Abraham um if you remember the story there's uh there's five kings and they come and they um And they kind of um they pillage a whole bunch of kingdoms and take away lot and and lot of and all of lots of stuff. And Abraham puts together a coalition and goes after them catches them and comes back. And on the way back he stops by this mysterious figure, Mel Melchizedek, who's the king of Salem which means King of Peace, Shalom, Peace. Um and he's a priest and and Abraham offers sacrifices to him. Um and the author of Hebrews later on will see says, well the the lesser person offers sacrifices to the greater. And so this priest Melchizedek must have been greater than Abraham Um and he uses that story to then make a a a analogy to that man and Jesus, the fact that Jesus is a priest in the order of Melchizedek. Kizedek is a way of the author of Hebrews saying, he's greater than Abraham. So those are both Psalms. It's in Psalms, I will make you a priest. In the Order of Meltism. Yes, he does. He does. And so David mentions it, and then so we have this mention of the actual man Melchizedek just once in Scripture, that one place. Then David mentions that the Messiah. Messiah will be priest in the order of Melchizakh. Well, what what are the what are the points that he's making? Well, one is uh Jesus was not um a Levite, not a Levite and not a descendant of Aaron. Right? So that that could be an issue for uh a Jewish person, right? The the earth swallowed up the guys who who were not descendants of Aaron and tried to make themselves priests, so uh w we need sa uh uh th there's there's something else going on here. And so the The author of Hebrews points out, well, we had this Melchizedek guy all the way back before, so Abraham of course is before Aaron and Moses So, in other words, there was such thing as a priest even before God instituted the pr the priesthood of Aaron. There was a a different priesthood even before that. And so therefore Jesus is in some ways like that. He's not a descendant of uh of of Aaron. Melchizedek was not a uh descended of Aaron, he was way before Aaron, and Jesus was way before Aaron too. Um and so there's some parallels that the author of Hebrews uses uses this man Melchizedek to to bring out Uh essentially. And we'll we'll talk a lot about that when we when we get to that section. Yeah. So in twenty twenty three on the tour to Israel, we were taken to an archaeological study. We were told it believed to be the house of milk. Wow. Okay. In Jerusalem and it's about ten or fifteen feet under street level. Right. It was uh Jewish archaeologists who came to us. I don't remember the details of why people We believe this to be the house that we'll take that. But guessing that was important to Christians as well as to Jewish people. Yeah, fascinating thing to think about. Um this this man who's just briefly mentioned David brings him up as a prophecy really pointing forward to the Messiah, and the author of Hebrews brings it up. Uh we'll see later on. He'll mention his birthday without the oh misses the right wrong. Yeah, so the the author of Hebrews will draw that parallel because uh Melchizedek just springs up there. Abraham uh sacrificed but we don't know anything about his genealogy, where did he come from, um, you know, who who was he, who was his family, what you know, we don't know anything like that. And the author of Hebrews uses that as a analogy to Christ having no beginning. Yes. Oh I'm sorry. Go yeah, go ahead. Um could explain where um maybe the con conversation is not what that began, but between the father and Christ as more of the change? Oh yeah, so I I think sometimes um this has been changing no longer I think Christian but for a lot of easy so more approachable to their father. I think that is the kind of the technology that I think you need to see. Something but so he felt like like the father of it Y yeah, yeah, it's it's um it's difficult to yeah to think about the different personalities of the three persons of the Trinity and and how we think about them differently. Uh they are different persons. Um And yet it's one God, and so that's something of a mystery. Um and we get a description of God the Father quite a bit in the Old Testament We have a description of Jesus in his earthly ministry as a man, and we have all these descriptions of him here as a high priest, as somebody that intercedes for us. And so In some respects we have to uh use our imagination about how what that looks like. So um I I don't I don't know what the conversation is between the the father and the son. Um so that's something that you know, that that situation I talked about, well you come to the throne of grace and Jesus whispers in God's ear. That's my imagination. Uh you know, the scripture doesn't say Jesus and Jesus whispers in his ear. Um so i in some respects we uh I think God does expect us to use the imagination that he's given us. Um based uh but based on the solid foundation of the scriptures. It has to be we have to imagine in uh something that comports with scripture, that that fits with what we learn from scripture. Well at the same time it's done by that thing. Oh yeah. Yes. Mm-hmm. Yep. So I'm I'm thinking about in uh in Peter's letters where he talks about his audience being a royal thesis and a holy nation. Wondering if you have any thoughts. on you know that idea as it relates to you know Jesus being our I think in some ways that um us being a royal priesthood is talking about us participating in reaching the loss for Christ. And so in that sense we are intermediaries between God and other men because we're bringing them the gospel. Uh I I think that's what the the priesthood of believers is really talking about. Okay. Uh we've run out of time. I apologize. So let me uh close this in prayer