Uh so uh today part seven we're gonna be starting into chapter three. Last week uh Doug Baldridge uh taught uh the end of chapter two and I I got a chance to listen to the audio of that. So uh So I got to hear the teaching as well. Uh I'll be here today and next week and then the following week on October twenty-seventh once again I'm um I have to teach the new members class one more time. on October twenty seventh. So Doug will be back uh on October twenty seventh to teach once again. So today we'll be talking about in the first part of chapter three why Christ is greater than Moses. Uh Um Christ is superior in office to Moses. He's an apostle and high priest. We'll talk about that Jesus being identified as as an apostle. That sounds a little strange at first blush. Uh we'll talk about Christ's superior works to Moses, that he's the building. of the house, Christ's superior person to Moses, that he's the son, and Moses is a servant. So that's what we're going to be learning today. Uh but first let's take a look back. I know uh Doug Todd I I did post my notes um what I would have taught if I was here. I posted those notes. Um on uh but on the Hope Book for our group, I have posted the file of my notes for last last week's material. Um and so I'll just go through some of the things that I know you learned from Doug last week. So last week at the end of chapter two we saw that it was fitting for him who for whom all things and through whom all things. Um and that prefers primarily to God the Father and Doug brought out that. Of course those some of those things are true of Christ as well, but in the way the sentence is structured it's really referring to the Father. those things. Uh it was fitting. God uh through Christ was consistent with his character that uh the the way th that things were done, the way that he um provided this atonic atoning sacrifice, this Salvation um was consistent with God's character all the way. The cross was consistent with God's wisdom and his holiness and his power and his love and his grace. Um and though and of course Christ Christ uh was made a little lower than the angels when he was uh incarnate, he was made a man, um and by that method of Christ becoming a man and sacrificing himself, many sons were brought to glory and he was the perfect author of their salvation. And uh Doug made the point, um the word author there he he um he said he used captain, which is another good way of of expressing the captain of our salvation. There's various ways to translate that concept. And I think he was using ESV And um the NASB says author, but but captain is a good way to of of thinking about it. Um and so he became our substitute and the captain or author of our salvation, and he also became our sanctifier. fire and Doug talked about this last time, the one who makes us holy. So sanctification means set apart, but set apart for what? Set apart for holiness. Um and so he's the uh not only um there as our Savior, our justifier, but also our sanctifier. So and then we've got uh we continue along the last week we continued along with this idea of shift Sharing, so uh sharing in the flesh, so Christ shared in the flesh, the children share in the flesh. Um the Greek word there is koinonia, it means fellowship or communion or partnership, and it involves something that we have in common with others, uh flesh and blood in this case. But Christ uh partook of this thing that's this flesh and blood that's common to us. But there's a different word there for partook for Christ doing that. And that word has to do with taking hold of something that is not natural to one's own kind. So Christ, when he became flesh and blood, he partook in this flesh and blood, but that was not his natural state. He was taking something that was unnatural to him. By nature we are flesh and bread. By nature Christ is not. Um and Doug went through this. Why did Christ have to become a man? He he in order to be the perfect salvation for us, the perfect sacrifice for us, he had to become a man. God had to wrest the power of death from Satan. And that's the purpose for which Christ came. Um and so and then of course the author of Hebrews makes the point that he came to redeem men not angels. So he became a man, not an angel. Um he was here to save men. That's why he became a man. Um we see him as a merciful and faithful high priest. Um and so uh we'll see Throughout the book of Hebrews, that Christ has three offices, prophet, priest, and king. And here we talk about his office as a high priest. And so there's a quote that's coming. in the next chapter, Hebrews chapter four, for we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who has been tempted in all things as we are, yet without sin. In order for him to be that perfect high priest, he had to become a man. so he could be tempted in all things as we are, and that's, we'll get to that in Hebrews chapter 4. Any any questions about what you learned last week uh from Doug. Yes, Kurt. But I I thought about just kind of stepping back from Hebrews and um thinking about it and reading about it, maybe with the the ears and eyes of the original hearers who were not Jewish. And it doesn't read as though it's a steep time for a Gentile to understand the the concepts, the Old Testament concepts that are that are taught and used in the book of Hebrews. You don't have to be totally steeped in Judaism to understand Hebrews. And I was I was just wondering about that on the subject of high priests and then later it gets in the Mokisaj. But it a lot of the uh the Old Testament context, it's the large story of of God's uh covenant relationship with his with his people and that finds its best picture for Gentiles and for Jews and Hebrews. That's true. So yes this is all applicable whether you're a a Jew or Hebrew, but the writer, the original audience was Jews and um I think he uses a lot of background information that would have been familiar to Jews to make many of his points. Um and so as a Gentile, um, it warrants, I think, some study of the Old Testament to understand to get the full meaning of what the author of Hebrews is talking about. And where that comes in particularly is in these Pointer text. So he quotes um you know there's three hundred and three verses in Hebrews and there's a hundred Old Testament quotes in those three hundred and three. So there's a old testament quote every three verses in there. And most of those quotes are just a very tiny portion of a scripture that the author assumes either the hearer already knows or can go look up and see the full context. And so the the the context is the Old Testament, the this the the Hebrews. And so for a Jew that was uh well versed in the Old Testament, it would have been very simple for him to pick up the points that the author's making. And perhaps for a Jew who wasn't familiar with the Old Testament or a Gentile who wasn't, it might take a little bit more work to to get the full meaning that the authors got there. That that's it. But it's definitely applicable, whether Jew or Gentile. Certainly. Okay, any other questions or comments before we roll on? Okay, today Uh Hebrews chapter three, so let's uh if you'll take out your Bible or your device and turn to Hebrews chapter three. We're gonna look at Christ compared to Moses. All right. Uh Hebrews chapter three one through six, therefore, holy brethren, partakers of a heavenly calling, consider Jesus the apostle and high priest of our confession. He was faithful to him who appointed him, as Moses also was in all his house. For he has been counted worthy of more glory than Moses by just so much as the builder of the house has more honor than the house. For every house is built by some one, but the builder of all things is God. Now Moses was faithful in all his house as a servant. For a testimony of those things which were to be spoken later. But Christ was faithful as a son over his house, whose house we are, if we hold fast our confidence and the boasts of our hope, firm So let's take a look at this passage. So first I want to give you a little quote. This is uh from the commentary by Dr. Robert Martin, and there is some Greek in here which I'm I'm not going to really try to pronounce the Greek. Grey all the Greek in here. I just want you to notice what and the point he's trying to make is that there's a a single Greek root for both the sanctification or sanctifier from the end of chapter two And holy, as in holy brethren, sanctified brethren in chapter 2, holy brethren in chapter 3, it's the same Greek root. And if you notice there, it's the Greek word alpha, gamma. Iota gamma A G I A Agia. That's the same Greek root for sanctified and holy. And that's the point he's making there. So at Hebrews 3 1, the writer introduces this section of his letter with a Exhortation in which he calls us to consider. Before taking up the specific exhortation itself, however, note the way that he addresses his readers. Earlier he had used the expression those who are being sanctified. That was The end of chapter two, and that's the root Agia. It's a more much more complicated derivative of it, to refer to the many sons to be brought to glory in Hebrews 2. 11. Here he again picks up that thread calling them whole. Holy brethren, agioi, same root. As we saw in Hebrews 2. 11, in Hebrews, another root, agiaso to sanctify carries with it the special nuance of cleansing from sin's defilement. Even earlier we read that the Son made purification of sins, Hebrews 1. 3. For every Son that he brings to glory In this role, as the purifier of his people's sins, he is the sanctifier, agiasso-e. Assuming that there agiaso carries the same connotation the title, Holy Brethren, Sanctified Brethren, i. e. , has the sense of brethren who have been purified from your sins by the blood of Jesus. In this manner of address, therefore, there is another reminder of the work of our great high priest for us. So it's it's a it it flows in other words. Um i i the what we were just learned in the end of he of chapter two flows right into chapter three and the author actually uses kind of a a Hebrew word device that uses the same root um to talk about the to to identify his hearers in the beginning of chapter three. Yes. was Hebrews written. I asked that specifically if it was before or after seventy AD because before they really had a high priest in the temple. Yeah, so mostly they wouldn't be this was before seventy A. D. Um, because the way that he talks about sacrifices throughout the Hebrews uh the book, it seems like it's still going on It w it wouldn't make much sense for him to write it if the temple was already destroyed and there was no high priest. So yes, it uh the the best guess is sometime in the sixties it was written. Shortly before. Yeah. Uh So the first verse there, therefore, holy brethren, that Agioi is the same root as the sanctified brethren, partakers of a heavenly calling, consider Jesus the apostle and high priest of our confession. He was faithful to him who appointed him as Moses. w also was in all his house. Um so after having seen the exalted supremacy of Jesus, who is better than the prophets and the angels, we are now shown how he is Better than Moses, the one through whom the first covenant came. So Moses is the representative of the law in the first covenant, the the old covenant, and Jesus is better. That's what the uh the intent of the author here. So uh in these first three chap verses of the chapter, uh he presents doctrine on which the exhortation of the rest of the chapter is built. He's there's gonna be an exhortation coming in the rest of chapter three, but But this is the foundation of that exhortation. In order to understand the exhortation that's to come, we need to understand the premise. And to understand the premise, we need to review what the Jews of that day thought about Moses. Uh to appreciate how, why, and to what extent Christ is better than Moses, we need to see how important Moses was before this. And we need to ask why it is necessary to prove that Jesus is better So think about the original audience, they're Jews, they've been brought up in this tradition of Judaism, and Moses is the man. He's the one that led them out of Egypt, he's the one that gave them the law. Um and so if you're if you're struggling with whether or not to let go of this old covenant And to seize on to this new covenant, w well you need to know is this new covenant, the mediator of this new covenant, Christ, is he better than the mediator of that old covenant, Moses? And so this is an important comparison uh that the author makes here, especially for the Jews that he was writing to at the time. So Moses was esteemed by the Jews above, probably above any Jew that ever lived. So Abraham, of course, was not um a Jew per se. Um Jews were really the descendants of Jacob And so Abraham, of course, was the patriarch. Um but the um uh of the nation of Israel Um the preeminent example was Moses. Um yeah. Abraham is kind of a category on his own as before the nation of Israel. who received the promises and yes, very highly esteemed. Um but Moses as uh as far as the nation of Israel is concerned, uh Moses was the man. Moses. Um he he did. Um I mean Abraham has a special place as well. Um you know they they considered the the the Pharisees talked about themselves being children of Abraham. Abraham was special. Uh Moses was special as well. Um so think about Moses, the life of Moses. God miraculously protected Moses when he was a baby. Exodus 2, 1 to 10, and personally provided for his burial in Deuteronomy 34. God buried Moses. He protected him as a baby. He buried him when he died. And between those two points, his life was miracle after miracle after miracle. Um he wasn't allowed to see the promised land. He wasn't allowed to see the promised land, that's right Yeah. But the hand of God was on Moses for his whole life. Uh he was the the god the man whom God spoke to face to face, Exodus thirty-three. Uh he had seen the very glory He was the one who led Israel out of Egypt. The New Testament also refers to the commands of God. as the law of Moses. Luke chapter 2, Acts chapter 13, and other places. So Moses not only brought the Ten Commandments, but he also wrote the entire Pentateuch, the first five books of the Bible, which lays out the Levitical and other laws that govern Everything the Jews did. So if we're talking about the foundation of the Jews as a people and Israel as a nation, Moses is right there at the pinnacle uh of everything that God did uh for his people Israel. Israel. Moses gave the plans for the tabernacle and for the Ark of the Covenant. All those things, God gave those through Moses. And so think about how the Jews viewed Moses to really understand what the author is giving. Getting at here, we have to put ourselves into the shoes of those first century Jews and how they viewed Moses. And now the author comes and says Jesus is better. God spoke to the prophet. Prophets and visions, but to Moses he spoke face to face. Uh God spoke to Moses in a burning bush, he spoke to him out of heaven, he spoke to him on Sinai, and wrote the commandments with his finger. Uh Moses was abal above all others God's man. He he was the guy that God um he he mediated his covenant through Moses, that that old covenant. Um yet in this passage of Hebrews the Holy Spirit calls on Jewish readers Especially to look at Jesus Christ. Consider Jesus Christ. Moses was indeed great But Jesus is greater. That's the point here of this passage. Uh Jesus is shown to be superior to Moses in office, in work, and in person. In his office he is the apostle and high priest, and his work He is the builder of the house. In his person, he is the Son, the Son of God. So how would how do we start this uh this verse here, which starts with therefore? And so whenever you see therefore, you've got to ask what What's there for? Um and it's to point back to what we just learned. That's typically what it is. Uh an author goes through a whole bunch of arguments and makes points, and at the end of that making of points, he says, therefore, since all this stuff I've just told you about is true, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider Jesus. So since all this is true about Jesus that we've just learned. Consider Jesus. Think about Jesus, the writer is saying. The Greek word katanoe consider implies attention and continuous observation. The idea is put your mind on Christ and let it remain there. But you may understand who he is and what he wills. Consider Jesus. So Christ's recovering of mass uh man's lost destiny is humbling of himself and becoming our substitute, the author of, or the capital Captain of our salvation, our sanctifier, all these things that Doug went through last week, and our sympathetic high priest. All these more than qualify him for most serious Consideration. Consider. Since all this is true about Christ, consider. Think about that. Think about what that means. Uh Jesus is the supreme apostle. So what does the word apostle mean? It just means sent one. So when we think of the uh the human apostles, we think of sent ones, ones that Jesus sent out to spread the gospel. Those were the apostles. Um but Christ is an apostle in the sense that he was the sent one from God. That's the sense that he was apostle with a capital A, uh the the ultimate sent one. Uh the the human apostles were kind of imitation sent ones. They're sent from Christ. But The true sent one is Christ Himself. He's powerful and sympathetic, merciful, faithful, saving, reconciling, protective, helpful, brotherly. On the basis of who he is and what he's done. Every person should consider Christ. Think about, fix your attention on Christ. Consider Christ. Every person should focus on the absolute sufficiency of Christ and drop everything else. There is nothing of higher importance than Christ and who he is and what he's done. And so he is worthy of your consideration. And that's the point that the author is making. He's built up and built up all this information about who Christ is, the supremacy of Christ over uh angels and over um everything else And because that's so, um, as you can see, he's he's made this point these points. As you can see, as you can see, this is who Christ is, therefore consider Jesus. We have a new high priest and a new apostle, a sent one from God. He is all anyone will ever need. Apostle and high priest is uh the two um titles that he's given here in this particular passage. As believers, we are brothers with Christ because we are identified with Him as adopted children of the Heavenly Father. But holy brethren refers to fellow Christians, to those who are sanctified, set apart And as I mentioned, it's the same Greek root as the sanctified brethren just from the the previous passage. But holy brethren is what the author uses here. To show, to talk about his fellow believers. So this is one believer writing to another group of believers, and he calls them holy brethren because of their status in Christ. Yes. Those who the original Jewish people who were hearing this, would they have been familiar with the term apostle from the second region? So um yes, I mean they were that that word was a familiar word. And by this time the um the apostles like uh Paul and John Um and Peter had been teaching and preaching and were known. So yes, they would have been familiar with the the word and the concept of an apostle. So that was never That word is ever spoken of as a Old Testament apostle or so uh not that I know of. I don't I don't know of that being a specific Old Testament office. That I don't think the prophets, for example, were designated as um apostle or sent one in the Septuagint uh that they would have been familiar with. So no, I don't think that's the case. So this section here, the the author is writing to Partakers of a heavenly calling, uh, who desired a heavenly country, we'll see in 11 uh chapter 11, and who had come to the heavenly Jerusalem, we'll see in chapter 12. All of these blessings show the superiority of Christianity to Judaism. Judaism. Judaism was an earthly calling with an earthly inheritance. Uh Christianity is a spiritual and heavenly calling with a spiritual and heavenly inheritance. It is therefore far superior. And notice that the Jews that Jesus was when Jesus was in his earthly ministry, what did they expect Jesus to do? Even those who followed him. Restore the kingdom to Israel uh overthrow the Romans. They were they were earthly focused. Th that was what they thought that the Messiah was going to do is restore an earthly kingdom to mo to Israel. Um but the the authors of the New Testament, including the author of Hebrews, is uh are consistently showing that we have a heavenly calling. And so here in chapter three, uh he identifies his fellow believers as those partakers of a heavenly calling. Not an earthly calling, a heavenly calling. And he returns to that theme again in chapter eleven when he talks about the heavenly country, and chapter twelve when he talks about the heavenly Jerusalem. Not this earthly Jerusalem. That's an imitation. Of the heavenly Jerusalem. The earthly temple, an imitation of the earthly of the heavenly temple. We have a heavenly calling is what the the author of Hebrews is saying here. And that makes it superior to that earthly calling that they are used to, they've become used to, had become used to in Judaism. And calling cause people to uh misunderstand Christ's purpose uh on earth. Uh Jesus is to be considered as the apostle and the high priest of our confession. So the fact is he is both of the in the first way in which he is superior to Moses. So though he was never called such in Scripture, Moses could be considered an Old Testament apostle. So the scripture doesn't the Septuagint, you can't look in there and see Pope Moses identified as an apostle. But if you think about what he did, uh he was the sent one from God. Um he God what did God do when he when he called them from the burning bush, he sent them to his people Israel to to get them out of Egypt. So i in the technical sense, in the literal sense, he was the sent one from God to the nation of Israel to to to call Pharaoh to let my people go. He he sent Moses. Um and so Moses not identified In Old Testament scripture, as an apostle, was a sent one of God, in fact. The Greek word apostolos means sent one and was a title often used for official ambassador. ambassadors. So um in the Greek world outside of Scripture, apostolos was used of an ambassador who was sent from one country to another country to represent the g the king or the government of one country to another one. He was a sent one, the the ambassador. Um so in this Moses was God's apostle, he was a sent one to bring his people the law and the covenant to uh to bring them first to bring them out of Egypt and then to to give them the law and the the old covenant. But Jesus was not just an apostle, not just a sent one, but also a high priest. Though Moses could be considered a type of apostle, he was not a priest at all, much less the high priest. So Jesus is superior to Moses in office because he has two offices. Moses only had one office, Jesus is superior. He was a Levite. He was a Levite, that's true. He was from the tribe of Levi Uh yes, so Aaron of course yes, his brother Aaron became the high priest. Uh but Moses the Olivite was not a not a priest. Um so verse two, continuing on to verse two, uh it says here of mo uh uh of him he was faithful to him who appointed him. So there's lots of he's and hims there. Uh he, that's Christ. Christ was faithful to him, that's God the Father, who appointed him, that's Christ. Uh as Moses also was in all his house. So there's another comparison to Moses being faithful to God. Um For he has been counted worthy of more glory than Moses, for he Christ has been counted worthy of more glory than Christ by just so much as the builder of the house has more honor than the house. So a person who builds a house is greater than uh just a uh a structure that he built. Um so there's a comparison here between Jesus and Moses in this idea of faithfulness and this idea of a house. So that the house occurs Then for the rest of the whole passage, and we'll get to that. So before uh showing Jesus' superiority to Moses, he points up the resemblance of the two. So he starts with a comparison and saying they're similar. before talking about the difference. He talks about the similarities. So Moses was faithful. And the Old Testament really bears this out. Um so for example in Numbers 12, my servant Moses is faithful in all my household. With him I speak mouth to mouth. That's God speaking about Moses. My servant Moses is faithful at all my household. Yeah, use that word house there too, house or household Yeah. So Moses carried out God's plan. He came out of Egypt into the wilderness. God refined him It took forty years for God to make Moses usable. Then for forty more years God used him. And so essentially Moses Moses lived to be a hundred and twenty, and his life can be divided up into three forty year blocks. So for forty years he lived in um Pharaoh's household. He was the the son of Pharaoh's daughter, the adopted son of Pharaoh's lived in Pharaoh's household for forty years. And then for forty years he was in the wilderness. where God was um sanctifying him, making him useful. Uh and then when he was eighty He uh the the burning bush, God came to his burning burning bush, sent him to Egypt to uh to start being the leader, uh to he appointed him leader of his people essentially, and then for forty years he led the people. until he was 120 and he died at 120. And so there's hope. Moses was not useful until he was 80. Uh so so there's hope. There's hope there's hope for us. Um yeah. So y yeah, you can be you can be useful from eighty to a hundred and twenty like Moses was. All right. Uh so some of you have actually passed eighty, um, so you gotta get you gotta get going. Um Yeah. No, so i yeah, Moses was a an interesting, very interesting life. uh, you know, for forty years essentially he was brought up and trained in the Egyptian court. Right, so he's probably a very highly educated, but he was uh uh uh uh one in a long line of highly educated, useless people. uh that we see we see in our own day very many highly educated useless people. Um education does not uh guarantee usefulness. Um yeah. It's application of wisdom and so he um God trained him in the wilderness to be useful to to him and then he was very useful uh for forty years after that. Um so God used him. God's servant faithfully took the children of Egypt uh Israel out of Egypt. When he got to the re Red Sea he believed God's province promise of deliverance and faithfully led his people through the parted waters. He was faithful. And just as Moses was faithful to the one appointed him, So was Jesus, only more so. Um as God's Supreme Apostle, God Supreme Sent One Jesus was completely faithful to the will of his Father. Jesus during his earthly ministry said, My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to accomplish his work. And then later he said, For I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. Jesus was faithful. That's just two examples from John chapter four and John chapter three. six, Jesus always did his father's will. He was faithful. Jesus came to earth and he accomplished the work without question and without hesitation. I was thinking even in the garden of his death is cut. So let's talk about this word house. It keeps appearing over and over again here in this chapter three. The Greek word oikos, oikos, oikos, uh oikos, house, translated house here, it means household. It's often translated household, and refers to people not a building or dwelling. So uh every oc every occasion here in in this um um this w this word oikos keeps appearing here in in chapter three. It's it's house, it's translated house and times household, but it means uh a people, not a building, uh not a structure here. So Christ was also faithful in his house, the church. Um Ephesians chapter two, so then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and are of the of God's household. Ephesians two nineteen. First Peter two, and coming to him as to a living stone, rejected by men, but choice and precious in the sight of God, you also as living stones are being built up as a spiritual house. That's talking about the church. First Peter two, four and five. So we are the new household and Jesus is the one who cares for us. Just as believers under the Old Testament are uh in some ways the house of Moses, believers under the New Testament are the house of Christ. That's the comparison here. And as Moses was faithful in an earthly household, Jesus is faithful to the heavenly household. Jesus could say to his father at the end of his life, I glorified you on the earth, having accomplished the work which you have given me to do in John chapter 17. At the very end of his earthly ministry, before he goes to the cross, this is his statement to the Father, I have accomplished the work that you gave me to do. He was perfectly faithful to him who appointed him. So he was sent by the Father, appointed by the Father, um, to come to earth for the purpose of dying and atoning sacrifice on the cross uh and he accomplished that work. He was faithful to him who appointed him. Moses was faithful, but he was a part of the house. Jesus made the house. uh in the analogy here. That's the difference. We we learn uh in the beginning of John's Gospel all things came into being by him and apart from him nothing came into being that has come into being. John one three. Moses was only a member of the household which Jesus built. Jesus created Israel. Jesus created the church. Both of those. He built. He made. Um ge uh Moses was a part, but Jesus was the builder, um, the creator. Uh so before any of us became Christians and thereby part of Christ's house or household the church, someone introduced us to the gospel. Someone proclaimed the gospel to you and to me. That person was responsible in a human sense for part of God's house. God uses human instruments in the uh building up of his household, the church. So he uses us. Uh we're commanded to go and make disciples, um and so there are human instruments in building the house. But the builder is Christ. In spite of the fact that somebody taught you the gospel, uh the the author of our salvation, the captain of our salvation is always Christ. But on the so on the divine side, God alone creates the house and continues building it as new believers are added. Human witnesses are but the instruments he uses. He is the builder. The builder is greater than any of the tools. Moses was part of the house of Israel and an instrument God used in building it. But the wielder of the tool is God. The wielder of the tool is greater than the tool itself. That's the the point that the author is making here. As great as Moses was, he was just the human tool, uh an instrument of God's purposes in the old covenant. Um continuing, now Moses was faithful in all his house as a servant for a testimony of those things which were to be spoken. later. So here's a glimpse of this another point that the author is making is that all those things that Moses did were great and they were important, things that God was doing in that old covenant. But that old covenant was pointing forward to something better. So for a testimony of those things which were to be spoken later But Christ was faithful as a son over his house, whose house we are, if we hold fast our confidence and the boast of our hope firm until the end. So here's the climax. What the the author is trying to teach here. In verse 5 and 6, we see that Moses is a servant. Well, Jesus is a son. And there's a huge difference. This is a huge difference between who Moses is and who Jesus is. Essentially, Moses is a servant A great servant, a highly exalted servant, uh a servant who God um God um God talks about in glowing terms uh to to everybody uh as recorded in scriptures about how wonderful a servant Moses is But at the end of the day, he's a servant, and Christ is the Son. So that's what uh verse five and six uh are really about, and that's what this whole passage, this is really the climax of the whole passage. Any questions? Sure. Um verse two in the end it says as Moses also was faithful in all of his house, does that represent Christ or God? So um the house uh is the house of Israel for Moses. W when he's talking about Moses. So Moses was faithful in this house, and who built the house of Israel? Well God built did, but he used Moses as his instrument to build this house of Israel. And so uh we're we're it's really talking about there's two houses. There's the house of Israel, and Moses was of the house of Israel, and now there's the house of the church that God is building here in the New Testament. And but the builder actually of both of those houses is Christ. So Christ, the the triune God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, builds Built the house of Israel, the triumph God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, built the house of the church. And so there's two houses actually. in this in this passage. is the Gentiles would become part of that house. Right. So that's why I see a another distinction between the house of Moses and the House of Christ, that Christ built, is that it was exclusively Jewish I guess with some cross alliance at that time in the Old Testament. Right. But Christ's house the the mystery became clear that now Gentiles are welcome to to be part of that that house. Right, right. And so Of course that was a big surprise to the early Jewish Christians, um, including some of the apostles. Um they were um when Peter talked about the fact that uh the Holy Spirit had come on the household of Cornelius, um there was general shock that the Holy Spirit has been given to the Gentiles? Well you know what's going on here? Um and so yes this was a feature of the new covenant that it was wide opened um and Paul when Paul thought about that fact, he would often go back to the promises made to Abraham and talk about how um in your seed all the nations will be blessed and that that seed singular Paul makes this point that the seed is singular and that seed is Christ. And in Christ then, um all the nations are blessed. not just Israel. Um and but but quite a bit of the New Testament, uh quite a bit of Paul's teaching is this idea that, yes, in fact, um the salvation in Christ is available to the Gentiles. Not just the Jews, like it was very exclusive the the Old Testament they had been taught. Um God made great pains in the scriptures to to to tell them to be separate. Don't intermarry with those uh uh around nations around you. Um don't worship their gods, be be separate. Um and so they were the Jews had imbibed that over centuries and millennia, uh that we're separate, we're separate, we're separate, we're separate. No, now we're together with Gentiles. Uh and so that was a big shock to the system, uh, and required uh quite a bit of teaching, especially by Paul. Yes. So certainly what we say here is um since it the this house was going to be where after it is, wouldn't that only be one house for the two different bases? So um the church is one house. Uh but s remember the the the the point of this passage is to compare the old covenant and the new covenant, Moses and Jesus. And so he he's talking about the old House of Israel and the new house of the church. But now, of course, that house of the church is is one house. Um God's people are um Jews and Gentiles from every tribe and tongue and land and nation that are now in this household of God in Christ Jesus. And so yeah, in f in fact there's only one house now. But the point of the comparison with Moses is there was another house And this new house is better. It's a better house. Um it's got a better it's a better covenant. There's a better mediator. Moses, as great as he was is no Christ. He was a servant, Christ is the Son. Um yeah. So now there's one household, God's household. There's only one, and that's the church. Yep. Good question. Any others? Yeah. Quick question. Sure. Uh brought up about how the how the Gentiles would be grasped with the tree. I was thinking there were Gentiles in the Old Testament that were safe, but Uh-huh. So I was like, Yeah, so yeah, so yeah, so there were uh Gentiles that were grafted right in even to the the royal line. I mean Rahab was the Gentile and she was David's grandmother, great grandmother, uh something like that. And so yes, th there were others who who were, you know, added in. Um so this idea of grafting in It's not brand new. Really if if the if the Jews were to think about it, it's not brand new the fact that God could graft in those from outside Israel because he did that in the Old Testament. There are examples of it. Yeah, including in David's line. Um, yeah. And uh um uh uh Ruth a and Boaz, I mean Ruth is grafted in, she's a Moabite. So not a uh not a Jew. Um yeah, so there's examples uh of it. Yeah. So um Yeah, so we we end up with one household. There was a a household uh that was the old covenant um represented by Moses, and now there's a a new household represented by Christ. But this one is a better house uh with the son at the head instead of a servant. So there's a great difference between a servant and a son. Uh John eight thirty five, and the slave does not remain in the house forever The Son does remain forever. So that was Jesus teaching in his earthly ministry about the difference between a son and a servant. Um and the fact that he's the son. Uh servants come and go, sons are sons. for life. So the the Greek word used in verse five for servant is therapone Um and it's a term of dignity and freedom, not servility. It's a very interesting term. It's only used once in the New Testament. Um it's a Greek word translated servant, but it has a a really radically different meaning from most of the ways we think about a servant. It's a very high uh it's a term of high acclaim, actually. Uh and suggests that even as the high but still, even though he he is this very high ranking servant Theropone, um, he's still a servant. Um so i so even as the highest ranking servant, Moses was still A servant. He was faithful, obedient, ministering, caring servant, uh a good steward of God Uh in Ex in fact in Exodus thirty five to forty, in a uh span of six chapters, there are twenty two references to Moses' faithfulness to God. Over and over and over again, the Old Testament calls Moses faithful, which is a little bit odd if you think, who wrote Exodus? Moses wrote Exodus. So Moses said that Moses was fa Yeah. But so of course the Holy Spirit wrote it. So there's a there's a lot of things um about that Pentateuch that are very interesting. Like uh for example there's uh uh uh at one point it says Moses was the humblest man in all the earth. Well who wrote that? Moses did. So yeah. But really the Holy Spirit wrote it. So he was inspired by the Holy Spirit to write write about himself. that Moses was the humblest man on the face of the earth and over and over and over again that Moses was faithful. And so, uh the Holy Spirit was very serious about making that point, yes. In all of that, however, we all know that wasn't completely fatal and so why um why isn't that aspect mentioned here because it doesn't generate there's that comparison? I think that's so. I think he doesn't wanna he he's he's m he's trying to compare Moses at his very best to Christ and show that Christ is better. Not ride down Moses and say, No, Moses is worthless. Um he he he's trying to show Moses, this great servant that you hold in such high regard, Christ is better. I think That's the point he's trying to make. So he doesn't bring up the fact that Moses didn't go into the promised land 'cause he you know, he hit the rock too hard and too many times and didn't do it right. Um yeah. So he wasn't perfectly faithful. He he was not Christ. He he was not um sinless like Christ was. Um the author doesn't go there here here in this passage. He could go there but he doesn't go there because I think I think because he wants to show Moes Moses at his highest and best. And show the crisis better. Yes. Um Because he is dying where Moses he though he was a mental servant he still struggled. How many times do we still struggle not knowing where God is God to take it. But Jesus he he knew even though he knew he still went through uh this also uh what's what the the beating and uh discouraging the the separation of our for us, you know, even though we never quit. And so I kind of think about Joseph, like, how is it that people say to be faithful and never quit when he was wrong so many times where if anytime I feel while I say my life my day when I God I know that you are faithful I know that you're going to bring through, but at this moment right here I'm ready to quit. Yeah, so that's that's true. So Moses faced lots of challenges and adversity and um and when he was was when he was had been refined by God he was very faithful. Not perfectly faithful, but very faithful in spite of all those challenges and setbacks and opposition, the the you know, the back to Egypt Club. The back to Egypt Club was you know, growing as a as they as they went across the desert, the back of the Egypt Club got bigger and bigger and grumbled and grumbled. Um and and Moses was very frustrated and you can see some of the interactions he has with God, uh the frustration comes right out. Um You know, why do you have me leading this peop these people, they won't pay attention to me, they won't listen to me. Uh he's grumbling to God Um but he's faithful. Um he remains fa and there's scripture after scripture about how faithful he was. You know, that reminds me of himself. Many years ago the life story Too seriously studying the Word of God. And reading in the Old Testament about Moses and all he had to go through and they're always doing this to and then they get to the to the end and God doesn't let him go see the problem. Promised land and that was his whole purpose, was to take them to the promised land. And I was grumbling against God. I thought he thought very unfair that you did not let this man go into the promised land. And I harbored that my heart that's how I felt until later when I got into the New Testament and God showed me at the Transfiguration who was there with Christ? Moses. He was there in the promise. Yep. Then I no longer stay. Yeah, so so Moses Moses missed the the shadow promised land, the imitation promised land, but he made it to the real promised land. Yeah. Yes, he was th that's right. He he was I said he was Yep. Yes. He did. Yep. He did a side track for a great weight away from us for most of the rockets and speaks to the consequences that it's not honestly. Usually the Apostle Paul and the document counseling, but this is a great example of a greater function that you have as a leader in the church. Yeah. Yeah, and so it it's also a a stark reminder of what the standard is for entering heaven. The standard for entering heaven is perfection. Um perfection. And so as great as As Moses was, he wasn't perfect. And that's the standard for entering heaven. And so no one can Earn their way into the true promised land. No one. Not even Moses. And I think that's one of the reasons why God did it that way. To to make that point, that spiritual point, that no one, not even Moses, can earn his way into the promised land, into heaven. Uh yes. given access to the house um being in the circle. Jesus had the keys. He did. He had the keys to the house. He was the builder of the house. He was the Lord of the house. Yeah. In all ways superior to to Moses in that regard. Yes. And there you see it, but he was not this why do you think that he the apostle of the Hebrew book like did all this thing about angel Why didn't he just walk on that on Jesus being the son of God? So he does. It comes up over and over again. So it comes up uh right away in uh chapter one, verse two. Um Yeah, see today's sermon. I mean, you talk about that. So yeah, so he talks about uh Christ as God's son from the very beginning of the letter and comes back to it over and over again. To the idea that he's the son. Well so yeah, so remember who's his original audience, he's talking to a bunch of Jewish believers who are struggling. Um, maybe they're thinking, well, I I uh maybe I was hasty in this whole Christianity things versus Judaism. And so he's making all these points about how Christianity is better than Judaism and so he's employing these arguments, uh these comparisons. Uh now he could he just say Well he's the son of God and dropped the mic and and walked off. I I I suppose, but um he he's he's going through this process of of helping them to see all the ways that Christ is superior. Um yeah, the fact that he's the Son of God Maybe that should be enough. But a lot of times as people we we need we demand more answers. And God has no obligation to give us answers, but in many cases he does. He graciously does give us answers to the question. that we have, uh although he's under no obligation. Um so uh back to Moses. Moses the the scripture goes through uh great lengths to show how faithful Moses was. All these references to Moses' faithfulness written by Moses. Um and so uh in Exodus forty alone there's eight times Moses' uh obedience and everything God commanded him it refers to his obedience to everything God commanded him. But he was not a son. So Moses' faithfulness had an important and special reason to be a testimony of those things which were to be spoken later. In other words, mo the everything in the Old Testament is pointing forward to Christ, including everything that Moses did. All of that, everything about the nation of Israel, el everything about how um I mean, just think about the Passover. Th the Passover was pointing forward to Christ. So everything, God arranged everything about how the nation of Israel was saved from the from the Egyptians and taken out of Egypt by the Passover, that was pointing forward to Christ, the sacrifice of Christ. So and and so the author is pointing that out that all of these things about Moses, the things that Moses did, were for a testimony of those things which were to be spoken later. And what are those things to be spoken later? The New Testament, the New Covenant, the plan of salvation revealed in full. That's why all these things were spoken about about Moses. So Judaism did not understand then, and in many cases does not understand now that Moses was faithful primarily as a testimony to things which were yet to come in Christ. So um the Jews know knew about Messiah and they still know about Messiah, but they didn't recognize him when he came, and they're still waiting for him in many cases, and don't understand that uh those things that Moses did and said and wrote were pointing forward to Christ. Um things which were to be spoken later, as the author puts it here. So Judaism without Christ, the Old Testament without the New Testament, is incomplete. It is the shadow without the substance. We'll see later in Hebrews chapter ten. And for the law, since it was only a shadow of the good things to come, and not the very form of things, can never, by the same sacrifices year by year, which they offer continually, make perfect those who draw near So um the sacrifices laid out in the Old Testament could never bring people to heaven. Um and so we'll see that in in chapter ten when we get there. So it was the shadow of the perfect substance that was to come, and if you reject the substance, the shadow is worthless. On the other hand, if a person truly accepted the shadow, we would also accept the substance. In other words, um Christ made this point. If you believed Abraham, then you would if you believed Moses, that you would believe me. And so if you believe Moses, you would believe me, for he wrote of me, John chapter 5. So this is the point Jesus made in his earthly ministry, and this is the author of Hebrews really coming back to that point that Jesus had made in his earthly ministry. He did explain it all on the road to a mail. Yes, he did. He did. Uh but he made this point here in his earthly ministry in John chapter five. If you believe Moses, you will believe me, because he wrote about me So that those are bold words to his Jewish audience that Moses was writing about Christ, and and the author of Hebrews circles back to that. Um that um the things that Moses did. The faithfulness that he had as a servant uh as a ha uh in his house as a servant were for a testimony of those things which were to be spoken later. A testimony to Christ. Okay. I think we're almost there. Uh how can we know that we are really God's house? By holding fast our confidence and the boast of our hope firm until the end. That's how we know. Uh this doesn't mean that we must earn salvation by perseverance. That's not how it works. That's backwards. We can neither save ourselves nor keep ourselves saved. The meaning is simply that continuance is the proof of the reality. We can tell if we are really of the house of God because we stay there. The one who falls away never belonged in the first place. John explained that in 1 John 2. They went out from us because they were never of us. Uh is how he put it in 1 John chapter 2. Uh and apparently there were many Jews who had fallen away, and it is because of them that the writer of Hebrews gives these words which both warn and encourage. If you're still here, the audience that he's right. True saints persevere, and their perseverance is evidence of their salvation. Jesus put it this way in John chapter 8 if you abide in my words, then you are truly disciples of mine. John eight thirty one. Um one of the clearest truths in the New Testament is that the Lord keeps those who belong to him. He repeats that in also in John chapter six. So uh I wrapped up a little bit of the first. early 'cause I wanted to wrap up a little bit early today. But any questions about what we've learned here? Yes, in Hebrews chapter three at the beginning. Yeah, the vertified time of parenting graphics. Um kind of broadening sort of focuses there for me to like notice being forward looking. at this point now we're holding on to the hope that we have in Christ. Like Christ the hope we have very firm establishment in Christ, but it's still forward looking. Like it seems there's not anything there in Christ. Yeah, so um of course mm the house of Israel, the whole purpose of God having a people was to produce a savior and salvation. Salvation is from the Jews because that was the the plan all along is to produce a Savior out of this nation of Israel. And so in that sense, everything was pointing forward to Christ. The cross is the center of history, the center of redemptive history. And so everything before the cross is pointing forward to the cross. everything after the cross is pointing back to the cross in a certain sense. However, we're also on our way to heaven. Um we're our citizenship is in heaven. So in that sense we are looking forward to being in the presence of Christ in heaven. And so there is a little bit of a tension there There's we're always looking back to the cross because that is the source of our salvation. Cross is actually the source of everyone's salvation. Old Testament saints looking forward to it, New Testament Saints looking back to it. However, we're also all looking forward to our glorification in heaven with Christ. So there's a little bit of attention there. Yeah. Any other questions or comments? Alright, let's uh close in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we