Okay, so part four. We uh we're gonna be doing um the beginning of chapter two. So we've made it through chapter one. We're gonna be starting in the chapter two, the first four verses of chapter two today. and we're going to call it the tragedy of neglecting salvation. So we want to make sure that people that we know are not falling into the tragedy of neglecting salvation. salvation. So today we're going to talk about uh why why is this? Why uh why is it a tragedy to neglect salvation? And the author of Hebrews says uh gives us three reasons. He says because of the character of Christ, because of the certainty of judgment and because of the confirmation of God for those reasons, it's a tragedy to neglect salvation. But first let's take a look back at what we did last time. So last time we did the uh the the last say three quarters of chapter one and we had all those Old Testament uh citations, if you remember. So there were seven of them. Seven Old Testament quotes and just those um those ten verses. there at the end of chapter one and we they were in pairs, three pairs and then a a kind of a climax and the the point of those quotations was to show various things about Christ, about Jesus superiority in this case to the angels. The fact that he's unique, the fact that he has a higher station and they have an inferior station, the fact that the Sent is um is a supreme in his being, who he is, as compared to the angels. And then at the very end is one about his present exaltation, where he is now, seated at the right hand of God. And it started out with um this rhetorical question, um So to what to what angel has God ever said, You are my son, today I've begotten you, a quote from Psalm 27, and of course the answer is none Um if we go back when we we did go back to 27 and see that there were various uh people speaking in that Psalm, Psalm 2, and that the word decree is used in a part of Psalm 2 that's not quoted here, but who the but which the author assumes that his readers will be able to look at and understand the whole context around the verse that he does actually quote. And those decrees are the eternal decrees Decrees of God. That's what it's talking about in Psalm 2. And so that word today is referencing the eternal decrees of God which are from the foundations of the world before time began. And that was the really the point of understanding that it wasn't a uh a reference to Christ being created on a certain day, but that he was there from what Psalm two calls today, which was the eternal decrees of God. And a similar thing with the word begotten. Um it's used as a uh marker to show that Christ is not created. It's a separate thing. Begotten of God, of the same substance of God. It's a um it's another way of showing Christ's deity is what it is. Um He's greater than the angels, uh Because they worship him. We we see that the angels worship God. We have that uh in the Song of Moses in Deuteronomy 32, and that's what he quoted next. The author of Hebrews quotes next. And then he talks about the firstborn. So we see the firstborn mentioned here, and that's a reference as we we mentioned not to a particular time. But to a station. First, the firstborn station. In other words, the person has the right to rule. That's what it really means in this context. He was superior because of his nature. There's a quote from Psalm 1044 that uh talks about the nature of the angels as as compared to the nature of the Son. Uh not only were they created by him, but he owns them. They're his angels, his ministry. So uh then we had a quote from Psalm 102. revealing that Christ is better than the angels because he existed eternally. He is since the foundation of the earth. We have other quotes about Christ, for example in John 1, in the beginning was the Word So in the beginning he was already there. That's the real point there, that if there was a beginning of time, but before that Christ was already there In the beginning he was already there. So he's eternal. And that's a difference from the angels. So this author of Hebrews is giving us uh reason after reason after reason using Old Testament scriptures why Christ is superior. To the angels. And then, of course, he's at the right hand of the Father. And no angel is at the right hand of the Father. So Jesus' destiny is to reign. at the right hand of the Father. And we have the fact that the the angels destiny is to be s is to s uh to serve uh those who um inherit salvation. So any questions about what we learned last time? Yes, Kirk. Pastor Rob, can you clarify from last week the uh the mystery of the Jesus is equal to God the Father, but at the same time submissive? Yeah, so I'm not sure that I can. It would be uh so i i i this is a great question and It's a um a real mystery that followers of Christ have wrestled with, and this is the trinity, the nature of the Trinity. How is it that God is one God But he's three persons. How how is that? Um and how is it that we can say we can actually show from Scripture that Christ has is has all the attributes of God? So we there are many. scriptures and we actually did this in the revelation class. We went through a bunch of scriptures which showed all the attributes of God also being attributed to God the Son, um his omnipotence, his um uh omnipresence, his uh all all the attributes of God are at one time or another also attributed to the Son, so he is of the same substance and has the same attributes. But we also have scriptures that tell us that he he placed himself in submission to the Father, that uh not my will but thine be done, he prays in the garden. So he has placed himself in this submission to the Father, in his role as the Son, especially in his incarnation we see that come up over and over again. Now how can I can I clarify how that how that works? Um I I confess that I'm not up to that task. That the Trinity remain there are some mysteries that remain. Um about exactly exactly how does that work that one God and three persons and um they're uh coequal in power and in attributes and um and in glory and majesty and worthy of worship and all those things. And yet it says that the Sun um submitted to the will of the Father? Uh how how can that be? Uh it's an excellent question to which Um I don't have a full a real good answer, a full answer. Um and and similar thing when you start to study this the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit was sent by the Father and by the Son and testifies to the Son and so the Holy Spirit if you notice uh scriptures about the holy spirit and the work of the Holy Spirit, um never points to himself but always points to Christ. Um and so w w what does that mean about the relationship between the Holy Spirit and the Son and the Father. Um and I I don't I don't think that I in human language can really explain that perfectly well. Um theologians have been trying to explain that for two thousand years and um yeah. I I I don't think that I'm adequate to be able to really explain that mystery. Yes. Yeah, so that's another good point that w he's infinite and we're finite And so from that perspective, if we really could understand everything about him, he wouldn't be infinite, he wouldn't be who he is Um yeah. So I think we just have to have some humility in the face of Scripture and the the fact that we no matter how much we wrestle and we should wrestle w with w w the Trinity and and exactly what it means and uh and who God is and all three persons. Um but my f my belief is that I I'm never gonna Get there. Um I I'm gonna continue to try to understand the Trinity this best I can, but I don't think I'm ever gonna really understand. You'll get there. Everything. Get there when you get there. Yeah. Um and so w we'll have a a Corsair much better understanding when we're face to face with God in eternity. However, even in eternity, he'll still be infinite and I will still be finite. Even in glory, um, I don't think I will be capable of understanding all of who God is as a finite being trying to understand an infinite being. Okay. It's an excellent question to wrestle with. Um and my answer is not excellent. Um All right, any other questions about where we've been? Yes, Larry. Yes. Discovering something new about God. That's a great point. That's a great point. Heaven goes on forever and we will still never come to the end of learning new things about God. That's a good point. Yes, Rex. Uh Swaz, sorry. Similar question, but maybe not the same, is so we are human man with Spirit of Christ in us. So Christ became man. He was incarnate. Did he then have the Holy Spirit in him? Or could it be separate? Yeah, so I don't know exactly how that worked. Uh because 'Cause I mean he was still the second person of the Trinity, you know, e even all by himself w when he was incarnate. Um and so it it uh from from the way the scripture describes Christ sending the helper once he's gone, it seems probably not. Not like so I think it's uh not the same as we have the spirit of Christ in us, we have the Holy Spirit in us. Um I I don't think he had the Holy Spirit in him the way we have the Holy Spirit in us. Uh I think he's still a separate person of the Trinity. And so he was the second person of the Trinity in human flesh. The third person of the Trinity is not the second person of the Trinity and um and it W it's just uh it's interesting the way it's put that unless I go away then the helper can't come. It's uh it's it's it seems like there's not an overlap there um in in that respect. Um yeah. Good question though. Good things to think about. I'm glad you guys are thinking about these deep things of God. It's very good to think about God and who He is. Um it it's it really is. It's um I I think Gabe has done this A. W. Toes record a number of times. The most important thing about a man is what he thinks about God. Um so how you wrestle with God and how you uh sincerely try to seek his face and understand who he is is it tells a lot about who you are. Uh that that's the most important thing to you, that you're seeking to understand who your creator is. Good. That's good. Any others? Okay, let's roll into chapter two. So if you'll pull out your copy of God's Word And turn to Hebrews chapter 2. Hebrews chapter 2. So we're just going to do the first four verses of Hebrews chapter 2. This is the word of the God of the Lord. For this reason, we must pay much closer attention to what we have heard so that we do not drift away from it. For if the words spoken through angels proved unalterable, and every transgression and disobedience received a just penalty, how will we escape if we neglect so great a salvation? After it was at the first spoken through the Lord, it was confirmed to us by those who heard God also testifying with them both by signs and wonders and by various miracles and by gifts of the Holy Spirit according to his will. So that's the word of the Lord. And that's what we're going to look at today. I'll give you a few paragraphs to start out, this time from John MacArthur's commentary on this section of scripture. MacArthur says this: an effective teacher must do much more than than simply present biblical facts. He must also warn, exhort, invite. By the time the writer of Hebrews gets to chapter 2, verse 1, he is impassioned. He cares about the salvation of his hearers. He is not satisfied simply with setting out doctrine and then going on his way. He longs for his readers to respond positively to what he says. He not only wants Christ to be seen and exalted, but also to be accepted. A teacher may know a lot of truth, but if he does not have compassionate concern for how people react to this truth, he is not a worthy teacher. God's word demands. Response, and a faithful teacher of the word teaches for response. Into the middle of his treatise on angels, the writer interjects an invitation He applies directly to the readers what he has been saying about Christ, that Christ is superior to everything and everyone, that he is the exalted one, that he alone can purge sin That he is God, that he is the Creator, and that He is worthy of worship. He gives a personal invitation to his readers and hearers to respond to what they have learned. You might say that doctrine here breaks into invitation. Thus John MacArthur about these four verses at the beginning of chapter two. So let's take a look. Let's drill down and Uh see what uh the author is trying to teach. And ultimately what the Holy Spirit is trying to teach us. So verse one, for this reason we must pay much closer attention to what we have heard so that we do not dream So for this reason, what is he talking about? What reason? So for this reason Diyatoto for this reason therefore is another way you could uh could uh translate that. Uh for this reason or therefore Wha what is he what reason? What is he talking about there? He's he's he's hailing back to what he's just said in chapter one. So remember this is a letter And the letter when the readers got it didn't have chapters and verses in it. It's just a letter and you read right through it. You don't stop. So they didn't stop at the end of chapter one when they're reading the letter. And so he just explained Who Christ is, why he's superior to everybody's, we're spirit superior to the angels. And then the very next words are, for this reason For the reason that I've just explained why Christ is all superior to everything and spirit of the angels, for this reason We must pay closer attention to what we've heard. So, because of the superiority of the sun as an agent of divine revelation, the writer introduces here an admonition and an invitation. I've just explained all this to you, the writer says, all this all these things about Christ. So pay attention. Pay attention to what I've just said and don't squander. uh what I've just said. Uh that's what that's what for this reason uh the start of this this section is. He gives three reasons to receive and not neglect salvation As we said at the beginning, the character of Christ, the certainty of judgment, the confirmation of God, reasons not to neglect, reasons to receive salvation. So the first reason is the character of dis Christ as described in chapter one. So for this reason the first thing is hey Pay attention to what I just said. I just said all these things about the character of Christ, and because of that we need to pay attention. Um and so going back to what we just said, the he's the air of uh going all the way back to the uh not just last week but the week before. Um he's the heir of all things, the creator of the world from verse two. He's the radiance and the glory of God, the e exact representation of the divine nature, uh the sustainer of the universe, the purifier from sin. The one who sits at the right hand of God the Father on high in verse three. He is worshipped by angels in verse four through seven. He is anointed above all, the Lord of creation, unchangeable, everlasting God, verses eight to twelve. So the He's just said all these given all these reasons in verse in chapter one. So therefore We must pay much closer attention to what we have heard. So in other words, I've just told you, and you've heard it before. Because remember he's quoting over and over again from the Old Testament. So it's not like what he's telling them is they're hearing for the first time. He said it, they've heard it before, and because of that, you have to pay attention to what you have heard. That's what he's saying here. So this is who Christ is, uh he's saying. Who could possibly reject him? What kind of a person could reject that kind of a Christ that I've just explained to you all the way up through this first chapter? Uh the the the author is saying, Hey, isn't it obvious? How could you possibly reject this Christ I've just been explaining to you? Uh he came into the world as God incarnate, he died on a cross to forgive our sins, paid. our penalties, showed us divine love, offers to introduce us to God and give us blessing and joy beyond imagination. He's told them all these things about Christ. Uh he's told them that God was uh Je Jesus was God's voice, that uh i in the very beginning of uh chapter one it's um he's revealed himself in the prophets long ago and in many ways, but d in these last days he's revealed himself through Christ and so Christ is God's voice in these days. And to reject him, therefore, is to reject God. To reject God is to reject the very reason for our existence, the reason we were created. And so he's been taking these great pains and he's become impassioned about exploring. who Christ is and what he's done and um and then he comes to this invitation or ad this admonition not to neglect this great salvation and an invitation to accept this great salvation. That's the real point. of these first four verses of chapter two here. And so because of the person of Christ, who he is, his magnificence, a man would be a fool to reject such a salvation offer. And so i it's obvious it comes out in the in the words that um the author you can't understand how could a person um who knew who Christ is Um and still not commit his life to him. Uh what a tragedy that would be for somebody to have had all this explained to them And then not accept Christ. And so that's the admonition, the warning, and the invitation here at the beginning of chapter two, after he's done all this explaining about who Christ is and what he's done. Any questions so far? I was that kind of person. For my salvation, I was rejecting Christ, but I didn't know. I was following the Lord. Yeah, I I think it's probably um we'll talk about it a little bit more in detail later, but um it's common, I believe, in church throughout history, from this time that the author was writing Hebrews all the way up to our day, that there are people that are sitting in churches Nodding their head as the preacher preaches, but have not accepted Christ as Lord and Savior. And that's who He's going after here. So people who have they're they're in a church, they're in this whatever this church. church is this church of Jewish believers, but he knows that there are people in that church who are sitting there who have they've had who Christ is explained to them, they've had the gospel explained to them, but they have not accepted Christ as Lord and Savior. And that's a dangerous place to be, and so he's he's giving this admonition. He's trying to shake them. Hey, I've just explained who Christ is and uh yes, Larry. Yeah, yeah. So we're gonna talk about that particular illustration. in just a minute. Um it's actually a nautical illustration. I'll get to that in a minute, uh, of a ship drifting away. Um yeah. Uh we'll talk about that in in m in some detail in in a few minutes. Uh, chapter one word reinvention uh uh first hidden that you bring everyone to attention to the It should. It should. And so yeah, that's what the the the author is saying here is hey, look at these things I've just explained about not only who Christ is, but what he's done, and there should be some response to that You shouldn't just hear that and take it in as a as a fact that you know now, but what are you gonna do about that now? And now that you know it. Um yeah, so that's the the real point that he's driving at here. Um and so we're gonna take a look at these Greek words and uh Larry gave me a little uh uh introduction here. Uh there's a couple of words here that if we get the meaning we can get the word picture better. Uh so there's two c uh uh key words here uh is to pay attention to and paradeo is to let slip or drift away. Those two words. With its modifier, that first word, prosejo, is is translated, pay much closer attention to. And it's very emphatic. In other words, on the basis of who Christ is, we must give careful attention to what we have heard about him. The word paradeo translates Tears drift away from can have several meanings. It can be used if something's flowing or slipping past. It can a ring slipping off a finger It can be used as something slipping down and getting caught in a difficult place. It is used as something which carelessly has been allowed to slip away. We cannot hear these things and let them just slide through our minds. That's the word picture. But it turns out that both of these words have nautical connotations. And I think that's really what this illustration is about. Prosejo means to moor a ship, to tie it up. Paradeo can be used of a ship that has been allowed to drift past the harbor because a sailor forgot. To attend to the steerage or to properly chart the wind, tides, and currents. And so with those meanings in mind, you could translate that this way. Therefore, we must more eagerly secure our lives to the things which we have been taught, like tying up a ship. Lest the ship of life drift past the harbor of salvation and be lost forever. That's kind of the word picture that the author is painting here. Tie your ship up fast to the pier of salvation. Don't let it just drift off to sea um where it could be lost forever. So it's a w it's a nautical word picture of a ship um that should be tied f securely to the pier, d and don't let it just drift by the pier and off to sea by negligence. Yeah. I kind of read this is either your heart is softening towards Christ or it's slowly getting harder, so at a certain point it's just going to be too hard. Well, so that's another kind of analogy of looking at it. This analogy is Talking about pay closer attention to the nautical analogy is tied up securely and safely to the pier. Do that Don't let your ship just ship just drift by the pier and on out to sea by negligence. It's a neglige there's the the connotation of it is you've negligently allowed your ship to drift by the pier. here and off uh where it could be safe and off out to sea uh where you're lost. Um that's really the word picture here at the beginning of chapter two. Uh he's warning this is a warning um an admonition not to do that. Tie up safely to the pier. Don't drift off to sea by negligence. Yeah. comparison to the to the man who built his house on the sand versus on the foundation. Yeah, there's a lot of illustrations like that in the Bible. Do this, don't do that. Um yeah. There's a and and using word pictures of things that uh, you know, parables with common uh common agricultural themes and other kinds of themes like that. Uh this one is a nautical um illustration. Do this, don't do that. Um Okay. Uh so the illustration is both graphic and appropriate. Most people do not go headlong and intentionally into hell. They drift into it. Most people do not deliberately in a moment turn their backs on God or curse him. Some do. But most don't. Uh most people just slowly, almost imperceptibly, slip past the harbor of salvation and out to eternal destruction. Their heart gradually hardens until it's too late, it's too hard. They they gradually drift by the pier of salvation and then gradually further out to sea and before you know it you can't even see the pier anymore. And it's too late. Um so that's the kind of word picture that the author is is is painting here, yeah. When I was much younger, uh used to sit on start phone bookie boards and catch weights and stuff like that. And one day when it was kind of calm out there I just laid down and just enjoyed the rocking of bed and fell asleep. And before I knew it I was I had dragged got drug into a channel and out to the ocean and lifeguards had to come and get me back from the ocean. It's that kind of a thing. If you're not if you just enjoy life. You can just drift and and that's that's always been something that just reminds me of. Yep. That's a good illustration. Uh yes Raymond. Yep. Yeah. I I think that's right. And so what's the lesson for us today is uh so i if you if you this is this is for people who Are not saved. But everybody knows somebody who's not saved, and um this kind of admonition is particularly for people who are I I I believe for people who are attending a church, because the letter, remember, was to a church, and so it's being read out loud to a church. But in that church we're certainly then as now people who are not saved. And so and that's a dangerous place to be. You can just slowly drift along until it's too late. Um and so As a follower of Christ, what can you do? You can point them to passages like this. The Holy Spirit has given us this tool in our toolkit to say, hey, look at this. I'm just wondering, you know, you've been at attending church for a while and you've heard all this preaching, you've heard the gospel, you know who Christ is, um had uh are you gonna give your life to Christ? Or are you just gonna drift along like this? Um and So the author of of of the of the letter is trying to give a push to those who have are are in the church um but are not saved. And so th and that's a fact. Um of all churches of all times. That that not every single person who's sitting in a pew is saved. Um and we care about those people. Those people are our friends and our neighbors and our coworkers and our family members. And so we don't want them to drift along out to sea. Um so we have a uh a warning here in the scriptures that we can use. Um yes. I am done that it points to the responsibility that the person has with regard to salvation, they have a responsibility to their only responsibility is to believe. That's right. They don't have any other role in our salvation to have to believe. Right. And so um we we do have to remember that um th that the when Jesus was in his earthly ministry he said um uh no one can come to me unless the Father draws him and so We have this clear teaching that there that salvation is a work of God. God's election, Holy Spirit's regeneration, the Christ's justification, all three persons of the Trinity are involved in our salvation, but it's a work of God. However, we have all these admonitions of the uh in the scriptures that are directed at us, directed at people. And so there is a there's a mystery, a little bit of a mystery there. It's definitely a work of God, but we're admonished not to ignore such a great salvation. That's written to people to read and hear. Yes. Yep. And what is the means to use other words to do so? other Christians are not really committed to the warnings. These warnings are means God can use the safety. Absolutely. Yep. And so the the Holy Spirit has deliberately put this into the scriptures as a tool, I think. Yes. It sounds to me like these people in the church that are slowly drifting away don't even know it. They don't realize it because they're gonna wake up one day in eternity and say, Knocking on the door. Didn't we preach Indeed. Apart from me, I never knew. Yes, that's right. And so Christ warned about that. Um and so there will obviously it's true that there will people who will be surprised. um a they will say I was there in the pews every every Sunday. Um yeah. Yeah. And so that's a danger and there's warnings in the scripture about it. This is not the only one. In fact there are uh five Warnings like this just in the book of Hebrews. Uh this is the first of five major warnings in the book of Hebrews about this sort of thing. Um yes. Is it possible in the language that's written here the the thing that that is talking about that we've heard is something outside of what's written in chapter one. Um because if what you've heard talks about the gospel, chapter one doesn't explicitly say I think. anything it's mostly about the gospel. It's about Christ and his superiority. Yeah, but it it does talk about his purging sin. So it is it is the gospel. Yeah. Yeah so the gospel is presented in chapter one. And uh however, it says for this reason we want to pay closer attention to what we have heard. Uh what we have heard can include not just what he has just said, but everything that they have heard. And the the reason why that's probable is the Old Testament quotes, as I mentioned last time, are what are called pointer texts. It's just a small, a very small particle of a teaching from the Old Testament, uh you usually with the expectation that the audience would either already know the surrounding context, or would then go look at the surrounding context, not just that tiny little quote that he made. Um and so yes, it's more it it that word what we have heard most likely the author intends to include Scripture. Not just the tiny parts that he talked about. I mean he talked about he did present who Christ is and what he has done in chapter one, but the scripture contains a lot more about Christ as well. Um, yes. All right, so we've gone all the way through one verse so far. Um let's let's take a whack at verse two. So uh For if the word spoken through angels proved unalterable and every transgression and disobedience received a just penalty, how will we escape if we neglect so great a salvation. This question. So the Greek word here for if assumes a fulfilled condition, not a possibility. So it's not saying, well maybe if the word spoken through angels is unalterable. No, that's not that's not the sense of that Greek word. Uh the phrase could be translated for in view of the fact that the word spoken through angels proved unalterable. That's really what it the the sense of that Greek word translated if there is. It's not it's not really like it's not really perfectly like our English word if, as i as if it could be true or maybe it's not true. It's a Assuming that it's true. That's the sense of that Greek word. Um and so why is Old Testament law, particularly the Ten Commandments, connected with angels Does that seem a little bit odd? Uh the fact that it's angels, through angels on all the Um So why does the writer emphasize that angels mediated the old covenant? Uh he does so because in fact if we look back at the Old Testament, Angels were instrumental in bringing the Ten Commandments, as is clear from several passages. First of all, uh Psalm 6817, the chariots of God are myriads Thousands upon thousands. The Lord is among them at Sinai in holiness. So at Sinai where Moses was given the law, the Lord was accompanied by a host of angels, according to Psalm 68. Moses himself reports in Deuteronomy thirty-three, the Lord came from Sinai and dawned on them from Seir. He shone forth from Mount Peron and he came from the midst of ten thousand holy ones. At his right hand and there was flashing lightning for them. So Moses says that where God was Sinai, Seir, uh, and Mount Perrin, there were also ten thousand holy ones, um, according to Moses. This seems to indicate that all angels were involved in bringing the law at Sinai. And in fact, in Acts 7, Acts 738 mentions specifically that at least one angel was with Moses at Sinai. Acts 738, this is the one who was in the congregation in the wilderness together with the angel. And so there was an angel there on Mount Sinai when Moses went up Mount Sinai, um, who was with our fathers. A few verses later we are told in uh Acts seven fifty-three the law As ordained by angels. And so, what are angels? Angels are messengers and servants of God that do his bidding. And so they were involved. The Old Testament and the New Testament both tell us exactly. Explicitly that the angels were involved as messengers of God in the promulgation of the law. And so the author of Hebrews repeats that He's talking about uh the giving of the law So both the Old Testament and the New Testament uh testify to that fact. Uh so the law was unviolable, punishment for breaking it was sure and certain. Uh it's unalterable. Uh our test our text here says every treatment. Transgression and disobedient received a just penalty. So every sin will be punished. That's what the great white throne judgment is all about. Every sin is punished. And so there's there's only two possibilities for how and when those sins, every single sin one by one, is accounted for and punished. Either you will be punished for each and every one of your sins of the great white throne judgment Or Christ paid the penalty on the cross for each and every one of your sins, and you don't have to pay. But every sin will be paid for. Either by Christ on the cross or by the individuals at the great white throne judgment and tossed into the lake of fire. So the and the the author of Hebrews is Uh referring to that fact. Every transgression and disobedience receives a just penalty. That just penalty that we should have paid for those who believe in Christ, is paid by Christ on the on the cross. All of our sins, past, present and future. The penalty is paid, but every single transgression, every single disobedience, one by one, is accounted for. in God's accounting system, his justice. Justice, God is a just God, and so he cannot ignore sin. Every single sin, as the author of Hebrews says, every transgression of disobedient received a just penalty. Um and so how will we escape if we neglect so great a salvation? How do you escape the judgment? It's only through this great salvation. If you don't accept this great salvation, you will not ex escape the judgment, the just penalty for every transgression. This is a warning about the great white throne judgment uh that's coming. Um and that punishment of course is fair and just so two words are used here for sin. uh parabasas parabasis transgression and paracoei parakoe uh disobedience transgression and disobedience transgression means to step across the line as a willful act. It's an overt sin of commission, of intentionally doing something we know to be wrong. That's one kind of sin. The other is disobedience however, which i has the idea of imperfect hearing in this Greek word. But not like that of a deaf man who cannot help not hearing. Disobedience deliberately shuts its ears to the commands warnings and imitations of God. It is a sin of neglect, of omission. One is active sin, the other is passive, but both are willful And both are serious. Transgressions and disobedience, these two different categories of sin of commission, sin of omission. Um so what the author of Hebrews hears is he's being complete. All kinds of sins are included, all the transgressions and all the disobediences, whether it's sins of commission or sins of omission. Every single one of them, every transgression of disobedience receives a just penalty. This is a very serious warning to shake these people who are sitting in a church hearing the word of God preached, having some intellectual assent to, oh yeah, that's true But not accepting Christ as Lord and Savior. Um what he's the author of Hebrews saying is you cannot escape the judgment that's coming by what you're currently doing. If you neglect the great salvation, the fact that Jesus purged sins and that you have to accept him as Lord and Savior, if you neglect that, your head Headed towards this uh day of judgment in which all every transgression and disobedience will receive their just penalty and you can't escape. There's no escape. Everybody see that Very serious warning here. Uh any questions about any of that? Yes. No, so this is all part of the first warning. So this these four verses are a single warning. that he's making. Okay. Um and so who to whom is this warning directed? We've talked a little bit about this already, but I want to be very explicit about this. It cannot be Christians because it talks about neglecting salvation. Um so a uh somebody who is truly saved can never be in danger of neglecting salvation. Uh we we learn from Romans that everybody who he foreknew, he predestined, those he predicts pr predestined, he called, those he called, he justified, those he justified, he glorified. But there's there's no stopping that. So if you are saved, you cannot neglect salvation. It's not in your power to do so. Um and so it's not talking about people who are already saved drifting away from their salvation. It's talking about people who have heard all of these things about Christ and who he is and what he's done and are neglecting that great salvation that they have been offered. Um so they So believers of course can neglect growth in discipleship, we can grieve the Holy Spirit, we can uh we can um not grow as much as we should be growing uh in our process of sanctification, but we can't get rid of our salvation. Um so it can't be um It can't be the and it can't be directed at people who've never heard because it it very specifically says because we've heard all these things, for since we you have heard all these things and the so it has to be people that are not saved. but have heard all of these things. Um and so that's why that what's what leads me to believe that it's it's obviously it's a letter being read out loud to a church, that there are people in the audience who have heard the gospel and have not yet accepted it. Yes, Angelo. Yeah, that's good. That's what's coming next. So we're gonna talk about we uh it's it's being addressed to the non Christians, especially Jews in In this particular intellectually convinced, they've heard the facts, but they haven't accepted. So, but if the warning is done, believers, why does the writer speak of we And this is Angela's question, an excellent question, because she knew I was going to talk about this next. So she was uh two steps ahead. Um so what if the warnings were unbelievers? Why does the writer say we Is the author saying that he himself is not a Christian? No, I don't believe that. Uh the we is most likely referring to nationality or to all those who have heard the truth. So he's he's a Jew, writing to Jews, he's lunking himself into Jews. Jews. And he's also lumping himself in with all who have heard this word. He's saying, We've all heard this. Um and so I I don't believe he's saying that he's also not saved. Um I think he's using a literary device to identify with his readers in terms of nationality and or all the people that have heard this uh this preaching and teaching. Uh but it's a good question. We need to make sure we don't uh misunderstand that. The author's willingness to identify himself with his readers does not mean he is in the same spiritual condition they are he seems simply to be saying all of us who have heard the gospel ought to accept it. Uh there's some unusual and and uh stark things that Paul says in some of his letters um something about I wish I could you know toss over my own salvation so that others could be saved. Um he's trying to identify with the people he's writing to, not that he would or could actually give away his own salvation. Uh I think he's just going uh as he he's he's Using extreme language to identify with his um the readers. And I think that's happening here too with the author of Hebrews. We have all met people who seem to believe what is taught at church, who cannot along with the sermon, but are not ready to make a commitment to Christ as Lord. and Savior. Uh perhaps you have a family member or a friend like that. They come to church and hear the word of God over and over. They know it's true in their head, intellectually, they know they need it, but they are not willing to commit themselves and personally accept Christ. Um people who are who are they they hear the scripture, they understand what it says, but uh they're they won't let go of the the law or Right. So there could be many different reasons why people are uh unwilling to commit Um, it could be in in this case this is all uh most likely a group of Jews. It could be that they're clinging to their their past uh re religious rites or uh religious understandings uh from Judaism that could very well be. Um it seems that the author is warning over and over again about that particular thing. Um and it c And there could be other kinds of distractions uh today in any church in America that could make it so people are um They hear the the word being preached, but they're they're unwilling to commit to Christ as Lord and Savior. Uh one of the examples I think from history is Benjamin Franklin. Benjamin Franklin heard the preaching of George Whitfield in particular. He followed Whitfield around during the Great Awakening, heard his preaching over and over again, loved him, organized his life around biblical practice. Principles. If you read the autobiography of of uh Benjamin Franklin, he has one section of it where he talks about the the things that he does in his own life disciplines in his own life, and which uh chapter and verse of scripture that he uses the the reason why he does that in his life. So he knew scripture very well, he had heard great preaching, he structured his life around biblical principles. Principles. But on his deathbed there were pastors around him. We have historical testimony trying to get him to e to to uh accept Christ as his Lord and Savior and he very explicitly refused on his deathbed to accept Christ as Lord and Savior. Even though he had deliberately patterned his life Around Scripture. Knew Scripture very well, knew the gospel. George Whitfield was a very powerful speaker who definitely proclaimed the gospel at every one of his sermons, and there were dozens and dozens of sermons by Whitfield. Whitfield that Franklin says he was at. Um but he never gave his life to Christ. Um he believed in all the principles of scripture for living his life, but would not Uh commit his t accept l uh Christ as the Lord of his life. Yeah. Yes. your ears to something that you are being told and should be listening to. You know that you should be listening to And given that elsewhere in scripture there are things talking about don't be lukewarm, don't be apathetic, don't be lethargic. How can you rule out the possibility that when he says neglect so great salvation, he's not talking about people who are refusing to accept salvation. He's talking about people who are saved but have fallen into apathy and aren't following God's God's commands as they should. So I I think that that phrase neglecting so Salvation is a much sterner warning than would apply to somebody who is actually saved. So if somebody's actually saved has actually not neglected salvation, they've neglected something else. They've neglected their Christian walk, they've they've neglected their sanctification, they've neglected the command to become conformed to the likeness of Christ, but they haven't neglected salvation. They have salvation. They've neglected What comes after salvation. So once you're justified, the next step in the Christian life is to become conformed to the likeness of Christ. And there are people that neglect that. But that's not neglecting salvation. But when the Greek words for neglect can mean to be careless of, to care about to not care about yourself. You can get apathetic towards yourself the the fact that you are safe, the fact that Christ died for you. You can be apathetic towards that and still be saved because you're a sinner. Well yeah, so you could you could be saved and neglect various things about what you should be doing, how you should be living your Christian life. But I I still don't believe that that is what he's talking about here it when he says neglecting so great a salvation, he seems to be talking about uh neglect so if you start in in verse one, for this reason we ought to pay more attention to what he's he's talking about. out here. I think that it it's it's unlikely that he is trying to tell people that are already saved not to neglect salvation. Although I'm sure that there are people who see it that way. In particular, if you have um if you have um a system of theology that emphasizes um I w wanna be careful about how I say this, um One way to say it is Arminianism, and it doesn't have to be full Ar Arminianism. Um if you emphasize a a person's role in salvation, um, rather than God's role in salvation. Then you can read passage of scriptures in a very different way, including this one. Um but I think when you take the whole council of scripture together Especially the passages where Paul explains in Romans about the doctrine of election, predestination and election. Um that when you read all of scripture together and you consider Especially what Paul says about the doctrine of election. That salvation is something that somebody that's saved mm can't really neglect in that sense, is how I see it. Now, there are definitely other theologians who will see that differently. Um and especially those who are um what I would term um more on the Arminian side. Uh I just don't think that that really fits the whole council of scripture. Correct. Correct. And it's and so a and when we think about the doctrine of election, uh we think about the fact that God is sovereign over all things and so he's sovereign over election. And so he knows who he has elected from uh the beginning of time. But we don't know that. And so Why is it that God has us proclaim the gospel? If he's already decided who's gonna be saved, why is it that we So obedience so that we have a command and take it in? Right. So i in essence God has commanded Well, I think it's because he um he's giving us an opportunity to participate in this uh this divine election um because he uses means as Larry pointed out before. Uh he could just reach down and save people without having any Anybody uh preach the word to them. He he he's God has the power to do that, to reach down one by one. go directly into your brain and and f cause you to uh to believe and follow him. Uh he has chosen not to do that And he's chosen not to do that for his glory. And part of that his plan of glorifying himself is to have us participate in the process of bringing people to Christ. And he He's commanded it, so we obey it, but we also try to understand it. Well why is why has he done that? And sometimes we can understand God's uh reasons for why he does things. And sometimes we can't quite understand his reasons for doing things. But by faith we obey what he tells us to do. And so we struggle to understand why he uh he commands us to do certain things. Uh but at the end of the day By faith we believe that his plan is the best plan, that his plan is perfect, that he's good and he's good all the time. And so everything he does is right and righteous and just. And so when he orders us to go into the world and make disciples, we go into the world and make disciples, even though we have s an intellectual understanding that does God really need me No, he doesn't need me, but he's commanded me and it's um not only is it something that I must do, but it's something that it's a joy to do, to participate in that process of bringing people to Christ Christ. Um I believe that he allows us to do that for our own joy and um as as a um uh as a gift to us, being allowed to participate in that process of spreading the gospel and bringing people to Christ. But does he need me? No he does not. Um and there's some uh for some specific things in there in the scriptures like uh the story of Esther. What does Mordecai say to Esther? For such a time as this you've been raised up and put in that position, but it i if it if not you, go God will raise up somebody else. Um and so he does not need me. Um but it's a great joy and privilege to be used by God in in that way. Okay. Um so Um they have all facts, but if not committed, they are like the man who believes a boat will hold him, but he will not get in. Um and so I give one more illustration. This is from MacArthur Uh so MacArthur's giving an illustration about a woman who came into his office. So I never forget the lady who came into my office one day, informed me that she was a prostitute, and said, I need help. I am desperate After presenting the claims of Christ to her, I said, Would you like to confess Jesus Christ as your Lord? Yes, she replied, I've had it. She was at the bottom and knew it. So she prayed a prayer and seemingly invited Christ into her life I said, now I want you to do something. Do you have your little book with you that has the names of all your contacts? When she replied that she did, I suggested, let's take a match and burn it right now Looking surprised, he responded, What do you mean? Just what I said, I explained, if you really met Jesus Christ as your Lord. If you really accept his forgiveness and are going to live for him, let's burn that book and celebrate your new birth right now and just praise the Lord But it's worth a lot of money. A lot of money, she objected. I said, I'm sure it is. Putting the book back in her purse and looking me in the eyes, she said, I don't want to burn my book I guess I really don't want Jesus, do I? And she left. When she counted the cost, she realized he was not ready. I do not know what happened to that dear girl. My heart aches for her, and I often think about her. I know that she knew the facts of the gospel and believed them, but she was not willing to make the sacrifice. Even though what she refused to give up was worth nothing, and what she could have had in Jesus Christ was everything. There are many such people. They know the truth, they stand on the edge of the right decision, but they never make it They just drift. And they are the ones to whom this passage in Hebrew is speaking. The purpose of these four verses is to give such persons a powerful shove toward Jesus Christ. That's John MacArthur in the midst of this section. So uh we've got a couple of minutes we need to get through verse four here. Uh after it was at the first spoken to the Lord, it was confirmed to us by those who heard, God also testifying with them, both by signs and wonders and by various miracles, and by gifts of the Holy Spirit according to his own will. So the third important reason for accepting Christ is the confirmation of God. So the gospel was first given by Christ And was then confirmed by the apostles who had heard him in person. So Jesus preached. He poured into his twelve disciples. And then they went out as the apostles had preached. But even more importantly, it was confirmed by God Himself bearing witness. So when Jesus preached the gospel, he also did things that made it more believable. Um so in John ten thirty-eight for example, though you do not believe me, believe the works, that you may know and understand that the Father is in me and I in the Father. So if he's talking about his miracles, the fact that he did miracles, well, he's say what he's saying to Jesus. Jesus was saying to his audiences, Well where do those miracles come from? They they come from the from God, and so therefore you should believe me because of the signs and wonders that God is doing through me. But he claimed to be God and then did things that only God could do. He confirmed his divinity and consequently the truth of his message. So he did things like he showed that he had power over the weather. Uh, he showed that he had power of creation. Um he he turned water into wine, he made uh uh loaves and fishes feed five thousand people, he walked on water, he calmed a storm, all these things, these miraculous signs. that Jesus did. On the day of Pentecost in Peter's sermon, he reminded his hearers, Jesus the Nazarene was a man attested to you by God with miracles and wonders and signs. Acts two twenty two. So that's one of the first things that Peter did when he was addressing his audience. and giving a sermon is pointing out to them, hey, you s you were here, and you you either saw or you knew about these signs and wonders and miracles that Jesus did and that was God attesting to or confirming Jesus and his uh preaching and who he was. Uh so God gave similar confirming signs signs to the apostles. Confirming signs in Jesus' ministry, similar confirming signs to the apostles, the first preachers of the gospel after Christ Himself. So many of their listeners who were saying, Why should we believe? What proof do we have that their messages from God? Um and God gave those signs to prove that this was his message through the apostles just like it was through Christ. And so God will witness to his apostles uh and their teaching uh the same way he gave witness to christ. He gave signs and wonders and miracles. They raised the dead, they healed diseases, and through these works, God confirmed their ministry. And so, therefore, because God was giving these signs and wonders to the apostles to confirm the gospel, therefore to argue with these apostles, and their teaching was to argue with God. He was confirming their teaching. It was divine. Truth substantiated by miracles, just like when Jesus was in his earthly ministry. He also gave the apostles special gifts of the Holy Spirit according to his own will. That's how the author of Hebrews puts it. In Acts fourteen three we read that Paul and Barnabas spent a long time there in Iconium, speaking boldly with reliance upon the Lord, who was bearing witness to the word of his grace, granting that signs and wonders be done in their hands. And so this is the clear teaching of Scripture that these signs and wonders, done by Christ and then done by his apostles, were the Lord bearing witness. Paul explained to the Roman Christians in the power of signs and wonders and the power of the Spirit, so that from Jerusalem and roundabout as far as Il So Paul also is saying, I've preached the gospel of Christ, and also it's been attested to by signs and wonders in my preaching. That's Paul's testimony as well. So an apostle had these gifts and these miracles. He had to do these gifts and miracles in order to show that this was true testimony uh to the truly the word of God. Um in another letter he says the signs of true apostles were performed among you with all perseverance by signs and wonders and miracles. 2 Corinthians chapter 12. So it's over and over and over and over again in the New Testament. And the author of Hebrews is coming back to that here, uh, as part of this warning, um, that God testified through these apostles, the teaching of these apostles, by signs and wonders and miracles, and uh were given these spiritual gifts uh by the Holy Spirit. in order to confirm their testimony. These sign gifts were healing, miracles, tongues, interpretation of tongues, various things that we read about the apostles and and uh uh Jesus um uh apostles doing in their ministries. Um and so th this was confirming what became uh what was the apostles teaching and what became the New Testament scriptures. And so when God's word was completed the other confirmation ceased. There was no longer any reason to confirm through these signs and wonders because the uh the scriptures had been attested to, had been compiled as the New Testament scriptures, the um the Testimony of the signs and miracles are actually recorded in those scriptures that we now have. So in that sense, we have the testimony of those signs and wonders uh uh in the scriptures that we have now. And since that's closed and done, there's no more reason. The reason for those signs and wonders is now done. Uh Benjamin Warfield, uh B. B. War Warfield, the great Bible scholar, said these miraculous gifts were part of the credentials of the apostles as the authoritative agents of God in founding the church. Their function thus confirmed them distinctively in the apost apostolic church and they necessarily passed away with it. We call this cessationism. Uh these uh sign gifts that were for a particular purpose in a particular time. that particular purpose and time is past, and so have those sign gifts with it. God attested to this gospel of the signs, wonders, and miracles and special spiritual gifts, but now he attests to it in the authority of his written word. Well we can read about the apostles doing the signs and wonders and and miracles. And so um therefore we've got these three reasons Um not to neglect, but instead to receive salvation, the character of Christ, the certainty of judgment, and the confirmation of God. Any questions about any of that? Yes. Yeah, so um there is a passage in scripture that says says that uh these kind of things are done for unbelievers. Um and if you think about the context of the preaching, um the the the apostles are going out, Paul's going on his missionary journeys, uh The apostles are going various places around the Roman Empire, starting in Jerusalem and going out, and they're preaching to audiences of unbelievers. And how do how are those unbelievers supposed to know that this This teaching is any different from any other teaching they hear, from the Stoic philosophers or from any of the other Greek philosophers. How is this different? And so God designed these miracles to show as the apostles were preaching, hey this is different. They can do things that people, ordinary people can't do that all the other religions and teachers are are they can't do that. This is something different and special. And so those signs and wonders, the Bible says, are Particularly for unbelievers to see that this is different. This is something that's um that's brought to you by a powerful God that can do these signs and wonders. Yeah. Any other questions? Yes. The people in church that hear the word of God created and everything and they'll say the light from it. So Um Judas did the same thing. He was the word of Jesus Christ himself, the viewing as a miracle and signal, knowing Christ personally, even being sent out to something um to tell others to know everything Yeah, Judas is a good example, somebody that heard heard Christ himself speaking for three years, saw all the miracles. and didn't accept. Yeah. And and of course that sort of attitude goes all the way back. The uh the entire nation of Israel s went through the Red Sea Saw God, you know, Passover, all that kind of thing, and then they rebelled against God, even though they had seen with their own eyes the plagues and the Red Sea parting and all that Uh they still didn't believe. Yep. Yeah. So unbelief is uh persistent sometimes. All right, let me uh let me close this with