Okay, so um as I've been doing throughout uh the month of February, I've given um a little bit of biographical information about um um African Americans during the History Month. I gave you one from the um eighteenth century, one from the nineteenth century, one from the twentieth century, and here's one from the twenty-first century. Uh a man named Dr. Vody Bacham. Uh he was raised in a non-Christian single parent home in South Central LA. Uh in one of the most dangerous environments you could possibly imagine. One of his young cousins was shot down in a drive-by shooting. Um and he uh he sa according to Dr. Bacham, he never heard the gospel until he was in college. Uh his journey to faith was very unusual and intellectual one, and consequently he understands what it means to be a skeptic. and knows what it's like to try to figure out the Christian life without relying on the traditions of men. As a result, he speaks to outsiders in ways few Bible teachers can. He holds degrees from Houston Baptist University, a BA in Christianity and and also a BA in sociology. Uh he's got an MDIV from Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary. He's got a a doctor of ministry in from Southeastern Baptist Theological Seminary. He has an honorary degree from Southern California Seminary and has also done postgraduate work at Oxford. He's a brilliant man, uh coming from absolute poverty in South Central LA to become a a brilliant Christian scholar. He wears many hats. He's a husband, father, pastor, author, professor, a conference speaker, and church planner. Uh he currently serves as Dean of Theology at African Christian University in Lusaka, Zambia. Uh well, he's about to come home. He's he's coming home I think m maybe next month. He's coming back to Florida. Um so he teaches uh apologetics is one of his uh uh primary strengths. He he preaches a lot, but he's he uh uh apologetics is one of the things he does. The historicity of the Bible, resurrection of Christ, biblical Manhood to womanhood, marriage and family. He's written several books on marriage and family. Um and he helps people to understand how the Bible applies to every area in life. Later in life he took up Brazilian uh Brazilian Jiu Jitsu uh has an avenue of self defense training, personal fitness and outreach. And he got so good at it that he started winning competitions and including the twenty fourteen Pan American Championship in his division. Um i i I've seen him at conferences and and he is a huge man. He he's like six foot four and two hundred and fifty pounds. Um it's it's hard to imagine a a a person who's that huge and also proficient in martial arts coming at you, uh I think that would be quite terrifying, but he's a he's a he's a wonderful man Bodie and his wife Bridget have been married since 1989. They have nine children. Jasmine, Trey, Elijah, Asher, Judah, Micah, Sapphira, Amos, and Simeon. Uh and they've home educated all of their children. Uh I've heard him speak several times. Um he's a he's a great speaker and a wonderful man of God. Yes. Yeah, he's got a lot of uh videos on YouTube that you can watch, sermons and other things that he said. He's really good. Um he's uh like I said, he's a brilliant man. Uh they don't just let anybody into Oxford Yeah, he gives he he's a great speaker, gives great present presentations. And gospel presentations. Uh yeah, yeah, he's he's very good. So if you've never listened to Dr. Bacham. I would highly recommend it. Go Google him and and look up some YouTube videos of of Dr. Bertie Bachum. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, so so there's one to start with. Two two thousand nineteen separate conference, Dr. Rodney Bacham on su on suffering. Um Yeah. So yeah, if you've if you've never uh interacted with him or or listened to his teaching, highly recommend Dr. Bodhi Bakam. Really good, really great. Great man of God and great Bible teacher and preacher. He's been invited a number of times by um by John MacArthur to preach in his pulpit at Grace Community Church. And so you can see YouTubes of him the preaching at Grace Community Church uh as well. Um, okay. So here we come to the end of our quarter. So this is part twenty six, so the thirteenth part of the second quarter. Um and that means that you need to register for next quarter. So uh next Sunday is a new quarter of our equipping classes and so if you haven't already registered please register. There's a number of choices this class and and other classes as well. Well, um of course if you forget to register you can still come to class. But but it helps it helps to understand how many are going to be in each class so we can assign uh classrooms are the appropriate size for each class. So it's helpful to us if you register ahead of time. And it also gives you access to files and messages and things like that for the class. So please register for the next quarter. Uh today we're going to talk about faith. What is faith? We're going to talk about the nature of faith, the assurance and the conviction of faith. We're going to talk about the testimony of faith and we're going to talk about the election illustration of faith. So that's what we're going to look at today as we start into Hebrews chapter eleven. But before that we'll do a r little review of what we talked about at the end of chapter ten. So if At the end of chapter 10, we talked about rejection of Christ, uh, apostasy, uh, the intentional falling away, withdrawal, or defection from Christ. Uh Jesus illustrated that with the parable of the soils. We get a definition in Verse 26 of apostasy receiving knowledge of truth and willing willfully remaining in sin. So the apostasy that we're talking about here has two major characteristics. One is Knowledge of the truth, and two is willful rejection of that truth. And so every apostate is an unbeliever, but not every unbeliever is an apostate. Uh we mentioned this last time. There are people that have not heard the gospel, people like Dr. Brockham uh before he got to college, never heard the gospel. There are people in unreached people groups that of course have never heard the gospel. Uh so um not everyone who is an unbeliever has a perfect has a a a real solid knowledge of the truth and has uh has uh decided to reject it. So have not heard the truth. And so most in this country especially are the people who are in the category that we're talking about for the end of chapter 10 apostasy to see are people that are in or associated with the church. So and we talked about the the difference between somebody who has willfully rejected the truth and somebody who's just a struggling believer. Um so the it it's a believer can lapse into sin, stray from intimacy with the the Lord, have their relationships strained. But he'll always come back if he's a true believer. And of course human wisdom can all can't see into people's hearts. And so uh it's not really our um our job our uh we don't have the ability to tell the difference between uh a backsliding believer and somebody who's an apostate. Um and so we shouldn't really try, we should do self reflection and make sure our own heart is right. Um and so there's some results of apostasy. If you if you're a true apostate, you'd know the truth, you you um you uh willfully reject it. Um then the there's no longer a sacrifice for sin. Um y you you're beyond salvation in in that particular category, which is a narrow category of unbelievers. Uh and a greater judgment. We talked about the fact that there are uh levels of judgment. So Christ taught in his earthly ministry in John 19, Luke 12, that there are uh degrees of punishment. We also talked about their degrees of rewards and so it's a parallel there. Um and so there's a more severe punishment to somebody who actually knows the truth and willfully rejects it. Um there and effect trampling underfoot the Son of God and regarding the blood of the covenant as unclean, those sort of things. And um so in that sense a person has rejected um the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, uh including the Spirit of Grace. God is patient, but if somebody rejects the one and only way to salvation, then there's only judgment that remains after that. And so um There is within the judgment a um kind of a loving appeal that the author gives Um he they're told that there are there are um a couple of things that can prevent apostasy. Um and those that are looking back at what they had experienced, what they had already come through, and looking forward to the rewards that uh they would that would be theirs in Christ if they carried through in in faith. So then he goes through these things that they had been through. So Uh if there were this he's the author's of course talking to a group of uh Hebrew believers in the first century and so those that were identified with the church, even if they weren't true believers, uh to some extent had gone through the suffering Because they were identified with true believers. They became sharers in suffering and reproach and trivi tribulations. And so they were told to think about, hey, you've already been through all these um persecutions that come along with Christianity and then there's also these rewards that uh are ahead if you give your life truly to Christ. So uh the idea here that the What they're trying to convey is they're so close to salvation that they should look back truth by truth, event by event, um the experience that they had been through, and give their lives to Christ. prospect of a better possession and a lasting one uh if they were to to go in actually and give their lives to Christ. Um and so uh he talks about about the need for endurance and patience to prevent their circumstances from causing them to turn back, to turn away. uh from what they've heard this this uh gospel of of salvation in Christ. And then he at the and then he at uh the last few verses talks about the fact that um he's coming again. Uh he won't delay. Uh we get some the some quotes from the Old Testament from Deuteronomy and Habakkuk and talks about the the preserving of the soul if one perseveres to the end when he comes back. And the the the fact that you you've you've come this far, don't shrink back, go all the way, is what he's really saying here. Uh any questions about what we learned last time about rejecting Christ. So we talked the week before about what it looks like to accept Christ. And then there's this warning about rejecting Christ. And now that section finished, he He's gonna go into a um a long section about faith, about what faith is and about some examples of faith, which we'll get into uh in subsequent weeks in the next quarter. But any questions lingering or going back to what we talked about last time. Okay. Let's uh if you will open your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 11. Uh we're just going to dip our toe into Hebrews chapter 11 this morning, and then we're going to spend a lot of weeks talking about the individual examples of faith at the beginning of next quarter. In fact, we're going to spend a week on each one of the examples that he gives. about faith at the beginning of next quarter. Okay, Hebrews chapter 11. We're going to do just the first three verses. Hebrews 11, 1 through 3. This is the word of the Lord. Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. For by it the men of old gained approval. By faith we understand that the worlds were prepared by the Word of God, so that what is seen was not made out of things which are visible. So that's our whole text today. So I'll give you a few paragraphs from John MacArthur and his commentary uh to to kick off this section of scripture. He says, The Saints Hall of Fame, the Heroes of Faith, the Honor Roll of the Old Testament Saints, the Westminster Abbey of Scripture, and the Faith Chapter are but a few of the titles that have Been given to Hebrews 11. This chapter deals with the primacy and the excellency of faith and fits perfectly into the flow of the epistle that the new is better than the old. This theme of faith connects with chapter 10, where the writer is. Writer has already presented the principle of salvation by faith, of which the saints named in chapter eleven are examples. He quoted from Habakkuk, a Jewish prophet, reinforcing the truth that this was the principle of redemption that God has always honored. But my righteous one shall live by faith. Hebrew ten Hebrews ten thirty-eight, quoting Habakkuk 2. 4. Faith is the way of life, and faith is the way to live. There has never been any other way. These Jews have been heard have heard the powerful arguments for the superiority of the new covenant over the old, are being told that in regard to faith the two covenants are the same. That is, the faith principle did not not originate with the new covenant. It was also active in the old. In fact, it was active the moment man fell and needed a way back to God. It originated even before the earth began, since God chose us in Christ before the foundation of the world, Ephesians 1. 4. And since the only way God accepts us is in Christ uh in Christ is by our faith, then God obviously established salvation by faith at that time. The way back to God as far as man's part is concerned is by faith. It has always been by faith and only by faith. That's MacArthur's introduction to this section of Scripture. So let's take a look at it, verse by verse. There's only three of them. Verse 1. Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. And so here the author of Hebrews is using the literary device of the old Hebrew poets. The writer expresses his definition of faith in two parallel, almost identical phrases. Now this is not poetry, but he's using The literary device that the Hebrew poets always use, the parallelism, saying the same thing in two twice with two slightly different ways of saying it. That's the hallmark of Hebrew poetry. And he's using that same literary device. device here. Faith is assurance of things hoped for, conviction of things not seen. Same concept with two slightly different phrases. It's not a full theological definition But it is emphasizing certain basic characteristics of faith that are important and understanding the message that he's trying to get across to his audience here. So in Old Testament times, people had to rest on the promises of God who had told them of a coming Messiah who would take away sin. So we've seen Old Testament prophecies that talk about this Messiah, this new covenant. We've seen in Ezekiel, we've seen in Jeremiah, that this uh new covenant was Coming. There was gonna be a way to take away sins. But the Old Testament saints had only the promises and not yet the reality of this Messiah who was coming to take away sins. But God's faithful believed those promises. Even though in many cases they were vague and incomplete. They did not have all the specifics which came with new Testament revelation and the actual coming of Christ the Messiah, but they put their full trust and hope in God and His promises. That is what faith is. Living in a hope that is so real it Gives absolute assurance. The promises given to the Old Testament saints were so real to them because they believed God. that they were willing to base their lives on those promises. So that's that's the kind of faith that the author is talking about here. And and of course he's gonna go on, we're not gonna cover it today, but he's gonna go on to go through examples from the Old Testament of faith. All these people. And we're going to talk about these people. We're going to look into their stories and um and how faith was how they demonstrated true safety faith in their lives by trusting in God and his promises. We're gonna go through those examples of faith because that's what the author of Hebrews does. He has these examples. He he defines faith here and then he goes on to give the these examples which would have been well known to his audience and which are well known to us having the Old Testament scriptures. So we're gonna look at that as well. But but this is really what he's talking about. Uh first he's gotta uh sp fix solidly in their mind. and in our minds, what does he mean when he says this word faith? Any questions so far? Yes, Doug. substance. Um thing is the substance of things before. It makes it more concrete in my mind. We'll talk about the exact Greek word and what's it what it means here in a minute. Excellent. Sorry for jumping ahead. the w this Greek word is used several times in Hebrews. It's translated in a little bit different ways in different places and so it's a it's a that's a good point. Hold that thought for a second and we will get to that uh that Greek word that's translated assurance here in NASB and um is translated a little bit differently into King James. Um so yeah, hold that thought for a second. Uh so faith is not this kind of wistful hoping that something may come to pass in an uncertain future. Maybe perhaps. That's not faith. That's not biblical true saving faith. True faith is an absolute certainty, often of things that the world considers impossible. like somebody rising from the dead, for example, or a virgin having a baby. Um these sort of things are uh impossible. Um and and we have faith that they actually happen because God said they happened in His Word, and we have faith that He's uh tells the truth in His Word. And so we believe those sort of things that the world considers impossible. Christian hope is belief in God against worldly wisdom, not belief in the improbable against chance. If we follow a God whose audible voice we have never heard, And believe in a Christ whose face we have never seen, we do so because our faith has a reality, a substance, an assurance that is unshakable. That's faith. Sadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were confronted with the choice of obeying Nebuchadnezzar the king who they could see very well. He was standing there right in front of them, telling them if they didn't bow down to the idol into the fiery furnace, they go. Or they could obey God, whom they had never seen. Without hesitation, they chose to obey God, not the king standing right in front of them that had all the worldly power. The man of God puts his trust in something more durable and dependable than any. anything he will ever l experience with his senses, which may lie, God cannot lie. Titus one two. Uh our senses can fool us. Uh have you ever seen one of those um little uh patterns that you can pull up on your computer. You can actually print them on a piece of paper. And if you stare at them, you can swear everything was moving I mean it really looks like it's moving. And you know that y your brain can tell you it's not moving. But your eyes are telling you, that's that thing's moving. That that pattern is moving. Uh your senses can lie to you. But God cannot lie. And so we have faith in God, not in our senses, over and above our senses even. So now we get to the to the Greek word Hupostasis, translated here, assurance. It appears in two other places in Hebrews. In chapter 1, verse 3, it's exact representation Speaking of Christ's likeness to God in Hebrews 1. 3. Exact representation, this exact same Hebrew word. uh assurance or exactly so the faith is the exact rever representation of of things hopeful. What was it in the King James again? Substance. So that's the word. That's the Greek word Hupostasis. Uh exact representation in Hebrews 1. 3, assurance or substance uh here um in this verse. Um and in 314 it's assurance again. So here so three different places, a little bit different, and some of the translations have differ a little bit different, but faith is either the exact corruption. Representation or the assurance or the substance of what is hoped for. That's the essence of this word. It refers to the essence, the real content, the reality as opposed to the mere appearance. That's the nature of this this word. It's the real deal, the real thing. Um uh th the real thing that we're looking forward to is in this faith. Faith provides the firm ground on which we stand while we wait for the fulfillment of God's promise. Far from being nebulous and uncertain, faith is the most solid possible conviction. Faith is the present essence of future reality. So this is the faith that he's talking about, and he's going back. to give big all these examples from the Old Testament uh about how faith works. But uh we have to make sure he's making sure that we get here at the beginning um a a solid definition, a solid concept here of of this faith, and it's not this wish wishy washy hope for. It's not a it's a no-so faith, not a hope-so faith. We'll see later in Hebrews 11:13, the Old Testament saints died in faith without receiving the promises, but welcomed them from a distance. That's how he's going to put it in 1113 when we get there. They saw the fulfillment of God's promises with the eye of faith, which has much better vision than the best possible physical eyes. They held on to God's promises as the ultimate. ultimate reality of their lives as the most certain thing of their existence. And so this is what faith gives us. It gives us a firm foundation from which to view the world, to think about not only Now, but the future, what the future will be like in light of God's promises. And so from the Old Testament perspective, they can only look forward with the eye of faith to the Messiah. Uh now we can look back with the eye of faith to the Messiah's uh uh incarnation for to his earthly ministry, to his death on the cross, his burial, resurrection, and Ascension, and we look forward with the eye of faith to his second coming. In a similar way to how the Old Testament saints look forward to the first coming, we look forward in faith to the second coming of the world. Christ. Any questions so far about faith? Yes, Rob. Just minor commentary. As we know the Lord likes to repeat things and wants to provide an emphasis, and I just want to comment that sometimes we're on the end unfortunate side of things when translators decide to change up the original and translate it five different ways or whatever and we kinda lose that sort of there's an importance to what's being said here. Yeah, so when you're when you Think about translations. Um you've done translation between English and Japanese. There's not always an exact word or phrase to match the Greek, the original Greek, and so uh translators do the best they can, and we've got some different translators. translations in English and that's why I think it's when we come to a key word like this, like assurance, we need to look back at the Greek. What does it really mean? It um th this word it it it talks about the essence, the real content, the reality, not just an appearance, but the reality of the thing. That's what faith is. And so we can't get wrapped up in in how the English translations differ a little bit. I think in many cases having multiple Multiple English translations can actually help us get the essence of a Greek concept that doesn't perfectly translate into just one English word or phrase. bit different flavor in a different context and so uh you know, using a kind of a different English phrase to for that same Greek word in different contexts helps to bring out the flavor of that word in the particular context. Uh Um and so that uh one three the uh Christ being the exact uh representation I think fits in that context, um even though it's the same Greek word. Yeah. It c it can be a little bit confusing to the same Greek word have these different little translations. Any other questions or comments? Okay. So Old Testament Saints and what faith is, we're going to be talking about that for several weeks here. Um and so then the second part of it is conviction of things not seen and it carries the same kind of truth but a bit further because it implies a response or outward manifestation of this inward assurance. Assurance. The person of faith lives his faith, his life is committed to what he is convinced is true. If s in other words, said the other way around, if you think something is true, you'll act on it. Uh you you're Th there should be some um manifestation in the way you lived your life. If you if you actually believe something, then you live according to that believe. As an example, Noah that we'll get to in a lot more detail, Noah truly believed God. He could not possibly have embarked on the humanly ridiculous task God gave him without having an unshakable faith. Build a Gigantic boat in the middle of a field. That's ludicrous. Where it's you know, it never rained and it certainly never had a flood that covered the whole world Um when God predicted a massive flood, Noah had no concept of what that was. It never happened in human human not only his experience, but any other human experience. Uh it's possible that Bo did Noah did not even know how to construct a boat. He may have had some boat making skills, but he definitely had never built and no one had ever built a gigantic ark. And so what God told him to do, humanly speaking, was ridiculous Stupid. Build a giant boat in the middle of a field because this thing there's gonna be this flood that's never happened before. Um he he's telling them to do something that from a perspective of worldly wisdom is foolish. Just f absolutely foolish. And so we don't it doesn't say in scripture, but one can certainly imagine Noah's neighbors mocking him for building a big boat in the middle of the field. Um but why did he do it? He did it because he believed God when he said things that were From a worldly perspective, dumb um and stupid and ridiculous. Noah believed God and acted on his instructions. He had both assurance and conviction, and that's true faith. His outward Building of the ark bore uh bore out his inward belief that the rain was coming and that God's plan was the correct one for constructing an ark. That God said the rain was going to come, so it was gonna come. God said to build an ark that that was the the way to be saved from this flood and that this plan of so many qubits this way and so many qubits that way was the was the right way to do it Uh and so he did. He he he followed through. He he showed his conviction of things not seen, not just assurance of things hoped for, but conviction by putting into action this building of the ark. Put his faith into action, in other words. His faith was based on God's word, not on what he could see. um or on anything that he had ever experienced. And so for 120 years he preached in faith, hoped in faith, and built in faith Noah had faith, and he showed his faith by what he did, as we'll see in the book of James as well. So this is faith, this is conviction. Not only assurance, but also conviction. Any questions so far? There is a sense in which all men live by faith Our society is built on faith. Think about a couple things. We willingly receive our pay by electronic bank transfer. Zeros and ones go up into the ether And zeros and ones are received somewhere else, and some numbers on a computer screen make say our bank account went up That takes a lot of faith. Right? Uh faith in the person or the company or the government that runs the electronic banking system that when we work something's gonna happen with zeros and ones going through the ether and it it's gonna mean something on the other end that my bank account goes goes up. Right? It comes from the government. of the government system and puts money in there. And then we also have faith that some other z ones and zeros are gonna go into the ether and pay our mortgage. Right? I mean How many can remember actually receiving a paycheck? So some of us some of us can can actually remember that. But but even even an actual paycheck, that that little piece of paper, is that actually worth anything in and of itself? That little piece of paper was some swirls of of uh of color on there? No no. We we had faith even even back then you had to have faith that that when you took this little piece of paper and you gave it to the bank teller, that that meant something was going to go into your bank account because you gave them this little piece of paper with a with the company's name on it and your signature on the back Faith. Yeah, you have faith to do that. And so our whole society, our whole culture, everything is based on faith to a certain extent. We put our faith in a surgeon. And in healthcare in general, though we may not have the least training, competence, or experience in medicine ourselves. So the capacity for faith is created and built into us. That's natural faith, spiritual faith operates. operates in the realm of that same capacity, it willingly accepts and acts on many things it does not fully understand. But spiritual faith is radically different from natural faith in one important way. It is not natural. Natural man does not have spiritual faith. As our trust in the electronic banking system or the doctor is natural faith. For by grace you have been saved through faith and that, not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, Ephesians 2:8, just as natural faith. trust comes by natural birth. So spiritual trust comes by spiritual birth through regeneration by the Holy Spirit. Uh spiritual things are not understood by the the natural man. So this kind of spiritual faith that we're going to be talking about here it does not come naturally. And then of course we have for Bay at the men of old gained approval and of course he's going to expand on that all the way across the whole chapter eleven, so we'll get into that. Uh I just want to do a little bit of a detour and talk about um kind of what modern philosophy has done to the idea of faith in the in the supernatural. Uh modern man has put himself into a dilemma. Uh evangelical scholars like Francis Schaefer have pointed this out in great detail. If you haven't read Francis Schaefer, I would highly recommend it Um I have his complete works in five volumes, all 23 of his books. And uh I started reading Francis Schaefer in the 1970s. Um when I was in um when I was in junior high, I started reading Francis Schaefer. And he I I think he was the greatest Christian apologist of the twentieth century. Um and he wrote from a standpoint of a deep understanding of humanistic philosophies and how exactly they deviated from God's reality with uh uh a kind of a keen insight to show how uh those humanistic philosophies fail uh in the real world. Uh he does a great job job of explaining it I think. Uh especially in his most famous three books, The God Who Was There, Escape from Reason and He's There and He Is Not Silent. Those three books are are excellent. Uh throughout virtually all of recorded history Man had what philosophers called a unified field of knowledge. That is, man understood everything, supernatural, human history, science, ethics, economics, all of it within one frame of reference. And of course for the Christian, that's the biblical frame frame of reference. We we have a uh a a unified field of knowledge based on The revelation in Scripture, which which gives a kind of a unified uh foundation, a structure for us to understand everything in the world. And from most of human history, right up to very modern. modern times, everybody thought that way. Not everybody thought it from a biblical framework. People tried to invent other frameworks, but they were always trying to have a unified view uh field of knowledge. Uh Aristotle and Plato, for example, one of the unified field of knowledge, a way to explain everything um including the supernatural. Um but then we had a movement in philosophy known as rationalism. This is in the seventeenth uh s starting the seventeenth century, into the eighteenth century, the Enlightenment. Um Rationalism, men such as Grafwell, Hausen, Bauer, Strauss, Renat, and others began to systematically undercut every supernatural doctrine or belief. And a prime target, of course, was the Bible. uh in the name of scholarship and reason they contradicted every supernatural claim in the scripture. Uh and this leaked actually into uh scriptural study as well. There there was a whole um uh especially the the uh in Germany, uh a whole theological um uh whole theological system grew up where they just cut the supernatural stuff out of the Bible. They reduced all knowledge and reality To the area of natural reason, which dealt only with what the physical senses could observe and measure, and with what the human mind could interpret on its own. Man became the measure of all things. Everything outside the sphere of man's physical senses. Physical experience and intellectual understanding was denied or discounted. And so what does this completely obliterate? The well God but but especially the concept of faith that we just talked about. Uh it's it's Satan's way of of destroying faith. Um and so this was known as rationalism and rose up with the Enlightenment. Yes. So God was cut out. So he did he he did um Yeah, Jefferson was a deist and didn't believe in the supernatural, and so he did discount the scriptures that and so yes, he was in this philosophical kind of train, uh, Jefferson was. So that's rationalism. came about with the Enlightenment uh the seventeenth century into the eighteenth century. The philosophy of rationalism uh made man nothing more than a part of a huge meaningless machine. If there's nothing supernatural, everything is just the natural and so you as a human being being are just the physical processes that you run by. You're essentially just a very complicated machine. Some philosophers began to see the limitations of rationalism in the 18th and 19th century, early 19th century, century. Kierkegaard, for example, decided to make a place for the supernatural by putting it in a different order of reality than everyday world. He had a uh what's called duism. There's the the nat everything natural that you see, but then there's this whole different um uh realm of existence that's supernatural that never interacts with the natural. Uh it's a totally different order. Uh and this led to uh the philosophies of existentialism and relativism. Uh the supernatural the shape describes it in his books as as building an upper story. You have a lower story in the house, that's the natural, and you have an upper story that's the supernatural, but there's no stairs between them. So you can't go from the upstairs to the downstairs to the downstairs to the upstairs. They have no interaction with one another. Um and it can't be knowable by the same way that the the lower earthly level is knowable. We we have our senses, we can investigate the natural world, we can know about it. We can't n actually know about anything in the upper story that's supernatural. Uh it ex it's experienced only by a leap of faith. That's how Kierkegaard uh and other uh existentialist philosophies have uh philosophers have described it. A leap of faith, a blind leap of faith into the supper story, uh, to understand it. Uh Uh it supposedly can't really be known. Therefore every man is free to make of the supernatural whatever he wants. Relativism. You make up whatever you want about this uh s this uh fanciful supernatural uh uh level of existence. And you can s or and uh eventually it led to believing and believing. Faith and faith. I just have faith. That sort of idea. Uh but it's not really based on anything, I just have faith. But what is believed has no definite content, no definite reality, no definite truth. It is purely existential without content, non-rational and non-logical. That that that that w that we get the term existentialism from that. To use a phrase from Schaefer again, it is an escape from reason. There's no reason or or ration there's no rationality or reasonableness in the supernatural in this upper story. Um and so it's the o kind of the opposite extreme of rationalism. Both of these philosophies of course are escapes from the true God, ways to explain away God, ways to explain the world without God. Um and of course they fail. Uh relativism leads to meaninglessness and despair. uh which many proponents of this philosophy realized and acknowledged. Many of these existentialist philosophers had um they they spiraled down into depression and committed suicide by Sartre and Kabu, um, because there's no hope in in a philosophy like this. Uh but they insisted that this is all there is to the world, to life, to man, and that we therefore have to make the best of it This is the way it is, so there's nothing we can do. Since God was ruled out, man had no measure of himself or of his world. and could not expect to find any. Could not expect to find any meaning in the world. It's all meaningless. So that's a that's a pretty uh dark philosophy, uh, this existence. existentialism and relativism. Hopeless it is. Of course, in the real world, the way God created it, God is the only rational answer, the only sure answer. Only the God who made men can ever satisfy men. Only the God who made men made reason can make life reasonable. Only the God who made the universe can show man any purpose in it. Um and so when you when you rule out God you end up with these um these philosophies that are without hope and without meaning. And and that's what happened with these these philosophical um these these philosophical ways of thinking thinking, ways of trying to trying to fit the world in, trying to try to make a they tried and tried and tried to make a philosophy that would explain the world without God And and it and it keeps failing and it keeps going into these dark and hopeless places, uh whether it's rationalism or relativism and extent existentialism. But that was the that was modern man's attempt to Try to explain the world without God. Since the time of Adam, some men have believed in God and believed what he has said. For them life has been meaningful It has had assurance, substance, and confidence. They did not make a blind leap of faith, but put their faith in a future reality that, because of their faith, God made certain and sure for them. And with this certainty came assurance, confidence, and hope. They gained approval from God. That's the point here. Gained approval. By this, by this faith, men of old gained approval from Adam Forward. That's the way it's has worked. And there has been this uh these giant clouds of confusion um that have been thrown up in modern philosophy um trying to explain the w the world aside from faith in the one true God. Uh and it always leads off into the ditch. These philosophies drive into the ditch w one way or another. And um one of the things that I really like about Francis Schaefer, and I I recommend that you read Schaefer, is he's really good at understanding. He's done all the scholarly study to understand these philosophies. And he does a great job of explaining. Explaining exactly why all of these philosophies end up in the ditch. in in exactly how they try to explain the world without God and why that doesn't work. Wha why it will never work, why it has never worked, why it will never work. God in fact does exist and did make the world and And because of those two facts that God is, He made the world, and He's revealed Himself in in in Scripture, that any attempt to explain the world other than using those that as a foundation, other than using God and His Word as a foundation, we'll always end up failing and failing spectacularly in a bad way. And Schaefer does a great job of explaining how and I've heard some people say that God made man and when he created him, he put a God shaped vacuum in their heart. And only would be needed. understand in in some way around meaning what's supposed to be. Right. I I think that's right. So God created us in his own image and he created us for a purpose. He created us to to be in relationship with him. And so people that are not in a relationship with him have something missing. They at some level intrinsically know that they have something missing And so one of the ways that people have explained that feeling that something is missing is people have a God shaped hole. Um and I think that's a good way of thinking about it. People have a God shaped whole, yes. Um big picture for the world goes in both the materialist as well to have a unit knowledge for Right. Yes. So uh The the philosophers are trying to explain the world with one hand tied behind their back, um, trying to trying to reason their way towards uh knowledge of everything that exists without taking into account the fact that there are things that exist that are Um that come only from revelation. I have not seen, ear has not heard, all that God has heard from the blood not. eye and ear things being persistent. But revelation that comes from God, like the upper story, the downstory. Yes, I agree we can't just focus God alone. We'll focus God. Not thinking about God. That's that's revelation. Uh I think Ecclesiastes is the description of that King Solomon. He said, Okay, let's leave God our situation. Let's It's meaningless, yeah. Yeah. He also speaks about on the other hand, a God for eternity in a heart. Yes, that's right. So Ecclesiastes is is a philosophical treatise where uh this wise man Solomon explains what happens if you try to consider life under the sun, so w with God out of the picture and how hopeless and meaningless and chasing after the wind that is. Uh yeah, so s so yes, the Bible definitely addresses this uh idea of trying to To uh trying to live your life or think about the world and your life and you as a human being without God, that's everything under the sun And it's meaningless. Um, yeah, good good point. And we'll get to that uh quote from First Corinthians later in the the lesson as well. Uh okay, any other comments or questions so far? Yes, Larry. Um I read the paper and um recently said in the last few years read several comments by his son twenty has basically rejected his father's uh thought and theology. Do you know the specifics of what his coaching is? So um I I would Yeah, so I I don't I don't know a lot about Frankie I I've read some of the things that he said and um I I I'm not his judge, put it that way, but he sure does seem to me to fit into the category of apostasy that we talked about in the second half of Hebrews chapter 10. Francis Seifer's son has rejected I think he's rejected the faith. He's rejected his father and all the things his father taught and um yeah, Francis Schaefer's son, Frankie Schaefer, uh, if you read the things that he says, yeah. He's um I think he's wandered away from the faith. Yes, they do. Yeah, because he ridicul kills faith, yeah. Yeah, that's true. So yeah, we i it as I mentioned last week that i it's not always easy for us to tell the difference between a s apostate and a f and a backsliding Christian. So it is possible, yeah, that he's he could be saved. It is possible. Yeah. Uh but it's a sad thing. Uh you know, Francis Schaefer died many years ago in the nineteen eighties, um, but I think it would be very sad for him to read the things that his son uh ha has written. They're said since then. Um yeah. Okay. Um Chapter uh verse three. By faith we understand that the worlds were prepared by the Word of God so that what is The scene was not made out of things which are visible. So what is that talking about? That's talking about creation. So uh so although many in the original audience may not yet have fully trusted Christ, they already had a certain faith in God. They believed that he created the universe and everything in it. That was a standard uh Jewish belief that God created the universe and everything in it. They believed this without any doubt, even though they were not there when God God created. Nobody was there when he created. Um it's very interesting how the Bible starts. Genesis 1 1, in the beginning God. There is no Effort to um to argue for the existence of God In the beginning, God. That's the very first verse of the Bible. No um no attempt to prove God's existence. Um and Schaefer talks about that quite a bit, and and why would that be He always was. But if if if there was really something that could prove the existence of God, something that is more reliable always proves the less reliable. And so whatever that proof is would be further back than, before, over, superior to God. And so So a and in in worldview philosophy we call this a presupposition, uh a foundational presupposition, something that can by its very nature can never be proved. Because there's nothing that's superior to it, that's more reliable than it, in order to prove it. And so in Christian, in the Christian worldview, the biblical worldview, there are two fundamental presuppositions. One, God is, and two, he is not silent. In other words, he's revealed himself. Those are the two foundational presuppositions of the Christian worldview. And from those two foundational presuppositions, we can prove anything in the Christian worldview. He is he is and he is not silent. So th those are the two foundational presuppositions. So the Bible starts with in the beginning God and makes no effort to prove that he exists because it's uh he he he is the precondition of intelligibility we say in uh in philosophy the precondition of intelligibility is God without him you can't understand anything. He comes first. Yep. Yep. So they knew and accepted this truth of faith not by sight, the the Jews did. Their own scripture taught it and they believed it. God did not just create the world, but the worlds, that Greek word there, is a little bit broader than just the the world, uh it designates the physical universe itself, but also its operation and its administration. So the world and and also everything about how it works and operates are are contained in that that Greek word. Uh he created everything by his word, um his divine utterance. Uh he created from nothing, at least not from anything physical or visible, uh just with his word, uh not from something that's visible, that's the point. This is the the basic biblical doctrine of creation ex nihilo. He made everything from nothing from things that were not visible. He didn't start with a bunch of stuff and form it into the universe. He made the universe out of nothing. The greatest claim and the one hardest for an unbeliever to accept is that understanding of creation comes by faith. That you can't um i if if there was nothing And then there was something, then science can't explain that. That's that's not in the category of knowledge by which we can understand using science. It comes to us by faith, by revelation from God who is the one and only that was there and and did it himself and so he has told us this is what I did. And so we have to accept that on faith 'cause none of us were there. And there's no possible way for science, which is observation. And the observation always is in the present. You can make speculations about what happened to the past, but your observation itself, unless you have a time machine is always in the present for science. Science is always done in the present. Can't be done in the past. Because you can't be in the past. Yes, Bob. Yep. Called it things that do not exist. In this verse here, uh he's made everything out of things that were not visible. Um it's the the consistent teaching of Scripture that God made everything out of nothing. Um and so the the Jews believed that. They had faith that God created even though they couldn't see it. And so uh who wrote Genesis 1 1? Moses, when did he write it? During his life, which was when so i his life was like fourteen hundred BC, thirteen hundred BC, something like that. Um he he was between you know He was the middle of the second century BC, and so thousands of years after the creation. Right? So was Moses there No, Moses was not there. He he wrote down what the Holy Spirit told him to write down. So he wrote down what God said he did at creation, and God was the only one that was there, the only one that could possibly know what happened at creation. And there's no way for a scientific s experiment to show you something coming out of nothing. That's not a possible scientific experiment. believe that God spoke any books, whatever he was saying. I'm not trying to tell that. But somewhere, and I'm trying to find where, I have read a verse that says, by whose Why would they say that? But that implies that you dang it in the same thing. So yeah, so that's an anthropomorphism, so Um there are many of those kind of examples throughout scripture where we anthropomorphize God. We we give him human characteristics. So God is spirit and so he doesn't have fingers Right? Didn't have fingers. Then need fingers. But we describe him with fingers in a certain verse. So we describe him with other human characteristics. Uh we talk about the face of God. Does he have a face? Doesn't have a face, he's a spirit. Talk about the right hand of the space. We talk about all kinds of things that are what we call in theology anthropomorphizing God, um humanizing him, giving him human characteristics he doesn't have, because that's the best way for us to understand him, is to put the use these these human human kind of terms to describe things that God does. Uh yes, Henry? It's just a figure of speech. Yes, it is a figure of speech. Mm-hmm. But listen, listen, I found the verse. It's Psalm 83. When I look at your The work of your fingers, the moon and the stars which you have set in place. That really implies that you made it. It doesn't. It's a it's a poem. It's a poem. So there's a word. No, so there's a very important thing about um uh hermeneutics. Uh we always read scripture uh based on the genre in which it was written. And so we do not read historical narrative and poetry the same way. Um and so s the Psalms are poetry. They're using um descriptive language, um uh metaphors and similes and and figures of speech to describe things, um and it's not the same as historical narrative. And so Genesis for example is historical narrative, um with some exceptions, like the song of Moses is like is more like poetry, uh but the um uh the the Psalms are poetry. And so we read them as poetry. And so when we see something like the fingers of God did this, we we read that as a figure of speech, a simile Uh and we don't um you know, we don't do a word search on fingers and say, well he's talking about fingers there in Psalms and so that's the same as f the fingers that we we read in some historical narrative. No. Um one of the principles Principles of hermeneutics as we read scripture in accordance with the the literary genre that it's written. And so um uh many times this is done um in a in a different way. creation of the universe that will say that well Genesis is poetry. It's a poetic well no it's not. A and there um if if you're a Hebrew scholar you can actually see the the way that Hebrews is uh the way that the Hebrew language is structured is different. The the way writing is done is different for historical narrative than poetry. And Genesis is in the historical narrative style and Psalm the psalms are in a poetical style. Um and so we read them differently. A and we should read them read them differently. Yeah. Uh any other questions or comments? Yes, Harvard. I I just think of it I thought of it How would God describe the mysteries that are beyond students understanding without even illustrations or pictures that we can understand? Yeah, and so well so one of the things that's wonderful about Scripture is he's described things in different ways. So So he actually describes the creation in a historical narrative way, and then he's also described it in various places in the Psalms. And it gives us two different ways to try to understand. understand creation. Uh yes. He is. He invented language. Right. administration sitting on the phone or whatever. Yeah and and so and of course the things of God are um are not perfectly and exhaustively describable to a finite human mind. And so there's no way for us to really understand all of the things of God completely and exhaustively. We can understand the things Things have gone, uh, but not completely and exhaustively. And so he um he uses the the language um in a in it is the best way that it could possibly be done for our finite human eye minds to understand him. Yes. um mindset. And um type of mindset, I guess we would say there's a part of the cult now because there's a gender that the um him her that maybe not the mother God the Father and so it's usually a lot of um when the father's work in the air and understanding how spirit we allow you to interpret scripture rather than the human beings coming in from their perspective of interpretation. Yeah. Yeah, so i in many cases that's um um man trying to form God in h his image or her image rather than God forming man in his image. And so the i it it matters whose perspective is the true, real perspective. Is it God's perspective or is it my perspective? Am I the center of the universe or is God the center of the universe. And so um and that makes a huge difference in how you see the world. Um do do I get to define who God is, or does God get to define who I am? Um and if i if if I make myself a little god, then I can make God in my image. A and that's um uh that's one of the lies of Satan um that has permeated uh human society from the you know, from the very beginning. Um yeah, that you'll you'll be like God. That's the lie that Satan tried to sell in the in the garden. Um And it's the the lie of Satan himself that he told himself in the r his rebellion that I'm gonna be God And so that's the lie he's been selling all the way through human history. And people fall for it. Uh yes. Sure. Sure. That I haven't seen before. Hadn't seen. Um the uh there's a connection in the two parallel statements in the beginning with the two verses that follow. Okay. It says here the convictions of things not seen, and that's what creation is that's made out of stuff you couldn't see. Right? And we weren't there to see it like you were saying. Right. But also in verse two, people received a command commendation. That's the assurance of things hoped for. So over God's commendation. So y yes. So yes, so he's defining faith and then he's showing the uh kind of the outworking of the result of faith. The the result of faith is is God's approval. That's what it that's what comes of faith. So these are the two parts of faith and then what comes of faith. And then kind of an illustration And what happens um when you do have faith, when you trust, you can understand that God made this world um out of things that were not visible. Yeah. Any other questions? We're almost out of it. time. Uh the origin of the universe has long uh been a long standing problem for philosophers and scientists. Centuries of investigation, speculation, theories have brought them no closer to a solution. Every time a consensus comes up, then there's some uh some problem with that um there's enormous problems with the things that have been seen by the new um web space telescope. Uh there's there's just uh really uh Um cosmologists are kind of spinning their wheels now because the things that are being seen by this web telescope don't fit the standard model of the the Big Bang. Um it it'll take some time I think for for it to trickle out and for people to realize, hey, what we're seeing up there doesn't fit this Big Bang model and so some i the Big Bang model's gonna go, I think, because of what's being seen by this James Webb telescope. But when there's a scientific concern Senseless every uh uh those uh the scientific consensus is uh always resistant to new discoveries at first at least. Right? Because there's been people have built twenty, thirty, forty, fifty year careers on this theory and this model and now these new discoveries are chipping away at it in There's resistance. No. Of course some philosophies are more impressive than others, but without God's revelation as a source of basic truth, none can provide ultimate meaning. Uh Paul warned the Colossians, see that no one takes you captive through philosophy and empty deception according to the tradition of man. This is this is what he's talking about. Philosophies that exclude God. Don't let somebody try to sell that to you. you. It it may sound good, they may be really smart and how and really eloquent in how they put it, but any good this kind of philosophy that leaves God out is is empty deception. Uh even though science by definition is living to observable measurable, repeatable, some scientists persist in speculating about the origin of the universe, trying to reconstruct the process by what they can observe today. and they assume a burden far beyond their competence and resources. They'll never be able to figure it out that way. Um so through faith we understand that the worlds were framed uh framed by the Word of God. It's the truth uh truth the world's Most brilliant thinkers have not discovered and cannot discover on their own. It's beyond the realm of scientific investigation, but it is not beyond knowing Right? Because there are there's a different category of knowing than just our senses. Um if we're willing to be taught by the Word of God. So the Christian of course has no reason to be proud of his knowledge Uh it's not mine. It was a gift from God like every other blessing. Uh by his own resources the believer could no more discover the truth about oranges than could the atheist. Uh the Christian insists that all truth is God's truth Some of it, the natural world, is discoverable with our senses and intellect. A great deal more of it, however, is not. It is apprehended only by faith, for which the Christians should make no apology. We shouldn't make an apology. Don't When you're in a discussion with an unbeliever, don't let him say, well, we're going to set the Bible aside. Right. Right? You've already given away the whole argument. Don't set the Bible aside. Uh the very s attempt to explain the universe. or our own being and nature apart from God is a fool's effort. These things we understand only by faith in the revealed word of Scripture. Faith comprehends that which the mind of man, no matter how brilliant cannot fathom. And so we'll get back to First Corinthians two, which Allison brought up before. We do not speak wisdom among those who are mature uh we do speak wisdom among those who are mature. Wisdom, however, not of this age, nor of the rulers of this age who are passing away, but we speak God's wisdom in a mystery, the hidden wisdom which God predestined before the ages to our glory, the wisdom which none of the rulers of this age has understood. For if they had understood it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. But just as it is written, things which eye has not seen, and ear has not heard, and which have not entered the heart For to us God revealed them through the Spirit, for the Spirit searches all things even the depths of God. First Corinthians two six to ten. That wisdom, um the fear of God is the beginning of wisdom and knowledge. All right. Any questions, Bob? about the you looked ahead of chapter left is versus three one logical increase in the call for the yes it absolutely is uh uh self it to the uh model uh um yeah and um there will be some things in place of and it won't include God. Whatever they replace it with won't include God again. It does. Some political movement. Yeah, maybe a sense of what that would look like? Um I don't, you know, i i i it's there's always this kind of uh uh trying to compromise or or uh meld some scientific discovery into a scriptural um revelation in and it usually creates some sort of Frankenstein's monster that's y you know th th that the scientists think is ridiculous and and also doesn't uh is a is poor homoeutics of the scripture at the same time. Usually that's what happens. Uh I don't know what that's gonna look like for for whatever comes next. We need to be aware. And you and you need to believe what the God says in his word without fear or or compromise. Yeah. Yeah. Yes. You can't out thing God and truth will always outward from a conference in China, they were talking about the Big Bang. And the Chinese language said, Well, don't talk about the Big Bang and the Americans the Christians said, Well it does seem to be like there is evidence that they found the films were going back to the origin. And and then when they got to talk to them privately offline they were saying, Uh, turn the mouth open, don't talk about this 'cause it's too much implied there's a gosh. There's everything I've done in the beginning. say that the example is not the point. The point is things come to a beginning. Yeah. So un unfortunately the new James Webb h uh uh observations uh do not comport with that. And so When when we as Christians use arguments like that, hey the Big Bang looks like it's a beginning, well then what happens when it when the Big Bang it doesn't work and it doesn't look like everything run back to a point? It doesn't look like that at all really from these new uh observations. observations then we've made an argument based on this bad scientific theory and it makes us look bad. And so I I just wouldn't use them. U use the scriptures. Don't don't use the Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay, let me have one because of the word of prayer. You're heavily father my head