Uh we see the law of design, uh that when we look at through the microscope at the at the cells of uh living things, we see tremendous complexity uh under the microscope and then when we look at the vast extent of stars and galaxies It's a matter of believing in his revelation of himself. And we talked about the fact that the New Testament uh describes uh refers to this sort of walking with God as walking in the Spirit So if you're opening your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 11, it's just one verse in Hebrews, but many, many verses in Genesis to get the background. But let's take a look at Noah in Genesis chapter six. Then Noah and his sons and his wife and his sons wives with him entered the ark because of the water of the flood. So what was Noah waiting for? I better I better do something about that. So having a flood over the whole ocean, over the whole world and then you sink what is the current oceans and you raise what is the current mountains, what happens to the water? Uh coal is buried plants. And so here's how it works. It's built to scale to the biblical dimensions and it's it's got an inside with all the cages for animals and all that kind of stuff in there for living space for people and all that. That's who the God makes the covenant with that survived the flood, including all mankind. But so are we. If you built an ark today in your backyard without God telling you you have to build an ark, that's of no value whatsoever. Uh, like Noah, when we build in faith, according to God's plan and by his power, it will accomplish what God wants it to accomplish. Yeah. Abraham's a a fun one to do. Where did that come from if in fact we are just the products of time and chance? see it in the book of Jude, where Enoch is described as a prophet, prophesying. uh there's some uh controversy about how long a cube it is. God had sent a wind so that what do you need when the everything's all muddy to dry it up? in the geologic record much larger um than any volcanoes that we've seen um in recent history. But he took a specific action starting then um to bring the flood to a conclusion and them into and put them into a safe thanks to the wind god send and likely mountain uplift and ocean subsidence as well. ten half lives to five thousand, uh fifty thousand years. by which he condemned the world and became an heir of the righteousness which is according to faith. So strange, so demanding, so embarrassing that we would probably have done anything to get out of it. Yes. The Greek word there, Ulabeomai, reverence, can also be translated pious care or concern With Pius taken in the original sense of genuine spiritual devotion. are supposed to learn from these examples that were being shown. And there's a quote in there. Um I know that that we as um believers we try to witness you know as much as we know, especially from the encouragement from our politicians to do it as much as we can wherever we are. And they did not understand until the flood came and took them all away, so shall the coming of the Son of Man be. Okay, so we've come to part twenty-nine in our study of of Hebrews, the third part of uh this quarter, and we're going to be studying once again one verse Enoch. uh who obeyed by faith. that we receive from him. we see design there as well, and that's called the teleological argument for the existence of God. That man can conceive of a God like this um means that there there has to be um there has to be something that caused this that we can uh conceive of such things is called the ontological argument for God. w walked with God of course three hundred years. Uh Galatians five, twenty two to twenty three talks about the fruit of the spirit. And comforting to know that it's happened before. blocks that go up to the side that says other sons and daughters as if they're totally insignificant and don't mean anything. Who in here has great grandchildren? like Enoch. God just speaks to Noah. Make a window for the ark, and finish it to a cubit from the top, and set the door on the ark in the side of it. And bringing the flood of water upon the earth to destroy all flesh in which is the breath of life from under heaven. Chapter one, what is food for both animals and people? him entered the earth. Animals that are not clean to a male and his female, also of the birds of the sky by sevens, male and female, to keep offspring alive on the face of all the earth. Noah, it came about after seven days that the water of the flood came upon the earth. All sorts of birds. that it rose above the earth. Every and everywhere. popping up, but there was really no place for a bird to land. Waited yet another seven days and he sent out another dove. You bring out with you every living thing of all flesh that is with you, birds and animals and every creeping thing that creeps on the earth, that they may breed abundantly on the earth and be fruitful and multiply on the earth Jonah. Um so the ocean had to be over top of all those mountains. It all goes into the oceans. and warm oceans at the same time. in the oceans around there. at the time of the flood, like it looks like there were, that would massively heat the oceans. of cinnamon and compressed. And so it was all made during the flood, the the coal all over the earth. throughout the early part of Genesis. seven twenty mountains visible in eight five. written down thousand years later by Moses, um, was it's in the structure of a giant chiasm. man Noah is back to the New Testament and um Noah ch uh uh Hebrews chapter eleven. Faith without works is dead. Like Moses did. Uh but Noah, who had but a fraction of the divine light that we have, did not argue or make excuses or complain or procrastinate. picked him. told him to build the ark. Sixty degrees. to come back even from a roll of sixty degrees. the the shape of the bottom of the hole so it's better at uh it's more efficient at going forward. Forty-five feet high, seventy-five feet wide, four hundred and fifty feet long, a football field and a half long. Romans four five. as Noah did. to build the one God assigned to him. I've had to reject children's books, big books that distort the Noah story. Could be other uh other things, other ministries that God has called you to. the whole concept that everyone is only evil in his all responsibility. Yeah, he was in an unusually difficult um situation where he was surrounded by unbelief. And he warned them about the of the consequences of ungodliness. a true there's something true in there that the Holy Spirit plucked out and put into the book of Jude about what ex what exactly it was that Enoch said I don't know. probably more difficult than the building, because it wasn't successful. The Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great on the earth, that every intent of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. Of his day that God's judgment was coming soon because of their wickedness and unbelief. Everyone around him was not a difference in the amount of light, but a difference in response. Look at all the time, but yet he delayed his judgment and gave them warning, gave them time to repent. Uh the people had ample warning of judgment, and they also had ample knowledge of the truth. is that men have not changed in their attitude toward God since then and will not change until the Lord returns. is seven years long. Jesus Christ. in Noah's generation. Sons, wives, and so it's possible that the preaching was the one that brought them to faith. One verse in Hebrews. Pittsburgh for my niece's wedding. um this nature of creativity and and and that sort of thing that um that that argument that there that the creativity in us must reflect uh creativity in a creator, the the fact And tree and stones and things like that. Um by faith Noah, being warned by God about things not yet seen, in reverence, prepared an ark for the salvation of his household, by which he condemned the world. Rapture. Back into Genesis. made them. their way upon the earth. an ark of gopher wood, you shall make the ark with rooms, and shall cover it inside and out with pitch. Upon the earth. exactly what God told him to do. By forty-five feet. Ark. the land, every living thing that I have made. Certain year, in the second month, on the seventeenth day, the flood started. and Japheth, the sons of Noah, and Noah's wife, and the three wives of his sons with them entered the ark, and they and every beast after its kind, and all the cattle after their kind, and every creeping thing that creeps on the earth after its kind, and every bird after its kind, of the Ark? of the spirit of life died. Dark. globe for five months. So Noah went out, and his sons and his wife, and his sons' wives with him. A year, the Fed was a year. geologically much uh the way the geologists put it, younger than the continents. For five months God began to act explicitly on behalf of the arch passengers. this were in place, most likely by magma coming up during the flood, the oceans would have sunk um because they're more dense uh than the continents and ocean sinking would also make the continent And it's very um frustrating for secular scientists that it's very, very difficult to create conditions for an ice age. into the air that would cool the continents. them. dating of coal seams. there is no detectable amount of a substance after ten half life. for example, that God must have put there at creation. Else he put in the ground. coal. uh a a mirror image from the beginning to the end mirrored on a central verse. uh account was repeated orally by this family that passed down the documents um and Moses eventually wrote it down under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, but everybody knew this account from the oral recitation. than nine thirteen and on and on and on and on. off the b off track. as a result. something they did. by his obedience to God. in the field. By faith, Noah prepared an ark. in the ark. College I studied naval architecture. perspective naval officer was naval architecture. Seven decks. the deck is divided up into rooms and so there would have been storage for water and for food and cages for animals and uh there's an excellent mock-up of course of the Ark in Kentucky um the Creation Museum and the Ark Encounter. Because of God's favor, His grace, working through His faith. And obedience are inseparable. So what are we what are we drawing from it? It could be local outreach like Bassie and Jess that they're building. sort that you and it just you you have to guard against little subtle errors even in the minds of children. very well begin and it may be a major part um of what God has called us to do is to build our family. surrounded by talks and everything. Things that are visible that we are building as a Christian. showing our faith through our construction and our building, but not maybe effectively warning those around us as to the the reason why we're building. Example of Enoch that we just had, in addition to walking with God, in addition to being righteous, they also uh warned those around them. belief. Quote in Jude is from the Book of First Enoch, which is a non-canonical book. and second Enoch and Third Enoch. in my circumstances in my life. I do? time when he was building like we all said that years and years and years of building a big boat for a flood that for years and years and years was not coming. get discouraged when we don't see results for that. 20. Right, so it's covered there. Day, that describes the generation now, and that describes the generation in Noah's Day, without excuse, since since the creation of the world. example of the flood. who trust in him. is imputed to us by faith. Word. God. and became an heir of the righteousness which is according to faith. We see it with Elijah, we see it with Enoch. in Genesis chapter 5 going into chapter 6, we get genealogies. was Noah. kind will come to you to keep them alive. the extent of the flood. Bottom of the ark touches the tops of the mountains that are still under the water. But he still didn't go out. of the year of the flood. on that arc. flows make up the current ocean basins. the massive volcanoes either in the flood or shortly after the flood. Yeah, so we'll talk about that. marine fossils, so f ocean fossils at the top of all the highest mountains on earth, um, including the Himalayas. um ocean bases sunk. days and he sends out birds. 'Cause there's no precipitation there. I'm curious, all the animals that die, how many people that died on the earth, do we just assume that all the receding water is growing up for all that to decay and compose naturally? And you have to isolate it from um the critters that will that will decompose it and eat it. detail in my Genesis class, which s someday I hope to do again. The narrative, the flooded count in the Bible from Genesis chapter 6 to chapter 9, is a gigantic chiasm. What's an ark? until Genesis chapter six. in reverence. something and God said jump, he said how high? Keeps judgment from the sinner. Time is not certain as I mentioned, but using the typical standard of eighteen inches the arc was four hundred and fifty feet long, seventy-five feet wide, forty-five feet high. He told him of the covenant he would make with him. Noah was counted righteous, justified by God's grace, applied by faith. from the example of Enoch. a hospitality ministry, a spectacular hospitality ministry like Mel and Morag have, where almost every person in the church has been to their house um to experience their hospitality. that they're building. It's not just um not just the obedience in doing certain things that are good deeds and righteousness, but also warning others about the consequences of undoing. as believers. As believers, that's the one thing that we're called to do, is build an obedient and faithful life. the um definition of face where it says that he rewards those who see him. Christ, um salvation, physical salvation in the case of the flood, spiritual salvation in the in the in the case of the cross of Christ. the word and and and one thing. So Noah was a preacher of righteousness for a hundred and twenty years and he got exactly zero converts. about the actual time when he destroys the earth. There are no more judgments after uh that that judgment. Uh this the week after next too. Uh we see uh an extension of that into science and the second law of thermodynamics, the the the universe is running down, so somebody had to wind it up at the beginning. And Pastor Plumley was taking us on screen. Doesn't follow all those other people. Blameless in his time, Noah walked with God. with you and of every living thing of all flesh you shall bring two of every kind into the ark to keep them alive with you, they shall be male and female, of the birds after their kind, of the animals after their kind, of every creeping thing of the ground after its kind, two of every creeping That moved on the earth perished. fifty days of prevailing, the the waters covering the whole earth. changes to the earth, don't they? So he doesn't have to fill out he doesn't have to do all that we just did to make sure we have uh fixed in our mind who this Noah was and what happened to him. Of it in the way you live, in the things you say, and in the things you do. That's the that's what the the preacher is supposed to be preaching to his congregation of believers. For God by faith. is perfect. The decisions that we're making. to build is an obedient and faithful life. For as in those days which were before the flood, they were eating and drinking, they were marrying and giving in marriage until the day that Noah entered the ark. Second coming, he compares it to the generation in Noah's day. God. the the ancestry of Jesus all the way back to Adam. That the Bible has the genealogy that it has is because the Bible is a book about Jesus Christ. this man Moses. Uh the Lord was sorry that he had made man on the earth, and he was grieved in his heart. Go for wood. The water previous fifteen cubits higher, so above the highest mountains, fifteen more cubits. possible way describe a local flood. And he also remembered all the beasts and the cattle. And at the end of 150 days the water decreased. For another three months, seventh month to the tenth month. out of the water. That was Noah. place. There's not enough water for the for the depth of the water to be twenty-nine thousand feet. Um the secular story is that coal was made over millions and millions of years, but um the there have been some recent studies over the last fifty years of coal seams done with uh carbon thousand square feet of deck space and a volume of about 1. He was a fallen son of Adam, as seen so clearly in his sinful uh shameful display of drunkenness and immodesty after the flood. severe opposition because there was not a single other believing soul on earth or else they would have been in the ark. to walking that walk, it's very different. We end. just as clearly, and men deserve it just as much as in the days of Noah. There's Rome that didn't know his wife and children or his converts or converts of priests. Uh but that's a little bit misleading because we're going to study a lot of verses from the book of Genesis. Uh so the water decreased. Rise. The coal for sure, all those tests that coal seams all over the earth always return carbon fourteen, which means it it's there every bit of coal all over the earth is definitely less than fifty thousand years old. towards building the ark was I've been given a divine spiritual commission. So, um coming to us, the Lord has arcs for every believer to build. When I first started my business is I reached out to a guy to do my plumbing and he said and uh one of the things he said is he said Willie, I know a lot of contractors who can who claim they're Christian, but when it comes Noah finds favor in the sight of the Lord. Then he sent on a dove from him to see if the water was abated from the face of the land, but the dove found no resting place for the soul of her foot, so she returned to him into the ark, for the water was on the surface of all the earth. And then you need cold continents for it to condense into snow, so it can be packed into ice to make glaciers, to make an ice age. suddenly burial of many things. probably weren't actually buried, they just died and were and decayed. Or that once saved by faith, they can forget about good works or following God's moral law altogether. From Abel to Enoch to Noah. Uh it's difficult to imagine how God's message must have sounded to Noah. And he dropped it to do this uh to surrender all of his time and effort to build a boat took a special kind of commitment and obedience. In God's power. Um that he would have to be jud they would have to judge them so severely. We must recognize him as personal and gracious and loving to those who seek him. So whose flood is it? The water prevailed upon the earth 150 days. all over the world. A giant ship, uh like the Ark was to be. Alright, he says supposed to make it out of uh gopher wood, so where do you start? I I have not read the book of First Enoch. In the second month on the seventeenth day. So we we may be building, but we may not actually be warning people why we're doing what we're doing. Yeah. Uh no easy access to building supplies or any health except that of his sons. And more than four stories high. Uh so 30 cubits by 50 cubits is a ratio of three to five. And so his reward was salvation, salvation from the flood, which is a um a picture of salvation in Christ. Um Enoch, we we looked at Abel and then Enoch. The Lord said to Noah, Enter the Ark, you and all your household for you, for you alone I have seen to be righteous before me in this time. So things that nobody had seen. And I I just um amazed uh oh children were boring, you know, all but the world seems creeping sound like I can't say how angels Thousands of years before Jesus became incarnate, God looked at Noah and saw the sun because Noah believed. So the first step of faith is to believe that he is. They decay. So that was the patience of God, kept waiting in the days of Noah during the construction of the ark. Okay. It's got pitch on the inside and outside, so it's waterproof. God did. Uh shouldn't I care about the city, this great city? Um samples from coal seams all over the earth always return carbon fourteen. Satan tries to entice believers to one of two extremes. I'll just give you one. Um in in business for example. Um I'm gonna I'm gonna go through this quickly uh because I wish I could spend more time on it. So his sons were born in f when he was 500 and now he's six hundred so old his sons about a hundred, so his sons are about a hundred. The water prevailed more and more upon the earth so that all the high mountains everywhere under the heavens were covered. I think that's what the the point of 8-1 is. So we get to Noah. Uh the first was the cosmological argument that there has to be s a cause. Cosmological, theological, ontological. Walking with God is pleasing God. He did what God required of him and left the results to God. It it's to show that Jesus is a direct descendant of Adam. So they went to the ark to Noah by twos of all flesh which was the which in which was the breath of life. Um and so imagine the ridicule from his neighbors, uh probably maybe ridicule from his wife, I don't know. He had been faithful over smaller things and now the Lord was giving a great big giant giant thing for him to do. And there is no such thing as dimensions more stable than three to five. We see that Noah rebuked the world, and we see that Noah received God's righteousness. And that's one of the points that the author of Hebrews is making here under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. Counts it as righteousness. Good point. And he's warning these people before he kills them with the flood. I think it's talking about all the days of the end times at some point during his Olivet discourse. The only way for spiritual salvation is Christ, then and now. A righteous man, blameless in his time, he walked with God. But Noah found favor in the eyes of the Lord. And so there's excellent geologic evidence that the oceans went down and the mountains went up sometime in the past. Now if coal seams are if coal is made over millions of years, carb the half life of carbon is about five thousand years. Uh J uh Genesis six ten is Noah and his sons, Genesis nine nineteen is Noah's sons. True faith always results in actions in keeping with repentance. It's 45 feet tall. So remember that this is a sermon being preached to an early congregation and it's also being preached to us today. with the help of many willing hands. Any questions about what we did last time in the life of Enoch, of walking in faith? Is it Noah's flood? That was the first month. God he did what God told him to do. That's not how it was. What's a flood? Yeah. So i the reason why you don't make it flat on the bottom is so you can get someplace. Noah's obedience included his passing on to the rest of the world God's message of coming judgment. But the flood is otherwise compared in First Peter to the actual destruction by fire of the current heavens and the current earth. Yeah, so so we're gonna talk about the dimensions of the arc. Faith cannot be seen except in the things that it does. Um and so and it was and it goes ungodly, ungodly, ungodly, ungodly. Since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes, his eternal power, and divine nature have been clearly seen, being understood through what has been made so that they are without excuse. The flood was one year long and in that sense it was sudden that it came and flooded the whole earth. God's way of salvation is the only way of salvation, the one and only way. Um almost as if God's going out of his way to make sure that nobody misunderstands that the flood covered the entire globe. Obeying by faith is what we learn from the life of Noah. Now uh we we pointed out last time that these are not proofs per se that God exists, but evidence that's uh consistent with God existing and is inconsistent with there being no Year in ten days. Or it could be fossil fuel is really fossil fuel just like coal was the plants smashed together. We have the Old Testament just like they had the Old Testament. If any man had reason to regret the time in which he lived, it was Noah. Then we looked at some uh verses from the life of Enoch that he uh he trusted in Christ, uh he trusted in God, um, and therefore he walked with God, and we must walk with him just as Enoch. So Noah is Enoch's great grandson. Thus he blotted out every living thing that was upon the face of the land, from man to animals to creeping things and to birds of the sky, and they were blotted out from the earth, and only Noah was left together with those who were with him on the earth. Um and he was up in the mountains, and so um the way gravity works, the water went down in the mountains first, but it was still going down in all the low-lying areas for months after that. And so it's strong evidence that these were all stories and traditions first before the Holy Spirit inspired Moses to write them down thousands of years later. Uh is hit was his attitude as he built. And there are lots and lots and lots of spiritual parallels that can be made between the Ark and Christ. Uh uh there's there's a s a list of books of Enoch, but uh obviously Enoch didn't write 'em. Romans 3. It covered the whole globe. Moses argued with God in the burning bush. We could never divorce one thing from our Christian life. This this is essentially three weeks of my Genesis class condensed into ten minutes. That's uh w we will get to why the word remember is there. And so that's where the water is today, it's in the oceans. And we're told that we're supposed to obey him from the example of Noah. Yes. Yep. So there's a bunch of you that have great grandchildren. Then God said to Noah, notice we have a direct communication, just like with Enoch, just like with Cain and Abel The seventh month, the seventeenth day, the ark rested on the mountains. Uh a year and ten days later the um after the stu they went onto the ark, they come off the ark. A modern naval architecture cannot make a design more stable than this. Sixty degrees. What does it look like to intentionally build a faithful and obedient life in my particular life circumstances and the things that God has called me to do, not only in the church, but in everything that I Yeah. Birds and cattle and beasts and every swarming thing that swarms upon the earth and all mankind, of all that was on the dry land, all in whose nostrils was the breath of Uh then it came at the end of the forty days, so uh where it was first day of the month, then it came about at the end of forty days that Noah opened the window of the ark which he had made, and he sent out a raven, and it flew here and there until the water was dried up from the earth. Almost no annual precipitation in Antarctica. Well what you get is coal. God works in themselves do uh God's uh good works in themselves don't please God um but because without faith it's impossible to please God. So they didn't have to have some fancy mechanism to close it from the inside. The water could build and increase greatly upon the earth, and the ark floated on the surface of the water. On the first of the month, the water was dried up from the earth, and Noah removed the covering of the ark and looked and behold, the surface of the ground was dried up And so um to have a fossil requires very unusual conditions. In one way or the other. What are we learning from this sermon? We're literally building something like a new worship center, like Greg and Bill are doing. We see that in the Old Testament verse in Genesis five. They were on the ark for one year and ten days. And so you have hot warm oceans and and cold continents right after the flood, perfect conditions for an ice age, and we did have an ice age. Also the fountains of the deep and the floodgates of the sky were closed, and the rain from the sky was restrained, and the water receded steadily from the earth In the second month, on the twenty-seventh day of the month, the earth was dry. When he's giving instructions to Pastor Timothy in one first Timothy six, he says, instruct them to do good, to be rich in good works, to be generous and ready to share. Uh the Hebrew uh the Hebrew root for pitch is the same route for atonement. And so um we had to study how to do these diagrams, these stability diagrams they're called, and do ship design based on whether they would be stable And so we can't get spurged either. So the next two weeks, uh uh I won't be here, Doug. However, it's not enough just to believe that there is a God. But one of the one of the things that seems and there's huge volcanoes in the He had nothing to go on but God's word, which for him was more than sufficient. Enoch did by prophesying, and and the and the specifics are that he told everybody that they're ungodly 22. Um, so uh so that's why the blocks in red are the ancestors of Jesus. Noah became the father of three sons, Shem Ham and Japheth. Um So that's the ark. So you need h warm oceans and cold continents at the same time. Uh he may never have seen rain because there's no evidence that rain existed prior to the flood. No one was helping. I've only read the the quote that the Holy Spirit plucked out of the book of First Enoch and put into Jude. Um and then the week after that I'll be teaching the new member class. So uh no sorry. Then God said to Noah, The end of all flesh has come before me, for the earth is filled with violence because of them, and behold, I am about to destroy them with the earth. Will come to you. Uh in the seventh month of the seventeenth day of the month, so we get the specifics, right? God would tell him to get out of the ark. Why? There's a person in there for reference, for uh about a person's height compared to 45 feet high. The dove came to him toward evening, and behold in her beak was a freshly picked olive leaf. God wants us to worship him rightly as Abel did, and to draw near and walk with him as Enoch did. Um, and we see in First Thessalonians chapter four a description of the r of the rapture where believers will be taken up uh to the Lord, and it is interesting Um so uh we'll talk about that here in a second. The central verse is God remembers Noah for this oral story. He yeah, what's rained? Ours may not be as big or as awesome as Noah's, but is the but it's the only one we can build that will please God. God commands Noah to build an ark, which will protect Noah, his family, and representative animals. Yeah. Uh what's your ark? No, it's God's flood. Noah did according to all that the Lord had commanded him. And so a vast m majority of the fossil record is from the flood, being buried in the flood. Genesis six nine, Noah was a righteous man, blameless in his time. So exceedingly stable. It's the same term that's used there for walking with God is all in the Greek Old Testament, is it's the same Greek word that's used for walking with God in the New Testament. So starting in in uh verse five we have Then the Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great on the earth and that every intent of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. It seems like it. And so what happens when you have a whole a whole earth worth of plant matter suddenly buried at once and buried under and then buried under layers of If coal is m more than fifty thousand years old, there should be no carbon fourteen in there. So much taller than this building. How many cubits should we make it? My brother's daughter is is getting married. But our cer our church doesn't have three stories though. So God was actually concerned about the animals that he made and that he was went out of his way to save. On the first day of the tenth month, the tops of the mountains are visible. So those large igneous provinces in the oceans are much heavier rock than the contin continents are made of. That's a big roll. Um as we see later, the covenant in chapter nine, we didn't read that far, but in chapter nine is your covenant, and the covenant is with every living creature of all flesh that is on earth. Now a little bit of a word about our schedule next week. We had Abel first, worshiping faith, Enoch second, walking faith. There are many verses in the New Testament that talk about walking in the Spirit. One fall off to one extreme or the other. Uh and there certainly had never been a flood covering the whole earth. Enoch did. What does it look like in my circumstances to live an ob obedient life? That was that's what we saw last week. So God brought the animals. Yeah. So this is a progression. The Father sees us as he sees the Son, holy and righteous, because by faith we are in the Son. You can't kill b all the birds on the earth with a local flood. Yep, it does. Yeah. And so if there is a creativity in people, whoever created us must have been uh rational and conscious and personal and creative. It was generally from the tip of the elbow to the tip of the finger right there and various measurements have used. Um now there's no formations you can see that they've tilted Yeah and they've got all the layers, they've got layer case and so there's lots of good evidence in geology for the flood. Uh but once again the only security will be refuge in God's ark Plants. You need you need warm oceans in order to have evaporation of water That God has taken people up without seeing death in the past, as Paul describes in First Thessalonians for to describe And then we get one of the greatest verses in this whole passage, Genesis 8. Um now the mountains could not have been the height they are now He was the first person in Scripture to be called righteous. So where have we seen that before? God hadn't yet told him to go out of the ark so he didn't go out of the ark. They came out in Noah's six hundred and first year on the second month on the twenty seventh day. Uh entry into the ark in seven thirteen, exit from the ark in eight fifteen. We're learning to worship him in the right way from the example of Abel. You mentioned Bill and um Greg Greg and Billy and all the men are helping them. But the is a very good example. But at the end of the day, knowledge of him is still a matter of faith So people became so wicked that God decides to destroy all things with a flood. You need a wind and so God provided a wind and dried everything up. And so the coal that we have all over the earth is the record of where the plants went. Mm-hmm. So he allowed 120 years for the people to be warned and to repent. Um so this is not a Genesis class. Just as Noah trusted and obeyed, God wants all who belong to Him to do the same. Now the first century Hebrews were familiar with these stories. I just mentioned a few that I know of in this church, but uh everybody is called to build something for the Lord. And they kind of set their Christianity aside and say, well, that's my Christian life, but this is business. Abel was worshiping by faith. Yes, go ahead. Yeah. He he started taking these specific actions that led to the end of the flood and them coming off the the ark. All these sort of things. There's no evidence that he had any shipbuilding experience. Uh hard jobs are usually easier to deal with than hard people, especially those who ridicule us. So the overall the story of Enoch, one of the things it provides, of course, is a picture of believers taken up directly to heaven Uh it has rooms on three separate decks. Every beast, every creeping thing, and every bird, everything that moves on the earth went out by their families from the ark. Well there's lots of stuff in the ground. When Noah told uh when God told Noah that he was getting ready to destroy the world because of its wickedness and instructed him to build an ark, Noah dropped everything and he started building. So I was in the I I studied a lot of different things, but one of the things I had to study as a So yeah, he did what he he did what he was he was called to do and left the results to the Lord. He said, our building is the exact same length as Noah's Park was. Well there's some good geological evidence that it it did. So he built the ark in spiritual devotion. But the covenant was first of all with Noah, the man who had found f favor in the eyes of the Lord. And so what is your ark? So it went up for 150 days, prevailed over the earth for a total of 150 days. Um so what happened to the brain then unless he had people who were staying Yeah I guess he did. Why? And Noah did similarly. And the witness of the Holy Spirit in the hearts of believers is greater proof of God's existence than any other evidence ever could be. Noah didn't have to go round them up. So the ark bumps into the ground, but there's still no ground visible. So he went into the ark when God told him to go into the ark. Um because otherwise it just would've wiped everybody out. Um we've got um I I I don't have t time to really go into it, but when I teach Genesis I'll go through all these evidences that there are So if you cut it in half ten times, there's none left for you to look at. And then it so that's five months. Yes. So he treated the message of God with great respect and awe. And still come back. That Noah's faith was genuine is proved by his obedience to God's word. And so um it it's not that God doesn't care about these other so we get these little These are the records of the generations of Noah. So uh that's the kind of uh of uh family tree that we see here from Enoch to Noah. We say Noah's flood because Noah was there and we were people, and so we identify with the people. Yeah, why are you building this sort? So we're familiar with these stories as well, and so we can learn from them, learn from their example, um, just like uh the first century Hebrews did. What is God having you build? Uh and then the flood comes. Plants. That they must do good works to keep their salvation, that's legalism. You gotta cut down a gopher tree. And uh in in in whatever fear in whatever fear that is, um, that is what we're called to build. Yes, possible. There's a law of cause and effect and if you if you regress far enough back there had to be a first uncaused cause and that's God. To be valid, faith must visibly show itself in good deeds. 5 million cubic feet for storage. Noah's righteousness, just as that of every believer before and after him, was in the eyes of the Lord. We just need to do what we know is right according to Scripture. All the way at the end of Revelation 20. So some of you in here had great grandchildren, right? Um yes. Romans one twenty says the creation of the world, so the creation of the world is before this time Most likely we would have thought up a thousand excuses for not doing it. That's the heart of God. And so, and what's the purpose of the genealogies? Because all the oceans around Antarctica are too cold for there to be very much precipitation, so it it doesn't snow there. Not sufficient, you know, send somebody else. And so I'm building this as if it's a divine spiritual commission to do it. Because of his preaching, they had the same opportunity to know God and his will as Noah did, because he told them about it, and yet none responded. And so we went through a number of the evidences that we saw that we are able to see around us that God is. Uh not Moses. On the same day all the fountains of the great deep burst forth, and the flood gates of the sky were opened, the rain fell from the earth for forty days and forty nights. He didn't do that. And we don't do like in Second Peter she calls um Noah a creature. The next judgment will be different in two ways. I have it alluded to the breaking up of the fountains of the sea, but also I heard that there is a lot of traffic with I think that's the point of it. So this is a sermon that the author of Hebrews is preaching to these Hebrew believers, and he's making this progression. We'll be teaching. But one thing is certain, he preached faithfully. Yeah. Uh and then you had massive volcanic activity in the geologic record right after the flood which would uh put um particulars As long as this building, but quite a bit taller. I don't know if you look at words. The physical salvation, the only way was the ark The Lord said, I will brought out man whom I have created from the face of the land, from man to animals to creeping things and to birds of the sky, for I am sorry that I have That was true in Noah's day, and it's still true today. As stable as it can possibly be, those proportions are. I think that's what No uh Noah had to be looking at um as the evidence of his face because he wasn't going to be rewarded at that But the art didn't need to get any place. Okay. Everybody see that? Then he went in another seven days and sent out the dove, but she did not return to him again. Um okay. We get that in 1 Peter chapter 3 as well. In order to please him, it is also necessary to believe that he is just and that he will reward faith in him. Maybe he had help, but there's no evidence that he had help. You can't make a ratio any better than that. Uh but evidently there's But he did not complain about when he was born, his lot in life, or his call, he simply obeyed, he built, and he preached. Enoch walked with God, and so Noah walked with God. Everything that is on the earth shall perish. So God has made clear certain things. Um but we do have good um good record from geology of those buried things, uh for example in coal. It's perfect. The force of buoyancy would have still been greater than the than the the force of weight, the counterweight of the of the arc, such that the force of buoyancy would have caused the arc to the body. That's the lesson that the Holy Spirit is teaching here in the book of Hebrews. And God took him up into heaven. We're all familiar with the st story of Noah's Ark and the flood, but this is all new to Noah when God tells him. Those people are important people. Of clean animals and animals that are not clean and birds and everything that creeps on the ground there went into the ark to Noah by twos, male and female, as God had commanded Noah. Uh he was a man of obedient faith even before God called him to build the ark. You mentioned in the beginning who closed the door, it was God, who he thought the animals it was God, but so many of the children's stories out there just Uh thirty three uh uh three hundred by thirty by fifty, a big boat. Now the earth was corrupt in the sight of God, and the earth was filled with violence. So in the six hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month, the seventeenth day, so notice it specifies a particular day. He just started building. Um good point. Enoch exemplified walking in faith. God closed it the door of the ark. What are you doing? It's warning about ungodliness is the war the specific warning. As always, God's judgment was tempered by his mercy. So I I won't be here next weekend and Doug has graciously agreed to teach. The argument from design. So that's our verse. And it uh typically this is done in storytelling so it's easier to remember in an oral tradition. Right? Uh just like he warned Cain. Does that refer to the rapture or to the actual second coming on the whiteboard in nineteen or so not exactly clear. All right. And if we if I do Genesis again we'll spend a lot of time on it And there was no requirement for that with with the arc. And of course the reward that it mentions for those who seek him is the reward he gives for faith is salvation. We don't have know how effective his propheci his preaching and prophesying was, but the point is that he was faithful in prophesying. Yeah. Um and it should be food for you and for them, for you and the animals. Now Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of water came upon the earth. Noah walked with God. Yes. Noah's faith was proved by the fact that he received God's righteousness, which is only bestowed on those This is how you shall make it. As for you, take for yourself some of all food which is edible and gather it to yourself, and it shall be food for you and for them. Uh it's not that God had forgotten Noah. Amen. So this description, so I had around and bolded some words in there. Then God spoke to Noah, saying, Go out of the ark. And so all the coal in the world is less than fifty thousand years old for certain. I mean there was l stuff in the ground the first day of creation. God takes our faith and by his grace counts it as righteous. Uh he was he was preaching as he was building. Where does personality come from? Genesis chapter seven. A chiasm is a structure of a story that's mirrored Paul obviously agreed. And so it follows only Jesus' genealogy all the way through. Not Moses yet. So and w there's lots of geologic evidence of what's called uplift. Uh so the outcomes through us in the mountains, uh although no land is yet visible, it's another seventy four days before the mountains are exposed, another forty That's antinomianism. We we don't know what he did, but uh it doesn't say and Noah was a shipbuilder, and that's why God Second Peter 2. Uh let me close this in a word of prayer. Um so fifteen more cubits is like twenty-two and a half feet uh above the highest mountains, and the mountains recovered all the And then it took about seven months for all the water to drain off and to dry up. Uh from Genesis to Revelation the Bible is clear that a person is saved by faith alone and that when he is saved good works should follow There's there's nothing in the Bible that says anything about rain It could be global outreach like Scott and Angela He preached for a hundred and twenty years and had no comments that's right. That's what Jesus says about his And that's what Enoch did in the Old Testament. It has a window at the top. Uh they're apocryphal books. But he and and yet he was faithful and obedient to continue to preach for a hundred and twenty years with no converts. That's the that's the field that he was selling to Uh and the Ark had three stories. They're actually made of what's called large igneous provinces, L I Ps, large igneous provinces. But um so the flood So Mo was a man of faith, and his life continually showed his faith Yes, Kurt. Matthew twenty four, for the coming of the Son of Man will be just like the days of Noah So the Noah went in on the s in the second month of the seventeenth day. Still under the water, but the bottom of the ark has touched them. After ten half lives So his first century Jewish audience knew the story of Noah Everyone else but Noah and his family. So the question I think we all need to ask ourselves is what does that look like In fact, in fact, we're going to look at almost three whole chapters from the book of Genesis to be able to get background for this one. Um Okay. Noah was a righteous man Yeah. In fact, followers of Christ are created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them if I can't talk very well. So it takes three more months from the time the earth touched underwater to the tops of the mountains, till the tops of the mountains start to peak up. I wonder if you know, remember is a kind of a highly reminder of God's character like the very ending verses. Well if you had uh o ocean new ocean floors made of magma Um and so when you do the calculations, uh the do the stability calculations, the art could have rolled over six That's what we're supposed to learn. Noah had faith. So we talked about Enoch last time and his son with him is Methuselah, his grandson was Lamech, and his great grandson Okay. Noah illustrates working by faith, the work of faith, which is obedience. He did not question God, but simply began obeying him by faith. That took some faith to for Noah to go out and cut down that first gopher tree. I will be in So things had started to grow over these months that gradually popped up, some seed gone in there, started to grow a plant. Uh doesn't say. Um and Noah built this thing with reverence. It is just as important for us to build the ark he gives us as it was for Noah. It all had to permeate through our Christian walk, our our our belief system and our faith in it. Those that entered, male and female, all flesh, entered as God had commanded him, and the Lord closed it behind him. He came out of the ark when God told him to go out of the ark Uh there was he had never seen a globe covering flood. Um and so this is w kind of a diagram of of what Noah and his family uh went through for a year. They had that Uh to build this ark. Yes. Okay. Could be. That's right. Yes, Bob? So by faith Noah being warned by God about things not yet seen in reverence prepared an ark for the salvation of his household He was a faithful, um, faithful man, and so no one who heard Each or lived around him had any excuse for not believing in the world. And there's by the time of the flood there's millions of 'em going off all these other branches of other sons and daughters. You have to very rapidly bury something in order to have a fossil. Uh so i he he he probably had a life before this, right? And there's there's judgment coming for the globe. He warned Cain before he went out and killed his brother Let's take a look at that. Um and so he waited until God told him. Um and most likely those things occurred during the flood, the large igneous provinces in the ocean, Um and it turns out that the flood is the perfect conditions for that. The patience of God kept waiting in the days of Noah during the construction of the ark, 1 Peter 3 First it will not be by flood, but by fire, 2 Peter chapter 3. The length of the ark three hundred cubits, its breadth fifty cubits, and its height thirty cubits. Something you're building in obedience to God, according to God's plan. And keep doing it. The tribulation is kind of like a rolling Uh we see in the nature of people, we see human beings are personal and conscious and rational and creative over Now Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of water came upon the earth There are certain things that are mysteries, certain things that are hard to understand. Interestingly enough, uh the post-flood conditions were w exactly what's required for an ice age. The birds will just fly away. He worshipped God by faith, as Abel had. They may have been s nowhere near the ocean, you know, who knows, or a lake, so it's just building a it's building a big giant boat. So Doug has once again graciously agreed to stand in the gap and teach. Uh he walked so closely with God, he grew grew so so new to God that God just took him. But I will establish my covenant with you, and you shall enter the ark, you and your sons and your wife, and your sons wives. Um so probably during the flood. Reverence, that's what it says. Um bring up our children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Yeah. 5, as we just heard, Noah's called a preacher of righteousness. Uh so he stayed his judgment. Yeah, that that could be. So that's what we'll see from Noah's life today. That's the purpose of the of the genealogies, to show From the you can see that they went on in Noah's 600th year Well they get this list of chores every year that you need to be doing instead you're building this big dumb boat Right? Do you have anything Um we're I'm gonna compare him to Moses in a minute, but um uh in a certain way. And so nothing should be there. And um waters increase in seven seventeen, waters decrease in eight thirteen. Uh so now we've got the background and we can look at Hebrews 117. That's what these first century Hebrews were supposed to learn. So we ran through these uh these arguments that uh are evidence for God but not proof. For after seven more days I will send rain on the earth forty days and forty nights, and I will blot out from the face of the earth. So it's only water that you can see. There's there's ocean fossils at the top of all those mountains. Satan's always trying to get us Yeah, good point. Um the the current ocean basins are All life on earth in six thirteen. He also wants us to obey him All who believe in God are righteous, not always in practice, but always in position, because Christ's righteousness Uh where does creativity come from? That's a anthropomorphism. Yeah. Um so Noah responded to God's message. The ratio of three to five to height to width of a ship. And so is it surprising that God's design for the ark After things started going well, of course he he fell off. As Genesis says he was a righteous man, blameless in his time. We're learning that we're supposed to draw near and walk with him So what is your ark? Um but no, I I don't know what else it's in there. Um yes. We can be just as sure that judgment is coming because God has promised it. Alright, any questions? Eighteen inches is a pretty good standard. It was one and a half times the length of the football field, about the length of this whole building. Yes. I know I fall into this category and maybe others in the room as well, but the the And here the big work was coming. So if you open your Bibles to Genesis chapter six, we're gonna set some background for this. Uh and the dimensions are three hundred by fifty by thirty cubits. So the is a bit flat still flat on the bottom. It wasn't really going from one place to another. That was the proof of that it was true faith, is that he obeyed God. Then the Lord said to Moah, Enter the Ark. God provides Noah with specific instructions for exactly how to build the ark. You shall take with you of every clean animal by sevens, a male and his female, and of the animal Um yes. And let God you know let God be the one that draws the people. In other words, at the same time he was preparing judgment, he was also preparing a way of escape. But whose flood is this? It can't just all be cold. For this account, most likely first done orally, then We would have done our best to tell God out of the whole thing, or at least convince him to get someone else for the job That's why he's used as an example here. And so um God has always intended that works be a product of salvation. Yes. That's James's point in James 2. Uh the ark symbolized so there's many there's lots and lots and lots and lots of spiritual imagery We'll see that I'll get to that here in a second, the next couple of slides. He remembered Noah and all the beasts and all the cattle that were with him in the ark and God caused the wind to pass. So yes, his his cir circumstances were unusual unusually difficult. So we'll start with the verse in Hebrews. Then the flood came upon the earth for forty days, and the water increased and lifted up the ark so that So one of the greatest practical acts of faith in all history was no cutting down that first gopher. It could be. He strongly proclaimed justification by faith alone, but he also proclaimed a life of good The dove stayed out. That's where all those plants went. He wants us to trust Him in the trial we are going through, the temptation we are facing. Amen. Yeah. Noah didn't do anything like that. Amen and amen. I've seen that picture. All right. Um okay, so a as we look back uh into the book of Genesis Thus Noah did. It's not a local flood. And so that's the perfect mechanism for having all the water drain into the oceans. So look, just to give you a picture here, so when I was in college, All right. Satan has continually tried to confuse and mislead God's people about faith and wisdom. So the pitch kept the waters of judgment from entering the ark, just as Christ's atoning blood God looks at believers through the lens of His Son, and He sees us as He sees the Son. That's what the author of Hebrews says, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, that Noah's attitude. God was grieved in his heart, Genesis six six said, about man's wickedness. So when no one is doing this obeying God, we have to be The times in which Noah grew up were among the most evil and corrupt in history. So Noah built the ark in reverence. And three decks, it was there it says there are rooms in it, so each You might you might it is. So 150 days is five months. Yeah. So he walked with God, that's before God came and and But the time so the so the tribulation is Yeah. Nobody had ever seen a globe covering flood because it had never happened. Um I'll just put it that way, I'll give you one. Um Okay. Um and so that's uh an evidence that there was a God. All life on earth in nine seventeen. No. We also see that Enoch preached. Uh yes. God said, Get out of the ark. But a vast majority of the living things If coal is over is more than um So for all the saints listed in Hebrews eleven, their genuine faith was made known in Um so here's a possible cross section of the arc remembered I had three decks, lower first and So uh perhaps the saddest lesson from Noah's Day God looked on the earth, and behold it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted That's a year and ten days. He didn't f oh wait, wait, I I forgot I had an arc out there with people in it. It it is something like that. He walked with God by faith, as Enoch had. Uh so it's a big boat, a really, really, really big boat with three decks. Though Noah was blameless in his time and walked with God, he was still a sinner. Yeah, so uh we don't know and as I mentioned last time, the actual So yeah, the the only people that run the arc with him were the wife and the sons and the So first we're going to take a look back. Behold, I, even I If you use eighteen inches it's four hundred and fifty feet by seventy five feet. But the water starts to go down and the Could be. Um He's he's got something else for you to do. He judged them that they were wicked, oh, the tents of their heart was wicked only with According to all that God commanded him, so he did. 1. Um so God could have created oil in the ground as well as everything Behold I, even I am bringing the flood of water. Y you have to have both cold continents and Um yes. It could be. Uh any others? Uh a very big boat, like the size of this building. There was lots of tectonic activities, yeah. So um so most of the most of the time when animals die, what happens to them? No one was helping no one. And then when we look at Noah's life, we see that Noah responded to God's word. So most likely this fled Uh let's take a look at what we're gonna learn today. Um with three decks, the Ark had about one hundred That's what all the generations of the church since then So uh that that's where our construction of an arc may Yeah, so um both the no example of Noah and the It just reminds me when we first bought this building On the seventh month of the seventeenth day the water starts to go down. Now it came about in the six hundred and first year, in the first month of the first. And there's and there's Enoch. Yes. I'm a little bit jealous because he gets Abraham. They're pressed into the coal. And unfortunately, that is not the position that we are in. And but our building is three times wide. So Noah went into the ark when God told him to go into the ark. Then Noah and his sons and his wife and his sons wives with Or God could have put there's lots of minerals on the earth But God remembered Noah. For certain, less than fifty thousand years old. Noah just started building. The description in Genesis does not in any So the floodwater is invaded over the earth So if if it's parallel to that, then Jesus is talking Um that doesn't seem to be a feature of rocks. The water decreased steadily until the tenth month, so it keeps the And so once those large igneous province You have That could very well be. Yet he was faithful to preach. So let me roll on here. This is not hard to understand language about Go out of the ark, you and your wife and your sons and your sons' wives with you. God said something and Noah responded. Uh then he put out his hand and took her and bled her into the ark so he went And we'll talk about that here in a second. Mountains rose and the Salvation through the ark, salvation through the cross of Christ. That describes the generation in Paul's Over and over and over and over again it says all and everything. Doesn't snow in Antarctica, 'cause it's it's too cold. Uh he most likely had never seen a giant ship Um in chapter nine. God called him to preach while he built. So they were on the ark a year and ten days. Uh I'm less certain of that than I am of the Um i it's it we we make we we make the That was a whirlwind. Hebrews chapter 11, verse 7. You have to you have to isolate it from oxygen. Okay. When God first called Noah to his immense task. That's called the cosmological argument. So today we're going to take a look at Noah. Curse on the earth in six thirteen, blessing on the earth Second, it will be the last one. We don't see it in Hebrews and we don't see it in Genesis. Antarctica fits the definition of a desert. You you can't make a more stable design. Yes. Yes. That's what the verse from last time said. So he just had this little peak So, um this is a diagram. Um one of the things I was challenged So the waters were covering the entire So Noah was warned by God about things If you really believe in God, there will be evidence. On the very same day, no one shame This this may be just menus. He he had a bunch of stuff that he was doing That's interesting. In fact he was facing I was So last time we looked at Enoch. Alright. Um so I go into that in great He walked with God. Uh so now we know who this this There's an ark, 'cause a flood's coming. But Noah's job was to warn the people So we're gonna look at Noah who Uh to most of us it would have been so Mm-hmm. But yes, so yes, so the Yep. We've got a few more things to cover before So and there's chiasms all through He also worked obediently The exact length of the cubit during Uh in God's economy, trust It's made of a certain kind of wood. So how did those get there? It could be And so we are Uh we talked about a couple of The difference between Noah and And interestingly enough Creature of righteousness. Yes, Kurt. That's really bad. So after the flood prevailed Um and there Uh so let's take a look Um and then They're giant lava James 2. Uh Nebu was saved. According to Genesis And so Make for yourself So Noah did When God told him to do So Enoch. Yes. Uh and Abraham But the reason So closed the door. Mountains covered in And it's easy That's an excellent The preaching was preached. There was a hundred So it's Um You shall make And Yes. Uh So Um 26. So So no Uh Uh Pepe