Okay, here we are in part ten. Um I uh thanks to Doug. I uh thank you for uh for teaching. Uh last week, Doug, I got a chance to listen, although the recording started after the singing, so I did not get to hear you guys singing. I I I heard that you did sing, but I didn't get to hear you singing. Uh but that that's great that that Doug went there um and that he focused on Psalm ninety-five last time uh because that's really the text that this uh the author of Hebrews goes into Um and so th we're in this section of sc of uh of s Hebrews that starts in chapter three and goes into chapter four and today we're gonna be starting into the the the beginning of chapter four and continuing with it uh next week as So today we're going to talk about entering God's rest. We're going to talk about the availability of God's rest, the elements of God's rest, the nature of God's rest, and the urgency to enter God's rest. So God's rest today. But first, let's look back. Um so um this section of Scripture, as I mentioned, So it's at Hebrews 315, the writer quotes again uh this exhortation from Psalm ninety-five today if you will hear his voice, do not harden your hearts. So there's this focus on do not harden your hearts through that this whole section of Psalm. scripture really. And then there's a series of questions that the author goes through. Uh there's a technique, uh subjectio, um, that he uses here a as kind of a asking and answering his own question. So he reintroduces that experience in the wilderness generation. So remember, the wilderness generation is in number 14. That's what David, the Holy Spirit, is talking about through David in Psalm 95. Events from number 16. fourteen and then the writer of Hebrews is going back through Psalm ninety five to those events in numbers fourteen of the wilderness generation. And so he's Going back to that again, the author of Hebrews, and he continues that warning and exhortation, and we'll see today in Hebrews 4, he comes back to it again. Um and so this tactic is uh tactic of bringing up a topic or question that might be argued against the writer. So the the writer or the speaker, um i is going along and he's trying to make a point and as part of making his point he asks questions that might be raised against his point and then answers the questions. That's what this technique is called and that's what those questions are for there at the end of chapter 3 and then kind of answering the argument of the the opposer, the the potential opposer. So in this passage the writer anticipates an objection to his analysis of the wilderness. wilderness generation and their apostasy and then addresses that possible um uh objection and before he goes on uh to make further points. And so he in this whole section of scripture he's using Psalm ninety five, which is as I said, reaching back to Numbers fourteen. So he confirms the wilderness generation's actual rebellion in Psalm ninety five, uh verse eight and he talks about their sin, which is first dealt with in Numbers chapter 14 and their disobedience, again Numbers 14, their unbelief, Numbers 14, as well as God's displeasure with that generation, which is brought out in Psalm 95. But was also, of course, brought out in Numbers chapter fourteen, and then the oath it's made as well. And all that was uh the really the point of what the author of Hebrews was talking about there at the end of chapter three. Um so um God had become angry with those who had come out of Egypt. So he had done all this with these miraculous things, brought them out of the land of Egypt, and every one of them had seen that And then they rebelled against him. And it caused him great anger. Um and so and the reason f was their uh the disobedience of unbelief forfeits blessings and brings judgments. That's the the lesson there. That was the lesson that was taught to that wilderness generation. It's the lesson that David comes back to in Psalm 95, and it's the lesson that the writer of Hebrews is talking about here that D this disobedience of unbelief brings consequences, and the consequences judgment. And so there's all this the invitation is worthless apart from belief, from faith. And so God has prepared these great blessings. He he he wanted blessings for the people of Israel. He demonstrated his willingness to bless them and yet because of unbelief they didn't receive that ultimate blessing in that case of going into uh the land of Canaan. So they were not able to enter because of unbelief. Uh that's the point. Here. So we see this of course carried forward all the way into our day, people that claim that they have a pragmatic mind, they have an empirical mind, they need to see the facts and the evidence. And then of course the history tells us The history of mankind, especially through this wilderness generation, that it doesn't matter how much evidence they had. They saw with their own eyes The plagues on Egypt, the Passover, they saw with their own eyes the parting of the Red Sea. The facts and evidence were all there and yet they didn't believe. And so we can carry that all the way forward into uh our own days. Peop people that say that they just need more facts and evidence, uh, that's not what they need. They don't need more facts and evidence. They need faith. Uh Um and so without faith w uh because of unbelief they they won't enter. And so because of unbelief the wilderness generation didn't enter the promised land. Because of unbelief Um the warning is if they don't b these these uh the Hebrew the ri original audience of the this letter, if they don't believe they won't enter. And even today that's the same lesson. Without belief you won't enter So there's numerous examples in modern life of the fact that we live by faith. Everybody lives by faith. When you go to a restaurant, you eat the food, you have no idea who that guy is that's cooking it. You know, you have no idea what he might do to that food, but yet you go into the restaurant and you eat the food. You have you have no idea who built the highway. And yet you you don't have a panic attack every time there's a curve in the highway that it just might run into a river with no bridge. You just have faith that the highway is not going to lead you drive you off the edge of a canyon or something. Uh so we live by faith all the time. Uh people always live by faith. And so if we can put our faith in these little things in life, uh we surely can put our faith in the God of the universe. Uh and not to trust him of course is ultimately fatal. And so that's the the real uh point of the author of Hebrews there in that last section. So uh let's move on to Hebrews chapter four. Any questions? Before we do that, any questions about anything from Hebrews chapter three? Soviet though. And I always love it when I read something too. something like that. Is that what always in Romans I think you asked me questions? Yes. Yeah, it's exactly right. And so it was a common tactic, um, especially in Greek using the Greek language, both spoken and written, uh, a way of arguing. Um and so Paul used it and the author of Hebrews uses it here. And of course Paul may very well be the author of Hebrews, uh so it could be very, very similar. But yes, it's a similar thing to what Paul did several times in his letters. Good question. Any other questions? All right. Uh let's move then to Hebrews chapter four. If you'll take out your Bibles or your devices and tune them to Hebrews chapter 4. Let's read the first nine. So this is as I've mentioned many times, of course, this is a letter that would have just been read straight through. Because of time, we don't we don't have a 72-hour class where we can just power right through. Um we're breaking it up But remember it's a letter and so uh nobody would have read uh w the original audience would not have read the first nine verses of chapter four and that's it. Uh it has to all be in context of this whole letter. But keeping that in mind. Uh Hebrews chapter 4 verses 1 through 9. Therefore, let us fear if, while a promise remains of entering his rest, any one of you seem to have come short of it For indeed we have had good news preached to us, just as they also. But the word they heard did not profit them, because it was not united by faith in those who heard. For we who have believed enter that rest. Just as he has said, as I swore in my wrath, they shall not enter my rest, although his works were finished from the foundation of the world For he has said somewhere concerning the seventh day, and God rested on the seventh day from all his works. And again in this passage, they shall not enter my rest. Therefore, since it remains for some to enter it, and those who formerly had good news preached to them failed to enter because of disobedience, he again fixes a certain day today saying through David, after so long a time, just as has been said before, today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not have spoken of another day after that. So there remains a Sabbath rest For the people of God. So as we go through here, notice that there's some time stamps here. We're going to go through this verse by verse, but I just want you to notice from the big picture. So uh when was the wilderness generation? It was in the days of Moses, and there was a talk of entering a rest, and that entering of the rest in that day was With Joshua. Remember, Moses didn't cross over into the promised land. Joshua led them into the promised land. But when was David writing Psalm 95 Hundreds of years later, so hundreds of years later, after Joshua had led them into the rest of the land of Canaan, they're still talking about rest. David is the the Holy Spirit through David is the so it's obviously not just the promised land. That's the point the author is making here. That the promised land is not the ultimate rest. There must Because hundreds of years after they went into the land of Canaan, here is the Holy Spirit talking through David of Arrest. And so the the author of Hebrews pointing out, hey You Jewish people, look at this. Under, you know, there was arrest, and Joshua went in, but here's David hundreds of years later talking about arrest, so it must not just be the land of Canaan. So, and that's the point he's making there at the end, but you got to see it from the big picture before we drill down into verse by verse. Okay. So let's go on. Let me just give you a few paragraphs from Dr. Martin Uh Dr. Robert Martin in his uh excellent commentary on Hebrews says this. The form of this paragraph, and he's talking about in the paragraph the actually a huge section from chapter three into chapter four, the form of this paragraph s suggests an inclusion. No beginning with therefore let us fear if, while a promise remains of entering his rest, any one of you may seem to have come short of it, that's Hebrews four one we just read. And ending with therefore let us be diligent to enter that rest so that we are that no one will fall through the follow through following the same example of disobedience. That's Hebrews 4. 11 that we'll get to next week. The writer then concludes his exhortation with a statement of complimentary encouragements in order to provoke us to diligence in our entering the promised rest. Hebrews 4, 12 to 16. Again, that's going to be next week. From the way he uses Psalm 95, it is evident that he believes believes that it contains sufficient proof that a promise of entering God's rest continues, so that his readers may lay hold of that this promise of faith. The words of Psalm 9578, today if you hear his voice, Do not harden your hearts, present a challenge to the Psalms hearers, in other words, David's original hearers. A challenge which would have no force that the promise itself of entering God's rest was was withdrawn. All the way up to the time of Hebrews is still then not withdrawn. In this regard, the phrase a promise remains expresses the conclusion to which the Psalm brings us. Along the way, of course, the writer develops his argument in the specific direction of identifying the ultimate rest promised as God's own Sabbath rest. And we'll see that this week and next week as well. Okay. So let's take a look verse by verse at this little section of scripture, starting with verse 1. Therefore, let us fear if while the promise remains of entering his rest any one of you may seem to have come short of it. So he's writing to this congregation And what's his primary concern? That not one be lost. He's writing to a congregation like any congregation that includes believers, and it includes those who may think they're believers but are not Um and he's very concerned that no one be lost. Um you can just feel it coming out of the writing. Uh uh just let us fear, have this fear, this holy fear that if while the prophet Promise remains, any one of you may have come short of it. Therefore, at the beginning, of course, refers back to the section that we just did, uh back to Israel's unbelief and consequent failure to enter God's rest in the promised land of Canaan. That warning that um goes back to Numbers 14 that that David uh the Holy Spirit brought up through David in Psalm 95, same warning that uh Uh this author of Hebrews is bringing up here and he's referring back to what he just said. Therefore. Um not trusting God is definitely something to be feared. Uh Jesus warned, do not fear those who kill the body. but are unable to cu kill the soul, but rather fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. So what's he talking about? This fear of unbelief, that the fact that if you don't believe, where do you go? You go to hell, and that's something to be feared. Um that's the point here, and it's the same point Jesus was making in Matthew chapter ten. That's the the fear that you should have that a that a human being should have. Only God has the power to commit a person to hell. So the Christian of course has no need to fear in this particular sense, in that sense that's been here. Jesus said uh in Luke chapter twelve, do not Be afraid, little flock, for your father has chosen gladly to give you the kingdom. So i when Jesus is talking to the little flock, those who actually believe, he says, Do not fear Uh in Matthew chapter ten he says, Do fear, but what does he say to fear? He says to fear going to hell, those who who who will be sent to hell. Uh but those who are uh saved, he says, Do not fear. See the difference? There. So the only kind of fear a Christian should have is that of reverential awe. We see that in several places, first Peter chapter two, Revelation fourteen. There are other places in Scripture as well. Revel reverential awe of the Lord is described as fear as well, but that's not the sense. Yeah. Uh this is the fear of respect and honor, not the fear of God's condemnation, of which this text speaks. Because there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, Romans 8. 1. So we don't have to fear. Those who are saved do not have to fear. condemnation. But he's writing to a broad audience um that will certainly include somebody who's not saved and that that person should fear. Okay. Uh any questions? Yes. Sure, there certainly could be. Yeah. There could be. But this is talking about entering as rest And we'll see as he develops the this idea of rest what he means by it. So what he means is salvation. Um and so this is uh the the fear of not being saved. And so a believer obviously doesn't have that fear. So this is a uh it's super specific as we see uh as we walk through we'll see what he really means by rest here. Good question though. Uh yeah there's there are fear. There's we should fear Fear a holy God and we should fear um our own disobedience. Uh, because there are instances of disobedience even in the life of life of a believer, and that grieves the Lord and it it it um It causes uh distress in our relationship with him. But it doesn't have to do with entering his rest. He he he won't cast us out because of our sin. So if you're a believer and you fall into some sin, you you you won't be cast out. Um nothing can separate you from the love of God in Christ Jesus. Um so um then we We get to this idea that the promise remains. As long as the promise remains there is opportunity to be saved and to enter God's rest. And so that's what the author is talking about here. While a promise remains. Uh otherwise appeal for belief would be mockery if there was not uh if there was not still time if there was wasn't a promise that still remained. So there is still time for uh the hearers, the original heroes, they weren't yet saved. And today anybody that's picking up and reading the book of Hebrews, uh, that's obviously still alive. while they're reading the book of Hebrews, um, the promise still remains. There there's still time. So when it il i Israel was in the wilderness, those who refused to believe were not allowed to enter the promised land. But God still Still didn't forsake Israel as his chosen people. Even fast forward all the way up to the time where um the Jews refused their Messiah uh mocked and crucified him. Uh obviously anybody who um who rejects Jesus is not going to enter God's heavenly rest. But still God did not forsake Israel even then. Uh although some argue uh some uh Christians argue that because of what the Jews did in the Old Testament and unbelief and even more importantly because of what they did to Jesus as a nation and as a people they They forfeited the promises of God. There are some that argue that way. But I don't think that fits with the rest of Scripture. God's promise to Israel still stands uh even though they killed the very son of God, they are still children of the unconditional covenant that God made with Abraham. That covenant, the Abrahamic covenant, had no conditions on Abraham and his descendants. So the writer of Hebrews could say To them, remember we talked about at the beginning of uh chap chapter three, that he calls them brothers, all of them, and because he's a Jew and they're Jews, he's talking about the Jewish people. And so the writer of Hebrews. Hebrews continuing, this this is just a few verses after that, he says, a promise remains of entering his rest Uh so by God's grace rest is still available. Uh the Greek word katapausis, rest, um, carries the idea of ceasing from work or from any kind of action. Um that's just the basic meaning of that Greek word. You stop doing what you're doing. And so applied to God's rest, it means no more self-effort as far as salvation is concerned, it means the end of trying to please God by our fleshly works. God's perfect rest is a rest of free grace. In other words. So rest also means uh freedom from whatever causes you anxiety. Some people cannot rest mentally or emotionally because every little thing upsets them. So rest does not mean a complete freedom from all nuisance and asshole. So you cannot expect that your Christian life will be free of nuisances and hassles. What it does mean is freedom from being so easily bothered by them Nuisances and hassles that come up in life. It means to be inwardly quiet, composed, peaceful. To enter God's rest means to be at peace with God, to possess the perfect peace He gives. It means to be free from until Unnecessary feelings of guilt. It means freedom from worry about sin because sin is forgiven. God's rest is the experience of peace in the total forgiveness of God. That's this greater meaning of rest here. So in Christ we're established, rooted, grounded, unmovable. Uh and that is the Christian rest, resting in the Lord. Uh so it it involves rest involves remaining confident and keeping trust in the Lord, not in ourselves, but in the Lord. To enter God's rest therefore means to enjoy this unshakable confidence of salvation in our Lord. We have absolute trust and confidence in God's power and care. Not in our own power and care. Uh we didn't have anything to do with our salvation, so we don't have to worry about Um, am I still doing my part for my salvation? Because I never had a part in my salvation. Um rest also means to lean on. Um so we we you can say um I'm resting on the wall here. So that's one of the the meanings of rest, to lean on. resting on the wall. So rest also means to lean on. To enter into God's rest means that we are for the remainder remainder of our life here, uh, we're leaning on God. And also continuing into eternity. We'll still be leaning on God. We can be sure that he will never fail to support us. So that's another meaning of rest. So in this new relationship, if if you're entering God's rest, we can depend on him for everything, for support, for help. for strength, for everything that we need, we're leaning on the Lord, we're resting in Him. It's a relationship in which we are confident and secure. Uh Paul makes this point over and over again. Um that there is nothing that can separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus. Um we have this kind of confidence and the Bible go goes to great depth pla pains to explain the reasons for this confidence and that we should have confidence this kind of confidence. We know whom we have believed and we stand in him. That's to rest in the Lord. Yes. Yes, Richard. Yes, absolutely. Yep. Being being satisfied. That that God is sovereign over my life and over everything else in the universe. And so wherever He has placed me and whatever I'm going through, I rest in the confidence that that He is um that his ways are better than my ways and that he knows what he's doing and whatever it is that I'm going through, it's okay Because he knows what he's doing. Yes. And two of the that comes to mind is when we're knowingly engaging in stand our our conscience if we don't have rest during that time. It's just not a it's not a good thing. The other could be where we're not really meditating on scripture or believing scripture or aware of it. And so the the different philosophies and beliefs of the world, they they control us and it it's just we're not we don't have peace and rest during that time and it's so those are two things that we can do to kind of defeat defeat our own rest and peace that God wants us to have by trusting him. Yes, that's that's definitely so. That we we can um sabotage our own peacefulness and our own rest. We we can do that to a certain extent. Now, we can't undo the work of salvation, but we can ca uh we can cause friction in our relationship with the Lord, by our actions. Um by not trusting him, by by being uh it was sin sin in our life, unconfessed sin in our life can cause friction in our life and and yes, that can cause anxiety to enter into uh the even the life of a Christian. So uh we we we all know from personal experience that the Christian life is not without anxiety. It's just not. We we're told that it should be But it's not. So this is part of our sanctification, yes. And I don't know if we can hear and backing up a little bit which you said earlier, but Jeremiah 3240, I would say. The Lord does what's necessary to to keep you. Now That doesn't mean that you won't go through uh peaks and valleys uh in your in your sanctification process and that things that we do can can introduce anxiety into our lives. But ultimately, um this rest that the Lord has promised is is his work. And and we'll see that by the time we get to this end of of the passage we'll see that the rest that he he's really pointing forward to is ultimately well first rest in the millennial kingdom and then rest in heaven that we're headed for and and that cannot be um short circuited. Um yes. So what we were kind of just talking around was this kind of temporary rest that we can experience or lack of rest on a daily basis. And then there's this internal rest. The temporary one is that out of spoke what this passage is talking. No, so it is it's talking about both, I believe, here, and so um The kind of the sermons that uh Pastor Gabe has been preaching about life, eternal life, uh the fact that that life starts now That we have life in Christ, and it and we don't wait until we die and go to heaven for that to start. That started right now But it it's it's there's all these imperfections because we still have the sin nature. So uh everybody's born with a sin nature And then and you're dead in your sins and trespasses. I'm dead in my sins and trespasses. And then at some point I'm saved. I'm justified by the blood of Christ and my sins are paid for. And then I'm free from the penalty of of sin. But for the rest of my life here on earth I still have a sin nature and so there's still this war between the flesh and the spirit that Paul describes in Romans chapter seven. Uh Um and I still have these um I I still have the presence of sin. So that's that's from the time I'm saved until the time I die. And then um when I when we go to heaven when we're glorified, when we have our glorified bodies we're free from the presence of sin. Yes. It's not still not t it's not temporary, it's just not the perfect rest. that we're gonna have in heaven. Uh we will experience God's perfect rest in heaven. Uh but we still have God's rest now. We still have we have eternal life. So when we read that in the Bible, um that uh when John says in First John chapter one that you have eternal life. I say these things to you so that you may know that you have eternal life. That's in the present tense in the Greek. So you have eternal life right now. But it's not the same As the perfect eternal life that we have in heaven. Because we still have a sin nature and we still have this war between the flesh and the spirit. But we have eternal life right now. That's what the Bible tells us. It's just not the perfect eternal li eternal life that we're gonna have in heaven. And I I think it's similar to what we see here with God's rest. I think there's a parallel between rest and eternal life. I think that's what he really means here. We can draw a direct parallel That the rest is eternal life and you have it now, but you don't have it perfectly like you will in heaven. I think that's a there's a parallel there. Yeah. Good question. Yes. So uh the theory about our soul bus, and in the salvation we find rest there, but like the Sabbath rest. And we don't have to work anymore, right? Um well yes. We we're so in the sense that uh what do you mean by work? So we don't have To work for our salvation, we can rest. But uh Ephesians 2:10 tells us that we're saved for a purpose to do got good works that God has appointed ahead of time. And so there's still things that we're supposed to. do. We're not just supposed to just lay around like lazy lumps after we're saved. That's not the point. And so and and Paul made this point in a very harsh way, if you remember. Uh those who do not work shouldn't eat. uh shouldn't be allowed to eat. He e because there evidently there were people that were saved and so they just kinda sat around waiting for Christ to come again. Um they weren't doing anything. And and Paul said, Well if they don't work they shouldn't eat. And why is he being harsh like that? He he's being harsh like that to make sure that he makes the point that um that we're saved for a purpose and that God has a purposes and plans for everybody that he saves and that's to do good works here. I in in this world before we go on to heaven, um and so people had gotten some sort of a misunderstanding that you just say then they just kinda sit on the couch and wait for Jesus to come again. Yes. Christ even says, you know, he who sets his hand to the father on its back is unfit for the kingdom of God. So Christ is just a severe reason, I think even more severe, he says if you commit to his kingdom, but you don't do the work. Right. Philippians two says to work out of salvation, to do so with fear and trembling. Yeah. Yeah, and notice that the the rest of that verse says For it is God who is at work both to will and to do. And so that very passage says that it's it's God in me who actually wants to do the work and then gives me the power to do the work. Um but in order for that to be the case I have to actually be saved and actually have the Holy Spirit in me. And so if there are people that are uh um that are non what we might call nominal Christians, somebody that has said a prayer and sat in church but isn't really saved, doesn't have the Holy Spirit, then they're not going to have the will or the power to do that work according to that very verse of scripture. Yes. Well if we go back to the bargain where arguably their rest of everything once very good. Yeah. God has them working in the body of that reference. That's what we're talking about before. Yeah, and we talked about it in that revelation too, but there's probably going to be stuff for us to do in heaven as well Um and we're going to go back to the garden here in a few minutes. Um she's a little bit ahead of me, but we will go to the garden. Oh, that's good. I'm glad that you did. Yeah. Well, I'm thinking is uh we're calling uh fish and rest as a Like in the church uh non division that can see the method or the only US is nice. So I'm thinking the worst is about one division if you're just remember um We have many passages in scripture that talk about how the church is built and we have different gifts, uh different ministries for each person that's saved. Uh not all are evangelists, not all are preachers and teachers. People are given different gifts to do different things for the building up of the body of Christ. And so the important thing for a follower of Christ is to to uh be in prayer, to be um uh to be asking the Lord through the Holy Spirit, what is my spiritual gift and what is my ministry in the church. Now um i there's an interesting thing about spiritual gifts. Spiritual gifts for the most part, um almost in every case, um are things that all Christians are called to do. But some are supernaturally gifted in that particular area to do it above and beyond and with special excellence. So everybody is called to hospitality, for example. But some are particularly gifted in hospitality. Everybody is called to evangelize, but some are particularly gifted in evangelism. Everybody is called to teach. Look at the Great Commission Make disciples and teach them. Everybody is called to teach, but some are empowered by the Holy Spirit with a special gift of teaching. And that's the way spiritual gifts work. It's not that um uh that nobody else is called to to teach or to have hospitality, but some are specially gifted to use that gift within the body of Christ to build up the the body of Christ. Yes, Richard. It's uh what that that work is not just also Of course, yes. Yep. Yeah, to become conformed to the likeness of Christ. That's the primary uh the first and primary uh this is the will of the Father. That's what that's what the str Scripture tells us your sanctification. This is the will of God, your sanctification. That's what the scripture tells us. And so every single person knows at least one thing that's the will of God for their life Your sanctification. Uh yeah. So the only way we can understand that's best is fine with Yeah, yeah, that's a that's a that's certainly a big part of it. Yeah. That's it. And uh he threw that and at least throughout history and God God has uh but has has has been many attempts to get man into into that way. Yep, yep. Yep, yeah. Faith gets you into his rest, unbelief or lack of faith excludes you from his rest. Yep. That that's the lesson here. Uh if you want a big picture, that's it. Yes. So um so of course God is Sovereign over all things. So God had ordained from the foundation of the universe that there would be those who would enter. God always has reserved for Himself um a remnant, always. Um and that's by the sovereign will of God. So um there were going to be people that entered, that believed and entered. Um now, why did he hardened the hearts of a whole generation or most of them such that they didn't enter. Well, part of the reason is so that we can see the consequences so that David could write those consequences in Psalm ninety five, so that the author of Hebrews could write those consequences into Hebrews chapter three and four. So that we could And all believers through all the centuries and millennium could read what are the consequences of unbelief Um we get a a a stark picture of the consequences of unbelief with a whole generation wandering forty years in the wilderness and dying and not getting to go into the land of Canaan. But In order to really make this point, he needed both. Those who believed and went in, and those who didn't believe and didn't go in. Uh so I think that's why God orchestrated it that way. Now we don't always get to see why God has orchestrated things in a certain way. We don't always get to see it. Here we get to see it There were those who didn't believe and those who did believe, those who did believe got to go into his rest, those who didn't believe didn't get to enter his rest. And that's the um that's the absolute black and white of salvation. It's a one or a zero for those computer programmers. Um Unbelief, die in the wilderness. Belief, enter rest in the promised land. And that's the pattern that God established through that story, if you will, back in Numbers chapter fourteen. Yeah, uh o over here first and then we yeah, go ahead, Zelma. Because we have you know we have three We couldn't enter. So the fact that there was someone who entered Protestant and some who didn't you see how that it was because God had given grace to those who enter, like you said he only had the revenue. And so I think it was helps me at least understand those things even more. Yes. You know, sometimes you struggle with that at least as a young believer. I thought it was fun. I you know I was the one who chose Christ. I was the one who standing now more and more how that is broadcast because it's a people. So I think those problems that are uh neutralized case just gives me a better thing. Yeah, very good. And the and everything about that story uh uh reinforces that point. When they when they go actually go in, who is it that's actually fighting for them? Who who wins all the battles? Lord wins all the battles and and if if they ever get to the point where they think they're winning battles He does something to disabuse them of that uh fallacy. Right? He'll cause them to lose a battle if they if they're starting to think use their own strength or think they can use their own strength. He'll cause them to lose a battle until they figure that out. That it's God who is is the one that's fighting for them. Uh yes, back for God is not a guy that sweets of the line and so he was spending some fund. And um God doesn't think without proof. Right. And when he promises something it comes to pass. Right. So he promised they were gonna he promised Abraham he was gonna give them that. Right? He promised Abraham. And so in Abraham's lifetime, did he ever get any of that land? Well he got the cave of Machpilah, and that's it. Right? None of the rest of it. Um so uh that promise was hundreds and hundreds of years before But God had made that promise and so therefore there was no possible way that there weren't going to be descendants of Abraham possessed in that land. Yeah. Yeah. And he said forever. And and so when Israel disappears Um there were many who's who said, Well look, it looks like God's promises gone by the wayside. A and nobody expected Israel to s pop back into existence again. Um, except for those who read scripture and said, Hey, look, it says forever. Um, yeah. So God made a promise and so therefore it was going to happen. And how and when it was going to happen we didn't know, but yes, it was going to happen. Okay. So uh there are descriptions of the new heaven and the new earth in um in the book of Revelation and it it certainly doesn't seem like it's the current earthly Jerusalem. Uh like it's a thousand miles on a side and it's a thousand miles high and um yeah, it doesn't so how do you explain the outside of time. So y you had you have a certain you know, there was before the create foundation of the universe there was no time and then God made time, space, matter and energy, and he's going to destroy the current heavens and the current earth. Um and so I think that is the end of forever. Um and then we have eternity and the new heavens and the new earth go on into eternity without time and that's why we get the description of um the kind of description that we do w we we it's very difficult for us to grasp eternity. What does it mean to be forever, to be with the Lord forever. Um because we're finite beings and we're trapped in time, time, space, matter, and energy. But we'll be outside that Yeah. Present Jerusalem, the historic Jerusalem and the new Jerusalem in the Revelation that could probably be like into our present state now and our new state when we are. I think that's right. I think that's right. And so there is some continuity. I mean we will still be us. You'll still be Henry. Uh when you have a you have a new body you'll you'll you'll ha you have a new body It would be perfect. Um, but you'll still be Henry, you'll you'll know who you are. Uh so there's some sort of continuity. between present earth and the new new heavens and new new new Jerusalem. There's some continuity in the fact that God is still who he is Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And we will s there's continuity with us. We're still you'll still be you. Yes. And everything that is. Yeah. So I see that with us as being and also with the possibility. Yeah. So um I need to keep going 'cause we're still in verse one here. So we uh we have to get through nine nine verses and we're still on verse one. Um so um so as a big picture, the rest spoken of in Hebrews three and four includes all these meanings, these meanings of rest that d definitely apply to uh to our life today. But there are two other dimensions of spiritual rest that are critical to understanding this passage. The kingdom rest of the millennial kingdom and the eternal rest of heaven. These are the ultimate expressions of this new relationship with God in Christ. Yes, we have rest in this life. Yes, you have eternal life right now. But what is coming is even better. What you will have in Christ Jesus in the millennial kingdom and in heaven forever. Alright, verse two. Um For indeed we have had good news preached to us, just as they also. So the letter of Hebrews is saying, Hey, in our day here in the first century we've had the uh the good news preached to us, just as also those um those idiots in the uh wandering in the wilderness. Uh but the word they heard did not profit them Because it was not united by faith in those who heard. Right? So from the human side, the first requirement for salvation is faith. Hearing the gospel is essential, but it's not enough The ancient Israelites heard God's good news of rest. They knew that there was this promised land. But they did not profit from them since they did not accept it. They didn't believe They kept grumbling. They kept saying, Hey what aren't there aren't there enough graves in Egypt? Why don't we just go back to Egypt? Uh they did not trust in the God who gave them that good news about uh the promised land. Uh so it does no good to hear if we don't bear Hearing the good news of the rest of God is of no benefit unless the hearing is united by faith. That's what the author of Hebrews is saying right here. So it's a sad reality that hell would be populated in part With people who say, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name? And in your name cast out demons, and in your name perform many miracles To which Jesus would reply, I never knew you. Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. So what is Jesus saying there? That there will be people who claim to be believers who think they're believers And who are not, uh who are sitting in the pews of churches. That's a sad reality. That's very sad. And the author of Hebrews doesn't want anybody to be in that category And so that's why he's going through these great pains of bringing these things up to his readers in the first century, and that's why the Holy Spirit has it in the scripture so we can read it. Every believer uh from then all the way to now and all the way to Christ comes again can read about this. in the book of Hebrews. Their knowledge and their work was not united with faith. So Jews, of course, that he's writing to, they prided themselves in the fact that they had God's law, and they had God's ordinances and they had God's And they were designated as God's people. Uh they took great pride in that. They were especially proud to be descendants of Abraham, as we saw in Jesus' earthly ministry in John chapter eight. He he goes to great pains to tell them If they were true children of Abraham, they would not they would act like Abraham did. Abraham believed um in Jesus. That's Jesus' point. Um and that these Pharisees he was talking to didn't believe him, so they weren't the true children of Abraham. Uh Paul reminded his fellow Jews and Romans, he is a Jew who is one inwardly, and circumcision is So being a true Jew under the old covenant was not a matter of having the law But of obeying it. Whoops. Being a true Christian under the new covenant is not a matter of knowing the gospel, but of trusting in it Having a Bible, reading it, knowing it, taking it to church every Sunday, even teaching from it, does not make us Christians. Only trusting in the one who In whom the Bible testifies makes us Christians. So salvation is by grace through faith. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 8. And then the author continues in verse 16. For we who have believed under that rest, enter that rest, just as he has said, as I swore in my wrath, they shall not enter my rest. Although his works were finished from the foundation of the world. So what is he talking about here? He's giving both the positive and the negative. Those who believed enter the rest Those who didn't believe, going all the way back to Numbers 14, they shall not enter my rest, God said. And so Numbers 14 is where God first said that Uh and um Psalm ninety five, David repeats it, remember so David's saying to his generation, remember Back there in Numbers fourteen, God says they're not gonna enter my rest. Don't be in that category, d uh the Holy Spirit says through David and through Hebrews. Correct. That's right. It's very clear. here in this passage of Hebrews. If you believe you enter the rest, if you don't believe, you don't. Yes. Yes he was. Yeah, he was. That's right. As we'll see, as we'll see, the the author of Hebrews uh makes that point very explicitly when he says that then then why did David say in Psalm ninety five, why is he talking about entering this rest, when David is writing that hundreds of years after Joshua already brought them in? And so the author of Hebrews is saying, obviously there is another rest. Yeah. Yeah, we'll see that. He makes that point very explicitly, yes. Yeah, and so that's why the author of Hebrews here makes that point at the end of this section. that we're going to talk about, uh, he he makes that point explicitly. He says, why does David in Psalm 95 talk about entering arrest? when Joshua already hundreds of years before David brought them into the Promised Land. Oh, he must be talking about something more than just the promised land. And so that's the the point at the end of this particular passage that the author of Hebrews is making. Hey, this rest that we're talking about is not just resting in the land of Canaan. It's something more. Yeah, that's the that's one of the points that the the uh author is making here. Yep. Yeah, he's the only thing. Yeah, and Jesus remember, if you remember, did that all the way up to the to the time he went back to heaven. What did he do on the road to Emmaus? When he's walking along with two of his disciples, he explained everything from the Old Testament about himself. And their eyes were opened at that point. But yeah, he's definitely using Old Testament scriptures. And in First Corinthians chapter fifteen, Paul goes out of his mind out of his way to say, This is the gospel that uh that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. And so when Paul's writing that, the scriptures are just the Old Testament. So yeah, so he's making the point that the gospel is all in accordance with the Old Testament scriptures and the the author of Hebrews does the same thing here. Alright, let's roll along. Uh yeah, good. Okay. Back to the previous conversation, just to add a little bit of weight to that. The main verb here is anger and it's a present tense verb. Mm-hmm. Uh the it seems like it's past times because it says has been used. Yep. But that's parsing. Yep, that's right. So the verb is enter and it's in the present. Very good point. Yep. Yeah. So that yeah. Yeah, so you y you ha and so the the it goes right along, it's parallel to the passages of scripture that talk about eternal life in the present tense. Yeah. So from the human side, belief with nothing else saves us. Unbelief with Everything else will condemn us. These are the two equally true sides of the gospel, which is good news only for those who accept it with faith. Please notice, brothers and sisters, that the rest promised to those who believe. here is designated my rest. That is God's rest. That's what it's talking about. So God's own rest from his work now we're gonna go back to creation. God's own rest from his work of creation and the rest that he gives to us in Christ are not the rest brought on by weariness or rest of inactivity, they are the rest of his finished work. His work were finished from the foundation of the world the author of Hebrews says right here. So God has finished his work. Christ said on the cross, it is finished. Alright? John nineteen thirty, Jesus said it is finished. Why did he say it is finished? Because sin had been paid for in the world. was finished. For anyone who wants to enter his finished work and to share in his rest is available by faith. Ah so then he goes on, for he has said somewhere concerning somewhere here once again we get this kind of weird way of quoting the Old Testament. For he is said somewhere concerning the seventh day and God rested on the seventh day from all his works. So that goes all the way back to creation in the book of Genesis. God rested from all his works on the seventh day. And again In this passage, they shall enter my rest. So he's going all the way back to the beginning, and then he's saying then he's referring back to the Psalm ninety-five passage. And in this passage, this passage here means the Psalm ninety-five passage. They shall not enter my rest. So Sabbath rest was instantly. instituted as a symbol of the true rest to come in Christ. So that is why the ceremonial aspects of Sabbath law have been set aside under the new covenant. When the true rest came the symbol was no longer necessary. So we don't we don't have we have uh nine of the ten uh commandments repeated in the New Testament. Which one is not repeated in the New Testament? The Sabbath. And that is because Because we have the true rest in Christ that was only symbolized by those Sabbath laws. So uh we talked about that actually early in in the um in the uh in the class because he did this before. And I think the reason he does it is to m to make it clear that the author of scripture is the Holy Spirit And so he doesn't give attribution to Moses, for example, who wrote the Pentateuch. Whenever he quotes from uh the five books of Moses, he just uh he says something like somewhere Um and when he first quoted Psalm 95, he said someone somewhere said and then he quotes Psalm 95. Even though everybody knows that David wrote Psalm 95, he doesn't at attributed to David. Here he kind of does, we'll see in a minute, uh but uh I'll I'm gonna point something out about the wording of that sentence that makes it clear that he said that he's not giving David credit for authoring it. He he says that he said through David So who's the He? So the author makes great pains to show that the Holy Spirit is the author of Scripture. And we can go all the way back to verse 1 of chapter 1. What is not there at the beginning of the book of Hebrews? Author's name. So the author doesn't give his own name. And so I think that goes along with this idea of not giving credit to anybody but the Holy Spirit in writing the Old Testament. And so I think that's why he does that. Somebody said somewhere. It's the Holy Spirit and he and it's actually Moses who wrote uh the book of Genesis, but he doesn't give Moses credit. He just says somebody said somewhere. Um I think that's right. Right, that's that way. Um and so So we have the uh the doing away of the the Sabbath laws because the true rest came with Christ and the symbol was no longer necessary. Uh Paul says in Colossians chapter two, therefore let no one act as your judge in regard to food or drink. in respect to a festival or a new moon or a Sabbath day. Things which are a mere shadow of what is to come. But the substance belongs to Christ. Uh the the author of Hebrews is saying a similar thing here, I think. So As I said, back to the Garden of Eden. So Adam and Eve were completely righteous when they were created. They walked and talked with God as naturally as they walked and talked with each other. So nobody can do that today. Not even Moses could walk and talk with God the way that Adam and Eve did. Um they just walked in the garden with God and talked to him. Um because they were Righteous, they had not sinned. Um so they were at rest in its original and full of sense. Adam and Eve in the garden were at rest. They were in God's rest. Um but something terrible happened. Satan Satan cast doubt on God's word, and Adam and Eve chose to believe Satan. And when they lost their trust in God, they lost his rest. So the entire revelation of God's word in the Bible, from Genesis to Revelation, and the entire working of God in human history have one great theme and purpose bringing man back to his rest. Bring back restoring what mankind had in the Garden of Eden with God. That's the purpose of it all. And the author of Hebrews is pointing that out. To accomplish his purpose, God had to remove the barrier for people to his rest. The barrier which separated them from him, separated sinful man from a holy God. He sent his son to do just that, to provide again for mankind's rest in his Creator. Through Christ's death, men are again offered life, as it was meant to be in his rest. So that's the purpose. That's the theme. Even the people who lived before Jesus were saved on the basis of what God was going to do through his son. And you can see that come out over and over and over again in the New Testament. Christ bore sins, past and future. Through him God's rest is available to anyone who believes. Going back to Joshua and Caleb, uh, and uh and Abraham before it before them and Noah before them. Um anybody who believed uh is believing on the basis of God's promise of redemption in Christ. And then after the cross, it's believing in God's redemption in Christ. Those who sinned while wandering the wilderness not only forfeited entry into the promised land of Canaan Not only that rest, uh unless they exercised personal faith in God sometime during the forty years, they also forfeited eternal life God's ultimate rest, of which the promised land of Canaan was only a symbol. So any questions about that? Everybody see that? Yes, Lawrence? Yeah. The water rushing out foreshadow the water rushing out of the price at the top is an interesting. Here we had a position that everyone issue. But yet Christ was cure that flow. Yeah, so there's a lot of symbolism with water in the scripture. Um the water of life, uh where where Jesus talked at at the at When he's talking to the woman at the well, uh, I I will give you rivers of living water, I will give you w living water. There's there's living water that comes up in in the scriptures. So water is definitely there's symbolism there. Now with Moses we also get the additional um little insight uh that he stands there on the Mount of Olives with Jesus Um if you remember, uh when Jesus at the Transfiguration, uh who's there with Jesus? Moses and Elijah are there. And so m Moses is there in the promised land. Right? He's there and and so the the Peter, James, and John get to see that, get to see Moses standing on the Mount of Olive. Where's the Mount? of olives in the promised land. So Moses is in there. So he did get in there. Um and so and and I think that's a uh we can be really, really certain that Moses was saved. Right? There he is staying with Jesus on the Mount of Transfiguration. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Um so the promised land. So uh continuing verse six. Therefore, since it remains for some to enter it and those who formerly had good news preached to them, failed to enter because of disobedience. So the rest he has provided, someone's going in. Um it remains for some to enter. Uh when man lost God's rest, God immediately began a recovery process. Um through his son Jesus Christ, some would be brought back in. And it it it s starts in Genesis chapter three. So in in the same passage of scripture where he gives the uh the curse He also gives the first promise that there will be um uh a seat of a woman who strikes the head of the serpent. So uh the the first prophecy of Jesus is right there in the garden as there receiving the curse and being tossed out. God's already got his plan in place, uh, to save some. So he created man for selfowship with himself. That was the purpose of creation. People were supposed to have fellowship with God, walking and talking with him in the garden originally. And his plan would not be thwarted. Uh Satan could do his worst, but God's plan will not be thwarted. So either by a rebellious archangel like Satan or by disbelieving mankind. So by divine decree there's always been a remnant of believers. We talked about this before, even among mostly disbelieving Israel. So I think we read last week or the week before Romans chapter eleven. in in our service. And in Romans chapter eleven, um Paul makes it clear that there's uh there was a remnant. There's always been a remnant That God has preserved by His sovereign power. The way of God's rest has always been narrow. And only a few, relative to all of mankind, have ever found it. But some must enter into it, because God's purpose must be fulfilled. By sovereign degree, he designed a rest for mankind and Some are going to enter it. Without God's decree, man's faith would be futile and worthless. We are saved by Two things, God's will expressed in his sending his son to save men and our will expressing in our trust in his son to save us. But where does that come from? It comes from God, so uh regeneration itself is a work of the Holy Spirit. Uh we can be saved because he planned to save us before the world was created, that is predestination or election. Jesus said during his earthly ministry, No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And no one c can come to me unless it has been granted him from the Father. Those are both in John chapter 6, where it's 44 and verse 65. So personal faith is necessary before God can apply his redemption to us. Yet our personal faith is effective because the Father has first drawn us to the Son and regenerated us by the Holy Spirit. So it's a the first act is God's. All the way down the line Because God wants us to be saved, we can be saved. Only disobedience keeps us out. So that's because of disobedience. Yes. Yes. Elected before the foundation of the world. That's right. And then in the time of salvation it's regeneration by the Holy Spirit. Yes. So you can't. You can't have personal faith if you're spiritually dead. So that's why the regeneration of the Holy Spirit Spirit is necessary. So in the order of salvation, the order of Salutus, the first thing is regeneration by the Holy Spirit. So the very first thing is at the time of salvation. So the very first thing is your Election, predestination before the foundation of the world. But at the time you're saved, the time of your justification during your lifetime, the very first thing that has to happen is regeneration by the Holy Spirit. Because we're all dead in our sins and trespasses. No one is righteous, no not one. And so there's no way to come to God No way to uh exercise saving faith unless you're regenerated from spiritually dead to spiritually alive. And that is an act of God the Holy Spirit. Regeneration of the Holy Spirit. Very good. Okay, uh oh we've only got moments to go, we've got verses to go. So he fixes the day today saying through David after so long a time uh uh so after so long a time, what's he talking about there So Numbers 14 happened hundreds of years before David. Why is David bringing this up again if they've already gone into so uh he again fixes the date today, saying through David, after so long a time as just has been said before, today if you enter hear his voice, do not harden your hearts. So today if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts. God first said that to the unbelieving generation and now David is bringing it up again. Why is he bringing it up again if they've already gone in? God fixes a certain day today, opportunity for God's rest remains, but it will not remain indefinitely. For each individual, it will end with death. For all mankind, it will end in the last day. So the age of grace will not last forever. The warning is repeated: do not harden your hearts. This is why immediate action is necessary. This is why the author of Hebrews is so urgent. And why Paul said, now is the acceptable time. Behold, now is the day of salvation. That's Paul in 2 Corinthians chapter 6. Do not harden your hearts. When God looked down on the civilization, he was ready to drown in the flood. He said, My spirit shall not strive with man forever, because he also is flesh. Nevertheless, his days shall be one hundred and twenty years, Genesis chapter six. In other words, a person has no more than his lifetime to believe in God. That's it. His lifetime. He he limits the time for salvation. This is God's today. Right now. The only day, the only opportunity we can be sure of Do not harden your heart. That's what David was saying, that's what uh the author of Hebrews is saying. Uh today. Do it today. That's the only day you're promised. You're not promised tomorrow. That's right. Right now, today. That's the the whole point here. For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not have spoken of another day uh after that. So there remains a Sabbath rest for God's people. Canaan. Because it's brought up again in David's day, it's brought up again in the day of Hebrews. Uh that was only a picture. Um God's true rest comes not to Moses or Joshua or David, it comes through Jesus Christ. That's the point here. God's rest is not essentially physical at all in this this what he's talking about here. Certainly resting in God and trusting in his promises can relieve us in this earthly world of Ner some nervousness and tenseness and other physical problems. But these are just by products of the true rest, uh which is in him. Uh the r in Christ. The rest God promises is spiritual, not physical. Um whether we get physical or earthly benefits. The Lord may give us His basic promise is to give us spiritual rest and spiritual blessing. And so if you think about it, if you think down through history, some of God's most faithful believers are the busiest hardest working and sometimes even the most afflicted people imaginable. They haven't had what we would think of in an earthly way of restful lives. The apostle Paul did not have in the earthly respect a restful life. Uh Richard Wormbrand did not have in the earthly perspective a restful life. Um so ultimately it's spiritual rest that the author is talking about here and he makes that plain here at the end of this uh uh this passage. So the term people of God, I just want to make this last point. People of God can generally refer to anyone who knows God But here it specifically refers to Israel and that's been the point that's been one of the points that he's made throughout. He calls them brothers in the sense of fellow Jews. And that's what this is talking about too. Salvation is first for Israel. The gospel is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. To the Jew first. And also to the Greek. Romans chapter 1. There is a rest that remains for the people of God. And in the Old Testament, Israel is specifically designated the people of God. And he's writing this letter to a group of Jews. So I think it's pretty clear here. His spiritual rest is promised first to Israel and he will not be through with her until she comes into his rest. We see how this will be worked out in the book of Revelation as prophesied by the Old Testament prophets. Okay, done. Sorry about that. I've read us out of time. If you have questions you can uh come forward and ask me. Let's close in prayer.