Alright, part twenty-four. Um Black History Month. I I told you I'll I I'm gonna go through one uh African American from the eighteenth century, one from the nineteenth century, one from the twentieth century, and one from the twenty first century. And so this is our nineteenth century African American uh Christian man. Uh last time it was Phyllis Wheat Wheatley from the eighteenth century from the seventeen hundreds. Frederick Douglass was born not far from here. He was born on the eastern shore of Maryland, uh, on a plantation as a slave. Uh he was born in February eighteen eighteen Uh he was an ab abolitionist, a preacher, an orator, a writer, and a statesman. After escaping from slavery in Maryland, he became a national leader of the abolitionist movement in Massachusetts and New York Becoming famous for his oratory and incisive anti-slavery writings. Accordingly, he was described by abolitionists in his time as a living counterexample to slaveholders' arguments that slaves lack the intellectual capacity to function as independent American citizens. Likewise, northerners at the time found it hard to believe that such a great orador had once been a slave. Few Americans accomplished as much in their lifetimes as Frederick Douglass. In his seventy seven years on earth, Douglass, who died in February eighteen ninety five, escaped slavery, won his freedom, published several newspapers, became a licensed preacher, advised presidents and became one of the most well known speakers of his time. In his autobiography, which I if you haven't read it, I strongly advise that you read his autobiography, The Life and Times of Frederick Douglass. In his autobiography he details his conversion, uh his story of coming to Christ. So in his own words, I was not more than thirteen years old when in my loneliness and destitution I longed for someone to whom I could go as to a Father and protector. The preaching of a white Methodist minister named Hansen was the means of causing me to feel that in God I had such a friend. He thought that all men, great and small, bond and free, were sinners in the sight of God. that they were by nature rebels against his government, that they must repent of their sins and be reconciled to God through Christ. I cannot say that I had a very distinct notion of what was required of me, but one thing I did know well I was wretched and had no means of making myself otherwise. I consulted a good old colored man named Charles Lawson and in tones of holy affection he told me to pray and to cast all my care upon God. This I sought to do, and though for weeks I was a poor, broken hearted mourner, travelling through doubts and fears, I finally found my burden lightened Then my heart relieved. I loved all mankind, slaveholders not accepted, though I abhorred slavery more than ever I saw the world in a new light, and my great concern was to have everybody converted. My desire to learn increased And especially did I want a thorough acquaintance with the contents of the Bible. So that is Frederick Douglass in his own words from his autobiography about his conversion to Christianity. If you don't know you can actually get his biography for free on the Guten Project, uh Gutenburn Project dot org uh for your electronic device or read it online. It's a great read if you if you haven't haven't ever read it. Um Okay, uh so the schedule, we're we're down to the last three lessons today and two more in this quarter. And then we have 13 more lessons next quarter to finish off the book of Hebrews. So today, we're going to be continuing in chapter 10. We're going to be talking about accepting Christ, what that looks like and what it means. Salvation we'll see involves faith, hope, and love. Saving faith requires a felt need. Content and commitment. And then believers in Christ will hold fast in hope and in courage in love. So that's what we'll look at today. But first we'll take a look back at what we did last week. So last week we did the first part of chapter ten um and we talked about the fact that uh uh it was a c comparison and contrast of this sacrifices on the old system and the sacrifices on the new s system and particularly focused on Christ as the perfect sacrifice. And the old sacrifices could never make perfect those who draw near. Uh they were shadows, they weren't the very form. Um so the the Jews of the Old Testament they had um this sacrificial system, but it could never do Um it it was never complete. It was never the uh the ultimate way to God. And then of course uh Today Jews have the Old Testament scripture and they have feast days, but they don't have a tabernacle or temple the way the Old Testament Jews did, and so there's no sacrificial system today. However, the old covenant had a purpose, even though it was a shadow, it wasn't a real thing, uh, but that shadow was reflecting something. It was uh a shadow of something. It was pointing towards something, toward the salvation that was to come. And or to make for w for one purpose was to make God's people expectant. And we also talked about the fact that it made front and center, right in front of their eyes eyes and and their noses and all their senses, it demonstrated that uh the the the wages of sin is death that sin brings death and they had these animal deaths over and over and over again so that it was right in front of their eyes. Uh something they couldn't avoid, the fact that sin brought death. Uh but the s the old system could never remove sin or guilt. Um if it could, the sacrifices were stopped. They were remu a reminder, day after day and year after year, of sin So they kept reminding people they were sinful and therefore could not enter God's presence. So uh we also talked about the the conscience um and the fact that the conscience acts conscience acts on our minds and hearts and what's the The way that pain acts on our bodies, guilt um reacts to spiritual injury, the way that pain reacts to physical injury. They're warning systems. And the s the the Christian should be conscious of sin. But his conscience should no longer be unduly burdened by it. And so the forgiven sinner is not In sensitive sin, we we realize that we have sin um and we realize that we need to repent of sin, but we know that we're forgiven in Christ and delivered from fear of judgment. Uh we talked about Romans 8. 1. No condemnation for those who were in Christ Jesus. In the old system the person um if a person did not sacrifice out of an honest heart, and uh Amos in particular dealt with this, um that he wasn't covered even externally, much less internally. Um and that's the kind of sacrifice that God did not desire. Um at the very beginning of the sacrificial system, under the uh the prophet Samuel uh reminded Saul to obey is better than sacrifice and to heed than the fat of Ram. So it was always about the condition of the heart, even in the old covenant. However, even at the time of the old covenant, God was planning for and pointing for forward to um when the day when Jesus would come and die. Uh and so there's a quote from Psalm forty here in the passage we did last week. When he comes into the world he says, A body you have prepared for me, this is the Son talking to the Father. before his incarnation. And so Jesus' mission on earth was to do the Father's will And the Father's will was for him to come and die for the sins of his people. And Jesus over and over again in his um in his earthly ministry kept pointing that out to anybody that would listen, that he was there to do the will. Then there's a a kind of a um a continuing of the Exposition of Psalm forty, talk uh comparing and contrasting the old covenant and the new covenant, the first sacrifices and the second sacrifice, and that the first is done away with and this now that the second has come. But God's focus of course was all Always on that second covenant. The first covenant was only really there to point forward to the second and perfect one. And the of course the author has been pointing out in many places, not just here, but previously that since the new covenant has come, since the new and perfect sacrifice has been made, that that old covenant is done away with. The old sacrifices are uh no longer necessary. He's repeated that. And as I mentioned before this is um really in the in the vein of a of a written sermon and so like any sermon if you if you've got a really important point the preacher's gonna say it more than once and so he said many of these things more than once. The particular contrasts that are set up here are The many priests in the old covenant and the one priest in the new covenant. The old priests always had to stand The new one sits down at the right hand of the Father. The old covenant had to keep making sacrifices over and over again. The new covenant has a once-for-all offering. The old covenant had ineffective sacrifices that could only temporarily early cover sin but not do away with sin, the new covenant is completely does away with sin, it removes sin. And so i the the author is saying, hey, this is better. You you know what was involved in this old system. This old covenant. This new one's better, and these are all the ways that it's better. God had, of course, already revealed that he was going to make this new covenant. Uh Jeremiah chapter 31 mentions this new covenant, and this is God fulfilling his promise when this new covenant comes. And in Jeremiah, what he promises and what's uh reviewed by the author of Hebrews here is that God would put his law upon their heart and on their minds, and their sins and their lawless deeds he would forget. And so that was revealed through the Prophet Jeremiah and the author of Hebrews is bringing up, hey, remember God told you this was coming, all the way back with the Old Testament prophets. He revealed that through the Holy Spirit in the Old Testament, and here is the same Holy Spirit, of course. Bringing that forward to their minds here to the first century Hebrews. And he concludes that section by saying, where there is forgiveness, there is no longer offering for sin. And so this is kind of the the crescendo of his argument about uh the doing away with the old covenant. The sins are forgiven. Those old sacrifices were just recovering sins. Well now the c sins have been completely put away by this new sacrifice and so. So there's no reason for sacrifice uh offering for sin anymore. And uh Christ said on the on the cross, it is finished All that is finished. The sacrifice for sin is done, paid in full. Okay. Um any questions about what we did and covered last week? Before we roll forward. Okay. So if you would take out your Bibles or tune your devices, we're just going to do a short passage here in chapter ten, uh, verses nineteen to twenty-five. So Hebrews chapter ten Verses nineteen to twenty-five. This is the word of the Lord. Therefore, brethren, since we have confidence to enter the holy place by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way, which he inaugurated for us through the veil. that is his flesh. And since we have a great priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a sincere heart and full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful. And let us consider how to stimulate one another to love and good deeds, not forsaking our own assembling together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the day drawing near. So this is an exhortation here. And um I'll give you a few words from John Owen, writing in the sixteen hundreds, uh in his commentary on this chapter. He said, this section, he says, in these words, the apostle enters on the last part of the epistle, which is holy, parenetical, and hortatory. Which means instructional and exhortational. So he's he's going from doctrinal to um exhortation, really, is what uh he's John Owen is saying here. Some occasional intermixtures of doctrines consonant unto them before insisted on, yet the professed design of the whole remainder of the epistle is to propose unto and press on the Hebrews such duties of various sorts as the truths he has made. has insisted upon, do direct unto, and make necessary unto all that believe. And in all his exhortations there is a mixture of the ground of the duties exhorted unto, of their necessity, and of the privileges. privilege which we have in being admitted unto them and accepted with them, all taken from the priesthood and sacrifice of Christ, with the effects of them and the benefits which we receive thereby. So in other words, in fancy He's saying that it switched from the uh theoretical to the practical. This is the mark in the letter where where it it goes primarily to exhorting to uh practical application of what he's been teaching up to this point. And really the whole and he's uh as Owen points out here, really the whole rest of the Of the letter, all the way to the end. And as he mentions, of course, he dips back into doctrine and he reminds which doctrines he's pointing back to for the exhortation. But the primary thrust from here on is a exhorting us to how we should behave in light of these great truths he's been teaching over and over and over again so far up to this point. Okay. So let's take a look at what he's what the author is saying under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit here. Uh verse nineteen, therefore, brethren, since we have confidence to enter the holy place by the blood of Jesus. So there's only two possible responses to a knowledge of the truth of the gospel either belief leading to salvation or rejection leading to death. Uh there there is no third option. Belief, unbelief. The one who makes a positive response to the claims of Jesus Christ. But remember, he's preaching a sermon in written form, and the sermon is going out to an audience, and the audience contains, like every church from the beginning of the time uh both believers and unbelievers. So it's beneficial for both believers and unbelievers to hear this. Although he's talking about what happens or what should happen with with believers. It's good For unbelievers to hear and see what they could have. Okay. A positive response results in salvation. And as Paul makes clear in 1 Corinthians 13, salvation involves faith, hope, and love. And we're going to see how that works out in this passage. These three aspects of salvation are the focus of this passage that we're going to look at today. The primary basis on which we can draw near to God in faith is the blood of Jesus. And that's what this phrase is. The first verse starts out with the blood of Jesus. In the old covenant, the Holy of Holies of the Tabernacle or the Holy of the Holies of the Temple represented God's special presence. And only the high priest could enter there once a year. But in the new covenant, through Christ's shed blood, his perfect sacrifice, here we have confidence to enter the holy place. Right, in light of what he's just said, therefore, when the passage starts with therefore, what is it therefore? It's to point back to all that he just said. He just said all this about contrasting the new and the old covenant. And because of all that We have confidence to enter the holy place into God's very presence. So the author is urging his Jewish brethren On the basis of the doctrinal groundwork he has already given, uh all the way up to this point in the letter, to take hold of the perfect sacrifice Jesus Christ and to have confidence entering that holy place. He's urging them under the influence. inspiration of the Holy Spirit uh to come confidently through Christ into God's presence and to dwell there for Eternity. That's what's in store for believers. And he's pointing that out here. So to a Jew, this is a a Jewish audience. Um a Jew who took the Old Covenant seriously, um, this prospect would have seemed awesome and wonderful because what happened in the Old Covenant could uh could the ordinary Jew just wander into the Holy of Holies? Of course he could not. Um and it would be with great fear and trembling that he would even be anywhere near the thing But here we have the author saying under this new covenant we can just we can with confidence boldly go into the holy place. And that's an awesome concept. for these Jewish believers uh who had grown up with this holy of holies that only the high priest could go in only once in a year. He had to uh follow a special routine. Um and and now he's they're now they've come to understand under the new covenant as believers that they can boldly and confidently come into the holy place. However, if a person tries to go into God's presence based on his own character, his own works he will find no access. Even if he has a verbal profession of Christ. It's only under really under um because of the blood of Christ and because of a um uh a true conversion of the heart. And we see this, we see Jesus talk about this in his earthly ministry in Matthew chapter 7 So Jesus in Matthew chapter seven verse twenty one says, twenty-one to twenty-three says this Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord will enter the kingdom of heaven. But he who does the will of my father was in heaven. Many will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name, and in your name cast out demons, and in your name perform many miracles. And then I will declare to them, I never knew you, depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. So Jesus was giving a warning in his earthly ministry about um salvation and about w what it took for salvation. What um what were the marks of true salvation? And it wasn't just lip service. Um and so if you have a verbal confession of faith, Jesus is saying, w that's not what brings you into the kingdom of heaven. It's a matter of the heart, and God can see the heart And he knows whether he knows you. God knows either knows you or he doesn't know you. And it's not a matter matter of just a verbal confession uh is what Jesus is saying there. Okay. Um the blood of Christ counts for everything then. The person who trusts in his atoning work can come with confidence before God. God, claiming all the blessings and promises of his Son. So for the for someone who is saved, uh we can come expecting mercy and grace, as we saw all the way back in Hebrews chapter four, rather than justice. Why do we not want justice? If God gave us justice, he would have to condemn us. Because that is what we deserve. So we get grace and mercy that we don't deserve instead of justice that we do deserve. But Jesus, through his shed blood, satisfied grace. God's justice on our behalf, so that we can now claim God's mercy and grace. So God's justice is satisfied. It's just not satisfied by me. It's satisfied by Christ. And so instead of the justice I deserve, I get mercy and grace that I don't deserve. So think about who the audience is again. these first cent century Hebrews, the concept of simply coming to God would have been revolutionary. Uh think about the whole history of the Old Testament that they knew. When Adam sinned, what happened? He was pushed out of the garden, there was an angel with a flaming sword, so he could not come back into God's presence again. Uh he was put out. Um people were forbidden on pain of death to enter the Holy Holies were God. You couldn't just walk in to the holy hole of holies in the presence of God. You couldn't just come to God. So this concept Of just coming, entering the holy place is shocking to the Jewish mind that was raised on the Old Testament scriptures. But now Jesus' blood, in effect, has quenched the fiery sword of the angel that was guarding the presence of God in the in the Garden of Eden. Uh he has torn the veil of the Holy of Holies into. Um if you come through him, you not only can come into God's presence, but you can And so then the author uh follows up with a little bit more detail in verse twenty And he says, by a new and living way, which he inaugurated for us through the veil, that is his flesh. So he's continuing the same thought. Jesus' way into God's presence is a A new and living way. So there was an old way into God's presence. Uh that was uh the the high priest once a year going into God's presence in the Holy of Holies. That was the old way. And now there's a new and living. living way uh of of going into God's presence. Uh the old way could not even bring man into God's symbolic ceremonial presence. Only the high priest could go in there Um and and so even the symbolic presence of God in the old covenant was only the high priest once a year. But the new way can bring us there through the veil that is his flesh. When Jesus' flesh was torn, so was the veil that kept men from God. And so God made a vivid picture of this how? When Jesus was on the cross. What happened when Jesus was on the cross to that veil? It tore in two from the top down. So there you have God at the top tearing that veil when Jesus is on the cross. And that veil, there was a thick veil, um, I've heard people describe it as um The thickness of it was about the thickness of a telephone booth and then nobody uh telephone book, but nobody knows what a telephone book is anymore. So uh it was a really thick curtain, like I don't know, six inches thick or something. And that thing was torn uh in half from top to bottom when Jesus died on the cross. Um and so that word picture painted by God, um is recorded in the Gospels and the author of Hebrews under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit brings it back up here in uh in the book of Hebrews, this veil is torn, which represents Jesus through his flesh opening up the Holy of Holies for everybody to go in. Uh the blood of animals allowed only the high priest enter the veil briefly. Jesus' blood allows everyone who believes in him to enter the veil permanently. There's a Greek word for new here Prosphatas. It's in verse 20. And it's it's only used once in the New Testament here. This is it. It's not used anywhere else in the New Testament. Its original meaning was freshly slaughtered. So translated New Year, but the original meaning, uh general meaning of that word in Greek is freshly slaughtered. So Jesus is the new way, the freshly slaughtered sacrifice who opens the way to God. Now it seems contradictory to describe something that is freshly slaughtered as a living way Right? Something fresh the new way is freshly slaughtered. But that it fits, right? It fits this particular circumstance. Jesus' death conquered death and gives life. And he came back from the dead. So the freshly slaughtered way is the new living way. Um it makes sense in this context. Um that a a freshly slaughtered thing is a living thing. In Jesus' case. All right. Any questions up to this point so far? We're moving along very quickly. Yes, Curtis. Yeah, this this whole idea seems revolutionary just the thought of someone wanting to having a privilege but that they want to actually enter God's presence and to be with them. And maybe that picture is somewhat in the song as far as who may dwell with you and maybe there's a picture of okay that means having fellowship with God on earth but then also being invited into his eternal presence. But it it's quite a it's quite a revolutionary thing. It would seem to be okay, you're you're being invited into God's presence. Right. And and into ultimately into eternity. And that's not supposed to be feared as futures imagined. Right, y you're right. It is revolutionary And if you think about there are some passages in Psalms which talk about longing to draw near to God. Um you have Moses wanting to to see God's face. Um you have a a a few instances in the Old Testament that have this glimpse of the fact that there were some that were longing for God's presence, but there was just no way to do that. uh until until Christ. Yeah. Okay. Uh any other questions, comments? Uh amongst the among the Jews back then? Uh It was. Initially that was one of the um um one of the monikers for Christians was followers of the way. Yes. Mm-hmm. Okay. Um and very Verse 21, and since we have a great priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a sincere heart and full assurance of faith having our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. And so here once again we have let us draw near So this concept, it's really throughout the the book of Hebrews, is um a as uh as Kurt pointed out, this is a um a shocking thing uh to these to these Jews. Let us Draw near to God. He wasn't somebody that you could draw near to before. And now you can draw near because of Christ. Um and here we have him bringing it up again. He's bringing it up and he's bringing it up. He's a preacher preaching a sermon and we start to see the the key important points being repeated by our preacher under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. Let us draw near once again. Okay. Uh Jesus not only opened the way to God, but he is now our great priest He doesn't merely show the way to God, he takes us with him to God and ministers for us in heaven. And we see some more about that. Paul talks about that in Romans chapter 5. He's interceding on our behalf. There's a Greek word here, translated sincere Alathinas, it means genuine, without superficiality, without hypocrisy, or ulterior motive. Sincere. Coming to God with full assurance requires commitment that is genuine. So so there's a contrast here between real commitment and a false profession. And there's some examples in the scriptures. Uh Simon the magician in the book of Acts made a false profession of uh faith in Christ because why? Because he wanted power. He saw the disciples' power and he said, Well, I I want to be powerful, so I'm gonna make this profession of faith in Christ, so I can be powerful. And he tried to use Christ's name and power for his own glory and benefit, and he was harshly rebuked by Peter. Peter said to him, Your heart is not right before God. So this is someone who made a verbal profession of faith, and Peter looks right at him and says, Your heart is not right before God. Therefore repent of this wickedness of yours and pray the Lord that if you possible the intention of your heart may be forgiven you. Acts chapter eight, twenty-one and twenty-two. So this is a um an example that's given to us in Scripture to understand uh how this could be, how somebody could say they're a Christian and not be saved. Um this is a particular glimpse that we get into this person's heart. Uh ordinarily of course we cannot see people's hearts. Can't God can see people's hearts and and we cannot. But in this case, uh Peter was given the uh the ability by the Holy Spirit to see into Simon's heart and to call him on the carpet for his false profession of faith, uh, which was very dangerous to Simon. Um and so he's he's warning in uh with a rebuke to this false profession of faith. So commitment is what's required. Not just lip service, but commitment. Faith in Jesus Christ must include our own decision, but it must proceed from Um and so the way this is explained in uh various places in Scripture, uh for example, Ephesians chapter two, for by grace you have been saved through faith. And that not of yourself, it is a gift of God. So there is a regeneration. of the Holy Spirit, there's a uh the God makes the first move here in our salvation. Um it is our decision, but there's a decision of God that precedes uh our decision. Um salvation is a gift God plants in the heart the desire and the ability to believe and the ability to receive the gift of salvation. So when we come to God in faith, our hearts should not only be And so uh this is a word picture, and it's a word picture, as we might expect, taken from the sacrificial ceremonies of the old covenant. The priests were continually washing themselves and the sacred vessels that they used in basins of clear water. So there was a cleansing ritual which involved water. in the old covenant sacrifice system. And blood was continually being sprinkled as a sign of cleansing. ritual of blood sprinkling over and over and over again. And so uh the author of Hebrews is just painting that s that word picture here, um making a uh showing a similarity uh with the old covenant. But all the cle cleansing, whether with water or blood, was external in the old covenant. Only Jesus can cleanse a person's heart. By his spirit he cleanses the innermost thoughts and desires. And so it's total different. The word picture may be the same of sprinkling with water and cleansing um the heart uh cleansing and washing But in the old covenant it was always an external cleansing and washing, and now we have a cleansing and washing of the heart is the point here. So having our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience is a picture of deliverance and uh a similar picture we had last chapter chapter nine verse fourteen had a a similar word picture for salvation. Um and so when we think about the conscience, our conscience condemns us and reminds us of our guilt, which cannot be removed until the sin is removed. When Jesus died, his blood removed our sins. And when we come to him by faith, our conscience becomes free from guilt. We are cleansed from an evil conscience Conscience in other words. So that's talking about that's a picture of salvation, being cleansed from an evil conscience. The other part of the cleansing, having our bodies washed with pure water, is not talking about baptism, uh, but has to do with how the Holy Spirit it changes our lives. You can see pictures of this in other places in Scripture, Titus 3. 5, Ephesians 5. 26. And so these two aspects of cleansing are inseparable. When a person comes To Christ, his death pays the penalty for sin for us, and God's justice is satisfied. And the cleansing act of the Holy Spirit begins to change us on the inside And God's righteousness is satisfied. So God's justice and righteousness are both satisfied. And because of this, a believer can come into God's presence with confidence. Both the righteousness and the justice. justice of God are satisfied. And therefore we have confidence in coming into the presence of God. Before there was no confidence in coming into the presence of God because uh there was no Um there was no satisfaction, no true satisfaction for God's justice and righteousness apart from Christ, until Christ came. And so, of course, believers in the Old Testament are also saved by the same um by the same process, by the blood of Christ, satisfying God's justice and righteousness, uh, looking forward to the sacrifice of Christ, which did that, and it did it for all All sins past, present, and future, all believers past, present and future. Alright. Everybody see that? Yes. Yep, exactly. Very good. So that passage in in Ezekiel 36 is is similar. to the passage in Jeremiah thirty one and they are both talking about the new covenant. And so i it it wasn't like God had left them in the dark about what he was going to do. He had revealed through the prophets what he was going to do and particularly in the Jeremiah passage we looked at last week and this Ezekiel thirty six passage. Um I I'm don't know for sure why the Holy Spirit used one rather than the other, but they're both excellent examples of revelation of the new covenant. In the Old Testament. Yeah, Jeremiah and Ezekiel both. Good. Okay. The faith that God honors, the faith that is from a sincere heart. which is what's required here. It requires three things. First of all, you have a felt need. You have to know that you need salvation. Uh you have to have some content Not perfect content, but some content of what the gospel actually is. And you have to have commitment. Those three things. So uh faith cannot begin until a person realizes he needs salvation. He will not have reason to believe until his need is felt, until it is recognized. In other words, bad news precedes good news. It really is necessary to understand the bad news in order for the good news to be good news. There are many examples. For example, Saul who became Paul When he was Saul, he was persecuting the church. He had a great need for salvation, but he certainly felt no need of it. He was thoroughly convinced he was doing God's will. So he he didn't feel the need for salvation. He needed salvation, but he didn't think he needed salvation. He felt no need for salvation. He was doing God's work by persecuting the church. That was his attitude. Only when the Lord confronted him dramatically on the Damascus Road did his need become known and felt. He felt the need for salvation when confronted by the risen Christ. Before that he felt no need for salvation, felt need to be a very good thing. Does not require theological understanding of the doctrine of salvation, only a sincere heart that knows it needs salvation. On the other hand, a person who does not feel a need for salvation, no matter how good his theology is far from faith in God. So the demons understand all of the theology. And and and they it does not save them. Um it it requires a felt need for Salvation to begin with. A person does not have to perfectly comprehend all the doctrine of salvation before he can be saved. But the basic content of gospel truth i is something that's that's necessary. Uh first Corinthians fifteen, the first part of First Corinthians fifteen um gives the basics of salvation. Uh the of things of first importance is how Paul puts it. Um that Christ died for our sins and God resurrected him from the dead. That's the basics of salvation. Um now there's there's deep theological truths that underpin all that. What is sin? Can one person die for uh the sins of another person? How can somebody raise rise from the dead? What's the meaning of the uh the uh the resurrection? All those things. Um it's not necessary to understand the the deep um nuances of salvation to understand that I'm a sinner in need of salvation. And that I that the way of salvation is in the the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. A person must know that he is lost in sin and needs Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior. And so uh this is why uh we we must do evangelism and we must do missionary work. Uh because Romans chapter one says that everybody Um everybody is condemned, everybody's under condemnation, uh everybody sh knows that there is that God exists. But that doesn't mean that they know even the basic content of the gospel. Um and so somebody has got to bring that to them. And so missionary work is important uh to get that basic content there. However, at the other end of the spectrum, even great persons of faith will not know how uh know many of the things about God until they see their Lord face to face in heaven. And since God is an infinite being, even at After millions and millions of years in heaven, we won't know everything there is to know about God. So it's it's imp impossible to know everything there is to know about God. Uh but you do need to know that you're a sinner and you need salvation, and that salvation is in no one other than uh Christ in his his blood. Yes. How many people seem to content in how little they know. That's true. And so uh yes, once you come to faith uh you sh should be thunger and thirst for the word of God. Um and that's one of the outward signs that we can see as humans, uh, to deter to to know whether or not somebody is saved. Do they hunger and thirst for for the word of God, to the hunger and thirst for righteousness. We can't see a person's heart, but we can see their behavior. Um and so that's what Jesus tells us to look for. You'll know them by their fruit. What do they do? How do they behave? You you can get a pretty good idea of of what's in their heart by looking at what they do and say. I we can't perfectly see a person's heart. God can do that, but we can watch what they do and say and how they behave. Yeah. Yep. Yeah, I was I was uh back to felt needs and other things. During the industry, he was actually addressing a lot of uh temporal self needs as as a means of establishing relationships and showing love. So it's the same for us today that people may not have a recognize a need for their forgiveness of sin, salvation, forgiveness from God. But they are at times willing to share with their Yeah. Yeah, that's a good point. Um and avenue for the for us to uh there there is a a role for uh filling uh what I would call secondary needs. Everybody's primary need is salvation, but we have lots of other needs. Food, clothing and shelter for example. And if if a person has a need for those things, it can be very difficult. for them to see past the immediate need in front of their face to see their the the ultimate primary need that they have is salvation in Christ. And so Jesus took care of other needs in his earthly ministry. He fed people He he um he cleansed people from disease. He raised people from the dead. He he did all kinds of things to uh to meet um physical needs of people. However, when when a big crowd followed him around after he had fed the five thousand, he said, he he kind of rebuked them. He said, You only came here 'cause you want to eat more. Um and and so he was making the point that he yes, it was uh nice and important it's uh important for people to eat, but there's uh another thing that you need to know, and a more important thing that you need to hear uh about salvation. Uh um being right with God. Um and so when we do uh when we do work that meets the physical needs of people, um and we should, as the church, uh feed people and clothe people, uh especially within the church. We should always um figure out a way to make sure that they understand the greater need that they have. As we meet these the I guess lesser needs is not a not a great way to think about it, but but in reality it is a lesser need. Um yes, uh good point. Any any others? Yes, Shreben. Yes. Yes. Yep. Yeah. So the law the yes, the law helps us to see uh to come to a felt need to understand that we need salvation. Okay. Um so but God when He uh he demands faith Um he d he doesn't do it without giving reasons for faith. Um and here in Hebrews we have an example. Um i i the the scriptures pile up truth after truth to present uh Jesus us in in this particular case as the Jews promised Messiah. He also shows by many convincing proofs to his audience that the new covenant is superior to the old one. He doesn't just say There's a new covenant, believe in that. Right? He gives a whole bunch of reasons why the new covenant is better than the old covenant. Um and so this is the way God typically works is he gives reasons for faith. He doesn't just say believe, he gives us reasons to believe. Um and so uh and on and on uh throughout scripture. uh there's there's uh it's a reasonable belief that we're we're called to. Uh let's see. Uh so the climax of faith is commitment. Uh professing Christ without commitment to Christ is not So many people express confidence in Christ but never really trust themselves to Him. So a believer must totally commit his life to the Lord Jesus Christ only then is faith, saving faith. And so Jesus talked about this in his earthly ministry in Luke chapter nine. It's also in Matthew. And he, Jesus, was saying to them all If anyone wishes to come after me, he must deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. For whoever wishes to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake, he is the one who who will save it. So Jesus is talking about salvation here and he's talking about the commitment that it takes to have uh to to salvation. The commitment that will uh that demonstrates true salvation. When somebody is saved, you'll see them have a commitment to Christ. And so this is what John is talking about in 1 John Um they went out from us because they were not really of us. Uh their commitment fell away. And that was how they knew that those were they were not of us. They're not weren't true believers. They didn't stick. Commitment waned. Um and so and Jesus talks about that during his earthly ministry. You have to take up your cross daily and follow him, which means you're committed Uh to Christ, truly committed to Christ. Any questions about that? Yes, problem. Very good. Yep. So the Westminster Confession of Faith is is is excellent. The the Westminster Shorter Catechism is Excellent as well. Um there's uh I think a hundred and seven questions and answers in the Westminster uh confession of faith, uh the Westminster short catechism. Um and it steps through systematic theology in a simple way. Um it it used to be a way for people to memorize theology really uh and to train children. Um there's there's a lot of great stories of um small children um at you know w walking past a conversation with their parents and the parent just turns to the fire year old and says what's the chief end of man and the five year old immediately says the chief end of man is to glorify God and enjoy him forever. And so we used to in the church train children to understand deep theology. By having them memorize the Westminster Shore Catechism. Yeah. Right. Yeah, there you go. Uh catechism and Yeah, so yeah, things used to be different. Yeah. Yeah, so uh it what he's talking about is as fathers who are responsible for um the spiritual um nourishing of their families for training up their their children and if they did not do that properly And how did they know? Well on church on Sunday they would quiz the kids and if your kid didn't know then the father would be would receive church discipline because their kid didn't know um the the theology of the catechism. Um so w y we can have a debate about whether that's how we should do things today. Um but i in in those days we were talking about like the seventeen hundreds, eighteen hundreds. Um it was effective in making sure that people learned uh theology. Now, because you know theology, does that save you? No, it does not. We just learned that. No matter how much theology you know, i that's it's not knowledge of theology that saves a person. However, um knowing theology and basing your life on uh biblical principles um makes for a civil society, it turns out. The best example I know of that is Benjamin Franklin, who was never a believer He had pastors around him on his deathbed trying to get him to give his life to Christ and he refused all the way to his deathbed. And yet he organized his whole life on biblical principles. If you read his autobiography, he's got it table in there where he he talks about the things that he does, the way he lives his life, and which scripture it's based on. So he organized his life on bas on biblical principles. Never a believer. Refused to submit His life to Christ. Um, but if you have a critical mass of people who organize their life on biblical principles, it makes for an ordered society. Okay. Uh And that's what they ended up having. Uh but um yeah. It didn't last. Yeah. It doesn't it didn't last. Okay. Uh but what's really what's really necessary is is true saving faith. Um Okay, uh continuing along. Uh let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful. So the second part of a positive response to the gospel is hope. So we looked at faith. All the way up to this point we're looking at faith. Now we're gonna look at hope, uh, just briefly. Um and so there's uh s a little bit of difference in some of the different translations here on this verse. Uh the best Greek manuscripts that we have of this text had the word elpis or hope here in verse 23. The King James has pistus faith. But uh the the best the the truly the best Greek manuscripts that we have some of Which didn't exist when they were making uh hadn't been discovered uh when they were making the King James, but we have n uh we've had them now. Um really it's hope. Uh the person who genuinely trusts cannot help being hopeful. A person who is genuinely hopeful will hold fast. So perseverance is a mark both of faith and of hope. Holding on does not keep us saved any more than good works will make us saved. But both are evidence that we are saved. See how that works? So evidence of uh your faith is the evidence of uh of Salvation, your hope is evidence of salvation. The hold fast is the human side of eternal security. The reformers called it the perseverance of the saints. It is not something we do to keep ourselves safe, but it is evidence on human side that we are saved. And and John gave the counterexample of people that that went out because they didn't persevere And it was evidence that they weren't saved. Perseverance, evidence that you are saved. True believer will be around in the end. He may become discouraged or frustrated and occasionally fall into a sinful habit But he will hold fast the confession of his hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful. So who's the one that's really doing the ultimate holding on? It's Jesus. It's God in Jesus Christ who's holding us. Our holding fast is the human side of that. And it's a it's a human manifestation of the fact that it's really Christ that's holding us fast. Verse 24. And let us consider how the Stimulate one another to love and good deeds, not forsaking our own assembling together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the day Drawing near. Well Yes. You know, uh that previous one I picture, you know, a little kid trying to hold on to something and then you know the father really holding on to the little kid's hand. And pull it, but instead holding on to his to hold on to it. Yep. That's a good illustration. Yeah. It's really the strong father that's doing the the the holding, but the son is gripping onto his father's hand, doing his uh his best with all his little strength. Yep. Yeah, it's a good way of looking at it. Uh so we have faith, we have hope, and now we have love. Um the third mark of a positive response to the gospel is Love. The particular expression of love here is fellowship love among believers. The Greek word here is agape the s the sacrificial love um that's a hallmark of Christianity. But in this uh context it's that kind of love among believers is is what this passage is talking about. So the author of Hebrews is telling them that one of the best ways to hold fast to the real things of God that are found only in the new covenant of Christ is is to be in fellowship with his people. Uh don't give up the habit of meeting together because you need to be in fellowship with people. Uh we need to love uh to s stimulate one another to love and good deeds. We need to be with God's people in fellowship with God's people in order to do that. Uh that's the best way to hold fast, to continue on, to persevere, is to be in fellowship, in uh a loving relationship with brothers and Christians f uh sisters in Christ. Um that's that's what the the author of Hebrews under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit is teaching. He's taught talked about faith, he's talked about the blood of Christ, and then how does that work itself out in a body of believers, um, as he's talking to this first century church, as as every church uh throughout history is reading this passage, as we're reading this passage today, how does that work itself out in our church? It works the out in making sure that we're uh we continue, we keep the habit of meeting together, and that we're doing something while we're together, and one of those things is to stimulate one another to love and good deeds. We're building building one another up. Uh there is no better place to demonstrate true faith in Christ or to hope continually in him than the church, where we can stimulate one another to love and good deeds. Yes. Yeah. Fellowship of believers is important. Um the the author points it out here. Uh we have it in other places in scripture. Uh the important of meeting together and the importance of our interactions with one another. How how do we interact with one another? Is it um is it just coming into a uh a sanctuary, hearing a sermon and getting up and leaving? Or Is there real um affection and interaction among the members such that it's a big encouragement? And and and I want to come to church because I want to see my brothers and sisters and I wanna I wanna hear what's happening in their lives. I want to encourage them and I want to be encouraged. I want to serve and I want to be served. I want to love and I want to be loved. That's the context of the church. And um every single one of us has a part in that. Uh that that you're each one is an individual, important part of this process here. That you have something to bring, um, that you've been given gifts by the Holy Spirit, each and every one. You've been brought to this particular church for a purpose, for God's purpose. We do have a lot of lettuce. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Lettuce uh yeah, lettuce one another to love and good needs, that kind of lettuce. Yeah. Yeah. Yes. Um the con are you gonna explain the concept of when this was written and what was going on as it So, uh, if you think about the first century, um there was persecution, um, there was there could be difficulty depending on where so we don't know where this church was, but depending on where it was, there could be difficulties in meeting, uh they could have had to meet in secret in some places, not not everywhere but in some places. And there was a cost to following Christ. There's always a cost to following Christ and uh and it's different in different times and different countries and different places. Uh but for these particular believers they're all Jews and so you can think about uh um family situations for example. Um so we don't know the background or the personal background of any of these people, but imagine Um, you know, one of the one of the members that's sitting in this church is the daughter of a rabbi. And the rabbi father is upset that his daughter has followed this call. Right, this this other way, this this false religion, the f following this this false prophet Jesus, that could be a huge thing in this young lady's life, right? That her father is um maybe he disowns her, maybe doesn't disown her, but maybe he's i he she has clearly and obviously disappointed her father. Her father's really disappointed in her that she's gone after this into this particular particular religion. Um you can imagine something like that happening at any time in any place uh along the way of uh was the history of Christianity. But certainly um among a whole congregation of Jewish believers, they had a religion And now they've they've gone off in a different direction to follow Christ, um, and that can cause could cause family and f difficulty with family and friends. Yeah, we we see some evidence of that in the New Testament that many of the followers of Christ thought that it would be in their lifetime that the second coming would come. It's they seem to be indicating that. So that could be one thing that's kind of frustrating or disappointing. And it could be that there's this family pull or this uh cultural pull back to Judaism. for for many of these believers that could be uh uh working in their lives. I as we've um as um like force uh the deaths that could be rolling that's like force people to be in the body which I believe we should be a F one, but I guess when there's a control that you love then it could be a little more Um uh li let me let me paraphrase what she's saying. Um any any doctrine, true doctrine of scripture can be twisted by man um to uh to become man centered and to be used as a as a club to beat people with. Um I n I know of churches that that require their members to be at a 5 a. m. service Monday through Friday. And it's it's kind of uh I mean they they exert pressure based on this verse, to have people be at a 5 a. m. prayer service Monday through Friday. And I I knew a couple that had been in that church And they left that church and they were in a small group with us and and they were um spiritually abused. That that's how I would describe them uh when they came to us into our small group. Um They were they had like spiritual PTSD. Because they were told, based on uh verses like this, that if they didn't come every f five AM service Monday through Friday that they weren't a real Christian. Because they were uh they were giving up, um they were forsaking the assembling together. If they didn't come every five A. m. Monday through Friday, week after week. And so what does that do to a person? That that introduces doubts and and also If you're forced to do something that's not that's not a requirement of Scripture, five A. M. service five days a week, I'm telling you right now, is not a requirement of Scripture, um, then w what do you what do you start what attitude do you start to get? towards w worship and gathering of the body. It it's just a it's a it's a it's a obligation. It's a legalistic it's a legalistic, it's an obligation. Um and so any any doctrine of scripture can can actually be twisted like that. Um and to to be used as a um a man-centered thing. Uh the the um the the passage is about cheerful giving are are twisted by prosperity gospel preachers to say you need to give me all your money. Right? And the the the passage about if you sow um i y you you'll you'll reap more than you sow, you know, if you um d God says test me in this, if you give me uh i if you if you trust me, uh I'll give you a measure pressed down, full, overflowing. Those quarters of passages are are quoted by prosperity preachers to say If you give to me, if you sow a hundred dollars to me, you'll reap thousands of dollars. Really? I mean, just write out uh uh blatantly like that. And so um we have to be discerning. about what the scripture says and means and what it doesn't say and mean. Yeah. But there are people that will twist scripture and they'll sound good while they're doing it. Really. Um so uh that's one of the things that it's so important about um studying God's word on your own. So uh everybody should be reading and studying God's word and the uh the the the under the guidance of the Holy Spirit so that if somebody who's standing up here like me behind a pulpit says something that It's not right that y you you you feel that. You feel it in your bones. That's not right. That's not right. It's not doesn't say in here I gotta be a church at five A. M. five days a week. I I don't see that in yes. I was just going to point out that that's where the balance comes in the word encouraging materials can be translated as like encouraging and literal. It can also be translated as admonishing or exhorting. So there is that balancing act because if you let things slide that are sinful, that is as wrong as being legalistic. So it's hard to block that and there's think that over there. Yep. Indeed. Yes. I I I have a couple of schools in this situation where they're not able to see the difference. Okay, they live in Nigeria and they have asked to teach them. And this I guess my my maybe my question would be how do you help them to see that okay, as much as you feel he's the one who is guiding you spiritually and you hang on his every horrible. You need to search scripture for the for yourself. But then I feel they feel well how do I know that I'm understanding what the scripture is saying properly if I don't listen to listen to Yeah, yeah. So th there is uh there's a tightrope to walk there, uh because you do want to submit to godly leaders that have your best interest in mind and are trying to teach you. Uh but there there has to be a point where you you have enough understanding to see if somebody is a a false teacher leading in a false direction. Um And I I would say that i if you can re get reach your sister it and and spend some time looking through passages of scripture, um, y try the best you can to get her to understand what is um w what is man made and what is god made because w we have a uh such a clear example of this in the old testament where when when Jesus came he was constantly confronting the religious leaders who had added all this man made stuff. Um, they had made all these rules about the Sabbath that were not in the Sabbath and and Jesus what was Jesus' point w when he addressed that? He said, um The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. In other words, Sabbath was supposed to be restful. W was it re did it sound restful for those Jews? They were like constantly worried that they were gonna break some of the little rule and it w and so that it was stressful for them. Well God didn't make the Sabbath to be stressful to people. He he made it to be restful. And that's what Jesus pointed out, that that men had added all these extras onto their to this this very good thing, the Sabbath, a rest, and they had made it a legalistic nightmare. Um and so there's an a a clear example of that and you may be able to explain to somebody That these kind of legalistic obligations in some churches today are just like that. They're just like what the Pharisees did to in the Old Testament to add man-made rules to what God did. Yes, it makes a distinction between abuse of authority versus the first thing. It's a very very good book. So uh Authority by Jonathan Lehman, good book. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Yep. Not in that week. Yep. Absolutely. Yep. Alright, let me close this with prayer. Uh dear in the