Uh today we'll be doing the second to last part of our study of our thirty-nine part study of Hebrews. It's the second part of our discussion of Christian behavior that comes in uh chapter thirteen. And then next week we'll finish up with the benediction postscript at the very end of the letter. So today we'll be continuing to talk about Christian behavior, same thing as we did last week We'll be talking about separation from the world. We'll be talking about the right kind of sacrifice. We'll be talking about submission to God-ordained authority And prayer for church leaders. Those are the Christian behaviors that are in this part of Hebrews thirteen. Uh first we'll take a look back at uh the first part of Hebrews thirteen that we went through last time. We uh We looked at this idea of uh uh love for the brethren. Uh so the the standard for uh Christian behavior of course is love And the particular love that it starts out with is love of fellow Christians. Um and it the way it's written, it's uh not that we make it happen, but that let we let the love continue. So the love is baked in to the Christian life. It's an outflow of uh the love that God has shown to us in saving us We're not supposed to make it happen. We're supposed to let it continue, is the way it's phrased. The basic principle of brotherly love is outlined by Paul at the beginning of Romans 12 um be devoted to one another in brotherly love, give preference to one another in honor. So in other words, brotherly love is caring for fellow Christians more than we care about ourselves. And of course our it's our first responsibility uh to care for brothers and sisters in Christ, but it It's not the end of our responsibility. We're also supposed to care for strangers. By definition that means people that we don't know. Um we're supposed to help strangers. Th there can be dangers there, of course, uh, when reaching out to help strangers. Um but our primary concern should be helping. And uh there's this little uh phrase there for by helping some I haven't entertained angels. Of course that's not our motivation that perhaps we might serve an angel and get a reward. That's not really why we uh should be helping others. We minister out of brotherly love and for the sake of those we help for God's glory. Then we're taught to identify with those who are in need uh those who are in prison as if we were in prison. Um and so it's really a one of the outworkings of the Golden Rule Jesus said, however you want people to treat you, so treat them, for this is the law and the prophets. And then we talked about marriage. Marriage is honorable. Uh God established marriage at the very beginning in Genesis chapter two when there are only two people in the whole world, no governments, no societies, no cultures. And so governments and societies and cultures didn't invent marriage, God invented marriage before any of those things existed. as a foundation for those things. Um and Paul warns in First Timothy chapter four that in the last day uh false teachers would forbid marriage, uh but God holds marriage honorable. Um and God is serious about sexual purity. Um then in the eyes of God it will always be a sin and fornicators and adulteries God will judge. Uh then we were talk then we were we talked about the love of money. Um covetousness and greed is a um is a a sin that has kind of a death spiral to it, the more you desire the more you you gain, the less that you're satisfied with what you have and the more that you want. So it's kind of a law of diminishing returns. Uh love of money is really a a symbol for love of any kind of material riches that money can get you, um, and it can take many forms. Uh and the love of money is uh contrasted with satisfaction with God. And so the Old Testament quotes are in there to show that we should be satisfied or content with what the Lord has given us and with the Lord Himself, rather than desiring uh m material things. Uh then we learned about um this fact that uh Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever uh and so that we should not be carried away by uh strange doctrines. In other words, uh the the doctrines that the Bible teaches are fixed They're not subject to change uh as the world changes and as society changes and attitudes become more modern Um that does not affect the timeless uh nature of Christ and the timeless nature of salvation uh and redemption in Christ. And Um the the key takeaway phrase here is every bad practice can be traced back to bad belief. And then we get to this idea of sacrifices. Um Jews were used to having religious regulations for everything and it was hard for them them to adjust to freedom in Christ. Um they had been taught to believe that how you ate and what you ate, um uh i it was important and important to god so that it was important to them. Um and now they're taught under the new covenant that those who were thus occupied were not benefited In other words, it does you no good to follow a certain regimented diet. Um and that a a right relationship with God comes by grace, not by foods. Um and so this is a a radical change for Jewish people have been used to these traditions of uh certain foods being unclean, uh, for example. Uh any questions about any of that that we went through last time? Yes? The entertaining of angels? The entertaining of angels you mean? Yeah. Well, I think he was just re referring to Abraham's hospitality Um and that was a well known story to to the Jewish people. Well, i so I I j I just I think he's he's looking back at a at a very famous, very familiar story of hospitality from the Old Testament, which was Abraham being hospitable to these three men, having no idea who they were And it turns out that, you know, two of them were angels and one of them was was Christ. Um and and I just think that that would click in their minds that he okay, we should be hospitable no matter who they are, and And oh look at this one case, it turned out that they were i angels. I think that's all he's getting at. Uh I I don't think he's I don't think there's more to it th about angels. It doesn't seem strange, but think about it as a sermon illustration to grab the attention of the audience. And so if you think about this as a sermon uh being preached by being re read out loud to the congregation, there's a sermon illustration that's attention grabbing. Um I I think that's really what it is. Any other thoughts? questions left over from if you're looking at uh several other people could uh say well we maybe interchange the child which is in the in God's eye higher than what Yeah, so uh yeah. have an opportunity to show hospitality to or the impact that we may have on that person's life. And I think the the the overall teaching is, well that shouldn't really be the determining factor about whether you show hospitality is who it is or what the impact might be. Just show hospitality. I think I think that's what he's getting at, yeah. Yeah, so uh Yes, it certainly is true that God uh that man makes plans, but God directs his steps and that uh God is sovereign over all of our interactions And so um i it it it you never know what and we don't we can't see that plan. So we don't know what these Well, you know, you don't you may not know what a divine appointment looks like until after it's already happened. And so I think the attitude then is to show hospitality and and it every every op uh act of hospitality could be a a very specific and important divine appointment a and y you just didn't know until after the fact that yeah, good point. Okay, let's roll on to uh the next part of Hebrews chapter 13. Um and so if you open your Bibles to Hebrew chapter 13 13 or two near devices to Hebrews chapter 13. We're going to start in verse 10 and go down to verse 19. I had originally planned to do a few more verses today, but Once I got started on the lesson I changed my mind. It was it was long enough after by verse nineteen. Um okay. Uh starting at verse ten, we have an altar from which those who serve the tabernacle have no right to eat. For the bodies of those animals whose blood is brought into the holy place by the high priest as an offering for sin are burned outside the camp. Therefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people through his own blood, suffered outside the gate. So let us go out to him outside the camp, bearing his reproach. For here we do not have a lasting city, but we are seeking the city which is to come. Through amen, let us continually offer up a sacrifice of praise to God, that is, the fruit of lips that give thanks to his name, and do not neglect doing good and sharing. For with such sacrifices God is pleased. Obey your leaders and submit to them, for they keep watch over your souls as those who will give an account. Let them do this with joy and not with grief. For this would be unprofitable for you. Pray for us, for we are sure that we have a good conscience, desiring to conduct ourselves honorably in all things And I urge you all the more to do this so that I may be restored to you the sooner. This is the word of the Lord that we'll be looking at today. Uh so uh I I'm just gonna repeat the same paragraph. So John MacArthur in his section, his commentary on this section, wrote a kind of an introduction to all of chapter thirteen and and I read it last week I'm going to read it again because it applies exactly to what we're going to do this week. So uh bear with me, even though you've heard these words uh last week, we're gonna I'm gonna say 'em again. Uh the first eleven chapters of Hebrews do not emphasize specific commands to Christians. There is an obviously lack of practical explanations or exhortations. The section is pure doctrine and is almost entirely directed to Jews who have received the gospel but not to be uh but need to be affirmed in the superiority of the new covenant. The exhortations in chapter 12 that apply to Christians are general, encouraging them to run the race of faith with patience and to follow peace and holiness. The specific practical exhortations for Christians are in chapter 13. This fits the pattern of New Testament. Testament teaching, which is always doctrine and then duty, position and then practice. Chapter 13 is not an afterthought, but is integral to the message of the book True Faith Demands True Living. Hebrews 13 gives some of the essential practical ethics of Christian living that help portray the true gospel to the world. That encourage men to trust in Christ and that bring glory to God. Our Lord commanded of his followers, let your light shine before men in such a way that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven. Matthew 516. Excuse me. Ethics has to do with standards of conduct, behavior, or moral judgment. There can be no ethics without doctrine. Doctrine is the foundation on which any practical ethic must be based. It is not possible to have any system of ethics without standards of right and wrong. The idea that doctrine is useless and divisive, that all we need to live by is love, is fantasy and foolishness. Love itself needs a standard. Without a standard, one person's idea of love often will be different from and frequently contradictory to someone else's. Desiring another man's wife may seem like love to the one who is desiring, but is quite something quite different to her husband. Trying to throw away doctrine while keeping ethics is like trying to keep your house intact while taking out the foundation. Christian ethics not only demand right doctrine, but a right relationship with Jesus Christ without a saving relationship to him. Every moral command in the New Testament presupposes faith in Christ. You cannot possibly live up to God's standards without God The standards of Christian behavior set forth in Hebrews 13 presuppose two basic realities, that these standards are based on the doctrinal foundation of chapters 1 through 12, and that they apply to Christian believers. That's John MacArthur for last week's lesson and this week's lesson about Christian behavior. Alright, so let's take a look at these verses. So the first couple of verses Uh may seem strange. So verses ten to fourteen, this first section of what we're going to do today are among the most difficult to understand in the book of Hebrews and have been subject to many interpretations and applications. I read six different commentaries on this section. and got six different interpretations. So um there it's a little bit of a minefield and so I don't want to be um to doctrine air about what I think these verses are are saying. So I'm I'm gonna I'll tell you a couple of things that some of the commentaries say. Uh some believe the altar mentioned here and the right to eat Refers to the Lord's Supper. But verse 11 speaks of the body of those animals whose blood is brought by the high priest as an offering for sin, which does not sound like Christian worship. Others believe the references to a heavenly altar, like we have in Revelation. But who would be those who have no right to eat there in this Christian context he's talking about here? And besides which, there is no indication of any eating or sacrificing in of animals in that heavenly altar in Revelation chapter six. Stellars believe the altar is a figure of Christ whose body we are to eat and whose blood we are to drink. John six, fifty three to fifty eight. But still the questions remain about who is not allowed to eat and about the sacrificial animals mentioned in verse eleven. So there are issues with all the different uh interpretations of these verses. Um so um i it's Not easy to understand what he's trying to get at here. Uh the best explanation may be that the we at the very beginning of this uh section refers to the writer's fellow Jews. He's been talking as a Jewish person to Jewish believers through much of the Better. In other words, we Jews have an altar in a temple where the priests serve. Um you're familiar, they're familiar in the first century. There's there's there's this temple there that there are priests there. Ordinarily the priests were t allowed to eat the what remained of the sacrifice. That was a a big part. They they were the sacrifices were made and then the priests were allowed to eat uh what was left over after burning the sacrifice. But on the Day of Atonement they were not allowed to eat the sin offering. The bodies of the animals used for that sacrifice were be to taken outside the camp and burned And so I think that's what he's talking about here. In this view, an analogy is given for Christians as the priest of old could not have a part in the sins of people, couldn't eat that sin offering from the Day of Atonement. That that offering had to be taken outside the camp and burnt. So the believer should be outside the camp of the world, no longer a part of its systems, standards, and practice. So I think this whole section is talking about the fact that we're supposed to be separate. Separate from the world. This is what Jesus accomplished on the cross, sanctification, our sanctification. He separated us out from the world. uh and and so his and his sacrifice on the cross was outside the city gates and so that's what the the scripture here goes uh out of its way to to uh to say um and so notice in this section of scripture we have Have outside the camp, outside the gate, outside the camp, outside, outside, outside, over and over again in this uh this little section of scripture. Um and so I think that's the the thrust of what he's talking about there. That we're supposed to be outside, separate from the world. Although there are lots of other interpretations of this passage as I I mentioned. So Uh i so just w as you read through the scripture, for the bodies of the animals of those who was brought into the holy place by the high priest, that's the the s the sin offering, uh are burned outside the camp. Therefore Jesus also was sacr sacrificed outside the gate, because he was the offering for sin. And so let us, therefore Go out to him outside the camp, bearing his reproach. Outside, outside, outside. And so I yes, and the operator then be paying sin. Yes. That's right. Exactly right. And so in a sense the uh the i i the the picture there's also the picture of the scapegoat, the people's sin is put on the scapegoat and the scapegoat has to be outside the camp and so the i the sin has to be outside and Christ becomes the sin of the people and so it's sacrifice outside the camp. So I I think this is a picture of Christians separating themselves from the things of the sinful world. As our Lord was crucified outside the walls of the city of Jerusalem, so we are to be spiritually outside the walls of sinning people and their world. Yes, no. According to Bill Bookman, uh is pretty well known in the New Testament teaching. He he said that the whole book of people has one purpose and that's to get out of the temple. Yeah, I I th I I agree. And I so I think that's it fits with the whole rest of the purpose of the book. Um I would argue there's a couple of just huge purposes in the book. That's one. And the other is to draw this sharp contrast between the old covenant and the new covenant in terms of the approachability of God that we can now draw near to this God who i in the old covenant you just could not draw near to. He he's hidden inside the Holy of Holies and can only be approached by the high priests and only once a year. And now when Christ is is crucified that That veil is torn from top to bottom and now we can draw near in Christ. uh themes of this book and one of 'em is what Mel just said that uh get out of the temple leave behind that old covenant. Um and and one of the um the great benefits of the new covenant over the old one is being able to draw near uh to this holy God in the new covenant. Um okay, and so we're to separate our yes, Doug. I I I really appreciate you bringing out the challenges I think there versus I think that like tells you emergency right now makes me feel like verses 13 and 14, but really the verses that regularity to offers 10 minutes. I think that's right. Yeah, so I think that verse ten to fourteen is a section and thirteen and fourteen kind of give clarity to what ten and eleven are really talking about. Yeah. Okay. And so and this is yeah the yes, go ahead Daniel. Um I also see it kind of tied back to what we discussed at the end of the last week first nine, where it's talked about the for the heart to be strengthened by grace and not by two. And then they talk about you know we have an altar um I think that point to the fact that even under um the law, they weren't receiving grace from like eating the sin offering to put her anything back. Just like we're we don't receive grace from getting what something like that. You know, it's it's a symbol of of our being taken away. But like even just like those sacrifices actually in sacrifice, like you're not receiving grace from that gets taken away, it's taken out besides those it gets kind of timed back at the first as well. Yeah. There's no doubt that it's a flow th that that um that he's he's preaching in this letter and y you know, it's not there's not just a hard stop at verse nine and you know the next day he comes back and or the next week he comes back and starts with ten. So there's there's a little bit of an artificiality when we chop when I chop things up. Um so it does it it's a good point that it does flow out of what he's just been saying in in verse nine. However, I think he's making an an additional point with this section of 10 to 14. uh uh and remember this is practical application so he's telling us something that we need to do here here in in chapter thirteen. And I think the thing he's he's teaching us that we need to do is this idea of separation with this repeating of this point of outside the camp, outside the gate, outside the camp, uh in in this series of verses. But it absolutely is true that it flows from what he's just been talking about with sacrifices in in verse nine. Yep. Good point. Yes. And just um just remind you that back in the beginning of um of the showing us that that the book of viewers uh was the show the superiority of the new Covenant in Christ. So God is a covenant God. So in the beginning he made a covenant with the Israeli and the Jews in the old the Old Testament covenant of how to worship God with his Lord and you know with all these sacrificial animal sacrifices and all. And so now he is like encouraging these Jews, these groups to now depart from his Old Testament covenants and also this new covenant uh of the U way of work. Worshiping God is now worshiping Him just from the heart of the worship Hidden Spirit and That's true. And so uh what Mel was saying is absolutely right that uh the m one of the main themes of Hebrews is to leave the temp temple and the tabernacle behind. That old covenant it had a purpose. It was to point forward to Christ, but now Christ has come. And so going back to that old covenant which all the which his main purpose was to point forward to Christ, there's there's no purpose for that. It's fulfilled its purpose. Uh not that there's no purpose, it the purpose is fulfilled. And so there's no reason no uh no benefit to going back to that old system. Yeah. Okay. So as Christians we must be willing to go out from the system, out from the world system to bear the reproach and the shame that both the sin offering and Christ himself for it to be rejected by men. Christ was rejected by men. We should be prepared to be rejected by men. We have examples of this already in the book of Hebrews. Uh this is the attitude Moses had toward the world. He considered the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt. Hebrews 11 26. So that's the attitude that Moses had. That's the attitude that we're supposed to have. The Apostle Paul said, Do not be bound together with with unbelievers. For what partnership have righteousness and lawlessness, or what fellowship have light with darkness, or what harmony has Christ with Belial? Or what has a believer in common with an unbeliever? That's Second Corinthians six, fourteen and fifteen. have nothing in common with the world system. Uh 2 Timothy 2. 4 also talks about this. So uh I think we're to be separate and I think that's one of the purposes for this teaching here, this practical application teaching in uh Hebrews thirteen is don't be it's the same kind of teaching that Paul's giving in Second Corinthians. Don't be tangled up with the world. Be outside the camp of the world. For the Jews to whom Hebrews was written, the most difficult part of separation from the world is now separation from Judaism itself. Uh because Judaism is no longer the way to worship God and is now a man-made system. Uh God is no longer in the camp of Judaism, so to speak. Whatever significance and importance the old covenant and traditional ceremonies, regulations and standards once had for them, and they did have all those things, They were no longer valid now that Christ had come. So they had to separate themselves from that. The moment Jesus died on the cross, the veil of the temple was torn in two uh and the temple, the altar, the sacrifices, the rituals ceased to be part of God's program. Uh these were now part of the world system, a part of man's religion, man's way, man's work. Um and so these Hebrews are worn over over and over and over again to get out of the temple. That that that's that's done. Um uh the a and so and think about how difficult that must have been for these Hebrew believers because they had been taught and trained they had this this institutional memory as a people that went back thousands of years about th this is the way to worship God, this is the way to approach God. And now they're being told Yes, it was, but not anymore. Um and just think about how jarring culturally jarring that was. to these Jews. And so this book of Hebrews is lovingly crafted by the Holy Spirit to help them to be able to wrap their minds around this this seismic change that's happened underneath them from the old covenant to the new covenant. Okay, so separation of the system does not mean separation from unbelievers obviously, in the sense of never having contact with them. If this were so, we could never witness to them or be hospitable to them, as we've just been commanded to do a few verses before. Uh so it can't mean that Uh, nor does it mean we try to escape the world by becoming monastics. It it can't mean that because we've just been told to exercise hospitality towards strangers, and so this cannot mean separating yourself completely from the world in terms of putting yourself into a a monastery or not having any interaction with unbelievers. It it can't be. Everybody see that? Okay. So uh verse thirteen and fourteen. So let us go out to him outside the camp bearing his reproach, for here we do not have a lasting city, but we are seeking the city which is to come. So where is our mind? to be? Where's our treasure to be? Where's our focus to be? It's on heaven while we're still living here. on earth. Uh in this city that's not the lasting city. We're seeking the city which is to come. So as long as we're in the flesh, we have to live in this world. But we are to separate ourselves from worldly attitudes and habits. Of course, we can participate in many many worldly things just as easily with Christians as with non-Christians. In other words, I can get together with a group of Christian men and watch a football game Right? And how is that how does that look any different to the world than a group of un non Christian men watching a football game? It doesn't. It doesn't. So just because I have Christian friends doesn't mean that I have necessarily separated myself from the world. You see the the subtle point there? Separating from the world is separating from worldly attitudes and worldly activities that um it it's not even necessarily where you are or who you're with. Um in his high priestly prayer Jesus describes our proper So in John seventeen, Jesus pre high priestly prayer, uh Jesus says, I do not ask you to take them out of the world So right up front, he's not asking God to to remove us from this life in this world, but to keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. Sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth, as you sent me into the world. I also have sent them into the world. So just as Jesus came from heaven and was sent into the world to do the Father's will, Jesus has sent us into the world. So we have to be here in the world to accomplish the purposes that he's he's given us. Yes, Richard. Well uh taking up the trainers is taking purposes of the opportunity to live right. Yes. Absolutely. That's it. Um and so if if all you do is um give a person a meal And and do not get have an opportun and do not take advantage of the opportunity to show the love of Christ such that it redounds to God's glory, then you've accomplished nothing. Yeah. Nothing eternal. Yeah. Okay. Good yeah, good point. Um so Jesus gives us the the model of of what it means to be in the world but not of the world. Uh so God sends us into the physical world just like he sent Christ into the physical world. But we are to be separate from the world's system, from the way the world's people live. Um and then the way it's put here in in um uh verse fourteen is this is not a lasting city This is not our ultimate destination. Our citizenship is in heaven, so we're we're sojourners here. uh in this life. But but we are in this world, um in t while we're s where we're living. But it's not our lasting city. Ultimately we are seeking the city which is to come in heaven with Christ. So I think that's what this whole section of scripture is talking about. In the world but not of it. Separate from the world system, the world's attitudes, uh the way the world conducts itself, the this sinful world. So uh and of course you don't have to participate actively in the system to be part of it. It is just as worldly to want to do world uh to do things to the world as to do them. Uh uh sins of thought rather than sins of action. To want worldly things is to have your heart in the If you are sitting in church thinking about the impression you are making on your fellow worshippers At that moment and to that extent you are in the world no matter how spiritual the worship service itself may be. So just think about the practical application of that. When we're in worship service, is our mind is our whole mind and our whole attitude focused on worshiping God? Or is it f is does our mind sometimes drift and wander to worldly things when we're supposed to be worshiping God? So Um in the Garden of Gethsemane the the disciples were there to pray with Christ, but what happened? They fell asleep Um they couldn't they couldn't attend for one hour. And so uh this is the reality of our uh human weakness um is that we do drift into uh worldly thoughts. Um yeah, no matter where we are, including in worship service, uh unfortunately. But we're called to be separate. And of course true separation is costly. There's a price to be paid. 2 Timothy 3. 12, all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. That's harsh. That's harsh to think about. Uh but if we separate ourselves from the attitudes of the world um w we will be um first identified and then persecuted for it. That's what the the teaching of Scripture is. And so Um it's a natural human tendency to want to avoid persecution Uh we don't it's not pleasant. We we don't want that, and so um w we're we're uh tempted to compromise. Um always tempted to compromise. And so uh Paul talked about this kind of in a in a sarcastic and humorous way in First Corinthians chapter four. Um he's speaking sarcastically to some worldly Corinthian believers, uh and Paul writes, We are fools for For Christ, but you are prudent in Christ. You are wise in some translations. And so what is he saying here? That some of these worldly Christians are are taking the prudent path by by not um by by compromising so that they don't appear as strange to the world around them And but Paul's all in, and he's a fool for Christ. Um we are weak, but you are strong. You are distinguished, but we are without honor. In other words, Paul is a fool for Christ and he's proclaiming the gospel, and that's dishonorable in the world's eyes, and these worldly Christians are m maintaining their uh be maintaining their status as distinguished in the eyes of the world by compromise. Uh to this present hour we are both hungry and thirsty and are poorly clothed and are roughly treated and are homeless. In other words, there's a cost to separating yourself from the world and there's a temptation to slide back into d into uh behaving in such a way that the world doesn't um uh doesn't come and come after you, doesn't persecute you, uh because you um you're willing to uh to have have two faces. One face in on Sunday in the worship service and another face Monday through Saturday in the world where you look like everybody else so that nobody notices that you're different, that you're a believer, that you're actually separate uh separate from the world. Um and so that's what that's the attitude that Paul is attacking here with a little bit of sarcastic humor in 1 Corinthians 4. Alright, everybody see that? Everybody Um so this this uh i in when we're doing doctrine in in chapter one through eleven especially everybody's all excited and saying amen. And when we get to chapter thirteen and there's all these admonitions and there's these um these practical applications that are really hard, it's it's much um it's much less enthusiastic it's har it's hard to work up the enthusiasm for being persecuted as it is for um Christ the author and perfector of our faith and Christ our great high priest and all these other things. When it comes to uh yay being persecuted, that's a different uh uh that's a little A little bit different. Um but this is the the teaching and this is the practical application of all that uh doctrine we've heard before. All who desire to live godly in ge in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. Alright, verse yes, go ahead. Right. First uh verse fourteen. Maybe you can uh refresh us when Hebrews was uh written in reference to A D seventy, so I don't know if that image is So before, yeah, so before, um uh the m most scholars place it um very shortly before, like in the sixties, uh but definitely before Because it would really be strange for him to talk about the sacrificial system as if it was still being going going on if it was written after seventy AD. I it would really be uh I I I would find it quite po uh impossible to believe that he would write the things that he wrote if he was writing after seventy AD. Uh but most likely uh um for other reasons pretty close to seven close to before. So like mid sixties, something like that. Um yeah, so that's that puts it into historical context. Before the temple is destroyed, but not long before the temple is destroyed. And perhaps preparing these Jews for the fact that the temple was going to be destroyed. Because the Holy Spirit knew the temple was about to be Destroyed. Okay. Verse number fifteen and sixteen. Through him then, who's him? You're just talking about Jesus, Jesus, through him, Jesus, then let us continually offer up a sacrifice of praise to God, that is the fruit of lips that give thanks to his name. And do not neglect doing good and sharing, for with such sacrifices God is pleased. So sacrifice was extremely important to the Jewish people. It was God's provision for cleansing of sin under the old covenant and for uh there were lots of lots of sacrifices in the old covenant. So it was a very important part of Jewish life. So many Jews who had become followers of Christ were no doubt wondering if God required any kind of sacrifice under the New Covenant. They knew Christ offered the one and only sacrifice for sin and of course the the author of Hebrews has been through that uh in the doctrinal section. Uh but many were probably still um uh but but they were used to many kinds of sacrifice, not just the sin offering, but there were other offerings as well, thank offerings, uh of all kinds, grain offerings and uh and other kinds of animal sacrifices for for thanks as well as for the offering for sin. And they were probably wondering, does God still demand some of these kinds of sacrifices? We know that Christ has made the one For once for all time sacrifice for sin. But what about all those other sacrifices that Moses gave us? What about them? And they're told yes, he does offer sacrifices, but not the way you think He demands the sacrifice of our praise and of our good works in his name. He demands sacrifice not in the form of a ritual or a ceremony, but in word and deed. Worshiping God and serving others, in other words. And that's um the author of Hebrews uh puts that in the language of sacrifice as a as a flow of the what he's all what he's been talking about all this time, about the old sacrificial system, the new covenant It does have sacrifices per se, but they're not the s same kind of animals and grains and things like that. God no longer wants sacrifices of grain or animals, he wants only the sacrifice of praise to God that is the fruit of lips that give. Thanks to his name. Now, is it new to praise God? And look at the book of Psalms, it's all praising God, so that's not new, but that's the kind of sacrifice that God is really interested in, you know, is that kind of sacrifice of praise. But yet what can you obey is better than that. Yes. Exactly right. And so that's why and do not neglect doing good and sharing. That's obeying and doing something rather than just sacrificing. Uh the psalmists know a great deal about this sort of sacrifice. If you could characterize the Psalms with a single word, it would be Praise. Um just some examples. I will give thanks to the Lord according to his righteousness, and I will sing praise to the name of the Lord Most High, Psalm 717. Why are you in despair, O my soul, and why are you disturbed within? Me, hope in God, for I shall again praise him, Psalm 43, 5. I will give thanks to you, O Lord, among the peoples, and I will sing praises to you among the nations. Psalm 108. The last five Psalms, uh Psalm 146 through 150, all begin with the phrase, Praise the Lord. Uh in Hebrew that's uh halal ya which we've anglicized into hallelujah. Um so hallelujah means praise the Lord. That's it's from the Hebrew halal halal ya Hallelujah, praise the Lord. The sacrifice God desires is the cry of our lips to praise Him. And that's what the author is is getting at here. Okay, you had this sacrifice system. Christ did the sacrifice. sacrifice for sin and as for any remaining sacrifices, this is the sacrifice he wants from you. Praise f f for him and doing good works to serve others and bring glory to his name. That's the sacrifice that is required. That's the practical application of all this. So the Christian sacrifice of praise is to be offered continually. Notice Let us continually offer up sacrifice of praise. It's not to be a fair weather offering, but an offering in every circumstance. First Thessalonians 5. 18, in everything give thanks For this is God's will for you in Christ Jesus. And so the author of Hebrews says the same thing. Continually offer up sacrifice of praise to God. So that's our practical. application here. Any questions about that or comments about praise? So how do how do we apply that in church. Do we do we apply this? So so what what do we do in worship service? When we gather as the body of Christ on the Lord's Day, what do we do? We sing praise to the Lord. Why do we do that? Because of this. We're we're we're being obedient to this. It's not just uh entertainment. It's uh it's obedience to uh what we're commanded in scripture to do is to offer praise um with our lips and because that we're told that's pleasing to God, that's obedient to God, it's praise, and so uh that's the the whole purpose of the the the this the worship this the songs the songs of praise that we offer to the Lord is in obedience to him I think that it doesn't mean everything if they because sometimes granted we just don't feel like that. We talked to them online so that it happens to anything. And that doesn't happen. Yep, yeah, we're supposed to set that aside. Yep, separate ourselves from that and and to uh truly worship, to have an attitude of worship as we sing songs of praise together to the Lord. Does that include like outside of our general worship? It does, yes. Absolutely. So it's not just worship service on Sunday. Um but worship service on Sunday is focused on Praising God, uh offering praises to God. But you're absolutely right, especially when we get to verse sixteen, uh that's not talking about primarily our worship service on Sunday. Um doing good and sharing. Uh yeah. I mean th there is a certain aspect like our giving uh when we give, which maybe on Sunday, it may be uh not on s does doesn't have to be just on Sunday, but sharing, sharing what we've been given Uh part of that is our giving, our our monetary giving, because uh we we bring our collective resources together and then we use those resources for various things, missions, uh for local outreach. global outreach, all all those sort of things. Yep. Uh this is just a random comment and like you said, we joined for service sometimes let our minds drift and one of the things that I've thought, pondered about is There's one day a week where due to time zones, the Lord's name is being constantly praised for twenty four hours, if you kinda think about it, all all the believers over across the world. That's true. Yeah. So the Lord's Day really goes through for twenty four hours all around the the world in in that sense. Yep. Yep. It's a good thought. Okay. Uh if our praise to God in word is not accompanied by doing good and sharing, it is not acceptable to him. So what's acceptable to him is in addition to praising his name is not to neglect. In other words, in addition to this praise that we give to God, we're also supposed to be doing good and sharing. Worship involves action that honors God. And so we are worshiping God not just on Sunday mornings. We're worshiping God with the actions of our lives. uh Monday through Saturday as well. And that includes doing good and sharing. So um so uh first John chapter four John warns us that the one who does not love his brother whom he has seen cannot love God whom he has not seen. In other words, um if you're not showing love to your brother, um then It's very unlikely that you're have love in your heart for God. Um and there's a similar teaching actually in the in the Old Testament, uh it's put in a very interesting way. It's in Isaiah 58, and uh there's an inner there's an exchange between the people and God. And so at the beginning in Isaiah 58. 3, the people ask God, why have we fasted and you do not see? In other words, we're doing this religious obligation of fasting, but you're not regarding this religious work that we're doing. uh in fasting. Um and then in verses six and seven, uh the Lord replies, Is this not the fast which I chose to loosen the bonds of wickedness? In other words, the the religious service that I want is not your abstaining from food, it's this. Is this not the fast that I chose? To loosen the bonds of wickedness, to undo the bands of the yoke and to let the oppressed go free and break every yoke. Is it not to divide your bread with the hungry and bring the homeless poor into the house? When you see the naked, to cover him and not to hide yourself from your own flesh. So do you see what's going on there? The people are saying, hey, we're d we're we're performing this religious service. Why aren't you happy with us, Lord? And the Lord his response is what I really want is for you to share your bread with the hungry and to bring the homeless poor into your house when you see the naked to cover him and not to hide yourself from your own flesh. Not to ignore the needs of your brothers and sisters. Um so it's the same kind of teaching going all the way back to Isaiah 58. And of course it's the same teaching in the New Testament. It's a teaching in James chapter 1 Um praise to God in word and deed are inseparable. Uh James 127, this is pure and undefiled religion in the sight of our God and Father to visit orphan orphans and widows in their distress, and to keep oneself unstained by the world. In other words, to be separate from the world and to uh take care of orphans and widows, to do good and share. This is the consistent teaching all throughout scripture, from Isaiah, same teaching, from Hebrews, the same teaching, from James the same teaching. So consistency in Scripture is the hallmark of of Scripture. God is the same yesterday, today, and forever. Christ is the same yesterday, today, forever. Don't be drawn apart, drawn away by strange doctrines the doctrines are the same. They've been the same. They've always been the same. We have a old covenant and a new covenant, but but God Himself is the same Um and so this is the the teaching that's coming through here in this part of Hebrews thirteen is the same as James's teaching. This is pure and undefiled religion in the sight of our God and Father. Visit orphans and widows in the distress and keep oneself unstained from. the world. Same teaching. Everybody see that? Questions? Comments? Okay. Now we get to a section that's a little bit uncomfortable for me. Um so this could be seen as uh uh self serving. Uh so uh t verse seventeen uh says, Obey your leaders and submit to them, for they keep watching Let them do this with joy and not with grief, for this would be unprofitable for you. So we've been taught here in this section of Scripture separation from the world. taught to make the right kind of sacrifice, praise to the Lord and service to others. The third standard of Christian behavior here in this section is submission to God ordained leadership. And so the the obvious um the obvious implication in this text is uh church leaders. Uh because it's talking about keeping watch over your souls. That's obviously not what the government does. And so but we do we are taught to submit to all kinds of of leaders. So most obvious is submission in this text to church leaders, but God mediates his earthly rule, secular and spiritual, through various People. Um even pagan rulers who have no use for God are nevertheless used by God. Uh and Romans thirteen verse one says, Let every person be s in subjection to the governing authorities, for there is no authority except from God and those which exist. are established by God. Yes. I find it very comforting to know that the elders are cooking watch over that for that's the way it should Yeah. Um so so God ha God um uh he has uh ordained certain earthly uh structures of authority. Um one is the family, of course, the structure of the uh husband and wife and children. Uh one is the government uh government r ruling authorities and the other is the church. And this is more focused on the church government. Uh so for followers of Christ, God's most important rule is through spirit controlled men and church. Submission to these men therefore is submission to God God's will for his people, because that's the way he's designed his church. The leaders of the church are called variously elders, presbyteras, or overseers, episcopas, or shepherds, poem. And the title are interchangeable. In fact, they're all three titles are used in a single passage of scripture in Acts chapter 20. Acts 20, 17 to 28 is Paul's in Miletus and he calls the elders from the churches in Ephesus to him and And he gives kind of a final set of commands and warnings to the set of elders from those churches. And he in that single passage of scripture, the elders are described by all three of those Greek words, presbyteros, episcopas, and poeman. uh in a single passage. Um and so these men are ordered by the Spirit of God to rule over his church on earth until Christ returns. And of course this is the model that was set forth in the New Testament As they traveled about, Paul and Barnabas appointed elders in every church they established, Acts 14, 23. Paul directed Titus to appoint elders in every city, Titus 1. 5. Every New Testament congregation had such men who ruled it. They taught and led and protected the flock, Acts 2028. However, in many churches today, especially in the United States, the congregation rules the leaders Um i this the congregational form of government goes all the way back to the founding of the United States. There were congregational churches where the church members voted on everything. Uh this sort of church government is completely foreign to the New Testament, but it fits with modern American worship of democracy. So that God did not establish the church as a democracy. Democracy is a fine model for secular government. But it's not how God designed the church. Um and i if you think about it, i it really m makes very little sense. It it's there's very little sense in having a person who's a brand new believer had the same vote as somebody who's fifty year follower of Christ and very mature. That that makes no sense. Um and so that's not how God designed the church. Church leaders are not to be tyrants because they do not rule for themselves, but on God's behalf. However, God's command here is unqualified. Obey your leaders and submit to them. There's no qualification there. It's a straightforward command with no qualifiers. It is the duty and responsibility of such men under God and in meekness and humility to determine the direction of the church, to teach the word, to reprove, rebuke, and exhort. Titus 2. 15 and 1 Peter 5. 2-4 Pastors and elders are under shepherds who serve under the chief shepherd. That's verse 4 there in 1 Peter 5. And that's Jesus Christ who is the head of the church. So that's the structure that God has ordained for his church is Christ is the head of the church, and then there are men who are appointed as under shepherds under him. And the command here is is obey those leaders and submit to them. Yes. You mentioned I like you mentioned that leaders can be pirates. They can who else? They can. Um can you speak to how that what our role of submission in those kinds of situations is? Yeah, so good point. And so uh first I I just want to mention um uh that God of course knows that that a a s a person who is put into authority has a temptation to over exercise that authority and to become a tyrant. And that is why in the New Testament model there's always a plurality of elders, not just one man. And so we actually see this in in modern church Churches, oh over and over again, I I read stories of this in the news and I hear stories of this in member interviews of churches that have a model where there's one pastor at the top with all power And how that power corrupts that one man, no matter how godly he started out, and he starts r becoming an authoritarian. Um and so that's why the Holy Spirit knows that this is the human nature and why we have multiple elders. So one of the roles that we as elders uh know that we have is to watch one another. And we talk about this all the time. We talk about it at elder meetings. That one of our roles as a group of five men is to m is to keep our keep each other in line. Um and so that that we don't start to you know, one person doesn't start to veer off into uh the a power trip Um it's much less likely if you have a group of people that can watch out for one another. And so that's the way the way it's designed that way. Now, uh what about the congregation? And so the congregation does have a role in this. So um the congregation, uh it's not like the the elders are supposed to be separate from the congregation. Uh the elders are also part of the congregation and we're not supposed to be um you know some up on a pedestal and unapproachable. So uh there should be no issue with any member of the church coming to an elder and and saying, hey, hey, um uh I I n I noticed that the elders did this, that, or the other thing. What what why did you do that And and w we should be willing to explain the the the things that we have done, the reasons why we make certain decisions. We shouldn't hide that from the congregation. Now, um w we don't um I we don't always have time or um the i i it's impractical to to give a detailed explanation about everything that we decide in the church. But there could be big decisions that we make and there is confusion or misunderstanding among the church about why we did what we did and we sh we should be um y y you should be y you should not be reluctant to ask us. Y y you have every right to ask us why we we did something that we did. We should not separate ourselves from the congregation to the extent where w decisions come down from on high and that's just the way it is. That's not the that's not the way that the church is designed and in in my view. So uh yes, Richard. Uh there there are churches where uh the the people not the pastor itself but the people put emphasis on what the pastor decides and and have having that single pastor and then you can eventually it becomes like a form of worship. That's true, that's a danger. Uh w where you're you're worshiping the pastor instead of Christ. Yes That is a danger. That could also happen to the church's elder rule than we are. It could. Absolutely it could. And so uh we should guard against that, both the elders should guard against it and individual members of the congregation should guard against uh elder worship, right? That's not right. And um and so I would just encourage you to Um if you have questions, if something's bothering you, ask. Don't don't uh so it's i the the act of submission doesn't mean you can't ask questions Right? Submission doesn't mean don't ask questions. It means that if you if you have a question, you ask a question uh we give an explanation about why we did such a such a thing, then you uh submit to that decision that we have made. Um and you know I I have a lot of training in this as a person that did twenty-four years in the military. It it's actually how we do when it's done right, it's how we do military leadership. The the the commanding officer of a particular unit, he's got all the authority, what he says goes, but uh the good ones elicit input from their their juniors, the people that are under them, and it encouraged their juniors to ask questions and to give um to give advice that's counter to what the the commander may be thinking. However, once the commander has made a decision, you salute salute smartly and you execute and you do it. So i i this idea of submission doesn't mean you don't ask questions and doesn't mean you can't have disagreements But when it comes to an a decision has been made, then you submit to that decision. Everybody see that? Does that make sense to everybody? Has anybody ever felt like he couldn't ask questions? So yeah, so sometimes and and that's that I've yeah, you've I've felt that in churches before too Um, that you felt like no the the y you it just uh I I came from the church where I was in before this had six elders for a church of fifteen thousand people. And a vast majority of the people had never met an elder. Never met one, much less knew one personally. Um and so i in that church model, y you are you gonna go up to that guy that you don't know and and ask him a detailed questi probably not. Probably not. Um and we you know my my prayers that we we don't get like that here at this church. Um and I hope that as elders we maintain an attitude of approachability, that you can come to us and ask us questions. Yes. Most I think most if not all that Owners lead a a small group so they're smelling like the sheep already. So uh yeah, so i that's true that Um the I let's see. Um It wasn't a disparity. Yeah, it was part of the approachability of Yeah, I'm trying to think. Four four of the five of us are Actually in small groups. Uh the the only the only exception is actually Pastor Gabe. He's not in his own small group right now. Although he's thinking about a starting one. Um Yes. thousand far too many members for a local church. Yes, I do. Uh and it was just it had satellite campuses and all sorts of things like that. And I I I don't I don't see the megachurch model in the New Testament Um and so I personally I don't think I would ever go back to one. There was specific personal reasons why we went to that church. Um their their robust ministry to people with disabilities is really the reason we went to that church. It's a eighty four mile round trip for us. It was every Sunday for seventeen years. Um but yes, I think a huge church like that is not the New Testament model. Um how can you even know one another, much less encourage one another and pray for one another if there's seventeen thousand or fifteen thousand of you? Yeah. How can how can the elders possibly be keeping watch over fifteen thousand and souls six people. Uh we have five for four hundred here and it's a huge task. Huge. Um okay. So yeah. Um first Thessalonians five, but we request of you brethren And that you appreciate those who diligently labor among you and have charge over you in the Lord and give you instruction, and that you esteem them very highly in love because of their work. What a great verse. So it's um yeah, like I said This is a difficult uh section of scriptures to uh to to talk about as an elder, but it's uh it's the reality. And and one of the reasons why it's so important to teach us I think is that uh the nature of the way things are in this modern world is people move around a lot and so uh those who are uh under our care as elders here will not necessarily always be here and we need to instill this attitude for the next church that they go to and the next set of leaders they go to. Yes, Michelle? Well um it's it's important for us to talk about it even when you're not around. Because it's important that when you're not around, we're talking about our elders in an appropriate submissive way. Even when it's like like if you' your with your spouse or with your parents. You submit to them to their faith, but also when they're not around, you talk about them with other people in a way that does not bring grief. Yeah, so uh yeah gossip is bad and so yeah yeah and so in all different kinds of circumstances where we're told to honor or respect or um or submit to it's not just when they're in the room. That's a good point. Yep. Uh so let me uh We're out of time. Let me let me l l let me warp forward. Um so uh the priority of every church leader is to care for the spiritual welfare of the congregation for they keep watch over souls and that's a huge responsibility. And we feel the weight of that responsibility. elders. Um and so uh let them do this with joy. That's actually addressed to the people, not to the elders. Read read that sentence carefully. Uh let them do this with joy and not with grief as addressed to the people, not the leaders. In other words, it's the responsibility of the church to help their leaders rule with joy. Uh it it really will determine whether they're uh their leadership is joyful or or grievous depending on how the congregation responds. Uh now they can spoil it all others can spoil it all too by being tyrants. Um but this is addressed to the to the people. Um so let me uh Uh to cause our leaders grief is harmful to ourselves as well as to them, uh and it's unprofitable to you. That's really the the point of that. that sentence there. So the last two verses, pray for us. So there's a at the very end of this section is the author asking for prayers for himself and those who are with him. To pray for church leaders is the servant to please God. And so the writer of Hebrews is apparently a leader in the church or churches to whom he is writing. Um and so he says, I pray for us. Um so church leaders of course are made of the same stuff as those they serve. We have we have sins and weaknesses and limitations and needs of all sorts, just like everyone else in the congregation. And so we need prayers of God's people without which we cannot be the most effective in the work that we do. Um and so he and the author here says he has a good conscience that he He has um ministered to the people faithfully. Not perfectly, but faithfully. And his his most anxious desire is to be restored to them, in other words to actually be it present with this congregation that he's really writing to. And of course our example is Christ. And so if you want an example of what it looks like to do these things, to separate from the world look to Christ. If you want to see what a sacrifice looks like, look to Christ. If you want to see what submission looks like, look to Christ. If you want to know what it is to pray for others Look to Christ. Look at the the seventeenth chapter of John and his prayer. Our example is Christ. Okay. Sorry I've run us way out of time. Uh I'll stay up here for a few minutes if you have additional questions, but let me pray for us.