Uh and yet and always points back to what he had just uh just talked about, referring back to all the things he just said uh about Jesus and said on the basis of all that consider Jesus He attributes it to the Holy Spirit. He's making the point throughout the letter of the doctrine of the inspiration of the scriptures. If you know the truth of the gospel of Christ, don't do what Israel did when she knew God's truth, saw and saw his revelation, revealed himself It seems like the repetition of uh not hardening your heart is a compression towards that. He closed the sea over them and drowned that pursuing army. He continued to direct them by the pillar of cloud and fire. In spite of the fact that they had hardened their hearts, in spite of the fact that this was punishment for them, he continued to care for them. Uh but that really doesn't capture the full meaning. uh in the face of all of this proof and evidence of God's faithfulness to them, God's blessing and provision for them, they persisted in their unbelief. So once that uh Old Testament quote is done, this is what he says next. He's obviously talking to a just a general audience and they're all Jews and so he calls them brothers or brethren. He can hear the gospel of Jesus Christ time and time again and not respond. And Jesus says, if you abide in my word, if you continue, if you live according to, if you obey my commandments, then you'll know that that person is one of us. John said this in 1 John chapter 2, they went out from us, but they were not really of us. First time is in two seventeen and then it's at the beginning of this chapter. y you know, it would have been read all together. to the original audience and and there's no reason we can't read it all at once as well. Hebrews here is Psalm 95. Uh yes, very that's a very good observation. This is uh from the Septuagint uh from Greek from Hebrew to Greek into into English, as we've talked about before and old new brothers. Yeah. And so they weren't slaves when they first went down there. I mean the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. Yeah. We see it over and over again in the book of Acts. And he addresses them as brethren. He says I think he's a little bit upset and I thought I told you about that. We need to do something about that. we'll be teaching once again. Egypt, they let Israel out of Egypt. He's a priest in the order of Melchizedek as we as we move along. Uh very good. as it was by the uh original audience. That's what it was talking about. sixteen hundreds. Psalm 95 serves the purpose perfectly, for in it David warns his own generation not to imitate the unbelief and disobedience of the Exodus generation. So part of that is the initial quote from Psalm 95, therefore, just as the Holy Spirit says, today if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts. Or he he outright says it's the Holy Spirit who wrote it. from which Hebrews 3 is quoted, and the of course the Holy Spirit is the author of Hebrews chapter 3 as well, without any human author even being listed in the beginning of the letter. It's used, that basic warning is three times used three times here in Hebrews chapter three. To the same warning from the Old Testament. uh in the through Moses and his word and in physical manifestations that they could see, like a cloud of pillar of cloud, a pillar of fire, and plagues on Egypt and the Red Sea parting Trust God and arrest him. Johnny Ericsson Tata this past week about her testimony of dealing with pain on a daily basis. And how she allows God to give grace I think that's a valid way to say it, give grace to endure, but not just to endure, but to draw near to him in the midst of that uh God said, uh my grace is sufficient for you, my power is perfected in weakness and I think Johnny Erickson Tada is living that out in in our day. to a uh reprobate woman. I mean it's sort of like Pharaoh when he kept hardening his heart. uh as slaves. Which they did. they hardened their hearts. because of their unbelief. So they had all this abundant evidence, but they would not put their trust in God. for his audience not to make this same mistake as the Israelites did on their way to the Promised Land. by miraculous means. I and being led by a cloud and fire and that was on a daily basis, you you kind of become jaded. You you're used to it, it's no longer a miraculous provision. Well, in contrast with Joseph 6 when Gideon is about to fight the million, he asked God, like, show me that it's you who speaks. It's the deceitfulness of sin. And the majority report was extremely negative and pessimistic. to spew out. And have not listened to my voice, shall by no means see the land which I swore to their fathers, nor shall any of those who sperm me see it. in the New Testament, the final and full revelation of Christ in the New Testament. Not to follow this example. Now this is a contrast. Um and so the the this letter goes to a particular church. Holy Spirit is saying here through the author. Hermeneutics. It's a commentary on portions of the Old Testament. uh this particular passage we'll see it uh it'll be expanded on in chapter four that but that rest here um I'll I'll remember that. And isn't it wonderful that God could drown the entire Egyptian army and all their horses in just three feet of water? one of his students there reading the word of God. of salvation. And we saw that uh, of course, Moses was held in very high regard by the Jews in the first century, as he still is by the Jews today. But remember the author of Hebrews was writing to Jews in the first century, and Moses was held in very high esteem. Remember, God protected Moses as a baby. all the way through, not three or four verses at a time. And they did not know my ways. Italics. the one that I'd mentioned before published in twenty twenty. Moses said to them, Why do you contend with me? As when they provoked me, as in the day of trial in the wilderness, where your fathers tried me by testing me and saw my works for forty years. So here's a clear testimony in the scripture of its own divine inspiration. And this is a Psalm 95 is particularly well known to be have been written, and the human author is David, but he does not attribute it to David Verse 15 and then also again in chapter 4, this basic warning not to harden your heart. Hebrews by quoting. People's lives within the church. preserved his life through all that. Um and there are stories that uh that end in martyrdom that can also be um that difficulty. So when the heart is soft and the conscious is sensitive, and then when you hear the intellectual you're intellectually convinced about Christ, you hear the gospel, that's the design to decide when your heart is still pliable and responsive. uh are involved in all this wickedness, all this wickedness, all this wickedness, and then God gave them over to a depraved mother. Uh it seems to be the same sort of pattern. They saw with their own eyes manna falling from the sky. So he had clearly revealed himself, God did, with proof, after proof, power and blessing, and they never believed They would trust him for a little while after there was a big miracle, and then they would return to grumbling and complaining and doubting. And so we see at the end of that passage in Exodus, Exodus 17, 7, they tested the Lord, saying, Is the Lord among us or not? did not believe. Um the heavens declare declare the glory of God. that every um blessing is is ultimately from God's hand, like in James one. Uh he says, Who am I? Those Israelites continued in unbelief in spite of all that evidence, and Gideon believed You know they saw they knew him, they knew he was dead, they they saw him come back to life, and still it was God. Um they have to repent and believe. Uh he loaded them, he was ready to spew them out, he was disgusted, yes. So this is a uh a clear reference, sanctified brethren, holy brethren, reference to believers And that's what brethren means here in this verse in Hebrews as well. Uh brethren in this verse and in those verses in Acts are a general reference from one Jew to his brother Jews. That's what it is here in chapter 3, verse 12. in the book of Acts and in some of Paul's letters, uh you have to look at the context uh many times. to ourselves. in in general, not just believers. He still has an evil and unbelieving heart. Hebrew Christians, and by extension, of course, the Holy Spirit is still warning us today. Uh it seldom appears as it really is, it masks itself, it lies and deceives. encourage, come alongside one another to give help. still unbelievers uh who are in danger of hardening their hearts, but also true believers are are in that that as well. Uh what will happen to you when you die? That's the answer that you get um many times in in advance. Well we'll see when we get to chapter four, the author makes the point that entering his rest is an analogy for salvation. Um in Hebrews chapter ten we'll see, uh and this is another quote from the Old Testament, but my righteous one shall live by faith. 6 at the end of last lesson. As the greatest proof of salvation is continuance in the Christian life. But they went out in order that it might be shown that they all are not of us. are ignorant of a lot of art, works of art and literature which relate to the Bible. Six verses of chapter three, uh we saw, and this was a comparison of Christ and Moses. Uh he was God spoke to him face to face. He was superior to Moses in his office, in his work, and in his person. Avia is the same was used in the end of chapter 2 to talk about uh sanctified brethren, the same Greek root sanctified and holy uh holy brethren talking about uh fellow believers and we'll see the contrast in today's lesson where he just talks about brethren and it broadly means Jews, uh unbelieving and believing. And Christ, of course, is the Son. Uh any questions about what we studied last week before we go into this week? Um yeah just keep that in mind as as we go through here. Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as when they provoked me, as in the day of trial in the wilderness. Well your fathers tried me by testing me and saw my works for forty years. But encourage one another day after day, as long as it is still called today, so that none of you will be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin For we have become partakers of Christ if we hold fast the beginning of our assurance firm until the end. And that he uses the old text. The faithlessness of the Israelites in the wilderness is an eloquent warning to professing Christians who are in danger of unbelief and of turning back from Christ and the gospel. David therefore does what the writer of Hebrews does. The particular incident spoken of in Psalm 95 is narrated at Exodus 17, 1-7. uh two kinds of track records. Eventually, through repeated rebellion, a person becomes spiritually hardened and insensitive. Uh they came they they became the classic illustration of unbelief in spite of overwhelming evidence. scientific evidence uh that cad was uh there and that he was caring for them and yet For forty years they wandered and because and it was because of their unbelief, they they got up to the the promised land and couldn't go in They have seen the Lord among them over and over with their own eyes, all these mirac miracles providing food, and and and their their question is, let us test the Lord to see if He's really there. And so this is the attitude of unbelief. and and in fact openly tested the Lord. Um and God provides that evidence. When the angel came to Mary, she said, How can this be? Yeah. example of faith where Mary is expected for her to have some measure of doubt. He was going to provide evidence for him to strengthen his faith, but he'd have faith. in a human heart between weak faith and hardened hearted unbelief. Jesus said if they do not listen to Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded if someone rises from the dead. person to rise from the dead and go warn his brothers they still won't believe if they won't believe Moses and the prophets. with Christ. uh is unreasonable and irrational irrational and not subject to proofs and evidence. last Sunday about this tower with twenty eight zeros in the nucleus. Chapter 3. The minority report by Caleb and Joshua was optimistic. And so, uh, Numbers 14, surely all the men who have seen my glory and my signs, which I performed in Egypt and in the wilderness, yet have put me to the test these ten times And so that's why the author of Hebrews is urgently making this point. Holy Brethren uses the same root as sanctified brethren at the end of chapter 2. And he's obviously not talking about them, the entire audience, as followers of Christ. Uh any questions about that? Sanctified brethren in chapter 2, the end of chapter 2. Jews in general, as general audience, and uh like any church, even down to today, some people sitting in the pews are believers, and some people sitting in the pews are not Sanctified brethren, that was a smaller subset. But have not committed their life to Christ, and they keep hearing the gospel and they keep not committing themselves to Christ, what are they in danger of? We've seen this story before of people that saw God were in the midst of God's people. how he loved them and blessed them and miraculously saved them and yet they didn't believe. You the person doesn't say I I've hardened my heart or I must have a hardened heart. I take care of my family, I'm a good neighbor and a solid citizen. It needs to have somebody come alongside and encourage them. Because we know for certain at least one person that had genuine faith didn't get in there. in twenty first century America. to judge a person's heart. about their need for salvation. But we are not of those who shrink back to destruction, but of those who have faith in the persevering of the soul, of preserving of the soul. That's God's assessment. see the fruits of a of a life of faith. We can't see into a person's heart, but we can see, do they persevere in faith? We know by their fruit, by what they do. We're going to talk about the invitation to take heed, take heed of this warning that we're given. He's listed as an apostle here. The apostles that we normally think of, human apostles, were sent by Christ to spread the gospel Font. Alright, this is the word of the Lord. He tribu he either has it unattributed, someone somewhere said, uh, right, to that before point here to the author of Hebrews by quoting himself. uh don't harden your heart. And okay, God has taken care of and He's used and He's always redeemed whatever challenge in order to strengthen faith and Um not from the Bible, but from books we can read about their lives. So is hardening the heart to him, as Israel did. Um and it it it says that uh Pharaoh hardened his heart and then it says God hardened Pharaoh's heart. Yeah, so we're gonna talk about that in a in a minute here. He he he tested. Um but then Gideon believed. And so what he expects of a young woman in her teenage years is different than what he expects of a grown man who is a priest. Those are different and and it may be difficult for us to see it as humans, but it is not difficult for God to see the difference in any one of you an evil, unbelieving heart that falls away from the living God. Remember, this is a letter, we're reading it all through. It does. That's what he's worried about. uh is all of them, including those who are the true believers. Uh becoming a Christian seems too costly, too demanding, too restrictive, and above all, unnecessary. Um and so that's talking about people that profess faith but never hands saving faith and they fall away. Abiding is the proof. So uh any other questions, comments? We're going to see the illustration of Israel in the wilderness where they did harden their hearts. Then we're going to have the instruction to exhort one another. especially to look at Jesus Christ and compare him as great as Moses was, Jesus was greater. This was his one passion, was teaching Hebrews. I think that's right. God revealed himself in a spectacular way in those days, and they hardened their hearts And then it's too late. We have the record from our own life, and we also have uh the record of other saints to demonstrate his power, to demonstrate his uh protection over his people by performing another miracle to open the Red Sea and they passed through the Red Sea. Even though God had been graciously providing water, they demanded water. to God um when he saw him in the afterlife. Because we're humans and he knows we're finite and there's a lot of fear. Okay. So at the end of that paradigm, remember the rich man and Lazarus, so the uh the rich man goes to hell and Uh you can't prove you know uh logically argue somebody into the kingdom. I if if you if you have faith, it's obvious. If you don't have faith, then all of that evidence just washes right over you and you can't see it. So they had plenty of evidence to believe that God could lead them safely into this land flowing with milk and honey, but they would not believe them, and so they were not allowed to enter. So even more evidence we have. That's the distinction uh made here. Acts chapter 22, Acts chapter 23, he addresses a big group of Jews, including the council of the rulers of Israel. Uh some are some are definitely believers and some are not. the the the the wide road that leads to the hardening of the heart. came to save faith during the wander. But the original apostle with a capital A was Christ, who was sent by God, the sent one of God. So Moses, of course, was very faithful. And then in the last couple of verses we studied last week was the contrast between a servant and a son. Right, that's a good point. Uh Robert. by and other people that we actually know personally. I think that's important. Tortured for Christ. overwhelming. And so just as Pharaoh quickly got over his fear of God, the Israelites quickly got over their trust of him Don't harden your hearts. in David's generation. kind of not appreciating that okay this is from the direct hand of God. And so they both show some questioning of the Lord. And and all yeah, so God can see the heart as well. Yeah, and so there's obviously a difference between fear, faith but being fearful, as opposed to a hardened heart and unbelief. David used it as a warning, the Holy Spirit uses it as a warning through David in Psalm 95. So there's a word there in the Greek prosakhizo. The people believed the majority report and immediately began to grumble and complain to Moses and Aaron. It's talking about racial brothers. Is here translated in courage. the paraclete, the encourager, the helper that he's going to send. Chapter four makes it very explicit, is talking about salvation. I'm a Christian and I'm going to church every Sunday. Isn't he amazing? talk the talk, but do they walk to the walk? holy brethren as contrasted to holy brethren here, which means believers. But the author of Hebrews did not want to identify Israel. And so it may not necessarily match your English translation of these same verses directly from the Masoretic text into English. It's foolish and dangerous to harden your heart. So his his glory and his power, but yet tomorrow as soon as something happens that you aren't expecting, there's there's a hardening and a disbelief to to rely on the Um that story ends in death, but it's still a powerful story. Yes. Modern atheists, some of them scientists, will say that there's no evidence for God. if he was if he if he got to the preliminates and he was Saint Peter was there and um what what would he say They'll perhaps identify it or believe it for a time and then want more evidence. That's the nature of unboxing. He he's he's also talking about his own death and resurrection and the fact that people will still not believe. Uh that's really the point. Ouch. That's the flavor of that Greek word about that's God's attitude towards those uh those in Israel who didn't believe after all he had done So as they of course in the story in Exodus, as they approached the promised land, God commanded them to send out twelve men to spy it out before they entered So if Israel had more than enough evidence to trust God in Moses' day, how much more do we have today when we have that complete revelation of Christ in the New Testament? So it's different. So that's the kind of attitude that can slip into the hardening of the heart, and it can seem very reasonable to me as my heart becomes hardened. This is um the the perseverance of the saints. And the red sea was really only a foot, a foot and a half, three feet at the most deep. He goes in and he says, Son, son, what are you reading? holding fast our confidence and the boast of our hope firm until the end. I'm going to be reading from the NASG 1995 version. Uh today indicates urgency. powerful and moving and um and and show us um spiritual truths through reading about other people's lives. It may be difficult for us to discern that uh as human beings. As we shall see in the next chapter, chapter 4 of Hebrews 1 through 3, rest here in Hebrews is a symbol of salvation. using a different root form of agia for sanctified and the same root agia for holy brethren in verse 1 of chapter 3 But there's many contexts in the in the Book of Acts where you it's really obvious from the context that he uses the word brethren to mean his fellow Jews. Those unbelieving Jewish brethren, encourage them not to harden their hearts, but to accept Jesus as the Messiah. A patha. All right. Take care, brethren, that there not be in any one of you an evil, unbelieving heart that falls away from the living God. Yes. is probably the most difficult, at least for me in the Christian life, to um because with every new challenge or People have gone through various trials and the Lord has brought them through in various ways. So God had released the Israelites from Egypt by this by powerful miracles, the plagues. And the same with Gideon. He he uh he wants to send warning to his brothers who are still alive So most people do not need more proof that God is real, that Jesus is his son and the Savior. the doubts that somebody like Gideon had, but persistent unbelief in the So after the quotes of the Old Testament, take care, brethren, that there not be any one of you So it's it's he's talking in general to all these Jews, some of whom are believers and some of whom are not, but all of them are Jews. I don't really need all that. This one is from twenty twenty. The basic warning from the psalm is do not harden your heart. So that was an angry God responding to this unbelief, this persistent unbelief. Don't do it. Don't harden your hearts. The old nature constantly suggests that sin is not so bad, and that trust in Christ is not so important as the Bible says. He was faithful to those to the one who was appointed to him, but Jesus more so. Any others? So when they arrived at the trial in the wilderness, God continued to bless them with miracles. Moses led them out. So they would not commit to God in faith, uh, is the is the point here. That feels there's a certain level of unbelief as well, but there's some uncertainty there that it's got and this is like uncertainty as well. And so that would be a kind of a spectacular warning to have your dead brother come back and warn you. As punishment, God would not allow those rebellious people to enter the promised land And that encouragement goes for both fellow believers and also for these ones who are in danger of hardening their hearts. We cannot see the heart, we can only see what people do. Uh any questions so far? Therefore I was angry with this generation and said, They always go astray in their heart, and they did not know my ways. The rest in Psalm 95 was Canaan, the promised land, where the toil of their wandering would end. Any questions about any of that? Test, it's like, okay, this is brand new. So after each blessing they were satisfied for a little brief time, uh, and then they would students start to complain and grumble uh about uh endow God. And another NASB ninety-five thing is if it's in italics, it means it was not in the original. And so that's the it's a similar, it's a parallel kind of warning that we're getting here. Yeah. And so that's the warning, that's the people he's warning about hardening their hearts. If you hear his voice, don't harden your heart. Because God didn't appreciate being tested by them. So then he then he turns um to this statement here and we'll we'll get back to the question that was from the back here when we talk about this first. Okay, uh so the Greek word uh uh parakol parakoleo, uh parakoleo. So that's what we're going to learn today. So you'll notice it when you read through there. So, um, you know, secular colleges do not believe the word of God nor do they teach it, but they've come to believe that their graduates Yeah. I think it fits with the with the way he treats the rest of Scripture, uh, to to not give the names of by David and to not give his own name. Yes. So that's that's the example that the Holy Spirit goes to. And this is the warning that the Holy Spirit comes back to in Hebrews chapter three. And so that's the the ultimate spiritual truth that's being made here is that um in in well by the time we get to the New Testament John said a similar thing in 1 John chapter 2. So the professor goes off to his axe to get his book. Take care. the portions of the Old Testament having to do with the wilderness wandering is that everyone who did not make it into the promised land was actually condemned. Uh originally of course Moses or uh uh Joseph was the kind of sort of the prime minister of Egypt So they were not trusting God for water in faith. He came back from the dead and there were still and still are plenty of people who don't believe in spite of the fact that he came. Yeah, it's uh it's a remarkable thing to study God's creation in detail and see all of these That's why testimony testimonies are so uh powerful. Where they the Lord's talking about how progressively they can be more and evil and evil. Yeah, that's uh that's uh a profound test uh uh commentary. I can't don't speak very well and uh and but but he goes. Yeah. And so these readers were informed about the gospel. Psalm 95, to support his exhortation to persevering faith and discipleship. I think it's important to learn from other people's experiences as well as my own. How many have read that book or seen the movie about it? And once again, the author of Hebrews returns to that example of a people being shown overwhelming evidence. You know, they saw with their own eyes these plagues. They kept testing God. He provided manna to feed them, the pillar of cloud and fire to lead them and guide them. So this is unbelief. At one point he addresses them as brethren and fathers. My righteous one will live by faith. Any questions or comments about it? Yeah, unbelief can be silly. But the translators thought that they helped us understand better by adding it, but they always add them in our Yep. Yeah, so that's a good question. We'll see that point very explicitly made in the next chapter, chapter 4. Yeah, so uh i th in the in the previous there w there was two references to w there's a there's a modifier for brethren. He's he loves these people. Um and you you s explained earlier that Hebrews is like a So they invented this course called the Bible as literature. It does seem to be a point of the yeah. And it was necessary again in Hebrews in the first century. So uh there's no actual the Greek word me is not in the original text. And so they put it in there, but they let you know that they put it in there by making it an italics. Robert P. Once again, it's a quote word by word in the Greek from the Septuagint of this passage. Oh no, what am I gonna do? And then he moved into this topic of pardoning. As Jesus made clear in the parable of the rich man at Lazarus, no evidence is sufficient for the person who does not want to believe. Uh that's not a good thing to hear from uh uh an almighty God Entering the rest was very explicitly entering the land of Canaan. Okay. You wouldn't had to wait a couple of weeks to hear the rest of the development of uh this theme of the high priest. And once again we're going to get very heavily quoted quoting from the Old Testament. Brethren here, without the modifier fully or sanctified, is talking about the Jews And uh it's a powerful thing to listen to her testimony of struggle. So Israel had been in Egypt for 400 years. There was a famous atheist that was asked, uh George Bernard Shaw, he was asked Yeah, that's a good point. So then he continues. Questions? So let me just give you uh a few paragraphs from uh Dr. One, our own life, how is the Lord taking care of me? Yes. Don't follow this example. So one day this uh professor who taught that course comes into the library to get a book and he sees And the professor says they're there. In chapter 2, for example, Peter in his sermon addresses the whole audience as brethren And then at the very end we have verse 14, for we have become partakers of Christ if we hold fast the beginning of our assurance firm until the end. If we really believe the gospel, if we've committed our life to Jesus Christ, then at the end of the day, the end of the year, the end of our life, our commitment will still stand. Apostle just means sent one. Good comment, good uh observation, and uh we'll see that. Don't continue to hear this gospel taught and preached and not commit your life to Christ. Uh but Dr. He shouldn't have shouldn't have tested God, he did. Gideon has doubts. I I don't really need it. So part eight. And the author of Hebrews does this over and over again throughout Hebrews. I think that's correct. Don't be in unbelief like that Exodus generation was. He he didn't harden his heart. Right. There's a clear distinction made here. When a person becomes spiritually hardened, he rarely is aware of it Uh I think I'll go to heaven. So I'm wondering if that's too harsh of a statement. God personally provided for his burial at the end of his life. So uh here's what he says. The Holy Spirit is using the same warnings that he used in the Old Testament. I I can I can understand if I were being fed on Martin. Yep. One of the the points of this kind of warning um is the hard heart and unbelief And the same thing here. As I swore in my wrath, they shall not enter my rest. Uh by the time they reached the Red Sea, Pharaoh had changed his mind. And one of the reasons that he may his life may have been preserved is so he could tell the story so the rest of us could read it. But they eventually became slaves. It doesn't simply mean unhappy and disappointed. Uh God was extremely angry with Israel's sin. So this brethren is different from holy brethren that we just read in this same chapter. Uh no, so the agia is not there. Any other questions? He's writing to what he calls holy brethren. Yep. Remember as we're going through this also, that this is a letter. So because we're of the time constraints that it takes time to study a a small passage of it, we're breaking it up into chunks, but remember So very new commentary. Um you know, um when you read uh the story of Richard Bernbrand, for example. That's like the seed. We have the whole evidence in the Old Testament, and we have the evidence of the testimony of Christ It could be less than 24 hours. It could be, but I didn't I didn't specifically look it up. I I mean I I've heard it over and over and over again. He says, Professor, look, do you see this? Why do you tempt the Lord? How has the Lord led somebody through a trial? That's a good contrast. They'll live by faith. Jesus can see right into the heart and he knows. So today, do not harden your hearts is the warning that we get from the particular passage we're going to study today. Uh he had seen the glory of God and it was reflected in his face at one point. And so in this passage that we studied last week, the writer of Hebrews, the Holy Spirit through the writer of Hebrews is calling these Jewish readers There's something else. Martin's and Dr. Dr. He's concerned about them. Does that just continue to develop like as you track that through like a good point and so it comes up again and we'll um Um it means right now. Brethren here is not a reference to Christians as holy brethren was in 3. I'm basically a good person. That's possible. Yes, it did. And so eventually he wrote us, he wrote a commentary after having taught Hebrews for He uses the Exodus generation's experience to warn his contemporaries concerning how they should regard the Word of God. He does not attribute it to the human author. He continued to provide food and water for them. That was the true reverse. Comments, code. So all you have to do is look up at the stars and there's evidence. So a a tendency not to recognize blessings or to become jaded by blessings and not be appreciative. So we have people that we know were uh genuine followers of God that had doubts So Moses kind of annoys the Lord in the scene of the the burning bush. That's how you know them by their fruits, Jesus said. Robert P. So today, don't harden your heart. Um we won't get to that. Notice that that's the word used here, is they were testing God. So we have to remember that, that he can see the heart, he can see Gideon's heart and see that The Lord can do that, we cannot. Okay. This is the characteristic of unbelief. His punishment will be even more severe because of his knowledge of the living God. So Paul warns that our hearts are or consciousness can become seared. And so uh th there's a warning here to don't get to that point. That's right. We're studying small parts of this letter, but of course it would have been all read all at once. Okay. Holy brethren, they're at the beginning of chapter 3, and then we have just brethren in verse 12. That's really what it's uh what he's he's urging here. But first, let's take a look back and review what we talked about last time. The Old Testament speaks to that. Yes, Kurt. Do they walk the Christian walk? Uh we've come to part eight. So yes, that idea that Jesus is the the perfect and final high priest is developed throughout the like heath. There's never enough evidence. They saw the inhabitants as giants and themselves as grasshoppers. So it includes all the Jews, unbelieving Jews as well. And it has to do with coming alongside to give help. And the kid's going, Wow, oh, great God, you're so powerful. This is continuing the quote from Psalm 95 and verse 10 here in Hebrews. The true believer stays with Christ. The writer here draws on the warning of Psalm 95, 7B to 11. That's the point that the Holy Spirit made through David and Psalm 95, and that the Holy Spirit's making the same I I've I've never seen it before and it's too much to bear. It does seem to be a point of no return. That's the typical answer. That's what the nature is telling them. They were demanding water from God as their duty and as a test to see if he really could and would provide it. It's just kind of happenstance. He believed. They were in the church. And that's what the Holy Spirit is saying to the author of Hebrews here. But one unbelief leads to another and another. And then we're going to see that perseverance is proof. If you look at verse nine, where your father's tried me, there's two knees and they're an I Martin. Not because they underestimated the power of the enemy, but because they knew the power of the Lord was greater. Okay. It does. That's the proof that we're part of God's house. Uh so if you'll open up your Bible or turn on your device and tune it to uh Hebrews chapter 3, uh we're going to go through uh chapter 3, verse 7 to 14. And so unbelief can't be logically argued into the And so he's urgently warning them, don't harden your hearts. I'm not perfect of course, but I'm not evil either. In other words, there'll be uh the fruits of repentance. Martin, I think I mentioned before, he he taught Hebrews in seminary for 40 years. He tests the Lord, he tests him twice, you know, do on the fleece and not everywhere else, do everywhere else and not on the fleece. So does this brethren also include Yeah, so that's a good point. The judgment of the wilderness days fell on those who rejected God's word through Moses. Apatai, deceitfulness means trickery or stratagem. Um in Psalm ninety-five it was really pointing towards That's that's the proof. So I have to tell you. Uh I have very old commentaries, uh the one by John O'Roy is from the It's not necessarily a 24-hour period. And yet they hardened their hearts. And George Bernard Shaw's was uh his quote was not enough evidence, God, not enough evidence And she was not chastised for it, but when the angel came to Zechariah, the father of John the Baptist, he questioned, how can this be? You can just sit there in the pew and hear it, and his heart becomes hard over time and he doesn't realize it. It's a good exercise to do as you're going through this class, I think, is to carve out enough time when you can and read it all the way through it. And God afflicted the Egyptians with a series of ten plagues, forcing Pharaoh to allow the Israelites to leave When someone departs from the gospel, backs away from the faith, we can only conclude that person never believed. We have time today. You know the Holy Spirit quoting himself from Psalm 95. It could be more than 24 hours. So they got to see miracle after miracle after miracle, and yet they hardened their hearts. Now, just like he provided lots of evidence for the Israelites there, but what's the what's the difference And when we get down to the base of this in a few verses Same thing happens with Paul several times The scriptures simply doesn't say. Uh that's the kind of the go-to example for people receiving all the possible evidence in the world and yet they they'll believe And I think I think what we have to remember is that God under s he knows our form and he knows our weakness The Holy Spirit is using it again as a warning in Hebrews chapter 3. Uh the greatest sin in the world is unbelief. And so uh and it's making a spiritual truth there that unbelief, if you don't believe, that you won't enter heaven Small caps means it's quoting from the Old Testament. Yep. Right. God can see that directly. That's what we'll get to that in Hebrews chapter 10. All right, let me close this in prayer. So he was sent from God as in that sense he was an apostle. They went to Egypt. He's returning and the kid is down there still. Exodus 17, 2. Uh so it's the Holy Spirit uh was the author of Psalm ninety five. So uh he was tortured for years and years and years and faithfully followed Christ and Christ Right. Take care of brethren. But it's clear from the context that he's talking to Moses. Yeah, I I was curious about and maybe it has to do with the um It gives indication to the reader. It's so obvious, God's hand in creation So this is a broader, it's broader than the previous holy brethren Yes. God was patient with him and and uh gave him the signs, the evidence So there's contrast there. And all of those instances of fear, God was very gentle That particular church has both believers and also those who profess to be believers who are not That's the comparison that we looked at last time. The the difference between holy brethren and brethren here. So uh Exodus 17. How does that work? It means to loathe, to spew out, to be disgusted with And so that's the the lesson here at the very end in verse 14. So many years later, under David, the same thing, the same warning was necessary. But encourage one another day after day, as long as it is called today, so that none of you will be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. His fellow Jews, take care of my fellow Jews, that there not be in any one of you an evil, unbelieving heart that falls away from the living God. And why should God let you into heaven? And and the person that's trapped in that doesn't realize it. And in between, his whole life was touched by God. It starts of course with therefore, and whatever a passage starts with therefore, you ask what it's there for. They saw with their own eyes the parting of the Red Sea And it's just like David was doing when he wrote Psalm 95 under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. And as we do today as Americans, we we have a lot and we don't necessarily attribute it to Uh if you're sitting there in church, but you haven't committed your life to Christ So how many times have you heard that in presenting the gospel to somebody Moses didn't get in there. So is it possible that during those 40 years that somebody came to faith? And then at the end of the passage last week, we had this same concept as we're going to see at the end of today's passage as well. And I think he's making a deliberate point there Today, right now, right at this very moment Nothing is more illogical or unreasonable than this. It's the same root word that's used here. Um next week I will be once again teaching the new members class, so I will not be here and said Baldridge. He just wanted it to be known as from Homes. And Moses' response was, why do you quarrel with me and why do you test the Lord? It's not possible for there ever to be enough evidence. Not at the uh the the evidence of a dead person coming to life is not going to convince them. It's translated angry here All right. And in that version, in that version, the Old Testament quotes are in what's called the small capsule. Yeah. So we have even less excuse than those in Israel who hardened their hearts. And so this one, in this context, without the holy or the sanctified, is talking about I I think I'm a good person. For if they had been of us, they would have remained with us. Do they continue? We see it in verses seven and eight here. Joseph initially went down there, then there was the big famine, and then the whole family followed. So brethren, Jews in general, includes not only uh those who are Uh the the person is usually oblivious to that. Martin, uh the very modern uh commentary that I like. And it's necessary today. So the the holy is not there. These are people that are sitting in a church. They want to say Remember that when we get to our passage today. And so we we do have a uh track record That God can see a clear difference between those So it could be. Notice who the author of Hebrews says wrote Psalm 95. And then of course we've also got the record of the Word of God with various Um and Um the proof is that you stay. And the author of Hebrews today is going to tell us, don't do that. That warning was given both in Psalm 95, as we'll see, and also in Hebrews chapter 3. Okay, so we start with it, let's uh break it down. You hear his voice, don't harden your heart. Who knows how much time each and every one of us has until the Lord comes again. And their shoes didn't wear out. Um the deceitfulness of sin. And so if you if you look kind of at the today's lesson, you would interpret That's what happens if you harden your heart. As a result, they had to wander in the wilderness until all the unbelieving generation had died Where God wouldn't expect us to think of any man who's been saved twenty years as somebody who's been saved yesterday Uh perhaps many even profess to be Christians, but no matter how close a person may be to accepting Christ as Savior, if he never comes to him, He says, Yes, I know, Professor It's it's it's something that I have produced. Even when he comes back from the he will come back from the dead. They were God's people, Israel. But here But when Jesus is talking to his disciples, he's telling them how they can determine who's one of them When the when the Israelites got to the Red Sea, God parted the water and allowed them to go through. Uh so eventually his heart was hard. And it seems to be the same sort of ideas Paul gives in Romans chapter one, where they uh people uh Yep. He's talking about them as brethren, as fellow Jews. We have a whole five minutes. When it says red C, it really means read C They need to hate their sin enough to repent and commit themselves to Him. So it it we don't know for sure because it's impossible to um I don't need saving. Then you can hear the gospels over and over and over again, it doesn't matter. There's a really sharp contrast. So we had sanctified brethren. Holy Brethren, in this case, it was a play on words, a Greek word, the Greek root. And we're going to see that that's the proof of saving faith at the end of today's passage as well. The comparison of Christ and Moses leads naturally to a comparison of those who respectively receive their teaching. Uh and not just testimonies of salvation, but testimonies of how the Lord has led in Um in other words, God hardened their hearts after they had hardened their own hearts through all this wickedness Is he switched who he's writing to at this point? It's the example that David uses in Psalm 95 So the writer of Hebrews is pleading He rejected and repudiated them because they always went astray in their heart and did not know his ways. Okay, so that's the reference here, and it's the same it's the same way in um So that's the the one and only proof that we can see He brought them to the Red Sea. So based on the illustration of Israel's unbelief in the wilderness, an appeal is made to the readers of Hebrews So um there's some context where you can see it's Come alongside them and encourage them and give them help. Do they live by faith? That's how we know. At other times he's addressing believers, but you have to look at the context and know for sure. This is what the Sin Nature uh deceitfully tells men All these things he had provided. Okay, remember at the end. There we learn that even before reaching Sinai, the Israelites were guilty of unbelief and rebellion. Okay. Um Jesus said this in his earthly ministry. And it does not they don't in any way speak doctrine or or truth. He never attributes the Old Testament to their uh to the to the human author. Notice that So you you start um And this letter w would have been read like you read letters So that's the yes. He's using it again here in the book of Right? Uh from unbelief comes uh every other sin. Um so it's possible that there were those that didn't get in there from that unbelieving generation that Um if you ask the diagnostic questions Moses, as faithful and a wonderful follower of God as he was, was still a servant. Uh but in translating to English, the translators felt very strongly that In other words, it refers to the present moment And then he just turns them over So there's a New Testament commentary on Exodus. And chased after them. God had been with Moses. That's what we learned last week. But there there are repetitive themes here in the in the in the letter, and that's one of them. 2 says, the people quarreled with Moses and said, Give us water that we may drink. It's never enough You can't recognize it. And the same thing happens in the book of Acts. After all, from my own perspective, I don't seem so wicked Therefore I was angry with this generation and said, They always go astray in their heart And so um When God protected them again and again, provided for them again and again, they still That's not how it works. And it's the same root word Jesus uses of the Holy Spirit in John 14. And uh in uh I would probably put this in connection with the the scripture that you Don't don't harden your heart like that. Richard Dawkins will say, no evidence for God. He was also, of course, the high priest, the new high priest. So we have both. We see the rest of what happens with Moses after that. Well, and God makes incredible allowance for fear Alright, so let's start in verse 7. He's heard and didn't believe. Well I think I'm a good person. You gotta believe it all, or don't believe at all So staying with the Lord marks the difference between true saving faith and mere profession. Yep, that's a great example and a great point. But unbelief will never see that evidence. It could be. And he does it very explicitly here in this particular passage. Uh so listening to a God uh and obeying him are matters of will All of that direct physical And for them he encourages uh he tells them to encourage one another, come alongside But that's what that's God's opinion on the matter. And and so they said, Well we mean Okay. Um that is the You would have read it through the whole letter all in one sitting It refers to the period of grace while there's still time. And yet you look back over your forty years of Christian life And so remember that this brethren is a big s That's not how Jesus knows. We'll see it later in verses thirteen. All that time in the wilderness, he continued to miraculously care for them If you harden your heart for long enough, you end up with a seared conscience So Zechariah should have known better and should have been Wow! He had to wear a veil because the glory of God was reflected in his face from having spoken to God. God says, my servant Moses is faithful in all my house in Numbers chapter 12. Jesus was Moses was faithful, Jesus was more faithful When God calls, don't harden your heart. And the day of trial for them then lasted forty years. As I swore in my wrath, they shall not enter my rest. They they hardened their hearts. There's no word that they could translate Yeah, good point. That's the quote that he met it in. 1 Timothy 4. Uh we'll uh we'll have we'll specifically talk about that. Yeah, they still doubted. Rest as an analogy for salvation, as a symbol for salvation. 1. So of course they went across it. The same warning is necessary. That was what happened in that generation in Exodus Because it does have that connotation. They're in danger of hardening their hearts. My life has room for improvement, but it doesn't need any saving So last time we did uh the first You know, and so like So there's a contrast. They had seen him God's assessment of course is quite different. Let's take a look at this uh verse by verse. We have a written record from other people's lives But look at Jesus' response to that. Don't harden your heart. I have a quick question about as Jesus described as our high break. Yeah. That's what makes it so dangerous. I I'm the author of it Sin is tricky But yet they were still the they were still able to say, is God among us? Um Do they not just Uh and then so and that gave God an another opportunity God, amazing! Pastor, before you take that slide away, since you mentioned Um and that seems to be Yes. And if he shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him Yes. And it's a warning that obviously goes back thousands of years. 2, the warning about a seared conscience This is uh hypothetical, even if he was to allow this Yes, sir. Like how do you what is it And so, of course, what is Jesus also doing there? Oh, Diana's just showing me a video from That's who God is Yeah, it's just remarkable. If you abide in my word, then you are truly disciples of mine. And the warning here is to those who reject God's word in Christ. They're all his racial brothers, fellow Jews. And he's warning these Yes. Not just Jesus knows by looking directly into their heart I think uh a New Testament example of what you're saying is Um But there are many stories like that. That's It's the greatest offense against God and brings the greatest harm Don't be like them. Numbers 14 So the Apostle Paul when the thorn of the flesh was not taken from him This was And we see it in our modern day. Um Yes. Therefore, just as the Holy Spirit says So look at this attitude. This is this is unbelievable. And not only that, but when the Egyptians tried to follow He was playing with his generation And of course that actually happened I want you to remember that. Uh the story of Jim Elliott for example Uh that exact same kind of example. It's a good point. They were there for 400 years, about the last 200 or so. He he goes, he he believes and he follows God and he's faithful. Let's go in. That's what the Yes it's possible That reminds me of your sermon. The Holy Spirit You are so powerful. You never know how long you have to decide. Do not harden your hearts. Or they'll discount it. Yes. He was made mute And this is very similar to verse. They hardened their hearts Hold that for just uh just a second. Do not harden your hearts. They demanded water. At the end of all that I think that that fits. Okay, Professor It's not a matter of proof. The Lord's with us. You see And the professor Let's go in and take it. Yes, Richard. Or He led