Welcome to uh part two. Uh we're gonna get started here just a moment. I know there there may be a few of you that um that were not with us for the first part and I'll try to I'll try to help Um I'll try to help out as best I can to get everybody oriented to uh to where we are in just a minute. All right, let's uh let's start with a word of prayer Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this wonderful Lord's Day, uh cool and crisp and and beautiful. We thank you for um your work as creator, uh, that you've made all things and you're sovereign over all things. things. We thank you for the opportunity that we have to gather as the body of Christ and worship you today. We thank you for your word and all the things that we see in it the promises and the warnings and uh the description of your great plan of redemption from Genesis to Revelation. We thank you for the opportunity we have, particularly now, to to delve into the book of Hebrews and to really learn what you're trying to teach us uh from that book. We thank you for your loving kindness and your grace and your mercy. We thank you, Lord, and we worship you because you are worthy of all honor and glory and praise. We worship you, Lord, especially for sending Jesus to die on the cross for our sins. And we pray these things in Jesus' precious name. Amen. So this is part two of a three. Part uh series on Hebrews. And so if you look at the syllabus, the syllabus starts with part fourteen of thirty-nine, lesson fourteen of thirty-nine lessons. So if you're joining us of course we've gotten part way through the book of Hebrews here and so you'll be picking up in the middle. If you have questions please don't hesitate to ask. If you if you find yourself wondering how we got here, uh please just just ask. Uh but I think that you'll benefit, even if you haven't got the uh the first thirteen parts, you'll benefit from what we're learning uh even starting here somewhat in the middle. So Here's our syllabus starting in December 1st. Now, um I did post today's lesson on the Hope Book group for this class late last night. Was anybody able to see it? I just want to check. Okay, good. So it is actually there. Um if you haven't yet registered for the class, I encourage you to do so so that you can see the files that I post and the messages that that I post on Hope Book. Uh so we're gonna be working uh s starting in chapter five. We we've come up through chapter five verse ten in the first part. We're gonna be starting in uh chapter five verse eleven and we're gonna go be going through the beginning of chapter 11. Chapter 11 is a deep and rich chapter, the Faith Hall of Fame, and so we're going to be spending quite a bit of time in Chapter 11, especially in next quarter. So if you if you stick with me all the way through next quarter, we're going to be spending basically a lesson on each person that's mentioned there and in chapter 11. Okay. Any questions about that before we get get started? We've got a lot to cover today. So we're going to be talking about the tragedy of neglecting full revelation. Uh we'll see a third warning. So there's a series of warnings in in the book of Hebrews. There's six of them altogether. This will be the third one. We'll be seeing that the that dullness, spiritual dullness, prevents spiritual understanding. We'll see the need to become mature. We'll see that there are incomplete Old Testament features. There are Old Testament features that are kind of the shadow, or the New Testament is the substance. And we'll see that then the The complete revelation is the New Testament, especially the revelation in the person of Christ. And then we'll see the power. Where does the power come from for salvation and for service? Where is that power? come from. But first we'll take a look back. We're not gonna I'm not gonna try to review all of last quarter, but I'll just uh review what we did recently Um so we did uh the last uh the this kind of middle part of chapter five, uh we saw that in verses five to ten They showed that Jesus met the qualifications for high priest, which were originally mentioned in verses one through four. Jesus was chosen uh by God, the Father, um and he uses the writer uses quotes from the Old Testament. He's done that throughout the book of Hebrews. He'll continue to do that, uh rely on quotes from the Old Testament to to support Toward his points. And so so Jesus didn't take the position of high priest to himself, he was appointed. The way all priests, human priests, are appointed. And so God invested him with this authority. and we get this initial reference to this man Melchizedek, that he was a priest in according according to the order of Melchizedek, and we'll discuss that in much more detail when we get to chapter seven in a few weeks. Uh but we did an initial uh little discussion of who this M Melchizedek was since he came up. Uh he was a king and a priest He lived at the time of Abraham. Uh his ancestry is unknown. He's the king of Salem. Um and his priesthood is superior to Aaron's priesthood, we talked about for two reasons. He was not only a priest, he was also a king. Aaron was not a king. king. Um and his priesthood is perpetual, while Aaron's was temporary. And so Melchizedek's priesthood is a better parallel, a better comparison for Christ than was Aaron. Um So the other thing about Jesus as high priest, not only was he appointed, but he could also identify with those whom he was to mediate for. And so he could identify with people he he felt with them. He was a man just as surely as any high priest was a man in the t in the air of the tabernacle in the temple. He also offered up prayers and supplications uh because of the anguish that he felt. Um especially the anguish that he felt as he looked forward to becoming sin for those who believed in him. So Jesus was subject to temptation, he was subject to um the hurts and griefs of being uh a man. And so he had known all things in his divine omniscience, but he learned he had some an experience of these things as a man, which he couldn't have had uh in his uh solely And so he can be a sympathetic high priest. That was the point of the author in the last section we did. And of course, Jesus, when he made his supplications, he was heard because of his piety. um his reverential fear and awe for for the father, his obedience to the father. Um and he was s he was all and although he was uh um God's son, he was divine, he was also human, he was God in human flesh, and so he learned the full meaning of the cost of obedience, according to the uh the author of Hebrews in our last text. And that made him the the high perfect high priest. And then of course the third thing was that he made the right sacrifice So he was appointed by God, uh he could identify with those who he was uh high priest for, he was a mediator for, and then also he made the right sacrifice. Um and his sacrifice was perfect, leading to p uh uh salvation. Salvation, uh eternal salvation. So the perfect high priest makes the perfect sacrifice for those who accept it uh and makes them perfect. And so that was what we did last week. Any questions about what we did? last week. Okay. If you'll take out your Bibles or tune your devices to Hebrews chapter five, we're going to Be starting in verse 11. Hebrews chapter 5, verse 11, to begin today's lesson. And this is there's a whole section of scripture here that really hangs together from uh verse 511 all the way to 61. uh chapter six verse eighteen, but we're gonna break that up. Um and today we'll go from chapter five verse eleven to chapter six verse three. So this is the word of the Lord. Concerning him we have much to say, and it is hard to explain since you have become dull of hearing. For though by this time you ought to be teachers, you have need again for someone to teach you the elementary principles of the oracles of God. And you have come to need milk and not solid food. For everyone who partakes only of milk is not accustomed to the word of righteousness, for he is an infant. But solid food is for the mature who because of practice have their senses trained to discern good and evil. Therefore, leaving the elementary teaching about the Christ, let us press on to maturity not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith toward God, of instruction about washings and laying on of hands, and the resurrection of the dead, and eternal judgment. And this we will do if God permits. This is the word of the Lord. I'll give you a couple of paragraphs from John MacArthur uh on this uh this text of scripture and um and then we'll launch into um a detailed discussion verse by verse. So uh here's what MacArthur has to say about this section of scripture. We have come to a section of Hebrews of which there are numerous and often conflicting interpretations even among evangelicals. The overall passage is 511 to 612 and deals with spiritual maturity. The first two parts, 511-14 and 6-1-8, are, I believe, addressed to unbelievers, whereas the third, six nine to twelve, is to believers. Throughout the book of Hebrews, the many comparisons and contrasts are basically between Christianity and Judaism. This truth is essential to proper interpretation of the epistle. Most books of the Bible have a major theme or group of closely related themes. One of the first rules of sound biblical hermeneutics, interpretation of the Bible. interpretation is to discover this central theme and to render all other interpretations in light of it. In the book of Hebrews, the Holy Spirit is not contrasting two kinds of Christianity. He is not contrasting immature Christians and mature ones. He is contrasting Judaism and Christianity. The unsaved Jew in Judaism and the redeemed Jew in Christianity. He is contrasting the substance and the shadow, the pattern and the reality, the visible and the invisible, the facsimile and the real thing. The type and the antitype, the picture and the actual. So says John MacArthur about this section of scripture we're about to study. And as he points out, not everybody agrees that this is the way to read this passage. So we'll discuss it as we go through here. So starting with verse 11, it says, concerning him We have much to say, and it is hard to explain since you have become dull of hearing. So who is the hymn? The hymn is Melchizedek. So remember this is a letter and and they didn't read a couple of sentences and then go away for a week and read a couple of sentences. So we we just read about Melchizedek in verse 6 and verse 10 And so verse 10 says Melchizedek, and verse 11 says concerning him. So it's really, really, really obvious if you read it all together that the hymn is Melchizedek. Concerning him, we have much to say, and it's hard to explain since you have become dull of hearing. Um so before so what the author is saying is before he can explain who this book is the deck is and why it's important and how crisis similar to him, which he will do in chapter seven, and so we'll get there. In chapter seven, the writer gives a war a warning, a third warning. Uh throughout Hebrews there are several warnings to the intellectually convinced Jews who were on the edge of decision but had not yet come to faith in Christ. It's another warning about being dull of hearing, about being spiritually obtuse. So he st he he gives this warning first before he launches in and he and he prefaces it by saying, Well well, I'd like to tell you about this Melchizedek and why it's important, but you're too dull of hearing. Um and so he's gonna chastise them for a bit before he gets around to explain explaining about the priesthood of Melchizedek. Um so before they could possibly understand the significance they had to uh they he needed to tell them about their immaturity and under s uh their immature understanding about God and why that was an impediment. And so he goes on to explain that the key mark of the immaturity was this dullness of hearing. That is spiritual lethargy. Um so the relation of Melchizedek and his priesthood to Christ is rich and meaningful and important to the flow of the book, but it cannot be understood by unbelievers. Even ones who had an intellectual knowledge of the gospel. First Corinthians two says, A natural man does not accept the things of the Spirit of God because they are spiritually appraised. And he's saying, Well you're spiritually dull. You're dull of hearing. And these things are spiritually appraised, so you're not going to get them. So when a person is spiritually dull, he is difficult to teach. It's difficult to Teach spiritual truths to somebody who is spiritually dull. And so that's what he's saying. Remember this is a a s in the character of a sermon, so he's preaching the sermon out to them. And this is the part where uh he starts to offend them and they start to look down at their shoes. Um I know none of us have ever been there. When we've listened to a sermon, uh when we get to the part where he's really uh You feel like the preacher is talking to you and only you. Um so these Jews had been lulled to sleep because of hardness of heart. We hardness of heart was the previous warning, now dullness of hearing is the next warning And they needed to be awakened. They needed to uh wake up and become alert if they were to appreciate the truth and necessity of the new covenant. They couldn't really understand the gospel until they put their trust in the perfection. Personification of that good news. To be able to see its importance, they had to spiritually wake up. They had to be regenerated by the Holy Spirit. And there are similar examples of lethargic understanding. believers throughout church history. People hear the gospel and are initially stirred to some kind of excitement. Spiritual understanding appears to begin But the more they hear it without actually accepting it, the more spiritually sluggish they become. And then the previous warning, the more hardened their heart becomes. Continue to hear the gospel without responding to it, it hardened. The heart, it dulls the hearing. It's the same warning in a in a different way here, uh said in different with different words. They neglect to act on the truth they know and become more and more hardened to it Often while claiming to admire and respect it. They become more and more insulated from spiritual truth and understanding and from spiritual life itself. So this is the danger of being um an uh a a Being a nominal Christian is sometimes how you'll hear it put. So being somebody who sits in a pew, uh identifies with the church but has not committed your life to Christ. Yes. Is that like the people That's exactly right. That's exactly right. And and the result we see at the other end is um when Jesus uh Jesus explains about people that um that say to him at the final judgment, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesied your name and so forth. Um away from you, I never knew you. So these are people that had some uh kind of intellectual understanding of the gospel, but they never knew Christ. They n had never committed their life And so that's a dangerous place to be, and he's warning uh about that uh here in the book of Hebrews, and that warning is included by the Holy Spirit in the scriptures for all of church history because it can continues to be an issue. It wasn't just an issue for this one congregation in the first century, it's an issue for all congregations of of all times. Um and so it's an important lesson for us to see. Um all right. So um uh this passage would probably primarily have been addressed to unbelievers, I believe. That's I read you that passage from MacArthur, that's about what he believes. I think he's right. And even though that's true, I think The same principle of course would apply to believers too, uh if you just take the principle when we do not trust or act on any part of God's truth that we know We become hardened to that particular truth and less less likely to benefit from it as believers. Uh or when we avo avoid delving into the deeper parts of God's word, being satisfied with the basics, We insulate ourselves to an extent from the teaching of the Holy Spirit, the full counsel of God. Uh even a teacher or preacher can suffer spiritually when he does not bother to teach and preach the deeper and sometimes harder truths of scripture. Or is afraid to do so because he might get backlash or he he might have uh negative comments made about him. Um the more he resists or neglects to teach them, the less they will mean to him. Paul was able to say that he did not fail to declare the whole council of God, Acts 20, 27. He would not skip over or neglect any part of God's word. So uh no faithful servant of God will accommodate his teaching to the least common denominator. to the the dull lazy uh lazy Christian. So there is um there is usefulness to this warning to believers as well, I I believe. Uh even though it's primarily, I think, uh aimed at unbelievers. Alright. Verse 12. On to verse 12, we have for for those By this time you ought to be teachers, you have need again for someone to teach you the elementary principles of the oracles of God, and you have come to need milk and not solid food. Uh so these uh so think about the audience, they're They're in a New Testament church, and so they've been under the instruction of New Testament truth for some time. They should have known enough to be teaching it themselves But because the unbelieving Jews among the congregation had never truly accepted it, they had not grown in it, and they could not grow in it because they hadn't accepted Christ as Savior. Uh they had expressed uh they had been exposed to a great deal of God's truth, so they had the truth in a certain factual, superficial way But the truth had not penetrated their hearts. And so these Jews not only were unqualified to teach, but needed to go back to the ABCs of their own faith. That was evident by their unwillingness to recognize its clear. fulfillment in Christ. They they couldn't recognize the clear fulfillment of the Old Testament scriptures in Christ. And of course if we if we fast forward to today, many professing Christians know what the Bible says. But they do not know or accept what it means. They have been students of Scripture in some cases for decades, yet they do not even know Christ. This is the the group of people that Christ will confront on the judgment day and say, Away from me, I never knew you Um so they n they obviously knew about Jesus. But Jesus is saying, Well, I didn't know you. You hadn't accepted me as your personal Lord and Savior, in spite of the fact that you sat there in a Sunday school class or in church for all those years. Alright. So that's a very uncomfortable thing to think about Um but the point is important. So the Holy Spirit included it here in the book of Hebrews. And so MacArthur also gives an example, a personal example of this, uh which which is jarring to me and so I included it here. So this is another quote from MacArthur from his commentary on this section of scripture. Uh MacArthur says some years ago at a Christian youth conference I spoke on choosing the right life. partner. In other words, choosing a spouse. After one session, a young girl came up to me and asked to talk. As we sat on the chapel steps, she began telling me that her boyfriend said that whatever a person does in sex or anything else is all right as long as no one else is hurt. After a little questioning, I discovered that her boyfriend was 21 and she was only 14. When I briefly reminded her of what God says about sex outside of marriage, she hung her head and said I know that. You know what I need? I need to be saved. She explained that she not only had been raised in a Christian church, but that her father was a pastor I replied, Then you know how to be saved. No, she said, I don't. I have heard my father preach on it, but I don't understand it. Here was a perfect illustration of spiritual sluggishness. This girl had heard the gospel all her life. But she had rejected Jesus Christ for so long that the gospel now was foggy to her. She could not understand it anymore. She thought her father's sermons were boring and made no sense. She had become totally indifferent to God's word. After I carefully delineated the gospel to her, we prayed together and she confessed Christ as her Lord and Savior. So that's a a an example, a personal example that MacArthur gives of somebody that was spiritually sluggish. Even though she had grown up all her life in church and her father was a pastor and she had heard him preach a million times about the gospel, uh she had become spiritually sluggish. Um okay, so an example, a modern example of what the This is talking about here in Hebrews. These people that are sitting in church had heard the gospel but hadn't committed their life to Christ. Okay. Continuing, because they had become spiritually listless, the informed but unbelievable. believing Jews had need again for someone to teach them. They needed to start all over in the elementary principles of the oracles of God. The Greek phrase here are he, Stoikon. Uh elementary principles means that which comes first. In reference to language, it meant the letters of the alphabet as the basic parts of words, the building blocks of words. So in English that would be the ABCs. Oracles of God to the Jews being addressed here, so remember the original audience Uh the Jews being addressed here, oracles of God would not have been the gospel but the Old Testament. The oracles of God were the laws of God, the mind of God revealed in the Old Testament. It was the rudiments of the Old Testament revelation that they needed to be taught again. That's what the the the um the author of Hebrews is shaming them here. Thro throughout this whole little section here. You you need to go back and r and re-look at these the the basic principles of the Old Testament upon which uh it uh otherwise it's it doesn't make any sense. I I'm not even gonna be able to teach you these principles about Christ unless you understand this foundation that came from these oracles of God from the Old Testament. Um they had considerable exposure to the New Covenant by this time, but they did not even understand the Old Covenant Uh, as evidenced by their lack of ability to handle the deeper deeper truth about Melchizedek, which is from the Old Testament. Uh, these Jews did not even understand the meaning of their own law, is what he's saying here. Uh They had to go back to the ABCs and the elementary picture truths of ordinances and ceremonies and sacrifices and holy days. And these foreshadowed Christ And they could not recognize him unless they understood the pictures and the basic alphabet. And so these Jews are told, You'll come to need milk, which is an interesting turn of phrase there. A baby doesn't come to need milk, he's born needing milk. The only person who comes to need milk or baby food is one who's gone back to infancy. Instead of becoming more mature, these Jews were becoming less mature They were slipping back into spiritual babyhood. That's what the author of Hebrews is saying here to this uh this Jewish congregation. And so there were certain among them who had so long spurned. Christ that they were unable to take the solid food of this Melchizedek priesthood truth that he's going to eventually get into. They had to start again from the beginning gradually increasing their spiritual perception and understanding. So does everybody see that? So verse eleven and twelve then uh he continues in verse thirteen. To say, for everyone who partakes only of milk is not accustomed to the word of righteousness, for he is an infant. But solid food is for the mature Who, because of practice, have their senses trained to discern good and evil. So a spiritual infant is not accustomed to deeper spiritual truths. He can't digest them any more than a physical infant can digest. the stake. Uh the picture is of a person who is inexperienced, unskillful, and therefore unprepared and incapable in the spiritual realm. And so the word picture is of an infant. a physical infant comparing to their state as spiritual infants. A child can get something out of looking at a picture book but nothing out of looking at a college textbook. A spiritual child could get some meaning out of the pictures and types of the Old Testament but not out of the word of righteousness of the gospel. So do you see what the what the author is getting at here? He's using a number of illustrations here to show this illustrate this concept of spiritual dullness, of dullness of hearing, uh of the spiritual heart. The one who continues to feed only on God's elementary revelations is not going to grow, not going to have real discernment about good and evil. So the mature believer has discernment about what is right and wrong. True and false, helpful and harmful, righteous and unrighteous. And that is what the author of Hebrews earnestly desires for his hearers. This is where he wants them to go. So he tells them where they are, where they need to go and he's uh impassioned about g about getting them there. And so you'll see at the very end of this text, uh, he talks about and we'll get there. Um that's the the end of the the particular exhortation in this sermon At the end you'll see in verse 3 is, and we'll get there if God empowers us. Okay. So uh so that's uh verse 13. Um And fourteen yeah. Um there's there's two things that I'm thinking about as you're talking about this. One is that it seems to imply that after a certain amount of time everyone should believe or should be Yes, and so and and where do we see that uh that commanded actually in the Great Commission? In Matthew twenty-eight, what does it say? Uh the Great Commission says um make disciples Teaching them to obey all that I have commanded you. Baptizing in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Teaching them to obey all. That's a command given to everyone. Right? Because um we're commanded to make disciples, we're commanded to teach them, and what is one of the things that Jesus has taught? to make disciples. So you're you're taught to make disciples and so it's a it's a multiplication thing, it's a multi gener spiritual generation thing. Somebody uh Jesus taught his disciples, those disciples taught others. Those others taught others in in obedience to the Great Commission to make disciples and teach. Make disciples and teach, make disciples and teach. All the way down to today, somebody taught you, somebody taught me. And my responsibility is to Teach others. And so, yes, we're all commanded to teach. And it's it's that way with all the spiritual gifts. Uh the spiritual gifts are all things that all Christians are commanded to do. Evangelism For example, evangelism is a spiritual gift. However, all Christians are commanded to evangelize. Some have been supernaturally empowered by the Holy Spirit with the gift of evangelism, but that doesn't mean the rest of us are to remain on the sidelines and only let those professional evangelists evangelize. No, we're all commanded to evangelize, we're all commanded to teach, we're all commanded to hospitality. These things are things that, uh, if we read the scriptures and we and we uh believe that uh the s the scriptures are the word of God and uh and binding on our lives as followers of Christ that we're commanded to teach. Very good. Yeah. And so it it doesn't mean that everybody is commanded To stand up in front of a group of people and teach a class in church, but you are commanded to teach in the sense that if you are talking to your neighbor, or you're talking to your unbelieving coworker or family member, you are responsible to know Scripture and to teach Scripture in the context of making a disciple. Everybody see that? Yes. Most people have it built right in because most people are parents and your commands. Absolutely. Yes. Yep. So those who are parents have a a built-in uh opportunity and and responsibility. responsibility to teach those little ones. And and everybody I think fundamentally understands that. Um but that's only one example in one place where we're called to teach. We're uh we are commanded in the in the Great Commission to teach. Okay, very good. Uh good observation. Yeah. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Which the title address for this message was given to a congregation where some people are believers and some people are not believers. Uh does this then inform for us? Uh So it can, and so there's a couple of truths we have to remember. One is that this um letter, this sermon was written, preached to uh a particular congregation at a particular time. And so Um it it goes right at their needs, the particular needs. But we can actually take general principles from from how he approached the this particular audience and use those general principles to uh to be able to reach an audience that is both believers and unbelievers. So the principles definitely hold Uh it I think it's important to look at the details and see how um how the preacher or teacher was able to um to see his audience, to understand his audience, and of course the Holy Spirit who who um um who was really behind this uh this the scripture has a perfect understanding of everybody's heart. That's an advantage that I don't have and we don't have. Uh but we get to see an example of that in action here in the book of Hebrews. Uh the the um uh the Holy Spirit was able to perfectly discern the needs of the audience and address those needs. Now so there's some specifics in there. Uh specifics about the Old Testament and they understand of that audience was all these Jews had this uh um this background of spir i in in some cases spiritual knowledge, in other cases spiritual baggage uh quite frankly, they add. And not every audience that we address in uh twenty first century America will have that particular spiritual background and spiritual baggage. But uh the the basic principles principles of course apply and also the the the principles of how to preach and teach apply as well. The fact that um getting to know your audience, even if the audience is one person is important. So if you're going to um to teach or preach the gospel to one person, a neighbor, a coworker, a family member, there are principles uh uh that we can take from here about getting to know the person. So y you don't want to give um a uh totally general appeal to a specific person. You want to get to know that person a little bit. What is that person's spiritual background? What are they uh what is the what are their problems and concerns? And that will help you by the power of the Holy Spirit guides you into presenting the gospel in the best possible way for that person to understand it. And so I think the author of Hebrews does that. Does that of course the author of Hebrews is the Holy Spirit, and so he does it perfectly. But we can take, I think, uh the that basic principle and apply it in other situations. Alright. Um any other questions or comments? Okay. Um so verse that's uh verses eleven to fourteen at the very end of chapter five and the the th the the really the flow continues into chapter six and so uh verse one of chapter six uh says, therefore, leaving the elementary teaching about the Christ, let us press on to maturity. So in the first verse of chapter six here we have the key ideas of leaving and pressing on to maturity. Uh and they're really two parts of the same idea. Together they are the first step for these Jews to become spiritually mature. They had to settle all ties with the old covenant and accept Christ as Savior. And so the key word here is leaving. And the full flavor of this doesn't come out in the English. That Greek word, um apheme Means to forsake, to put away, to let alone, to disregard, to put off. It's a very severe word. It refers to total disattachment, total separation from a previous location or condition. In fact, it's the word that Paul uses in another place to describe divorce. So divorce yourself from these elementary teachings. It's a very s it's a stark and and forceful word uh to put away these elementary teachings. Um forsake, put away, disregard Total detachment. So does everybody get the flavor of that Greek word that's translated leaving here? Um i i it and and it's important to understand what that word is really getting across here in the Greek to be able to understand the flow of this passage. The maturity discussed here is that of leaving the ABCs of the old covenant to come to the full revelation and blessing of the new covenant. So the elementary teaching about the Christ, the Messiah. So this is that's a clue that it's the does in there. The Christ, the Messiah. What's that talking about? That's talking about the Old Testament view looking forward to the Messiah before we have Jesus Christ, uh who's the the the the the real Messiah is here. Uh in the Old Testament we're just uh pointing forward to the Messiah the Christ. In the New Testament we have Jesus Christ. He's arrived. So th the the unbelieving Jews were to leave was the shadowy realm of types. Uh he was not telling them to cast the Old Testament or its doctrine aside. He was urging them to to move into the light and liberty of the new covenant and to let go of the types, symbols, ceremonies and old covenants. And he uses a harsh word to talk about it. Put away those things. Divorce yourself from those things. A total and complete separation from those things, those types and ceremonies and symbols because why? The real thing is here now. So so you can't y you have to you have to turn away from those old types and symbols and shadows and and and and murky Because the light and the real thing is here. You gotta completely separate yourself from those things, uh is what he's saying. Um so the issue here is not that of growing in spiritual maturity as a Christian. See that that that word would make no sense. You don't completely divorce and separate yourself from the basic principles of Christianity. There's nowhere in the Bible tells you to do that. So it cannot be talking about that. So it's a matter of leaving or putting away that which uh they have been holding on to and to take up something entirely new. So they're holding on to Judaism, to these symbols and types and and and foreshadowing. They're holding tight to that and he's telling, no, no, let it go. Let go of all that. The real Messiah is here There's something new that's here. So it can only be a reference to unbelievers, because at no time does the word of God suggest that a Christian drop the basics of Christianity and go on to something else. That word leaving there. completely setting aside the ba no basics of Christianity. No, no, no, no. Um it has to it has to be putting aside these types and shadows of the old covenant. Uh so it's the provisions to the ceremonies of the old covenant that are to be dropped. for something new. Uh and this is precisely what the Holy Spirit asks these Hebrews to do, to abandon the shadows, the types, the pictures, and the sacrifices of the old covenant and come to the reality of the new covenant in Christ. So a paraphrase could be, leave the pictures of the Messiah and get to know the Messiah himself. Right? He's here now. We don't have to rely on these these pictures And shadows. We we've got the real thing here. This is what he's hammering on in this section of the of the the letter and the sermon So does everybody see that? So it's important to know that because i uh a superficial reading of this section of Hebrews has led some people to think, well, I just need to become a more mature Christian. Well, um that may be true. Uh but that's not the point that the author of Hebrews is making here and and especially that the the Greek words, the the Greek phrase that's used here uh about leaving i it it makes no sense for a Christian to become uh in the in the context of a Christian becoming more mature. Okay. Um although it's true that we do need to become more mature. That's not the point here. Um so continue along for the that was the first half of verse one the second half of verse one and verse two uh explains it further. Um so not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works and of faith toward God of instruction about war Washings and laying on of hands and the resurrection of the dead and eternal judgment. So the foundation is the old covenant. And he lists six features here in verses one and two of that foundation of the old covenant. These are one, repentance from dead works, two, faith toward God, three, instruction about washing. Four laying on of hands, five, the resurrection of the dead, and six, eternal judgment. These are not, as is often interpreted, elementary Christian truths that are to be abandoned in order to go on to maturity. They are old testaments. Testament concepts. They pointed to the gospel, but they are not themselves part of the gospel. Repentance from dead works is turning away from evil deeds that bring death. And wonderful truth of the Old Testament. So the Old Testament does address repentance, but it's not complete. It is fulfilled, made effective, only when a person also comes to Jesus Christ in faith. An incomplete dealing with sin must be abandoned. For a complete one. So everything about the dealing with sin in the Old Testament was incomplete until the coming of of Christ, including the repentance that's addressed in the in the Old Testament. Um it does no good to t at all to have faith. In fact, Peter in his sermon in Acts chapter two says, Repent and let each of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your And so what is he getting at there? He's not getting at that baptism forgives your sins. It's that Christ that in it's in Christ only that you can have your sins forgiven. Uh that's the really the point of that sentence. The point is Christ, not the baptism. Baptism is important, but the actual forgiveness of sins is because of the name of who you're being baptized in, and that's Jesus Christ. Uh yes. Uh is the attempt to hold on to legalism being a capital of those things that they were doing. Uh yes, certainly could be. So there were uh certain forms and structures that were associated with those uh ceremonies and we saw that in Jesus' earthly ministry that the uh the teachers of the law had had completely gone to the legalism part of it and they had lost the um the the the meaning of all of those ceremonies and sacrifices was to point forward to Christ and there was Christ standing right in front of them and they're accusing him of breaking the s their Sabbath rules. Right? Th I mean that's the ultimate example of legalism in the face of the actual um uh person of Christ is standing there that all of the Old Testament uh um law was and and ceremony was pointing forward to and they accuse him of of breaking their legalistic rules. Yeah. Go ahead. So could this also be seen as a warning not to fall into the same parisable patterns where uh the human laws on top of God laws to pay more attention to that than what God actually taught. Yeah, i yeah, so there are th uh things that we can learn as believers from these warnings to unbelievers. Yes, absolutely. And I think that's the case all the way through here, that that even though it it seems that all of this is addressed to primarily to unbelievers There are definitely benefits that believers can take from these warnings. And that's a good example of a benefit that we can get, even if you're a believer, from these warnings that he makes to to unbelievers. Okay. uh teaches repentance in faith toward Jesus Christ, the only way to God. So there's a um a completion, a fulfillment of the shadow from the Old Testament in Christ. So the Dru Jews addressed in uh in this letter believed in God. So they had this this belief in in Yahweh, their their covenant God. Their repentance from works and faith toward God, no matter how sincere, could not bring them to God without Christ. M all those the the the the patterns and the sacrifices. It it's impossible for the sacrifice of bulls to um to f forgive sin to um um to destroy sin. Um but yet they did it because it was putting forward to the sacrifice of Christ. Um and so the he's making the the author of Hebrews is making a contrast here. Um to the way it was in the Old Testament and how that the old covenant and how that was uh incomplete. Um there uh in Acts four twelve, there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven that has been given among So this is the truth of the new covenant that the author of Hebrews is contrasting with the old covenant here. So the third feature of the old covenant is instruction about washings. And so there's an issue Um, I think, with the King James translation. It's misleading. The King James translation here says doctrine of baptisms um where the NASB ha for example has instruction about washings. The King James has doctrine of baptisms for that Greek phrase. And the reason it's misleading, especially, is because everywhere else in the King James Including in Hebrews 9 10, that same Greek word, which is baptismos, is translated washings. It's translated washings everywhere else, except here, for some reason the King James translated said doctrines of baptism. I I don't know why. It's it's misleading and it leads to difficulties, I think. Uh the Greek word here in in this um in this verse is not baptizo, which is the one that's always used for the ordinance of Christian baptism. Um and so the NASB and the ESV, correctly I think, have washed Washing here. Um and the King James, everywhere else that Greek word is, calls it washings. For some reason here, they put baptism and it throws all kinds of confusion, I think, into translating this passage. Historically, historically. when people saw in the King James uh baptism there, um when in fact it's not the word that's used everywhere else for Christian baptism. Um so I think correctly here in the NASB and ESV it's washings, instruction about washings. Um and so the use uh uh also here of baptismos rather than bapt Tito is another indication that the passage is not addressed to Christians. It's not talking about Christian baptism. It's talking about the ancient Jewish custom of washings, instructions about washings, which was part of the old covenant. Every Jew Jewish home and a basin at the entrance for family and visitors to use for ceremonial cleansings. Uh it's these washings that the readers are told to abandon and forget. Remember this whole thing is talking about leaving, completely separating yourself from completely separate yourself from baptism makes no sense. We're we're t they're t told to completely separate themselves from these ceremonial washings, instructions about ceremonial washings. So the whole thought uh holds together, I think, when it's properly translated as they do in the NASB and the ESV. And uh the confusing translation in the King James um uh leads to I think difficulties m uh un unnecessary difficulties in figuring out what this passage means. Okay, so washings. The old washings were many physical symbolic contemporary The new washing is once spiritual, real and permanent. It is the effective and eternal washing of regeneration and renewing by the Holy Spirit. Titus 3. 5. So there's a contrast here again between the old covenant and the new covenant. Lots and lots of And lots of washings in the old covenant. The new covenant, one. One washing of regeneration and renewing of the Holy Spirit. Once again, this contrast uh that this uh preacher teacher is giving to this this whole congregation of Jews so that they understand. Primarily in this section I think uh for unbelievers But um as as Grace pointed out, there are principles here that are um important and useful for believers to understand as well. Okay. Um so the the laying off of hands is the next thing. And so this laying on of hands has nothing to do with the apostolic practices in Acts and First Timothy and other places. This is not that laying on of hands. Uh because of the context, because of all All these other things are are are specifically talking about the old covenant. Uh we look for laying of hands in the old covenant for this thought to be uh to hang together. Under the old covenant, the person who brought a sacrifice had to put his hand on it. to symbolize his identification with it. We see that in Leviticus one four and Leviticus three eight and three eight thirteen. That when the person brought the sacrifice he was he was instructed to lay his hand on that sacrifice because that sacrifice was taking his place. He laid his hand on it to symbolize the fact that that uh he was identifying with that sacrifice and it was the sacrifice for him. Lay the hands on. And so it's instructions about washings. And instructions about laying on hands from Leviticus and the sacrificial system is what's in view here. This teaching to these These Jews who, of course, very well understood that. So our identification with Christ does not come by putting our hands on him. Right? We don't we don't have to put your hands on Christ to identify the sacrifice before he goes to the cross. Um so it comes by the Spirits baptizing uh us into union with him by faith. The Jews are being told to put aside the teaching about laying hands on the temple sacrifices and to lay hold of Christ by putting their trust in him So they're being taught to lay aside, to leave, to completely separate themselves from this list of things from the old covenant, including all the washings and the laying on of hands. The Old Testament doctrine of resurrection is not clear or complete. In the Old Testament we learn of life after death and of rewards for good and punishment for the wicked But we don't learn great details about resurrection until the New Covenant. In the New T Testament resurrection is a major detailed doctrine. Uh there's many cases but uh just one is um and the most important one is it comes It's interesting that one of the very early Old Testament books show people about Absolutely. Yep. He did. And um so there is the the the the fact of resurrection is definitely taught in the Old Testament. Did. He did. Yeah. Under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, uh that book of Job gives us a lot of good spiritual insights. Um but uh we didn't know uh the this the tr the full doctrine of resurrection until there was Jesus standing um before Mary and Martha and explaining to them that I am the resurrection. So so Martha has this incomplete understanding of resurrection. Um she says, I know that we'll see him on the last day. So the the the context is the death of Lazarus. And so sh Jesus asked her about resurrection to try to uh poke a broad to and and to and to be able to e explain the fullness of the doctrine of resurrection, she says, I know that we'll see him on the last day. So she had some understanding of resurrection. But Jesus gives her this full picture of what resurrection really is by saying, I am the resurrection and the life. Um he who believes in me will never die. Right, and so the whole purpose of the book of Hebrews is that that old covenant is is done, done away with, you should separate yourself from it. Because Christ is here and the new covenant has been established. And and if you to keep holding on to that old covenant, the the whole purpose of that old covenant was to point forward to Christ, well he's here now. And so there's the there's no purpose for that anymore in your life. You need to put that away because Christ is here. It was great in pointing forward to Christ, but now that Christ is here, you've got to put that away Uh that's what that's what the book of Hebrews is is talking about here. Not that there was anything wrong with that old covenant in its day. It it th I mean it it fulfilled its purpose, to point forward to Christ. But now he's here. And so that purpose is fulfilled, it's done. You need to put it away, you need to leave it, you need to separate yourself from it because Christ is here, the new covenant is here. Yes. Pastor Roth, you um I guess it was early last quarter you mentioned as far as looking at the the context of Hebrews, that the temple was probably still in existence. Yes. This book was written or letter was written w probably before 70 AD. Probably, yes. I'm wondering if there were people in the congregation with to whom this letter was addressed to if maybe they were double dipping. They were going to a church service but also had uh going to the synagogue. Yeah. Yeah. And maybe even the temple where the sacrifices were taking place. Could be. It could be it it could very well be. The double dipping is a good w uh way of thinking about it. 'Cause if you think about uh the events in Acts chapter two, it was uh the Passover and Jews had come from all over the Roman Empire. uh for the Passover. And it's possible we don't even know where this congregation was. It's possible that some of them may have still been doing that. going to the temple for Passover and going through all these rituals and things and um and so yes, it's certainly possible that there were those in the congregation that were um that were still and it seems likely That they were still n not only they they were just intellectually holding on to these things, but they were actually physically still doing some of these things. Yeah. Mm-hmm. When he's talking about laying a song that's a foundational principle that he includes repentance from the dead works and faith to the god. It's easy for me to see how um the uh instructions about washing and they want to hand is how how you can walk away from that or discard those. However, repentance from get worse, and I think two consumes will also be an integral part of believing in Jesus. So So can you please explain again to me how repentance from death works and picture of God is different from the repentance that accompanies trust in Christ by the trust in Christ? Good question. So um this whole thing is talking about the old covenant way of approaching God. Um and so uh in the old covenant God was distant, uh, he was separate, he was in the Holy of Holies, and nobody could go in there. Um, and so there was in the old covenant a way of approaching God, and that way of of approaching God included repentance and faith towards God, um and also washings and laying on of hands and these other things. Um and what he's saying is that That was okay in the old covenant, but now that Christ is here, we have a different way to approach God. A better way to approach God. An infinitely better way to approach God. And they need to lay aside that Old way of approaching God and approach God through the new covenant which is in Christ. Approach God through Christ. Um because that old covenant was only set up to point forward to the uh coming of Christ and the new way of approaching God and and that new way of approaching God is now here. And so the old way of approaching God, uh there's no sense in doing that. doing it that way. Uh to to uh to repent by um uh and bring animal sacrifices for example. Um that way of repenting from your sins and covering your sins is um um uh and showing faith to God by uh by obeying all of those old covenant rules of repentance and sacrifice uh needs to be left behind. Because why? Because now we have Christ. His sacrifice is done. So at this point, he's writing after the cross. Jesus has made that one-time sacrifice. And so now repentance and faith are in Christ. And that's how we approach God, not the old covenant way of approaching God by repentance by um and sacrifice of animals. until uh change of mind regarding the efficacy or yeah the efficacy of the sacrifice of um repentance within the new covenant has to be with a change of mind regarding who Christ is. Is that the what you say? So um so repentance is still repentance. The idea the the the uh the idea of repentance is to do a one eighty and so you're going one direction and you you turn around and go the other direction. And so there there's nothing wrong per se about the Old Testament doctrine of repentance. It still means turning away from sin. But it's the method of what you do, um so w what do you do when you repent in the old covenant? Well, when I repent in the old covenant I take a a bull and a goat and I go sacrifi sacrifice. Well, stop that. That's that's not the way of repentance now. Right? Christ has made the sacrifice that these these all bulls and goats were pointing forward to the Well Christ has already made that sacrifice on the cross. So the way of repentance now is through Christ, not through these Animal sacrifices. That was the old way of repentance. The new way of repentance is through Christ. Yeah. Yeah, I mean anyway. Some of the sacrifices were daily. Um and then annually was the the Day of Atonement and yeah, it had to be done day after day and year after year. Um the sacrifice of Christ is done and now uh repentance um from sin is repentance in faith in Christ and through Christ we have access to God. Um not the old covenant way of repentance. So I think that's what the author is saying. Yes. Uh go ahead, Grace. So I think y yes that That th i it may very well be that we don't know for sure, but in this congregation there may have been those that were listening, giving ear to Judaizers and the party of the circumcision and we saw that arise in Paul's ministry and various places and so that may have been happening here as well, yes. Uh yes, Richard. Like uh uh a person hanging on that which is not rightfully there, that being justified. Thereby being justified. R right. So the whole work of Christ on the cross, uh th the the finished work of Christ on the cross, when he said to tell us that Payton Fold is finished, that was justification for all sins for all time for those who believed. And so um clinging on to, you know, slaughtering bulls and sacrificing them um in the face of the finished work of Christ on the cross is nonsense. And he's gone to great pains to explain that yeah. You know what I mean? die those Yeah. Yeah. And it's impossible for the blood of bulls to cover sins. Yeah. Can't put new wine in old wineskins, that's uh I think Jesus said that. Um yes. kind of the the the base faith behind those were faith in God to take care of their sin. So you can't say at the same time, I trust that God is taking care of my sin through Jesus and also I trust that God's gonna take care of my sin through this sacrifice. Right. Right. Yeah, it's not both. And so that's why this the very strong word about leaving uh is is in there. It it can't be both. Uh you know now that the now that the Messiah has come, it can't be all these shadows and types that are pointing to the Messiah, he's already here. It can't be both. You gotta leave that previous uh stuff behind. Yeah. Okay. Um so uh we can learn a little more from the Old Testament about final judgment than that punishment would come to the wicked and blessing to the good. There's a passage about that in Ecclesiastes chapter twelve in the New New Testament we are told a great deal more about eternal judgment, details about eternal judgment, uh more than people want to hear in many cases. Uh believers will stand before the Lord and have our works judged for reward or lack of reward. But we ourselves will not be judged. 1 Corinthians 3. Romans 8 1 says we'll not be judged. But our whips will, 1 Corinthians 3. Unbelievers will face the great white throne judgment uh detailed in Revelation chapter twenty. So there's details about what this final judgment looks like in the New Testament. The fact that there would be a final judgment was revealed in the Old Testament. The details about what that looked like, both for believers and unbelievers, uh, is in the New Testament. So uh the point of these two verses at the beginning of chapter six is that the unbelieving Jews should n should let go completely of the immature elementary shadows and symbols of the old covenant and take hold of the mature and perfect reality of the new covenant. That's the real um meaning, the real purpose, the real thrust of the uh the preachers uh point in this this part of uh of the letter. Um let go of the old uh and seize onto the new. And so what we it ends in uh chapter uh uh verse three and this we will do If God permits. Um and so the interpretation is a little bit difficult, and despite of the fact that it's a tiny little verse with only a few words, and it's very simple. Uh, there are two main possibilities. Some interpreters believe the we here is an edit. editorial reference of the right to the writer himself and he's saying, I will go on to teach what you need to know if God permits me. That's one possibility. Uh others believe the writer is simply offering to identify himself with those whom he writes, and saying, You will go on to maturity if God permits. Uh either interpretation could be correct, and in fact they're not mutually exclusive. It could be both that he's talking about. And then they're both consistent with the rest of Hebrew. Both service, which would be the writer going on to teach, and salvation, which would be the readers going on to spiritual maturity in Christ, must be energized by the Holy Spirit, so if God permits, in order to be effective. So the need for divine empowerment is the point. Not that we are adequate in ourselves to consider anything as coming from ourselves, but our adequacy is from God, 2 Corinthians 3. 5. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. John six forty four. So the power is from God. Very clearly, in both cases, for service in in teaching and for the actual salvation. Both. So it it makes sense. Either either one of them makes sense. All right. Any questions? A little subtle, but first two would be the worst in case against two we looked at is pointing out Uh so uh so that's true, but it does not appear to be the thrust of this particular verse. Uh we're definitely true we need to go beyond the basic teachings, but remember Remember that word leaving th that's that appears there in verse one that it sets this whole thing up. It's talking about a complete divorce. So putting away, putting aside. Do you ever completely divorce yourself from the basic principles of Christianity? I I don't think so. That that's not the way we describe the maturing in Christ. Is not uh we don't describe it that way. Um uh and the rest of the Bible never describes it that way. Yes. Yeah, I agree with verse one reason the old step but then going beyond things like Oh yeah, so that certainly is true. However, the things that then it goes on to talk about in the foundation are things that are primarily identify with the old covenant. I think the the the one of the biggest confusions that was thrown into this this whole passage is the what I think is A bad translation in the King James of the baptism there instead of instruction about washings. And I think that caused all kinds of uh um problems in the interpretation of the whole passage because the King James James got that uh phrase wrong. Yeah. Okay. Any other oh we've we've run out of time, I'm sorry. Uh so let me uh uh let me pray