Um and because we can see this example of God's faithfulness to the promise to Abraham, we can be certain about his promises to us as well. And he's a forerunner for us, described as a forerunner for us. In s in other words, they were not a ruling class. And so they're all being reminded about this event in history, and reminded that their father Abraham, the great Abraham, offered tithes to this priest. They weren't the king. So under the Levitical priesthood the sacrifices were made to restore the people to a right relationship to God. But they could never do that permanently. This is a f uh a first century set of Jews. The reason is probably because it would have had no use, because it would have made no sense. Melchizedek under grace we are free of the demands of law. The writer of Hebrews all uh through this little um there's this pause, this parentheses between an initial mention of Melchizedek and when we get back to him today. His faithfulness, God's character, his integrity, his faithfulness is the real theme of that section of Hebrews six. Before he could explain the significance of this ancient priest king, he gave the warning to the immature Jews who could not bring themselves to accept Christ as their Savior. In relation to Melchizedek, Genesis 14, 18. It it was about Genesis fourteen. by three dollars and a person to individual. Passover, where did all the Jews have to go? Yeah. Perpetually. the eternality of his priestly order. Melchizedek, we have no idea about uh how Melchizedek knew about Abraham, or that he should be blessed. This priest-king that both testaments together mentioned only a handful of verses was greater than Abraham Yes. Uh I'll be teaching the new members class next Sunday. uh him as a type of Christ, especially his priesthood. of the old covenant because the reality has arrived in Christ. Forms and ceremonies were never the most important thing. With uh God's plan of redemption, but he could see God's character. in the Old Testament. And to show God's grace in dealing with sin. he had to leave as soon as he had done his sacrifice. anchor of the soul. uh time of of fear. Uh okay, so we're going to be in chapter seven. Yeah. Salem, which is king of peace. priestly service and that's described in Numbers eight, fourteen to sixteen. permanent righteousness, no permanent peace with God. Uh but nonetheless it was a hereditary priesthood, not pe they weren't chosen because of their quality of their lives. Um and Melchizedek's priesthood was different. uh reasons why. In Hebrew, they substituted Adonai, the Hebrew word Adonai, when they came to uh Jehovah Yahweh. Only to Israel, only for Jehovah. Here the writer reminds them of this guy, Melchizedek, this this um obscure what would have been to most Jews an obscure figure from the Old Testament. Not to go back to Judaism, not to go back to the shadows and um and and all these rituals from the past because here's Christ and he's better. in scripture of Melchizedek, so we don't get a description of how he came to know the Lord, how he came to be a priest of the Lord, uh how he knew that he should bless because he was gonna be the the line that led to the to the Messiah. History, they're just not biblical conical stuff, but he may have had access to that. And show them. Y yes. to say that Abraham was saved by faith. always lead to to God. by grace through faith. Yeah. Any other comments or questions? Melchizedek in that he was also a king. totally different from the Levitical priesthood. Yep. For I have desired it. temporary ritual, the Levitical sacrifices accomplish their God ordained purpose. Still just pointing forward to the true King of righteousness and King of Peace So only the divine priest could actually give Better meaning it more accurately exemplifies price. under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit bringing Melchizedek in was Melchizedek is a better type of Christ than the Levitical priesthood was a type of Christ. So and and the order is important, righteous first and then you have peace with God. Here you're justified first. Points that out. Yeah. Some standard, some true standard, standard of truth that is set by God and actually flows out from the character of God who is truth. Right. synagogues. wherever they have been distributed. Uh the Mishnah or the uh Talmud. well out so lost results. perpetually. So it's it was different. That's not that's not the purpose here. In Matthew 1, 1. his priesthood was concerned, he had no priestly genealogy and he didn't need one. fifty, and so no priest, no matter how faithful, could serve more than twenty-five years. Not next week, but the week after. to Melchizedek. Next slide, you're way ahead of me. that the basis of our giving should be our love, devotion, and gratitude toward God. supported by a tithe from their brother Israelites. their common and supreme ancestor had paid these tithes to Melchizedek, then even the Levis, in advance, so to speak, also paid tithes to Melchizedek. uh whose genealogy is not traced from them collected a tenth from Abraham and blessed the one who had the promises. him giving um this tenth to another uh person, another priest. Think about it, Abraham was blessed by this A Melchizedek, that means he was the greater. uh directing this uh argument, uh they can look back at their Old Testament scriptures and pretty much from Genesis twelve to Malachi to the end of the new old testament, the entire story is about Abraham and his descendants. qualifications. archbishops and whatnot. God has put me in this position. even than Melchizedek's. Um even if they n had never seen it before. And all these prophecies, boy, it sure does look like they were fulfilled by this person Jesus. of this church directory. of the covenant that he made with Abraham. get from the end of uh chapter six is God's faithfulness, integrity, and character. God had had said something and therefore it was um uh unbreakable. makes two unchangeable things. uh to have an anchor for my soul. you know, we could have run over one of those mines s and sunk and died. King of righteousness, and then also King of Salem, which is King of Peace. without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but made like the Son of God He remains a priest perpetually. Jesus Christ who was sacrificed for the sins of the world, John 129, Revelation 5, 6 and 8, etcetera. Conjecture about Melchizedek. that those kings had taken away. Verse these verses remind us that Melchizedek was the king of Salem, which is an ancient name for Jerusalem. tenth uh a tithe of the spoils. Israel. Israel. in English translations. No matter how good a priest was, he he could only serve for twenty-five years. He well, he is a priest for Abraham as he comes by, but he's a universal priest, not a specific to uh a n a certain nation priest. who lived hundreds of years before the Levitical priesthood even came into existence. at all. tithes and how did Melchizedek know to bless Abraham? Lord uh came to have a relationship with um with Melchizedek and who know it could have been similar to Abraham. knock on the door, uh or lift the tent flap and go in. from the Dead Sea Scrolls that they had other writings, other religious writings that were not scripture. A Jewish evangelist who came to my previous church who was living and working and preaching in Israel for certain that there are passages of the Hebrew Bible that the the Jewish rabbis Deliberately avoid. how they finesse that. That Christian Jewish Christians who are who are evangelizing Jews go to passages like this, like Psalm 110 and like uh the passages in Isaiah about Christ. And it's effective. uh the interpretation between uh the first information visible that is the stop of the turn. uh the argument and the story that the New Testament tells about the Old Testament saints. That's that's really the answer that we have as Christians when somebody says something like that. Salvation of of uh the New Testament explanation of Old Testament saints salvation. Once Israel became God's own people, that stops. he deals with people defined and described by God in different ways as we march through history. Jewish people. Build the temple of the Lord, and he will bear the honor and sit and rule on his throne. And the council of peace will be between the two offices. uh mentions uh that mentions Melchizedek, the only other place besides Genesis 14 and this passage here in Hebrews 5-7 that mentions Melchizedek and in Psalm 110 David looks forward to the Messiah who will be both priest and king His holy city, even all the way back to the time of Abraham. priest in Jerusalem. who was described as the king of righteousness and the king of peace, he couldn't make men righteous or give them peace either. righteousness and peace. of Christ. those sacrifices. So the sacrifices were still only at the temple. They still uh the Jews still have rabbis, teachers that teach in synagogues. Tradition of commentaries on Scripture that has been accumulated over a couple of thousand years from genealogically. Jesus began his priesthood after he died. probably describe his priesthood and his kingship as starting after his death, even though he was David's heir all along, he was the the the the king that was to come all along, he was chose not to do those things during his earthly ministry, yeah. recognized him as such as a teacher. under no obligation, there was no law or commandment to give Melchizedek anything. type of what our giving to the Lord should be. requirement. tribe received no inheritance, so circle back to the question we had before. under the old covenant, therefore one group of Abraham's descendants tithe to another group of Abraham's descendants. Had themselves paid a tithe to another priesthood, proving that this priesthood was superior to theirs. Uh the the first eleven chapters are about the creation of the world and uh from Adam through Noah and then Tower of Babel, but starting with Genesis twelve, it's all about Abraham and his descendants, God's chosen people. Because he blessed Abraham. people in this economy of grace on the basis of personal qualifications as empowered by the Holy Spirit, not because the person called is fall. Church. lives on. The true priest who is in fact eternal, of whom Melchizedek is but a foreshadowing. political priesthood. use New Testament passages that refer back to the Old Testament, uh Hebrews is especially um uh useful I think in evangelizing Jews today, just like it was useful in evangelizing Jews in the first century. a Jewish scripture that the Jews, your people have always believed in. in their shoe. the rabbis don't like to teach. at all. taught the Old Testament, they're taught the the ancient rabbinical commentaries on the Old Testament and not the Old Testament itself. part of his character. The oath he makes, i it was common in uh New Testament times, uh in Old Testament times too, um, for a person to make an oath on something Or someone greater than himself, uh, the altar, make an oath on the altar, make an oath on the high priest, or make an oath by God. a hope set before us, and that hope is Christ. uh and as a forerunner. fear um uh in war uh especially um I can remember um Jesus serves as the anchor of our soul, a great passage of scripture and a great promise, especially for somebody who served 24 years in the Navy. In two thousand three, as we were about to do the invasion of Iraq, uh we got a message saying that the uh of the year. priest of the most high God who met Abraham as he was returning from the slaughter of the kings and blessed him, to whom also Abraham apportioned a tenth part of all the spoils, was first of all, by the translation of his name, killed The type pictures or prefigures the anti-type. The antitype, on the other hand, is perfect and eternal. Of sacrifices was even more important, and the priesthood was essential for offering them. Hebrews 5. We had uh five kings. to use as a picture of Jesus Christ. And Abraham came uh got together his people, his Time, um, and that he was a priest of the most high God. were permanent. Service. In most English translations, the name is given as Lord with the small caps or all caps, either one. for God. To remind them that their father Abraham offered tithes to another type of priest with Melchizedek. talk about. the temple, there was the tabernacle. who existed long before the Levitical Priesthood. record of his monarchy. men to God. and then peace. Yeah. issues. This type, the shadow, the foreshadowing of a true King of righteousness and king of peace who would be coming. An indestructible life. the high priest in the Order of Melchizedek all along, but he did not um he did not grasp those offices or Of that. be superior to the Levites who were Abraham's descendants. through history who have um fallen away from this biblical concept. is personally wonderful, uh, because of this empowering of the Holy Spirit. But they are empowered by the Holy Spirit. And so to speak, through Abraham, even Levi who received tithes, paid tithes, for he was still in the loins of his father when Melchizedek met him. No matter what. when I were married, the picture uh the f the one picture is the picture at the wedding with us cutting the wedding cake with my navy sword So this is uh this is this d I don't know. considered to be high um and mighty, something greater than yourself, then that ended the d the dispute. To those who were slow to believe. But Melchizedek is described as made like the Son of God, not as being the Son of God. To the Lord. As Shalom, peace. we don't have any idea how that relationship developed. the Israelites who he was writing this to. until two years later. His righteousness. A type points forward to an anti-type. Um mostly from um uh what's the name of the commentaries on the scriptures? Not from the scripture itself so much, but what from what rabbis over the years have said about the scripture. Uh because they don't have sacrifices. They still do the prayers at the Wailing Wall. During his earthly ministry as well. Showing thankfulness to God. Uh because it was a thank uh thank offering, a thankfulness uh gift to God. to these Jews, it's uh it's true, but it's something that they may not have wrapped their minds. verses. The standards for teaching, shepherding, overseeing as elders, for evangelists, and for all other offices are based on personal, spiritual qualifications, not heredity or class. And his priesthood is eternal, not temporary. And so that's why Melchizedek is used as a type of Jesus priesthood and not Aaron and the Levitical priesthood. Iraqis had released floating mines into the sea right where we were. The priest's office have commandment in the law to collect a tenth from the people, that is, from their brethren, although these are descended from Abraham. The central, the most important part of Judaism, the priesthood. Of their salvation, which follows that warning, Jesus again is said to be a high priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek. a comparison to this figure Melchizedek from uh from the Old Testament. manifest himself that he um he he comes to and developed a relationship with people in the Old Testament, uh in other ways. uh other Jewish writings that were not scripture. Christ. Just like Melchizedek David says. For the Lord has chosen Zion, Jerusalem, He has desired it for His habitation. Uh Melchizedek was not Christ. So in order to have righteousness you have to have some standard, yes. here. demonstrate those offices while he in fact in fact he he um he deliberately rejected when they came to try to make him king he he made sure that didn't happen in in his earthly ministry. requirement to do so. So uh and let's see if we can land this plane in the thirty seconds. I have uh uh no no time. So his basic promise to Abraham, uh repeated many times starting in Genesis chapter twelve, but and this is a quote from Genesis chapter twenty two, I will surely bless you and I will surely multiply you. The high priest went through the veil, within the veil, only once a year. Priest of the most high God who met Abraham as he was returning from the slaughter of the kings and blessed him, to whom also Abraham apportioned a tenth of all the spoils, was first of all, by the translation of his name, King of righteousness, and then also King of Um kids would like well to be a priest. So somehow Job knew the Lord. Before that there were daily sacrifices, but when Jesus died, that stopped. Um and then he rose from the dead, and then he ascended into into heaven uh to give us peace with God. And so who who sets the standard? among the twelve tribes. all all across Israel. So we can trust God because he has no capacity for deception or failure. Called Battlefields and Blessings, where she interviewed Christians who had been in combat and wrote a devotional for every day of But the one whose genealogy is not traced from them collected a tenth from Abraham and blessed the one who had the promises. And, so to speak, through Abraham, even Levi, who received tithes, paid tithes, for he was still in the loins of his father when Melchizedek met him. The bronze serpent that God commanded Moses to set on a standard, in Numbers twenty-one eight, for example, was a type of Christ being lifted up on the cross, John three fourteen. Um and so um we have to guess at what those vowels might have been. Abraham. Um one could imagine that he did a similar thing to Melchizedek. And uh he came to our church and told us about evangelizing the Jews, especially over there in Israel, and he said that over and over and over again, um, he would open up his It is not that he lived forever, but that the order of priesthood in which he ministered was forever. Earthly ministry. Correct. Let me let me speed up. In the ancient Near East, there was no question that the lesser is blessed by the greater. Uh he he formed a little personal army out of his uh servants and uh the people that worked for him and went after them and recovered all the the tr the the booty, all the uh the spoils of the the war. Um it's um I am, it's uh could the tetragrammaton, it's it's uh four consonants. Some people who might say, you know the Bible there might be some other way of it. Because I would talk about the possibility behind the other somehow highlighted. So there was a big Jewish rebellion and it was really crushed. They probably think of other things as sac sacrificial as well, uh, but prayers, yeah. So Melchizedek's priesthood was per personal, not hereditary. It is given in detail in Matthew chapter 1 and Luke chapter 3. They fall to pride, um they they fall. But without any dispute, the lesser is blessed by the greater. Was universal and not national. to come to God except by f through faith in in Christ. Uh in this Melchizedek was a type of Christ, not because Jesus had no genealogy, but because Jesus' genealogy was not significant in regard to his priesthood. We uh every church every church had a church directory that was like it was like a uh a a booklet, a picture booklet with everybody's picture in there and their names. This is the word of the Lord, going back to Genesis chapter 14. All that we know is located in Genesis fourteen, Psalm one hundred ten, and Hebrews five to seven. Um you suppose that the uh narrative about uh this anyway could lend the things So yes, the answer is yes, there are people that can twist scripture that way. It was showing this priesthood and this set of sacrifices that were pointing to Christ. his set of and it it also doesn't describe him as performing uh royal functions during his his his his earthly ministry either. So they weren't priests for the Assyrians or anybody else, they were priests for Hebrew Bible with a a Jewish person over there and show them passages from Isaiah about That's that's my guess. So each individual priest, temporary. A priest served from the age of twenty-five until the age of fifty. Yes indeed, gifts for pr for a king and a priest from uh in in those gifts. The Melchizedek is said to have been without father, without mother, without genealogy, no beginning of days or end of day, end of life. Therefore he was chosen to bless Abraham. In chapter 11, many examples of faith. We get that in Colossians 1:5. But uh this the here's this priest of uh God most high and he's not a priest for Israel. Abraham in the New Testament. Um they have rabbis but they don't have priests. The same pose, yep. In order to have peace with God, you have to be righteous. And then there were synagogues that were centralized. Priest has to sacrifice. And don't know anything about I had a year old who just lady had the old testing than I do. All right, so uh here we are in part seventeen. Yeah. His commentary says in biblical study a type refers to an Old Testament person, practice, or ceremony that has a counterpart or anti-type in the New Testament. 1. They had to be repeated over and over. Hey look, doesn't that sound like this this Jesus person that we have here in the New Testament? But he had a faithful king who was a faithful priest there even in the time of of Abraham. The work of righteousness will be peace. A rabbi? Uh something that bothers them enough that they think about it. And when he came back, he met Alchizedek and he gave him a tenth of all that he had recovered. All priests not only had to be descended from Levi, but they were also from Aaron, Moses' brother. That's correct. Right? The Levites were subject to the king just as much as the other tribes. Um so why? So yes, very good. Uh so Hebrews seven verses one to ten. We don't have a uh first and second chronicles about him or first and second kings about him. And they accomplished that purpose. Uh and the other one is uh several years later, I don't know if any of you remember b there was before this thing called the internet We're gonna do the and so uh that story that I just told is actually in a devotional. Okay. Yes. That's right, yes. Well I've heard of the Jews say that there are prayers and questions by that's something that we think that's how they think about it. Hebrews seven twenty four. That priesthood was temporary. We have an anchor that keeps the soul fast and shore while the billows roll back into the rock that you cannot move. Some insist he is an angel who took human form for a while during the time of Abraham. Um it's sort of like Cain and Angel. We've only gotten through three of ten verses. Um though Melchizedek was a king, he had not fought with Abraham against Cheteleimer, nor do we have any record or reason to believe that Melchizedek had ever performed any priestly service to Abraham before. The Holy Spirit demonstrates that Melchizedek is greater than Levi and Aaron, progenitors of the Levitical priesthood, by showing that his priest king is better than Abraham, the progenitor of both Levi and Aaron. He is the only priest and the only priesthood that can truly bring God to man and men to God. Uh the little the Levitical priesthood they w uh came with this set of sacrifices, so there were priestly sacrifices in uh including the one by the high priest on the Day of Atonement, but not ex there were other sacrifices too. It represents God as rightful owner of heaven and earth above all national or dispensational distinctions. And and he said it over and over and over again. Especially because the um the Jewish person realizes that their rabbi has been hiding stuff from them. When the king three kings came to worship the young child King, two of their kids were both or can't recognize three kids Without father, without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but made like the Son of God, he remains a priest No death is recorded from Achizedek. And so that was the picture from our church directory from many years ago. Others suggest that he is actually not just typically, is actually not just typically Jesus Christ himself, who took a pre-incarnate form during Abraham's time. They had come and um kind of done a um a military raid through the land where Abraham and Lot were living and taken away Lot and lots of possessions and um That could very well be. Yeah, I I don't. Um and so the Bible, Old Testament and Old Testament, only knows one way of salvation. When Christ was heading on the cross, he said to tell us that I paid in full that is finished. Okay. And it doesn't describe his earthly ministry as performing priestly functions. Um here in uh Hebrews seven uh one through three there's five specific ways. What a priest is and to burden. And we don't know anything about it except what's in Genesis 14, a brief mention in Psalm 110, and here in Hebrews 5-7. Psalm one ten may may very well be one of those. He he was not Christ either. That's the point here, this passage. So that's John MacArthur to introduce this section of Scripture. So let's take a look. Uh they weren't kings. Um and here's Melchizedek, and he's king of this place. But his lineage is not traced to Aaron or Levi, but to Judah. They both would go back to Judah. So who is the sacrifice really for? But that's not how the scripture describes how leadership in the church is supposed to be. That's not how spiritual qualifications work. And and also i in the diaspora, at the time of the New Testament, there were synagogues in all the cities around the Roman Empire It is interesting that the single Greek word a genealogatos without genealogy is found nowhere else in scripture and in fact nowhere else in Greek literature that we have been able to find. Um yeah. Uh Isaiah thirty two, the work of righteousness will be peace, and the service of righteousness, quietness and confidence, forever. And once the temple was gone, they didn't have the one place where they were commanded to do those sacrifices anymore. Uh it simply means that in the Old Testament record, nothing is said of his parents and his origin. And so within the veil is a reference to the Holy of Holies. Uh his unai his name was uniquely related to God's covenant with Israel. Yes, Joe. Uh Romans five one. Like Melchizedek, Jesus' qualifications were personal, not hereditary. And that's what we have. Now there are examples of God snuffing out those who were particularly unrighteous and displeased him. They had the Old Testament, they knew the story of Melchizedek, and they knew that the Old Testament didn't have any record of his birth or his death. Abraham was was credited with righteousness before all of that. Right. Well and we have a lot of experience with dislike, whether you follow them or not. Some are believers, some are professing believers that are not really believers, some are maybe um outright unbelievers. They would have s thought, W what's going on here? The the Romans the Romans were very angry with the Jew Jewish rebellion, crushed it very severely, um, and leveled the whole area. Un totally unlike the Levitical priesthood, which was all about genealogy. Uh I shouldn't have been afraid, but I was. So if you'll open your Bibles or tune your devices to Hebrews chapter seven. Oh yes, yeah. They were never meant to remove sin. So the temple was destroyed in seventy AD, and so they haven't had a place to do the sacrifice because that was the only place the sacrifices were allowed. They don't have a place to sacrifice. It is a type of Christ's truly eternal priesthood. I'll have the same pose, so Yeah. We went through a list of those to proclaim the true God, to reveal the Messiah, to be God's priest nation, to preserve and transmit Scripture, to show the faithfulness of God. Well no. They went to Jerusalem because that was the place where you had to make the sacrifices. So a r a rabbi means teacher. Anything good in us is empowered by the Holy Spirit. Um if you have Yes. Yeah. Um so we get this idea of refuge also in here, uh in the Septuagint, that same Greek word used for the cities of refuge in the Old Testament. Yeah. The one about whom the entire Old Testament is written, Abraham and his descendants, uh at from Genesis twelve all the way to the end of it. That's it. I would just say, okay, here is this book of Isaiah. Um and she interviewed me and she actually did a whole week of stories that I told her. He couldn't make people righteous or make uh bring people peace with God permanently like Christ did. We see that in Numbers eighteen and Deuteronomy eighteen. Um and so it was a very specific, narrow priesthood, the Levitical priesthood was I've been there and seen that. The temple was built up with stock. So uh w if we say the word righteous or righteous living, um how do we know that something is righteous or how do we know that um uh uh our actions are righteous? But they were not making sacrifices locally for those correct types of people. Um so Melchizedek, King of Righteousness, um so righteousness and then that produces peace with God. Uh you can see that to this day. It is not a type in it's in the fact that it's a tenth, but it's being uh it's a type from its hi i it's being from his choicest possessions and being given freely, not because of legal Um God operated in Melchizedek's life on the basis of personal qualifications. Those priests were temporary. Faith was always paramount. Um and then Christ went uh is described as within the veil Although the priest were from the tribe of Levi, not all Levites were priests So his priesthood was royal. So that that was never known in Israel to be like that. So he had all these purposes, and he fulfilled all of his purposes in his people in spite of their unfaithfulness. And that his name means King of Righteousness. They didn't have a political uh office. They couldn't. And so in some ways the Levitical priesthood was a type Um and so they go out of their way to say there is no other way. Uh Christ, because he abides forever, holds his priesthood permanently. Why did he come give uh Abraham simply recognized Melchizedek as a deserving and faithful priest of God most high, and consequently gave him a tenth from the best of his spoils. So God made this promise to Abraham and he was faithful to keep that promise to Abraham across centuries and millennium and isn't even going all the way through the end times. Prior to his death. There there are no priests anymore. So they were I guess evenly distributed across Israel. And they also often called him a prophet We don't have a legal requirement to give X amount of of money or any money, um, but we give out of gratitude to the Lord. The hope laid up for you in heaven, of which you previously heard in the word of truth, the gospel. Good question. Uh some of them daily, some of them the the the high priest sacrifice of the Day of Atonement was annual, but it had to be repeated every year. Melchizedek was the priest of the God Most High, El Elion, a more universal name It was about that was the first mention of a Christian scripture. So uh building the time of price that was always over there Um the answer is all all these other people that we have in the Old Testament, their their way to God was the same way as our way to God is So, number three, Melchizedek's priesthood was righteous and peaceful. The whole priesthood, the Levitical priesthood, temporary. Um so th the Bible describes um his I don't know how they they do that. And if he was greater than Abraham, he was greater than anything that came from Abraham, his descendants. So Zechariah said that the Messiah is going to be priest and king, even though that was totally foreign to The result of righteousness is peace with God. At a central location in Jerusalem. But there are many Jews who who never darken the doors of a synagogue But we cannot be sure of the details of his identity. Uh it is a type of our our giving in the church. And so all those things are contrast with the Levitical priesthood. The writers of the New Testament, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, go out of their way. Um observe how great this man was to whom Abraham the patriarch gave a tenth of the choicest spoils. Consequently, his priesthood is superior to theirs. I don't um but it's an interesting thing that that um that His priesthood by type is in in that way eternal. So uh let's uh let's uh do you have uh I have Now observe how great this man was, to whom Abraham the patriarch gave a tenth of the choicest spoils. Right, so so we don't know. Um I mean he was praying yeah, he was praying to the Lord about his children before the disaster. But I'm interested if you have any theories on why shortly after seventy AD or that time they did not try to redo their temple. The type, though it is historical, real, and of God, is nonetheless imperfect and temporary. This was an extremely important truth for Jews because to them there was no other priesthood established by the true God but the Levitical one, which was restricted to Israel. Yeah, th it was certainly I mean the Levitical priesthood is is established much later. Uh but he because we get this glimpse with Melchizedek, I think there's reason to believe that he Melchizedek's dual offices of priest and king are a beautiful type of Christ's dual roles as Savior and Lord, as perfect priest and perfect king, so to speak. The Levitical priesthood couldn't make men righteous or give them peace with God, nor could Melchizedek But if you get people today that don't believe that Jesus are Messiah, why do they not sacrifice for sin now? His priesthood was universal, not national, his priesthood was royal, his priesthood was righteous and peaceful, his priesthood was personal, not hereditary Uh Christ did his sacrifice, um, uh is within the veil and is in the Holy of Holies in heaven forever. The study of types and antitypes is called, as one might expect, typology. Therefore having been justified or counted righteous by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Uh the Talmud or the Mishnah is the R Rabbinical Yes. We know that from uh the Qumran Caves. The Jews paid tithes to priests who all died. Yeah. Um w it's we don't know the details of exactly how God manifested himself to Abraham. So verse one and two are essentially a summary of the Genesis fourteen account of uh Abraham meeting Melchizedek. How can he be a both a priest and a king? You have to be justified in order to um then be sanctified. But the writer also points out here, and we'll circle back to it especially in chapter 11, that even in the old covenant, the substance was faith. The writer also points out that the literal meaning of Melchizedek's title, King of Salem, is King of Peace. Because Salem was an ancient name for Jerusalem, Melchizedek ruled over God's special city, his holy city that was always close to his heart. So Abraham, of course, was saved before the old covenant, before the Mosaic Law was given. Um so that was last week. Uh the little Levitical priesthood was hereditary. Or to to bless Abraham. Everyone has a genealogy, whether you can trace it or not. The New Testament specifies no definite amount or portion of our money that we are to give to God. Like the other tribes all had it, the other eleven tribes all had, well, twelve twelve with the two from Joseph. And and they fall spectacularly often. Eternal Father Strong to Save is the name of the hymn and it's the the the rest was away. And so even if God was engaging with people in mysterious and unknown ways before Abraham Um and I think the Romans probably kept them from being able to do that. Who is the the gift really for? Um and so Doug will we'll continue on in uh chapter seven as we go. So let me just give you a few paragraphs from John MacArthur and his introduction to this section of Scripture. Yeah, so we don't know. Uh we'll get to this next week, Hebrews 7. No sacrifices could be made except by the priest, and no forgiveness of sins could be had apart from the sacrifices. That he blessed Abraham after the patriarch had defeated the oppressive king Tedulaomur and his three allies, and that Abraham in turn offered Melchizedek a They were only a type of the one perfect sacrifice that could and did remove sin, making men righteous and bringing men peace. Uh if you have a leader that starts to think of um his qualifications as his own doing, then w we see it over and over again, these leaders In in this case, mortal men receive tithes, but in that case uh one receives them of whom it is witness that he lives on. Yeah. In this case, mortal men receive tithes, but in that case one receives them of whom it is witness that he lives on. Right. Um but no, I don't I don't know off the top of my head how they And it's such a bottom of it so actually that after Christ And collectively the priesthood was temporary. So then it says there are two unchangeable things, and of course the two unchangeable things are first God's promise all by itself, that's an unchangeable thing, and then God's oath on top of that that But yes. The priesthood was strictly national, strictly Jewish, not covering the people of any other nation. The significance of this is Jesus is not just the Messiah of Israel, but of the world. Okay. He was himself a king. This is my resting place forever. He gave freely and generously, and he gave the best that he had, not his leftovers. So if a person is faithful over a little, he will be put in charge of much. After which his ministry was over. Right. The Levitical priesthood was hereditary. So Abraham's giving to Melchizedek is a Yes. So yeah. All right. And so um I think that's the And God's promises are secured by God's character. Um okay, let's let's read the word of the Lord. So um so God obviously has a relationship He would say, We never opened that passage in the synagogue. Um but when we hear about Yeah. Um and they teach Yes. But without any dispute the lesser is blessed by the greater. It would it would have been difficult for them to wrap their minds around. Um that they don't recognize as being part of the Bible. Um and so we get this example of faith uh of Abraham here um at the end of chapter six, and of course we'll get back to Christ gives us peace by giving us Uh for teaching. In fact, Matthew's gospel begins by saying the record of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the Son of David. Yeah, Pastor Reddraw, did you ever find your face drifting at all when you were in the Navy? So uh of course he had access to the scriptures and we know that there were Teacher. And here's what it says Yeah. And we see that in other passages of Scripture, 1 Timothy 1, Christ Jesus is our hope. Um and so that was a Their priestly functions were not under the control of the king, but in all other matters they were ordinary subjects. Um Melchizedek's priesthood was superior to the Levitical priesthood, and we get these So that's a good point that that he has dealt with humanity by different dispensations and we've seen that change over time. This this book of Isaiah is I don't know who that is. They may they may ignore it. Now we'll we'll look at that in great detail when we get to Hebrews chapter 11. Uh I I had a question about the the fact that the Levites were not given any dedicated land Um we're gonna be studying the first part of chapter seven and then next week I will not be here and Doug will be teaching. Consequently, the priesthood was exalted in Judaism. Um that God says this about in Psalm 132. So we'll talk about this a little bit later. Uh but they could not bring men to God and they were never meant to. Any anything else about last week, questions or comments before we launch into uh into this week? So this is the the picture that he's trying to show them to sh to to to show them how Christ is superior. Hey, it looks like there's all s other ways to God so why can't we just all why can't we just all get along, let me put my coexist bumper sticker on the back of my car and I all The p the point of the author of Hebrews Christ is a greater priest because he is a living priest, not a dying one. Um so let's see, where were we? Um Okay. And so that's the point that the author of Hebrews is making now to these Jewish, this Jewish audience in the first century. We've been comparing priesthoods going back to the very beginning of the book. How did they know the sacrifice? I was gonna say, um do you think other than the Holy Spirit, the writer of Hebrews had access to any certain documents that have been kept into Jewish But you certainly may very well encounter someone who uses that argument The dual role of priest king was predicted by the prophets. Abraham was this one that had all the Lord's promises, but here we have But they are personal. I believe that Melchizedek was a historical human being whose priestly ministry typifies that of Christ, a man whom God designed Right. Yep. Melchizedek was the greater. And it was all the they were always taken by a company called Oland Mills. Without father, without mother Why was he blessing Abraham? Yeah, so um Melchizedek, though king of righteousness and of peace, could not make men righteous or give them peace either. So a rabbi is a teacher, and so Um and But the priesthood was a human, not angelic function. Many centuries before Israel's priests ministered there, or Israel's kings ruled there. So it's a better type. This was somebody worthy of being blessed. He will fulfill his promises. Okay. But for some reason, in God's infinite wisdom, the Holy Spirit chose to give us all these details about Abraham. That was the first thing That's correct. Um yeah. Four times in two verses he's referred to as a king. Yes, that's right. Jesus Christ was chosen as a priest because of his personal worth, his quality. Good point. It's for God, and he recognized Melchizedek as a priest of God most high, and that's why he gave it to him. So that's the whole roundabout way of saying this priesthood is superior. It was his every one of his promises are unbreakable without a separate oath. Thus he will be a priest on his throne. That's the whole story of the book of Leviticus. His priesthood was better, was a better type of Christ than the Levitical, but it was still just a type. And that's where the priests were. So number two, m yes, go ahead. So uh they didn't get land, they got a tithe from their other tribes. Any any questions about what we th went through last week? The most detailed information it is is in Hebrews seven one to three. Yeah, they they do that Uh and of course when God wanted to make an oath, no one in the universe is greater than God, um and so he i he is truth and it's a fundamental Um because no one would make such an oath and then not keep it. So my guess is yes, they probably all had some familiarity with with religious writings that were not scripture. First we had to be righteous. Uh the fact that he gave to uh gave this gift to God through the this Melchizedek without a legal Not hereditary, uh based on spiritual personal spiritual qualifications, just like Melchizedek. Those remain among the secret things that belong only So King of Righteousness and King of Peace. But it's clear in the prophecy that he was going to be both priest and king. Here I will dwell. It's mostly what they they teach from, yes. Alright, so today uh we're gonna talk about we're gonna circle back to Mel Kizedek. It's using Abraham as the example, but the real m the real um the real takeaway, the real thing that you should do But before there were Melchizedek's was personal from the beginning of the Iranic priesthood. Yeah, so there are times like that when you really need an anchor for this for the soul. And so this is the story that the writer of Hebrews is referring back to from Genesis 14. He's a he and he's a Um and so David also in Psalm one ten So they don't have priests anymore. That's really the the point of this That's described in Numbers 8, 24, and 25. So that's the point the Holy Spirit is making through this writer of Hebrews here. So remember the audience. They were all temporary. Uh and of course it wasn't a blind faith. And that's why we give our time to God. And so um any any time, any night in the middle of the night They were priests, uh not kings or rulers. Uh but no Jew would utter his name, uh the name of God. And occasionally it's Jehovah. They um th th there's chapters of Isaiah that they don't He was recognized as a teacher, yes, rabbi. Just give 'em something to think about. So let's take a look, verse by verse, starting with the first couple. Sometimes they were snuffed out for the bad quality of their life. So think about that. Um we don't know anything about how his rule was, but we have him described as king of righteousness and king of peace. It began in the wilderness when the covenant with Moses was made and the law was given. Melchizedek's priesthood, however, had no such time or dispensational bounds. Uh the fact that we have no biblical or other record of the beginning or end of Melchizedek's personal priesthood simply symbolizes Yes. Um when they start to think their own qualifications are their own doing. One of them is like words. Uh that yeah that's so that could be yep. Um and there was this whole court in the temple where they sold animals to be sacrificed because that's where everybody had to go, had to go to the temple for Why was Abraham somebody worthy of blessing? So a type is something that points forward to the real thing. So there was teaching going on, just like there's teaching at synagogues all the way down to today. Jesus Christ, though the Son of God, was not qualified for the Levitical priesthood. Now Kizedek is also a type of Christ. I mean God came to Abraham and told him to leave. Melchizedek was king of both righteousness and of peace. So Melchizedek's priesthood is also eternal and not temporary, and Israel a priest served only from the time he was twenty five to fifty. If they go at all. The Israelites were Jehovah's people and the Levites were Jehovah's Priests. So uh we'll also get to As the blesser of Melchizedek undisputably was superior to Abraham. A man who served as a priest did so because he was born into the right family, not because he lived a right life. You had to be from this family to be a priest 16. We we'll get to that later in Hebrews. So even if the Levitical priests had not been required to quit ministering at fifty, they would have ceased ministering when they died. Jerusalem. So there were a whole bunch of non-priestly Levites who served as helpers to the priests and probably as singers and instrumentalists and How did Abraham note off from Alchizedek What's that? This provides great assurance to all who come to Jesus Christ, but especially for Jews who are used to the But there were Levites scattered throughout. The point of these last few verses that we're going to look at, Hebrews seven, four to ten, is that because Abraham We don't have any details about how that worked, but somehow God chose Melchizedek. Well, so we would certainly use the New Testament, which they don't recognize. And so we've been talking about the uh the writer of Hebrews urging the Jews to abandon those rituals and ceremonies of Um And we should be able to explain that as Christians from the Old Testament explanation of the salvation. Um and if you made an oath like that to something that was Um the Catholic Church, the Church of England giving out titles to nobles, you know, making them bishops and Uh any other questions about any of these God put in place a faithful man who's a s servant of his as a king and a priest in Uh Jesus has become such not on the basis of a law of physical requirement, but according to the power of Um you don't want to answer this question, you don't have to. Somebody being greater than Abraham about uh who our whole scriptures are written. Um so the the the Jews here, this is member this is remember the original audience. Uh yet just as Abraham knew he should tithe to Melchizedek, Melchizedek knew he should bless Abraham. Isaiah 53. Uh there was a lady that wrote a devotional So we can see at the beginning of the church there were miracles and those stuff. So he's also blessed by this this priest. In this, his priesthood is clearly superior to that of Aaron. Yeah. Okay. So Christ and his gospel is our hope. The first one is Melchizedek's priesthood was universal, not national. But they were so the the Levites were carrying out certain duties In relation to Israel, God took the name, his covenant name, Yehovah, uh Jehovah Yahweh Yes, that's definitely true. Yeah, so uh yeah, so that was uh to did today, thirty one years ago How can a sinful people approach a righteous God? Um and so he was the king of Jerusalem, king of Sw which was called Salem at the time. So Abraham, father of the Jewish people, gave a tenth of his war spoils, his choice of spoils And so Isaiah It does not mean that he came from nowhere and that he's still alive And so the way his If we meet the qualifications, God will lift us to the ministry. 511 to 620. According to truth, yes Re remember you can't argue somebody into the kingdom. We also talked about the purposes that he had for his chosen people. Yeah. Um, but they're all Jews Uh so we're not told when God first considered Jerusalem to be his holy city, probably before the foundation of the So so think about it to these Jew Jewish audiences originally. So I would still use it. Yes, Isaiah 53 is a is a wonderful passage that Okay. The most high God is over both Jew and Gentile, and is first mentioned in Scripture So originally it was the tabernacle, and then it was the temple, and if you remember for the past Uh today is my anniversary, Kinoco and I. The point in Hebrews is that Melchizedek's parentage and origin are irrelevant to his That's hundreds of years later. There's no other mention outside of that So Job was a servant of the Lord. Rabbi means teacher Raboni in Aramaic. But first let's take a look back at what we did last time. Yeah, go ahead. How did Melchizedek know that Uh he couldn't see the consequences of his obedience. So I'm in a devotional. For this Melchizedek, king of Salem They were only meant to point to the one s true sacrifice that could bring Let me uh let me close this with prayer. Before we look into Melchizedek's priesthood, we should review the Levitical with So it's just not today. Um in written Hebrew you don't have the vowels And he was saved even before circumcision was given, which was the mark. And so therefore Abraham had faith because of God's character. Yeah. Never. So this was this was an Olland Mills uh photograph of We'll talk quite a bit more about it this week, too. But it's still it's only a type It is. The subject thus returns to that very unique priest. Uh just as the effects of the sacrifices were temporary, so was the time of priestly Um but Um and Uh so uh verse four now observ oh, we're getting shy of time. In the church, God also works on the basis of personal qualifications. It was too holy to pronounce. That's really the the point. As mentioned earlier, the Bible gives very little historical information about Methodist. He gave the choicest spoils to the Lord through his servant. They all had their inheritance of land, but the Levites didn't. Mm-hmm. All we know is he did manifest him to Abraham and said certain things to Abraham. Um So Zechariah said for existence for existence, yes it is he who will They administered the cities of refuge, for example. Genealogy determined everything, not personal qualification. I would say, yeah, I would still use it Uh Job, for example. Uh rulership of any sort was totally foreign to the Vidical priesthood. Um, yeah, and so then now they have synagogues and there are no sacrifices at those synagogues. And those indeed of the sons of Levi who received the priest's office have commended. We can also point to that as well. However, Christ is the true king of righteousness and king of peace. Christ is priest of a better priesthood than Aaron's. He had never seen it. That's pretty common. The writer of Hebrews, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, goes to this one Correct. Isaiah thirty two, seventeen. I love that hint. Uh we also have a difference between the Levitical Priesthood and the His name means king of righteousness. Yeah. Go ahead. Um and so in that sense I think you could Um so that would be uh that's a shocking thing for him to say. That by my own personal efforts I have become so wonderfully And here's all the ways that he's better, including Jesus' royal genealogy is actually important. But this does not mean that our giving is optional. So God makes an oath, even though he didn't really need to But he decided to make a separate oath, uh to give further assurance. Oh sure. We c we mentioned Kamel Kizedek before, now we're back to him. Obedience to the law was exceedingly important, but the offer He was chosen because of who he was, not because of where he came from The writer first introduced Melchizedek in chapter 5, but by At the end of the beautiful encouragement to believers about the success. Chapter seven is the focal point of Hebrews. Salem is from the same Hebrew root word We get a description of that in the book of Job. So uh just as we have no idea how Abraham knew about They were set aside as a first fruit to God for special priesthood. So how did Abraham know other than God described? Sure. That's the Navy hymn, Eternal Father Strong to Save. So God had already placed one of his own as king in Israel. And this is how, um, through this sacrifice system. His priesthood is universal just as Melchizedek It ended when the Temple of Jerusalem was destroyed in eighty seven. All the tribes were descended from Abraham through Jacob Yeah The sacrificial lamb was a type of the Lamb of God. Uh very good. Even before they existed, those to whom tithes were paid If Melchizedek was superior to Abraham, then he must also bless And of course God kept that promise. And those indeed are the sons of Levi who received Yeah. Yeah. And then we circle back to the high priest, as our high priest. In that sense, types are predictive. Uh so they provided no permanent forgiveness, no permanent But we but it's I think it's good to How did Job know the Lord? That is the necessary order. Great. Uh so when the scriptures were read aloud in Hey, think about it The the the Levi Levitical priesthood was only for Um what you're really trying to do is put a rock And then everybody had a hard copy The Levitical priests could minister And so we saw that the I think that's how they think about it. Yeah. So i in Genesis fourteen And in that sense, he remains a priest priesthood. There have been some churches through the history. He couldn't see everything having to do with And he was higher than Abraham in those qualifications. For this Melchizedek, king of Satan. If I'm not mistaken But yes, there were synagogues for teaching. And I I think probably they were Like Melchizedek, as far as the Yes. But the one who Jesus Christ, of course, is the reality. Yeah, sure. And so I know Those were all Levite kids cities given And like I said, they're often not told And in the old covenant Excellent. For example, Psalm one thirty. Uh the Levites as the priestly Uh and he's only mentioned a few Yeah, so somehow the They're righteous in accordance with The his followers He is priest of a better priesthood than We've got a congregation of Uh God calls certain And of course we get It was a voluntary act So these this was Uh we've seen how Yeah. Maybe Doug will sing And and times of So he had a personal We have no historical So Abraham was That's how it works in Um Well, we know I be Well Uh They were to be submitted Uh yet There is much And none of these So as a Yes. It means that Righteousness Because they don't have It concerns Um Yeah. They had Um Uh