So last week, if you're here, um we looked at the faith of Abraham to obey and Sarah to have power, uh to be empowered and all of these including the others that we've talked about, had faith all the way to the end that sustained them, seeing the power of God. Seeing God's promises, even though they hadn't received them yet. Um and as we saw last week, each one of those faiths, if I can make it plural like that, each one of those examples of faiths are examples that we can imitate to a degree in our own lives and to can walk in obedience to the call of God. We can have the same power The same source of power that Sarah had that put life in her body is the same power that gave us new life when we came and believed in Christ. And finally, the faith that we see in these people that hopes in a future that they can't see is a faith that we also share and that we hope for a new Jerusalem where we will be with God and we will see Him. Him and we'll enjoy his presence. And uh we will be even in glory. And so just with that picture in our minds, let's remember the context of just this chapter. The main lesson of this chapter is about faith. And the passage starts off reminding us that faith is the assurance of things hoped for. It is the conviction of things not seen, and by it people of old gained approval. Some translations say gain commendation. Also, without faith it's impossible to please God, because the person who would draw near to God must believe that he exists. And that he rewards those who seek him. And then those concepts are what drives the argument I think that flows through the rest of the book of uh chapter eleven in the book of Hebrews. And so today we're going to look at the next series of uh examples of faith. I just want to mention too that all these examples of faith are given to people specifically in this time to a church that was struggling with difficulties. And at the tail end of chapter 10 we saw The encouragement to stand firm, to be encouraged in their faith, and all these examples are references of that that lead finally what we're going to see in chapter twelve The ultimate example is Christ. We look to Christ as we walk, as we run. So today we're going to focus in on this next series. We're going to be looking at verses 17 to 22 And this passage covers the faithfulness of the first four generations of the patriarchs of Israel. So we're going to be looking at Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and Joseph. Now typically we think of the patriarchs as just the first three because scripture is like Abraham, Isaac, Joseph, uh Jacob. And it's just thanks. It's it's just almost like uh uh uh doxology in some ways. Uh it's again and again and again, but the author here includes Jacob, I'm sorry, Joseph, and I'm gonna do that all day today, by the way. All day. So just be patient with me. And one of the things that we see here is that As these guys get to the end of their lives, they take a big step of faith. And that's what the author is drawing our attention to. It's almost like the author is saying All these died in faith, which we talked about at the end of last week. All these died in faith, and the next four examples that follow are examples of faith that occurred at the end of their lives and tie back into the concept that they died in faith, knowing and hoping and expecting in the promise of God that they had not yet received. But they saw with eyes of faith like they had already had it. So the author is both continuing the list of faithful witnesses, ties it back to what we saw in chapter verses twelve to sixteen. Where all of them died in faith not having received those promises. They saw it from afar. And therefore, and this is the conclusion of that passage, therefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God. Because they believe that God exists and that He is a rewarder of those who seek Him. So let's look at the passage. In fact, we will be s we'll be focusing on verses 17 to 22. But for the context that I just talked about, let's start at verse twelve. Um Hebrews eleven verse twelve. Therefore, from one man and him is oh wait, twelve? I'm at thirteen. My bad, thirteen. These all died in faith, having received the things promised, but having seen them and greeted them from afar, and having acknowledged that they were strangers and exiles on the earth. For people who speak thus make it clear that they are seeking a homeland. If they had been thinking of that land from which they had gone out, they would have had opportunity to return. But as it is They desire a better country, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared for them a city. By faith, Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac, and he who had received the promises was in the act of offering up his only son, of whom it was said Through Isaac shall your offspring be named. He considered that God was able even to raise him from the dead. From which, figuratively speaking, he did receive him back. By faith, Isaac invoked future blessings on Jacob and Esau By faith, Jacob, when dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph, bowing in worship over the head of his staff. By faith, Joseph, at the end of his life, made mention of the Exodus of the Israelites. and gave direction concerning his bones. And so we have four examples of faith. In some ways it's two sections. Ah, we're going to treat it as four. Let's pray. God, we come before you again, knowing that we can't pray enough. Knowing, Heavenly Father, the weakness of myself and some of us in here, dear Lord, to have our minds stray To be tempted to focus on one another and uh I pray, Heavenly Father, that you give us Clarity of mind on you and your word and what you have for us today. Please don't let this just be a time of interesting history lessons and trivia And Sunday school lessons, please let us look to your word, God, and have lives that change. Um, I pray, Heavenly Father, that we could draw near to you more, that we could walk more in concert with you, that our faith would see more clearly who you are And what you have promised, and what that means for our lives. What that means in the things that we can do today. And our expectations for tomorrow. Dear Lord, please give us renewed confidence in who you are Please, Heavenly Father, help us to grasp the things that in our flesh is so slippery to hold on to And so strange that we don't have to work, but that there's grace and mercy offered from your loving kindness. I thank you, God, that you are very tender to us, you are patient, and you are loving. And I thank you, dear Lord, for this day that we have today. Amen. So let's look first at Abraham. And by the way, this passage The Abraham here talk is talking about that where he's sacrificing his son. This comes from uh Genesis chapter 22. And the final passage that we're looking at today by faith Joseph comes from Genesis 50. So historically we're covering a lot of distance. Compared to some of the other times that we've had together. And so we don't have time to go read all those chapters in the book of Genesis. We'll touch on some of them so that we have clarity on what it is that Scripture is talking about. But just to let you know, there's going to be some skipping across the book of Genesis that we're going to be doing today. And and just one final thing. Thought to kick us off. Scripture is very clear that all these guys were imperfect. And sometimes it brings a little bit more light on our imperfections than other times. All of them were imperfect, but they believed God to the ends of their lives. They weren't always faithful, but they were men of faith at the end. I want us to hold on to that because that gives me, and I hope you rich comfort Because I am weak. And there are days when my faith is like, Whew, whoo, that's not really me what's going on there. And there's other days where I'm like, yes, mountaintop. And I'm like God, why am I so fickle? But scripture here reminds us that we're not unique and we're not special in that respect. God knows who we are and he news new Who they were. And the testimony of Scripture is men of faith. Doesn't that give you a sense of awe in who God is and what his grace is like? They ended their lives better than Solomon ended his It seems that way. All right, let's press on. Um Moses. Oh yes. need to uh know that the scripture is through the Holy Spirit because we have ourselves when we talk about ourselves if it was just us, we wouldn't say these things said. So take a look at Yeah. Yeah, that's right. My resume is pretty cool. Wow, you do that? That's cool. Um anyway, thanks for that. Um let's look at Genesis twenty-two. Bible drill. Genesis Verse 22, let's go. You're gonna want to look at this as I read it. After these things God tested Abraham and said to him, Abraham, and he said, Here I am. He said, Take your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I shall tell you. So Abraham rose early in the morning. saddled his donkey, and took two of his young men with him and his son Isaac, and he cut wood for the burnt offering, and arose and went to the place of which God had told him. On the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place from afar. Then Abraham said to his young men, Stay here with the donkey. I and the boy will go over there and worship and come again to you. And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on Isaac his son. And he took his in his hand the fire and the knife. So they went both of them together. And Isaac said to his father, Abraham, My father, and he said, Here I am, my son. And he said, Behold, the fire and the wood, but where's the lamb for the burnt offering? Abraham said, God will provide for himself the lamb for the burnt offering, my son So they both went so they both went both of them together. When they came to the place of which God had told them, Abraham built the altar there and laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar, on top of the wood. Then Abraham reached out his hand and took the knife to slaughter his son. But the angel of the Lord called to him and from heaven and said, Abraham Abraham, and he said, Here I am. He said, Do not lay your hand on the boy or do anything to him, for now I know that you fear God, seeing that you have not withheld your son your only son from me. So there's a few key things in this passage. Oh, and just to let us all know, there's a lot of really amazing Theology that's wrapped up in this passage about the person of Christ and who he is. But I want us to keep our minds focused on what the author has for us in the book of Hebrews. Remember, Hebrews 11 says By faith Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac, and he who had received the promises was offering up his only begotten son. It was he to whom it was said, and Isaac your Descendants shall be called. He considered that God is able to raise people even from the dead, from which he also received him back as a type. So we're focused on this. faith of Abraham. And by the way, it says here he was tested. Who tested Abraham? Everybody who said God is right. That's what the testimony of Scripture is. And um just remind ourselves, James chapters chapter one, verses two to four lets us know that we should count it all joy when we face Trials because the testing of your faith. There's this similar concept, testing of your faith. And that's what's going on here in this passage. So God calls Abraham and the The answer of Abraham is, here I am, which is a readiness to obey. There's a spirit thereof, well, Abraham's been walking with God for a long time. He hears God's voice and he says, Okay, how hi And he's and he's off to the races. Let's go. Um, what do you want me to do, God, now? So God calls him And he says, I want you to go to the place I will show you. And it's almost like, wait, we've been here before. This isn't the first time that God says, I want you to go to the place that I will show you. And Abraham gathers up all the things. He knows he's going to be sacrificing his son, so he needs wood. He needs fire. He needs this a knife. He's bringing a long rope. And he takes all the things that he needs. He gets up early in the morning and he goes. And there's an aspect there of Abraham's faith to immediately respond, to jump in and go. And we talked about that last time, but it's worthwhile reflecting on again Because there's days when our faith makes us sluggish to respond. And that's worth noting here the example of Abraham To be quick to respond. Um and that God says to Abraham I want you to do, I'm just going to say this. I'm not trying to be disrespectful. I want you to do this ridiculous thing. In many respects, this is a shocking thing that God asks Abraham. In fact, as you look through the rest of Scripture, God's going to say, sacrificing your children is an abomination. It's one of the reasons why the nations are cast out of the land of Canaan, because that was their practice. And then God says, Do this thing And so we gotta go, wait, what? Why? Um and the answer is given here in Hebrews chapter eleven And thank you God for giving that to us, right? He says, God lets us know Abraham had in his mind He was gonna get his son back from the dead. If he killed him with a knife and burnt him to ashes, he would get him back from the dead. And that's an amazing conclusion to make and it's an amazing logical step to take and let's consider what Abraham was thinking in this respect. We gotta go back and remember in Isaac, God had told Abraham that Isaac was going to be the one through whom the promise would come. What was the promise? Land, descendants, and blessing. Well, he's got Isaac. God very clearly said to him, and we talked about this last Last time, you are gonna have a son, it's not gonna be Ishmael, and it's gonna be a child of both you and Sarah. Now just to let us just make sure that we're remembering our history, Sarah's still alive at this time. But she's not gotten any younger since the last time, since she had her first child We'll just say that. And I know that God is able to cause Sarah to have another child. He made life in her the first time and allowed her to deliver a baby when she was 90 years old. He could do it again But God made it very clear there wasn't another child to look for. Isaac. He specifically named him. Isaac is the one through whom the promise will come. This is just one problem. How many kids does Isaac have at this time? All you've ever said, none is right. At this point in the story Isaac isn't even married yet. Now, we don't know how old Isaac is. Some people say he's a teenager, some people say he might have been thirty years old So maybe he's in that range. Still, there's no child, and if Isaac dies God's promise can't come true. And so Abraham, Abraham is like, I got a promise for this son I gotta kill this son, and God's commanding me clearly to do this act. I see a problem, and it's God's problem to fix. I have so much respect for that bit of logic that Abraham had at that point in time. To come to that understanding, I don't know, I mean the Holy Spirit, God at some point probably me Maybe revealed this, but the implication is no, he came to this conclusion by himself, and God kind of led him out there to figure this out and to test his faith all the way until the end when he had the knife up in the air. Ready to kill Isaac. And part of my mind I can imagine, and this is Doug's thinking, so not scripture, I can imagine Abraham's going, I hope this works, I hope this works, I hope this works. Yes. He um he didn't know that God was able to raise people even from the dead, but at this point God has raised him from the dead, right? So he was just fully like I don't know how it's gonna work, but I know that that God will raise Yeah. Trusting in something God has already done. Yeah. But let's also tease that out a little bit before uh d a little bit further. God has already taken dust of the earth and made life. And he can do it again. God's already taken a dead womb, if I can say that about Sarah. Right. And made it fertile to be able to sustain life. Yeah, but you're right. Nobody no historical person that we know at this point has come back like Lazarus, right? That's that's yeah. Oh, okay, I've seen other examples of God that's miracle like give me reassurance But they can have that. Yeah. Yeah. And neither did Mary. And the answer to Mary was, is anything too hard That's our God. That's our God, right? Yes. Doesn't know what a bloody rain was. Do me an art. Yeah. Well it is the face chapter. It is. It is. And uh but it's very interesting to look at this chapter And to think about why these guys and not other guys and not other faithful acts. Yes. Yes. uh what she was saying too, we will worship, Abraham said, to to servants and we w we will return to you. Now I know that the we is not there in the Hebrew text, but I'm guessing that the grammar probably supports that It's plural, uh if they translated it this way. Uh it is that an early indicator that's indicated for Hebrews that that's what was going through in mind. Just so we're all on the same page, you're looking at Genesis twenty-two verse five. And and there Abraham looks at his servants who are like, Hey guys, stay here for a minute And he says, I and the boy will go over that's the translation from ESV I think, right? I and the boy will go over there. Dot dot dot. And we'll come to you again. I can't I I saw a different user version, but I can't I've never used it. Isn't that an early sign of of the state? And I wonder with your obviously you've done a lot of study on this, uh did the rabbis think that Abraham thought it in with their commentaries on Genesis? They think that Abraham obviously had pace that God's relationship somehow? I don't know the answer to that question. Those were sources I didn't look at. Um but yeah, uh it's it's clearly here it it's I it's there in Genesis twenty two five when you read between the lines like you did. Thanks for bringing that out. And the Holy Spirit lets us know facts. Right. So whether the rabbis thought it was true or not, God thought it was true. End of the story, right? Um so uh Yes. Speaking of this chapter, Genesis twenty-two, very important chapter, for a number of reasons, one of which is that it is the first time in the whole Bible that the word love is used. It's also the first time that the word worship is used and it's also the first time that the word obey is used in the whole Bible. Oh. Interesting. Cool. That's true technology. There you go. And and uh when's the next preceps class? Tomorrow night. Oh, it might be tomorrow night in case you want to join. It's probab is it too late. Is it too late to join? Yes, that's it. I yeah. Y'all y'all missed the thing. Maybe sign up next time. Um it does awful off I often wonder what was uh Ivy thinking at the moment, you know, like uh what you do. Uh yeah, let's just say for a minute uh it's worthwhile asking asking that question because it looks like Isaac was a compliant. I'm going along with what my he you know, unless his dad hit him over the head right first, then tied him up And well if one wake up, I don't know. Um but the implication is and and this is the implication, right? So we have to guess. God doesn't tell us what happened there Um there could have been a conversation, there could have been something going on, I don't know what it was. But there was some something happened where a compliant Isaac let himself be tied up. And so but but we don't know how we got to that point. Scripture doesn't tell us. Yes? It seems like that, potentially, but that's a guess. I'm gonna I'm gonna stick to what I know from scripture and I don't know how he got tied up, but he did get tied up. And and His dad was not spring chicken. Not by any means. Yeah. Yes. I also wonder, um, with Abraham's faith, did he think about how he and their had intervened the last time and how that hadn't worked out so well? meetings that and so often I have to go to several times before I learn a lesson, but maybe maybe thought about that um maybe I'll go into a meeting. Maybe so. Maybe so. And and it is a good lesson for us to remember Remember that you know what do we have in our lives that God has promised us that we can say, God, I know you've clearly promised this, therefore I know. This thing you've directing me to do, I can take that step. I can go do that thing. How can I mirror What Abraham did in my life. Right? God says, Doug, and I go, here I am. Okay, what's next for me, God? I want you to go to uh this place He said, I want you to go sing my phrases, I want you to go make disciples, I want you to well, just for grins and giggles, look at Romans 12. I want you to be a living sacrifice. Holy unacceptable. Don't be conformed to this world. Now that's powerful. I'm not going to be, you know, laying anybody on an altar But I can put my own self on the altar. And I can go, here I am, God. What do you have for me today? And I can prepare myself to be put on the altar by living holy because God says I'm holy. So be holy. And I can spend my time drawing near to God now. Understanding his voice, hearing who he is, walking closely with him, so that when God says Doug, I want you to go do this thing. I'm not going oh, is that really God's voice? Oh, is that really God's calling? But I have a relationship with God where I'm like, oh, ooh. That looks really hard. But I know I can do that because of God's promises. I know I can do that thing because God's shown himself faithful in the past And he strengthened me in the past by his spirit to walk. And so I can get out there and walk. And I can love my enemy. I can pray for them. Ah. And I can do good to them. Because that's what God's called me to, and because that's what Christ already did for me, showing me the example of those things. So it's a faith that we can empathize. imitate as well in our lives, just as Romans twelve commands us to I think of being generous and giving is an uh easily relatable example coming out and say, even though it's not a commandment in in the New Testament, but it's exhorted at the same time. Sure. say sacrifice of time and the things that God's given you, the skills and the bl spiritual gifting that God has given you, are all things that you can take and and give back. Sacrifice. And in a sense that's kinda what God what Abraham's doing right. God gave him Isaac and he's just giving him right back to God saying, I know. You ever play this game with a two year old where you're like, would you give that to me? I have grandkids, right? So would you give that to me? And they're like, uh uh In some ways we are too much like two year olds. Like Okay, and you and and then you get to give it right back to him. In some ways that's what God did with Abraham. Give me your son, your only son, whom you love. And he gave him right back. And Abraham walked through all of that test and he passed the test because he walked through the test by faith. When we face trials, we must walk through them by faith. James also says, ask for wisdom. 'Cause we serve a God who will cr generously give us wisdom when we ask for it. Ask and don't doubt. God will give it to you. Hey Doug? Yep. Um you also have uh Like prom God promises to hold back to them prior to, you know, God commanding them to sacrifice his son. We're in in in chapter fifteen, uh all spring, a number that you can't you know, so so he had to have God didn't need a lot of problems to surprise you that you know the man. So he walked with that book. Yeah, God made it very clear. You're gonna have a lot of k you're gonna have a lot of descendants. And then he made it even more clear through Isaac. I think Isaac also uh um he came to believe right he has been so that's a good segue. Let's look at the next part. I gotta press on. Sorry, I we gotta yeah we gotta press on. Because verse twenty says And it's just one verse, by faith Isaac invoked future blessings on Jacob and Esau. And this is one of these ones where, just like with the passage on Sarah, we gotta go, what wait a minute. Because let's look back at this we don't have time to read the whole story. So I'll summarize it real quick. It's in Genesis twenty-seven and a little addendum in Genesis twenty-eight. Right. And if we remember the story, the story is Rebecca's pregnant and she goes to the Lord to find out what's going on because there's a battle going on inside of me. And God reveals to her, you've got two kids inside you. And they're gonna become two nations and the younger will serve the older and the blessing's gonna go through the younger. The older will serve the younger. I said that backwards then. The younger will serve the older. Thanks for fixing that. Yes. The older will serve the younger. Older will serve the younger. Yes, thank you. Yes. Maybe we should go read scripture. Um Yeah, that story is in Genesis uh twenty-five, verses twenty-two and twenty-three. Uh Um all right, we'll get it right. It's worthwhile taking time to read God's word. And the Lord said to her, Two nations are in your womb. And two peoples from within you shall be divided. The one shall be stronger than the older, the older shall serve the younger Boom. There you go. So uh that turns things a little bit upside down from the normal order of things. But she's got twins. So anyway, um Fast forward these babies become men, and Isaac's getting old and he says to his Son Esau, make me some food so I can bless you. Esau runs off to go find some food. Rebecca finds out about this and says, Jacob, we're going to secure you this blessing. Go into your father, I'm going to make some food and you're going to serve. it to him and we're going to trick him. You're going to lie to your dad and he's going to bless you. Because I don't want Esau to get this blessing. What was said before about man trying to work out what God already has Determined, there's going to be consequences here, and there are. But Hebrews says Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau. By faith he did that. So Isaac He's blind, he can't see. He gets tricked into blessing Jacob. Jacob gets a blessing, runs away, and then Esau shows up. This we gotta go back and look at because this is the important verse. Look at Genesis 27. We'll start with verse 32. His father Isaac said, uh his father Isaac said to him, Who are you? He answered, I'm your son, your firstborn, Esau. Then Isaac trembled very violently and said, Who was it then that hunted game and brought it to me and I ate it before you? Esau. And I'm gonna assert, assume, I'm gonna assume that when Rebecca found out the truth about what was going on in her womb, she revealed it to Isaac. That's in the category of assumption. Okay? I'm gonna assume these two people, husband and wife, they talked about this problem. He probably said, So what'd God tell you? And she said, Well God told me there's these two nations, these Younger, the older, blah blah blah. It comes to this point, Isaac loves Esau and wants to give him the blessing, regardless of what God said. And he does, he tries. And God used man. Man's wickedness to set about his own purpose. And we can spend time talking about God's sovereignty and about first causes and second causes, but we don't have time for that today. But it appears that God uses people to bring about the cause that He had sovereignly ordained. And at verse 33 When Jacob trembles, I'm sorry, when Isaac trembles, I believe that at that point he realizes I was outside of what God had for me and I was blessing. I was trying to not do what God wanted me to do, and God straightened it out. Because look forward in Genesis to verse. The next chapter in Genesis twenty-eight, verse two. Isaac talks to Jacob, he says, Go to Pedanaram to the house of Bethuel, your mother's father And take as your wife from there one of the daughters of Laban, your mother's brother. This is important. Pay attention. God Almighty bless you and make you fruitful and multiply you that you may become a king. Company of peoples. May he give the blessing of Abraham to you. That's powerful. Isaac has recognized that the blessing that started with Abraham. Flows through him and goes to Jacob at this point. So he has changed his mind He is now a man who is walking by faith, not trying to work it out for his own self, get what he can for Esau. Something happened in verse 33 of chapter 27. He trembles because if he didn't tremble, he might have said, Jacob, get back here. Boys, I take it back. Isaac, I'm sorry, Esau, you get it. But he doesn't do that. I've often thought to myself, he's isn't he a nice dad? Wouldn't he want to bless both his sons? What's going on here? But the thing is, is Isaac understands he is under God's direction to bless the child that he sovereignly ordained to be blessed Jacob. And he is now gonna bless Esau with the scraps that are left over that he didn't bless Jacob with. That trembling I think that Scripture talks about. there and this is me filling in some gaps, right? But there seems to be a change of heart that happens between twenty-seven and twenty-eight, and I think that's the turning point right there that happens. That's why in Hebrews eleven God can say, By faith, Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau. And I go. God's sovereignty is too much for my mind. And how this stuff works, uh I'm just in awe of who God is and what he does. Praise God. That's the best probable explanation I have that synchronizes Hebrews 11 with what I read in Genesis 27. And if you have a better answer, talk to me about it after class and I'll send an email out. Um read a lot on this one. Yes. Did you have a question? No, just just to stay a humbly thing because Isaac is not just godless man. We read about when he first saw his wife. on contemplating in the desert he saw his life and said, Wow, you know. Um and so he he seemed to and he didn't argue, he was not the man. You know, maybe like like a lot of us here hopefully. So even we You know, I he he thought this is a really decent guy, this would be just the right thing to get him going in the right direction. Whatever whatever lies we can spin to ourselves, none of us are above that person. Yes. So this is really So thank you for bringing this out. Yeah, absolutely. But again, even with that, uh yeah, he comes back and as far as I can see from scripture, this is one about one of the last things that he does. End of his life. In this blessing, in this blessing that Isaac gives to his son, he sees a hope of a promised land. He sees a hope of a blessing. He sees a hope of a continuation of what was given to Abraham. Even though, at this point, he's only got two sons. This is not stars of heaven. Sand on the seashore tight generations. But he still clings to what God said. Let's look Henry, yes. It's not so much in the fact that he stooped who the right person is supposed to go to the fact that the actual intellectual both of them did believe in the actual uh uh But I first promised Abraham passing that he had been mistaken in exactly whether whether he or not, exactly which one was to inherit that blessing. But he does state here that he left both of them. He did. He did. When you get a chance, look back at Genesis 27. Esau says, Father, didn't you save a blessing for me? And then he starts speaking again, which is that second blessing. It's not much. It's not much. There's a hope that one day he'll throw off the yoke of his brother. But notice what Shiva says about the nature of the blessing. Right here in verse Hebrews eleven and twenty. Uh he blessed Jacob and Esau to guardian things to come. Yep. But it goes with a nice segue to the next chapter, verse one of Jacob. Jacob when he done now this is done. He comes with some particular detail about things, including the fact that our soldiers rely on the private view. Oh, but let me call you back from there for a second. Oh, let's look at what happens there because that's So interesting. This is not the blessing that goes to all twelve sons. This is talking about the blessing to his grandsons Joseph's sons. That's and that's an interesting thing because one chapter has him blessing his two grandsons, the other chapter has him blessing all his sons I would think if you if I'm the author of Hebrews, God writes the books, not me, but if I'm the author of, you know, I would point at the one that blesses all the sons for the very reason you said That talks about Judah. It talks about where Jesus is going to come from and all that kind of stuff. But no, the author of Hebrews points at this thing with Ephraim and Manasseh What? Why? Furthermore, he says, Jacob by faith. And you gotta go, wait, wait, Jacob? He's a rascal. He's a schemer. He stole his brother's birthright. He lied to his dad to get this blessing. And he went off, and when he got there finally, he works and and then he has to sneak away from his father. in law blah blah blah. There's all this stuff going on in his life where he's like, if there was a person who was trying to make things without trusting God to make it all happen for him, he seems to be the poster child for it. And then he finally is about to come back into the land, and there's a an event that happens in his life. He wrestles. With God. That seems to be the real turning point of faith in his life. Maybe the part where he's got his head resting on a rock and he sees Jacob's ladder Maybe. There's an aspect of there where he knows God promised that he would come back. So there's faith there. But the real time where you see him seeming to walk by faith is that moment when he wrestles with God and he gets his name changed, that's really important in his life. Because a after that there's you know, his again, that starts to become less and less of who he is. He's he stops being this schemer and the scheming becomes his son's scheming in the book of Genesis after that. Exactly. Exactly. So sorry, focus. Um time. In some ways we gotta wait until the end of Jacob's life. To make sure that he's going to be a man of faith. And we know and we see people who their life looks like that's a life of faith and we get to the end and we're like, that's not a life of faith. And you go, wait, what happened there? Was there faith ever before? And Jacob's the in first. You're like, I don't see faith, I don't see faith. He's pretty worldly. And then we see him make these statements at the end of his life Where he proclaims truth. And not only truth, but he proclaims Abraham's blessing and an expectation to return to the land that he's not in. The time he's giving these blessings, he's in Egypt on his deathbed. And he's like, my life is hard, but I know I'm at the end of the life end of my life. I need to bless my grandsons. But it then brings us back to the question, why Ephraim and Manasseh? Why did they get their own chapter? That's one aspect. And the other aspect is why does he switch his hands around? Why does he do that? Right? I don't have all the answers. Sorry, you're not going to get them all today. The the the thing that we need to see here is that he blessed each of the sons of Joseph when he was dying. Let me back up just real quick. Do I want to say this? Yeah. In the end that he And it's possible that the reason why he's doing this is he wants to make sure that the son the sons of an Egyptian woman have an inheritance in the land. It may be that he wants to make sure that Joseph's brothers don't try to cheat Joseph another time. It may be that that's what's going on. But regardless, there's a future and a hope, and he sees it. And gives it to Ephraim and Manasseh and says, You guys, you guys now are my sons. I'm adopting you. And you're gonna have an inheritance in the land. And Ja Joe Joseph, you get your grandsons. You don't get your sons anymore, they're mine. So there's an aspect there, and not only that, he flips them around and he says And the younger is going to be greater than the older again. There is an expectation of a return to a land that's going to be divided up, and he wants to. Make sure two shares of that land goes to the children of Joseph. And right then and there that's what he does. And God says yes. And the final thing it says in that verse Bowing in worship over the head of his staff. That also is the act of faith. Here he is, he sees the future And he gives glory to God for the future that's coming. I'm a man whose descendants will live in this land. And my sons' tribes and these two grandson. Sons tribes are going to be living in that land. They're going to have that hope and realization. And he sees a glorious expectation and God's fulfillment of what he promised. Greeting it from afar. I think that's the other son's name that starts with a J. I think you see him blessing Judah as if is he's the firstborn because he was upset first with Reuben and then secondly he was upset with the next two boys because they were men of bloodshed. And so it comes to Judah. But it also reveals God God's purpose in the end because Judah is where Christ is gonna come from. Alright. I just want to make this last point. Jacob was a schemer and a scoundrel. Did he deserve God's blessing? Absolutely not. He didn't deserve it, but God chose to give it to him by faith. And we're in that same place. We're in the same position of grace. In the end he was a man. of faith and that's the place where we want to see our lives as well. Be walking by faith all the way to the end, just as these were. Lastly Joseph. Joseph Joseph at the end of his life made mention of the Exodus of the Israelites and gave direction concerning his bones. How is it that Joseph can make mention of the Exodus out of the land of Egypt? Spoiler alert. In Genesis Genesis 15, when God shows up and gives him the covenant, proclaims the covenant, he says, and your descendants are going to go to Egypt and they're going to be there for 400 years and they're going to come out Joseph now, four generations or three, depending on how you count it, away from Abraham is saying When the exodus happens, carry my bones with you. Let's remember who Joseph is at this point in time. He is second in command of the entire nation. That's a pretty powerful position. And in that position h and just remember too, Egypt is no small nation. It's a powerhouse at this point in time. You can go see all the rock They stacked up still. They did those things, and part of those things were being done while he was second can in command of the nation. If he walked down the street, they'd be like, ooh, that's Joseph. If he walked down the street in Canaan, they'd be like Look, there's an Egyptian. Which happened later on, by the way. And there's a temptation, I believe, he could have said, Egypt's good enough for me. I got everything I need. I got power. I got money. I got a wife and kids. Let's set up shop here in Egypt. Let's stay put. That's not an act of faith. The act of faith that we see recorded here for the for Joseph When the exodus happens, bring my bones with you. Don't make me a pyramid. Don't bury me in some place here. Put me in a coffin. Take my bones back when you go. That's a statement of faith. Because there's no time I mean, think about what's going on. Egypt and Israel at this point, they're buddy buddies. Joseph shows up, he's a wise man, he's Second in command, there's no that we know of consternation and trouble going on between Israel and Pharaoh at this point in time. That happens later. So they might be like, we can be friends with these Egyptians now. And he says, No, I I know the promise God gave us. God gave us a promise. It's that land, Canaan, it's the place where we're going. There's going to be an Exodus. We're going back there. That's the land God has given our family. When you go, take my bones. Don't let me stay buried. Don't let my bones stay buried in this land. In Genesis chapter fifty, he says to his brothers, I'm about to die. But God will visit you and bring you up out of this land to the land that He swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. Then Joseph made the sons of Israel swear, saying God will surely visit you, and you shall carry up my bones from here. And they followed his orders, and in Exodus thirteen you can read about it, and in Joshua twenty-four, you can also read about it. They were faithful to obey that. That means that they carried his bones for forty years in the wilderness until they showed up in the land of Canaan. And then put his remains to rest when they got to the land that God had promised and had secured the land. There are a lot of faithful things though that Joseph could have been called out for. He could have been called out for, you know, not giving in a potify. He could have been called out for not killing his brothers when he had a chance. He could have been called out for remaining faithful while he was in prison and stuff like that. But out of all of Joseph's life he is called out for this last final act. And there's a parallel that runs through all these people That shows that they were faithful until the end. And God brings to light the final acts of faithfulness that these men all had. And demonstrate to the people of Israel their faith filled start and demonstrate to us living lives of faith to the end, regardless of what we see going on and trusting what God said. If God said it, it's gonna happen. Even if I don't see it today, it's gonna happen. It's money in the bank. If God says invest in Dunkin' Donuts, I'm gonna sell everything I have and go buy Dunkin' Donuts stock. Because God said so. It's a silly picture, but it gives you an idea of what's like in fact no I'm not gonna say that. The Yeah, it's a distraction. These guys had confidence in the things that would happen after they died. And so we see in this passage that they had faith all the way to the end, and it was based on The singular declarations of God. Yes. That takes us to Revelation where God says, Be faithful unto death, and I will give thee the crown of life. Absolutely. The rich, rich blessings that God has for us are worth holding on to. And what does Jesus say? Don't fear man. The worst they can do is kill you. Fear God. That's also a ridiculous faith in a human sense. It's ridiculous to think, oh, well people are scary. It's even more ridiculous to not fear God. That's what the that's what that says. So They believed what God said and based on that they acted and they put themselves and they did what they said. They said they did and that's our example. They knew God's Word. First marching orders for us is to know God's Word. And based on what they knew in God's Word, they planned their future around it. And we're gonna see that even more so with Moses, which is coming up next. And guys, I've said this and it's worthwhile repeating, we s we share the same future with these guys. We have a citizen's that's in head i in heaven. Jesus said, I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go to prepare a place for you, I'm coming back to get you, to bring you to that place. And for now you got my spirit. I'm not going to leave you as orphans. I'm going to send a helper who will be with you and take care of you until I return. And that's a sweet, sweet place to be. Guys, I'm finished up a little early. I guess I managed my time a little bit. more carefully than I thought. Uh any questions or thoughts? Yes. I just thought it was interesting that Joseph is the one that we hear about saying he's my own fact because he had all these other brothers who presumably all died. in Egypt. And even the ones who like had specifically been promised land in a portion in Canaan didn't request that. And you have to really didn't get this all over portion of Canaan decons it. Yeah, and it would have been interesting to try to take back six million corpses, but yes. But you know, in general it's just I wanted to think that there were promises Yeah, it it is uh uh it is something special to be asked for. There's no requirement anywhere in scripture for our bones to be in Israel. Otherwise it would be one mass ser uh cemetery. Um you can just imagine everybody like, I want to spot in Israel. Um God knows where our my belief is that God knows where our remains are and he'll bring 'em back and do what needs to be done in the future. But this was a specific step of faith that he took. And it is interesting that his brothers didn't make that same request. Because um there would have been what, maybe twelve, maybe seventy brick graves that might need to be put together there. But it was his specific request. Any other thoughts? Um yes, Kurt. It it was very uh intriguing to be here when Pastor Leek was, I guess, within a month or two of passing away and he just from the pulpit he did not give up and just stayed faithful to as calming as a as a strong creature, which he did. And not really considering what he knew that this this was his charge, I'm gonna be faithful with it. And whatever strength I had left, I'm gonna give it I think of Stephen maybe in that's the same way where people stay close it right up until the yeah is like closed over Yeah, yeah and and multiples of multi martyrs, yes. Yeah. And and others who had Simple deaths that just walked into heaven when they died. Yeah, absolutely. Um that's what I want to be my testimony, yes. Maybe the reason that uh just the point of his phones. taken back into Egypt had a habit of uh idolizing idolizing uh race sites of people who were in authority. That's a really good thought. Yeah. There's a there's something powerful there, yeah. Yes. I was just gonna point out um one possible sign of Jacob's humility and and he's learned from his mistakes is that Joseph tries to commit Rachel's um you know deception much less cleverly but he's trying to say, No, you've got your hand on the wrong head. You need to bless this one. He's the first one. And Jac Jacob doesn't let him do that. Yeah. He insists, nope, this is the way it's going to be, this is the way God wants us. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Yes. Um time Joseph goes to Egypt he's the only Hebrew slave there. And the others come as freemen. But when the slaves are free, Joseph the slave is so he's anticipating maybe that and identifying with his people all the way through and remembering what God had told Abraham. Yeah. That's a uh yeah, that's interesting. It it makes me wonder, is he a slave when Pharaoh pulls him out of prison and says Is he still a servant is you will of Pharaoh at that point. Even though he's number two. Yeah. Interesting, yeah. Yes. I just looked up Joseph's tomb and it's in it still exists and it's in a place called Shechem. Um so people can it's but it's in um the West Bank so it's not very easy to access, but it's there. Yeah, it it's amazing to go to places it's not really the uh the out of Luna. Guys, we're gonna close in prayer