Alright, so uh we're in Hebrews chapter 11. You might want to take a look there. You know, when I think about Hebrews chapter 11 It's a little bit like if you don't mind me using this metaphor, it's a little bit like back to the future. Marty McFly climbs in a DeLorean, he goes somewhere in the past because he's gotta fix something in the future. Um It's like the Holy Spirit stops on the side of the road and is DeLorean, right? And says, come on, we gotta go back to the beginning of time. And then again we jump forward. But we don't do this to fix necessarily anything that's broken in the past. What we're doing is we're doing this because we want to make sure that we're addressing ourselves today, right now. Because We go to the past to learn examples about how to live our lives now based on endurance and based on living by faith. And and that's really what's going on. At the end of chapter ten, if you want to look back there like around verse 35 or so. God has this author call us to the need for endurance And calls us to live based on faith and confidence And then here in chapter 11, throughout the chapter, he explains to us what he means by faith, then gives us these pinnacle examples. of people who lived by faith regardless of what they saw, regardless of the circumstances that that are at hand And drives the point straight through chapter 11 into chapter 12 where we see the ultimate example of faith, Jesus, and he says, therefore Run. Run unhindered, fixing your eyes on Jesus. So there's a concept that starts at the end of chapter 12 about faith and endurance that presses all the way through this chapter to chapter 12. And it's important to see that chapter twelve, uh chapter eleven, is not just a really cool list, it's not just a Hebrew history lesson, it's really looking back And what God enabled these people to do by faith, and we can do the same. And the main lesson that the author starts us off with here in the beginning of chapter eleven is faith is first of all The assurance of things hoped for. It is secondly the conviction of things not seen invisible stuff. But I know for sure about it And by it people have old gained approval or received commendation. And also, without faith, it's impossible to please God. Because the person who would draw near, and that's a concept that the author of Hebrews has been beating on throughout this. The person who would draw near must believe that God exists. And that God rewards those who seek Him. Those are so important to this chapter, and everything in this chapter points back to those concepts. Faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. seen and by it people of all gains of approval so that without faith it is impossible to please God Because a person who would draw near must believe that God exists and God rewards those who seek Him. Must. And that's not only true for Abel and Enoch and Noah, as we're going to see. See today starting in verse eight it's true for Abraham. It's true for Sarah. It's gonna be true for Isaac and Jacob And it's true for us. And so today we're going to be looking at three specific examples of faith. We're going to see how Abraham obeyed We're going to see how Sarah received power. And we're going to see how all these died in faith. In faith they died. So let's read it. Hebrews 11, verse 8. By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to a place that he was to receive as an inheritance. And he went out, not knowing where he was going. By faith he went to live in the land of promise as in a foreign land, living in tents with Isaac and Jacob, heirs with him of the same promise. For he was looking forward to the city that has foundations, whose designer and builder is God. By faith Sarah herself received power to conceive, even when she was past the age, since she considered him faithful. Therefore from one man and him as good as dead were born descendants as many as the stars of the heaven and as many as the innumerable grains of sand by the seashore. These all died in faith, not having received the things promised, but having seen them and greeted them from afar and having acknowledged that they were strangers and exiles on the earth For people who speak thus, make it clear that they are seeking a homeland. If they had been thinking of that land from which they had gone out, they would have had opportunity to return. But as it is They desire a better country, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared for them a city. So there's three points, remember there's three things we're looking at here, examples of faith in this section. And these examples are for us. Abraham's obedience, Sarah receiving power, and all of these dying in faith. The first one, if we look here at Abraham, it says, he obeyed by going to a place that he was to receive as an inheritance. And this is telling us what happened in Genesis chapter 12. If you fast, you can look at it. I'm going to read it to you. Starting at verse 1, it says, Now the Lord said to Abraham, Go. He said, Go from your country and your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you, and I will make of you I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse. And in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. So Abraham went as the Lord had told him, and Lot with him. Abraham was seventy-five years old when he departed from Haran. Imagine what that would have been like. Seventy-five years old, God comes to you and says I want you to pack up and get out of here. And for the rest of your life you're going to be living in tents. The way this is written It seems to me, and the way I picture this is God says, Abraham go, and Abraham said, how far? And God says, I'll show you when you get there. That's an amazing step of faith to just simply obey. God says, go. And he went to a place He didn't know. Remember what faith is. Faith is the assurance of things not seen. Abraham couldn't see where he was going He didn't know if he should pack snake repellent or shark repellent. He didn't know. He just packed up everything that he had, all of it And went. And I don't know what was going on. Maybe God had some sort of Holy Spirit GPS that was going on that said, turn right. In a couple of miles turn left and stuff like that. But somehow God brought him to the land that he showed him. And it says here that he was going To receive an inheritance. And so Abraham and the Holy Spirit drawing our attention to this fact in the book of Hebrews, Abraham went knowing that God is and that He's a rewarder of those who seek Him. And so what we see going on in Abraham is this massive step of faith that supports everything that the Holy Spirit is trying to teach us here in the Book of Hebrews. Setting us for an example. He couldn't see where he was going, but he was convicted of convinced of the call and the promise. God called him and said, Go and I will bless you there. And so he went. He packed up and went. And it says here in the book of Hebrews that he lived or resided as an alien. in the land of promise. He went to a place that God promised him and he spent the rest of his life not owning any of that land except what he bought for a place to bury his wife. And that doesn't sound like God giving it to him He bought that for himself. A cave and the land around the cave. The promise in this section is also very important. And if you remember, there's some things that this author has been speaking. speaking to us about promises throughout. And so it's linked this concept of faith and what we read in chapter twelve is all tied together with this initial covenant. So there was promise that God said. He said, I want you to go to this land, I will make you a great nation, and I will bless you and I will make your name great and you will be a blessing. And all the families of the earth shall be blessed. That's the outline of the covenant. That's the promise that Abraham has, and he packs up to go live in that inheritance. And that promise. And as we're I'm jumping ahead of myself. We'll come back to that thought. It's tied to our hope. Because all nations are blessed in him, and it's tied to the hope that Abraham had as well. And he's living in this foreign land. You know, the testimony of Abraham And Isaac and Jacob, as you look at Genesis twenty-five, or Genesis twelve, or Genesis thirteen, they just keep saying, and they dwelt in tents. That's where they were. They were living in a place It was a foreign land, and it says here in the book of Hebrews that they were looking forward to a different city. Isn't that amazing? God says, pack up and go to where I'm going to tell you to go He gets to this land, he camps out by the oaks of Mamre, he goes visiting all these different places. God says to him, Walk around the land, any put you any place your foot touches is going to be yours. And as we're going to see what we're going to do. when we get to the third point today. He died, not owning any of it like God promised. And what do we do with that? Well, the author tells us he was looking forward to a city, an inheritance. whose architect and builder is God. And fast forward in time, and you see Jesus sitting at the Last Supper up in an upper room. And he says to his disciples, I'm going to prepare a place for you. It's the same thing. And the day of the apostles That God's saying, I'm gonna give you a promise, and it's coming, and I'm gonna go and prepare that promise. Yes. So that verse 10 is the answer to your trivia question because we are also looking forward to that series. Yes! What an amazing segue. Thank you, Ann. Because remember, these are not just written Because they're history lessons. These Hebrew lessons are for us. And the author of Hebrews is pulling these forward so that we can look at these together and go, oh I get it. We're also looking forward to a city whose architect and builder is God. We're moving into a new place today to have worship. And the architect of that is well probably Alan and and uh Kirk, right, and a lot of people contributed work and stuff like that. And they've done an amazing job. I can't imagine how much more amazing God's gonna put together. And he's been working on Glory to Christ. So what about us? I mean we're called here. Essentially, what The implication is, is we're called also to obey and walk by faith, just like Abraham. And so with this example, we should be asking ourselves Where's God calling me to go? Am I in the place God has me right now? Am I confident that this is the place that God has me to live? It's easy for us. To be about the busyness of life and forget that regardless of our age And our station in life, God has work for us to do. He has a place for us to be. And it's important for us to spend time working to understand what that is, unless God comes to you and says, go. And gives you a vision, it's important to be in his word and listening to his voice. To understand what he has for you We need to also be living our lives with the confidence and assurance. Just like Abraham, this is where God has me. This is the way God wants me to. To be. This is what God wants me to do, and this is how God wants me to serve. And I want to say it again, regardless Of our station in life, of our age, and what we have to do. Because God's got work for all of us who are still living and breathing and moving around in the church. The first thing that pops. Into my mind when I thought about this is Matthew 28, where it says, Go and make disciples, teaching them to obey. Which extends into Titus chapter 2, which basically says to all of us, be teaching one another. Tell one another about the truth. Which also talks about um i uh if you've never done this It's an interesting study to look at the last chapters of all of Paul's letters. In the last chapters of Paul's letters, he basically takes he gets to the point, and oftentimes in the last chapter, he's like, oh and I got a few more things to do. to tell you. And he's like, and I want it, and I want you to pray without ceasing, and I want you to rejoice always, and I want you to and there's these lists of things that that are in each one of those chapters Which say things like, love the brethren, walk in humility, draw near to God. They're quick, they're easy actions for us to be considering. Am I doing these things? Is this an area of my life I should examine and grow in? I think for us that's the first lesson is to walk by faith, to be where God has us to be, and to be confident in what God has us to do. Because God had, even though Abraham's living in tents, that's where God wanted him to be It says here in in Hebrews 11, he says, By faith he obeyed, by faith he went to live in the land of promise. In some ways that seems simple, right? He just went somewhere and lived there. How hard could it be? In hindsight, it seems pretty easy And I think that's important for us because a lot of times our step of faith is hard until after we do it. Once we start to obey And once we take that first step and we start to go, in hindsight we're like, why was I dragging my feet? Why why was that so hard for me to to give up that thing that really wasn't a blessing to me? Why was Why was it so hard for me to do that thing that God was calling me to do? Why was it hard for me to show up at the prayer meeting? Or why was it hard for me to go out on the evangelism thing? Or why was it hard for me to because this was such a blessing to my soul? When I walk by obedience. I just want to testify that when I get past myself, when I get after, when I walk in humility and I'm like, okay, I'm going to obey. That's when my heart is thrilled to know God, to believe that God is there and He is a rewarder of those who seek Him. There is something sweet and precious about walking by faith and knowing our God Yeah. And when you look at what he's talking about here in the book of Hebrews, the author loves to point out how amazing it is. He was seventy-five years old, he packed up everything he had and went. and live the rest of his life in tents. But the next part is even more amazing in my humble opinion. And it says, by faith, Sarah Herself received power to conceive. What? What? And the author doesn't kid around with us, right? Even when she was past the age, and then it goes on verse 12, therefore from one man Anahib is good as dead. Okay, which is this is not very I mean, scripture doesn't hide who we are, that's just what it is They were older than all of us. But they still had twenty five more years to wait. That's right. Yeah, maybe people were more uh I don't know. But the testimony of Scripture, the testimony of Scripture applies to us as well, no matter how old we are. The testimony of Scripture is by faith Sarah herself received power. And you can read back to Genesis seventeen and take a look at what happened because Genesis seventeen, God says to Abraham, Sarah herself will bear a son. And first Abraham laughs about that, and then Sarah laughs about that. This was Beyond the proper time. And it says here in Hebrews 11, something so sweet and beautiful She trusted God to be faithful to the promise. And I was just like, wow. Wow. God declares it. This is almost like Abraham. God takes Abraham outside his tent and says, Look up at the stars. That's the way your descendants are going to be. And he just believed him. Now Sarah seems to have a little bit more trouble with this, and it's worthwhile mentioning this because some Some of you Bible scholars are going to be like, wait a minute, the testimony in the book of Genesis says Sarah laughed And then she lied about the fact that she laughed. And the Holy Spirit says S is there nothing too hard for God? That's in Hebrews eighteen. She said, I I didn't laugh. Oh, but you did laugh. And that's an important lesson for us. But it's not in the text of Hebrews, so I'm gonna press past it. Um Henry. So these these accounts that we're reading are supposed to be examples for us to learn uh the faith of Abraham. In a in Abraham's case it seems fairly straightforward to me that the way he exercised faith um was in obeying God. It doesn't seem quite as clear to me how uh Sarah exercised her faith. Did you have any insights as to exactly how her faith played out in practical terms so that we can perhaps learn how she did that? Absolutely. I also wanted to mention one thing though that I think you probably touched on this. There was no question in Abraham's mind about what God commended him to do. You know, he heard God say, go and I suspect. But in many cases and I I suppose in my case particularly, the question always becomes exactly what is God asking to speak but I think you touched on it when you said that he's already told us that not like God has signed anything to murder it. Um if we leave it then we just Yeah, so you asked two questions and I you know um the prophet says he's shown you oh man What's good and what the Lord requires of you. Um and you're right, Henry. I think that uh if you're seeking to know what God's will is for your life Get in God's word. Um I have a habit when I read through the Bible of underlining all the commands. Actually on my phone, I highlight them in an orangey gold color Because I want to be able to easily go back through scripture and go, Oh, these are the commands. Um and I underline anything Yeah, and and I've got color schemes for underlining that are just my color schemes, right? And so but that's one of the things that I want to keep track of. I I want to know what is it that God has for us to do. And there's a lot to do. And in in some ways, and there may be uh a call for us to labor at building out phase two. Sorry for picking so much on that today, but it's on my mind. There may be a call for us to sing in the choir. Or greet people as they come in. But one of the things that I know that I can bubble up at at a at a guarantee level He has called us to love the brethren. He has called us to be humble. He's called us to love God and love one another. I know that for certain. How that lives out in your life is something to test, to understand, to get wisdom about. But back to Sarah. Because if you look here, The testimony in Genesis doesn't sound like Sarah was faith had faith. But the testimony in the book of Hebrews makes it very clear that Sarah had faith. This is such a contrast that some translators actually do a little backflip and you can read some Bible translations change this to say Abraham had faith for Sarah to conceive. But that's not what the text says. The text says Sarah had faith. Not only does it say Sarah had faith, but it says Even when she was past the age to cons said she was can since, and this is important, and it gets to the point you were asking about, since she considered him faithful who had promised. How do we Judge, how do we reconcile these two things? My call on this, and I think this is a reasonable answer, is that when she got the news, you're gonna have a baby, she was like, Pew Ha that's crazy talk. Do you know how old I am and he is? Right. And then God said to her and instructed her Is anything too hard for God? What we don't read about in the book of Genesis is that she then Had time to be taught by God and the Holy Spirit, and she changed from somebody who doubted God's word to somebody who considered him faithful who had made the promise. And I think just to add a little bit more onto it That's important to us because when we have initial doubts, we can be instructed by God's Word And change from being somebody who doubts God and His promise to being somebody who trusts God and his promise, just like Sarah did. And so when I ask the question, why aren't you guys walking by faith? Why aren't you guys I'll get to you all just a second I'm talking. Why aren't you guys Why aren't you guys being in the place, knowing confidently where you should be And sometimes we're made of dirt and we struggle. And our faith is shallow. And like the man who said, Oh, help my unbelief. We can be somebody who sometimes has shallow and weak faith and then has faith that God can use to empower us to conceive. Or do great things, whatever it is. Question, yes. Uh I was just gonna make the point. Uh in Genesis it says that Sarah was listening behind the tent door when she left. So God, you know, supernatural, he's given knowing that she left, calling her out for that when she might not have realized that this was the Lord yet, I can't remember. Um but that little active supernatural power could have been what reached her because um like parallel there with uh he who is faithful of people with little things to be faithful of great things. Seeing that little fulfillment of his power might have been what got the gears turned in and re and she realized he can deliver on much greater things. Which why we should ever did count when God, you know, answers little prayers like please help the traffic clear up so that I'm not late to work with them. That's God's proven his powers. Absolutely good. Yes. Well we said how nine months of pregnancy just think about things. And isn't it wonderful that baby's name and I guess relax. Don't you love it when instead of being like, Oh, I don't make mistakes, I don't you know look I doubt it, but so it's on me. I mean every time you heard that name Absolutely that's special sanity isn't a wonderful God's final word about terror is when he was a writer. You don't care about the bad stuff and the laughing. I think that's encouraging for us. Oh, you're always messing up with this, that, or the other thing. You know, but that's not true. And the final they don't care it. So that's what women's employee and that's the crowd that I'm just thinking, so I'm happy about that. Yes. Julie, you put your hand up, didn't you? Did you have something else? Because um she she gave her handmaiden to Abraham because She's trying to work out God's plan in her own mind. She made a lot of mistakes and yet God's summary of her life is that she's faithful. So she she knew God is promise. She was trying to figure out how he was gonna work it out. She did it wrong but it it means you know I it's okay to make mistakes. You know? Yeah, uh that's a really good point. I'm glad you brought that out because There is a sense when she gave her handmaid to Abraham that she already understood the promise that God had that he would have descendants and she was just trying to help God along a m potentially, right? Potentially Henry, your hand up. I think that the when in when Stale was finally convinced, you know, that she actually stepped out in faith. Um, when I say stepped out in faith, they stepped out in faith to go ahead and have a baby. Yeah, it's I thank you for saying it like that. Yeah, you're right. Scripture essentially puts this behind a curtain of their bedroom Or tent, right? But we kinda know what happened there. We can fill the gaps in, right? There was a faith act that happened there Exactly. And I think the same thing, you know, you can see that example also in um April Abraham. Hey, one of the passages in in James that says you you know, you say you have a thing, show me a thing without the words and I will show you My faith, my own. So ultimately faith leads to acts of obedience. And I think that's probably one uh area in Sarah's mind that you see that because it doesn't say it's not a Yeah, absolutely. Um and we see that in the lives of other people in in the scriptures as well, who struggled to have children and then did. Yes. Interesting dog that before in order for the faith to work properly it had to be initiated upon the heart of the person. And uh contrary to some people who believe you have faith that God can work for you, but God is working upon the hearts of the person. Faith can properly work. Yeah. And and that's true for us too, also in God's effective calling. Where he would then say, uh, y call us basically to repentance and trust in him. Larry, did you want to add something? I'm sorry. uh this also shows uh how God displays sovereignty. They had no choice of a matter. God said it and that's it. Eventually he became a beast after that because God made the decision and he chose them. And it was nothing he can do. So it was it was all this act, this whole act was God's father. Yes. And God had a specific purpose for Abraham and for Sarah to start the promise that was initiated and talked about back in Genesis chapter three, when he said that that m man's seed was gonna crush the head of the serpent. And it was going to come this way. Through this line and through this people. And that was God already saying that promise. And so God's gonna make that happen and He's gonna bring that to pass in His kindness. But um with that being said, you know, um can you imagine that the moment of session was really trouble? Yeah, I'm I'm uh yeah and I The testimony here is is powerful. She considered him faithful who had promised. And again I want to bring our minds back to what Scripture says about faith. She she couldn't see this. And we know that because she laughed when she was eavesdropping. She couldn't see this as even being reasonable to have happen. But Faith says that we believe in the things that we can't see. We have assurance of things hoped for Because we know who God is and the one who provides. And God fulfilled that promise. It's interesting. You don't have to go very far down the road. In Deuteronomy Chapter one, Moses' testimony is, you're a people like the sand on the seashore He says, The Lord your God has multiplied you, and behold, you are today as numerous as the stars of heaven And you're like, uh, it just took a few generations for God to make true what he had talked to Abraham about. just outside that tent. When they couldn't picture, oh Eliezer, oh maybe it's this oh oh it's Isaac. Okay. Just one child. That's all you get. Anyway, and so the promise was fulfilled, and so I want to pull it back to us. What about us? Uh she had power to conceive We have the Holy Spirit. In fact, Ephesians 6. 10 says, Be strong in the Lord and the strength of his might. Our walking is a walk that's strengthened by God. We can have faith to walk in the strength that God provides every single day. Do you feel like maybe you're past the time of being useful for God? Uh-uh. I say no. Is anything too hard for the Lord? It may be that yes. I just wonder if since you're talking about elf and else and how we can apply it, um I got a little discovery sometimes. because I have MS, for people who don't know. And um it's progressing like it's supposed to. And um I accept that from the hand of the Lord totally. I mean he's given it to me and I've had chances to with people I wish I wouldn't have met had I not had MS. And needless to say it also involves as you get older, maybe having to go to the hospital more, go to the doctors more. And that happened to me last year and And at first it can be a little discouraging 'cause you know, I was like, Lord, I just wanted to serve you and now I can't even walk, you know, and I can't I I get those kind of feelings and then he just strengthens my heart through his words, saying, Yeah, but I got you right where one, yeah, I'm I'm with ya. Just do what you're supposed to do. Be a testimony for me. Bring me glory. He speaks to me. And so in the hospital I thought, okay, I'm gonna do that with every prick I get from a nurse. I want the glory of the Lord to shine through the you know, through me. I'm gonna be a kind patient. I'm not gonna be complaining. I'm gonna show God's love. I'm gonna talk about so I did that and I had a chance. to share my testimony and witness several nurses and doctors by the way. And um one of 'em is here today. This is Katherine and she's been coming. She's been coming off and on but she doesn't have to work that Sunday. But um I had a chance to share my testimony with her how guy seems to be of an old decrepit sensible wretched like me and he can do it for her too and then she can grow in the Lord too. So she has been coming, she knows the Lord and she's been trying to grow in the Lord. I want you all to know Kathmand. And that God did that in hospital only because I was willing to get over myself, you know, just and and still try to bring God glory. He can do it even in hospital. By the way I witnessed to several other nurses and doctors, I wish they were here too. they're not so we're still praying for all of them. But what I'm trying to like what Doug is saying is it doesn't matter how old you are, right, Doug? It doesn't matter how thick you are. It doesn't you have no excuse to not bring glory to us. Thank you. You're made for him if you're child. So do it. Just do what you can. He never took away my mouth. Yes. That's a powerful testimony. Thank you. I really appreciate that. Um yeah, uh and thanks for being here for that. That was that was very encouraging to me. You too, Catherine. But Debbie that was really Thank you, that was very encouraging. Um and it's a good reminder to us that whatever situation we're in, even days when we're tired and and stuff like that. Nothing's too hard for God. Back to scripture. All these, in verse 13, it says, all these died in faith. And to me, this doesn't feel very encouraging. When I first read this, I'm just like, uh God? You did y y you told him you're you're gonna get this land You bring them to the land and you leave them in tents. But the testimony is they died in faith. And the point of this reaches back to chapter ten as a reminder of where we're going in chapter twelve. That we are called to endure. That no matter what we see going on around us, remember, it's it's a conviction of things not seen. No matter what we see going on around us, We walk by faith. If our kids are doing something, we walk by faith. If our parents are doing something, we walk by faith. If our house is doing all this stuff, we walk by faith. And we persevere. And the testimony that we have here in verses 13 to 16 is basically they didn't throw away their confidence, but they endured. No matter what they saw, because they saw. They could see. It says here These all died in faith, not having received the things promised, but having seen them. And greeted them from afar, and having acknowledged that they were strangers and exiles on the earth, they're going around living in tents, going like This world's not my home. This world's not my home. I've got a promise from God, and I know that promise is faithful. I have an inheritance coming I know I've only got one son right now. My descendants are going to be like the sand on the seashore. I serve a God who is a God of blessing, who's a God of power and tenderness and love. And I know confidently that He is, and that He's a rewarder of those who seek Him. And so no matter what I see, going on right now, whether my descendants are going to be in Egypt for four hundred years, or whether they're going to struggle in finding in finding God and serving God, but rather they're going to be walking in their own way. God's gonna have a remnant. God's gonna be faithful. And so uh in some ways that picture the Holy Spirit's giving him a telescope that looks into the past and sees these faithful ones and calls forward to the ones that are right there that are struggling because they're enduring suffering And saying, guys, God's been faithful. He will be faithful, even if he calls you to live a martyr's life. And in some ways, he's pointing forward to us and saying the same thing. God is faithful even if you are called to live a martyr's life. He will not forget those who are his. Yes, Henry. Based on what we're learning from this passage, we see that there are instances such as Abraham's Sarah where they didn't actually take possession of the land that we promised themselves. But that does not negate the fact the fact. Their faith became the assurance of the things that they were hoping for. How does one repeat inst instances where by the way I mean because I I cut my teeth into a charismatic mode, there are instances where people are honest um that might think they would receive physical healings for organic conditions that ultimately does not bear out. If they use the examples that we see here in Hebrews to justify that teaching, How do we do that? The book of Deuteronomy already tells the answer to that question. He says if you see a prophet that claims something to be true and it doesn't come to true, not a prophet. And they get capital punishment. But that's not always the case. So here, they're they're pointing them to passages in scripture that seem to uh you know, with a core reading of it seems to indicate you will be healed if you believe God for this uh condition. Okay? And There are countless instances of people who have, you know, grabbed onto those explanations of scripture and they have not seen those conditions alleviated or relieved or healed. And my question then is How if they make reference to the examples we're seeing in this in this passage here where uh the the the the the the the evidence of their faith was supposed to be the substance of what was promised, how do we refute that? Oh I see what you're saying. saying. Okay. What I think what you're saying is somebody who says, I claim my healing even if I can't see my healing. Yeah. Um uh Yeah. Yeah, you're right, Debbie. But we are gonna be making But there's there's something more that's going on here, right? Because somebody would say, I know I got cancer, but I prayed and I know God has healed me. I have my healing, but I just can't see it yet. Um and and that's not a true understanding of how God works. That's not a true understanding of how God works. God works in healing. If you look at the testimony that we see in Scripture is that people are instantly healed when God works a miracle. And what we see going on today, typically in providence, is that God sometimes does use providence. Providential means, but he's not seeming to use miraculous means like he did in the past. At times it seems like God still works And I'll just say it like this. But if you if you you still have cancer, you're not healed. These guys aren't saying, I got my home right now Look at my great tent. They're not saying, I got my land right now. Look at this land that the uh Canaanites still own. That's my city right there. I'm just letting them use it for a while. In some ways he may have said that, but they understood that their home was a home whose architect and builder is God. Now if you do like Debbie said, is that I know that God's going to heal me when He gives me a new body Hmm, there's nothing wrong with that. Yeah. God already says in uh chapter fifteen of one of the Corinthians that I think it's first Corinthians, that there is a new body destined for all of us that's going to be glorious. So that's a different though than what you're saying. And I think it's worthwhile pointing out that the testimony of Scripture is not that they had their land right done. And also the pattern that we see of miracles is different than what they're claiming. Okay. Oh wow, I got questions. Hold on a minute. Uh I'm gonna try to end this in about twenty minutes. So if you got something quick, go ahead. Hold on, hold there, just one second. seeming contradiction where it says all beings died in faith without receiving the promises. And the very last person that he's referenced, Sarah, did re did receive the promise. Thank you, you're bringing me back to the text. I'll talk to that in just a second. Larry you got something quick? Right, well, because so what is matters of faith is um patience and so Romans eight twenty five says, but if we hope for what we do not see, we Wait before it's patient. God promises us heaven, right? Yeah. But we patiently you have to wait. We just have to seat it. You hear about it in the world of God. But throughout our time here, we have to be patient. And that's the same thing with you know the uh old uh testament believers. That's true. And in fact, one of the gifts of the spirit is patience. I'm gonna get back to the text, if you don't mind. Oh, then give me something short. I'd love to hear it. It seems like you take away from sovereign the sovereignty of God when you take when you make a proclamation above uh upon what you decide or what you feel. So it takes away from the sovereignty of God. Yeah. And and there are people well intentioned people I think sometimes they're well intentioned. I think sometimes they're charlatans. And they are either intentionally or unintentionally lying to the people of God and wounding God's people by their lies. Um and I think that's all I'm gonna say about that. Let's come back to Hebrews eleven. Um oh all right. I'll take one minute. I will give the opinion of the book of Hebrews is C about the miracles that have happened in the past and is no longer working that Bible and I can't find it somebody else's. Hebrews chapter one says Yes. Yes. So you need any other Yes. Yeah. God spoke in the past in various ways and various means, but now he has spoken to us through his son. No, okay, go on and it speaks about people seeing miracles. Okay. I don't just tell you the sale. I believe you. I'm it's not coming to my mind right now. That's the truth she was telling me. Let's go back to Hebrews. Let's go back to Hebrews eleven. So Ann, you drew my attention, our attention, to the fact that Sarah got a son. Correct. And that's part of the promise. But the testimony here in the book of Hebrews is that they all died not receiving the promise. And I think that that's a really good observation. Um I think in the context, potentially, we could say one of We could say multiple things. But I think the initial thing that's worthwhile noting first is the implica the implication here is the promise of land. But not to Sarah, because her was all about the ability to conceive that That's true. Let's look at what it says. All these died in faith, not having received the things promised, but having seen them and greeted them from afar. They did see Isaac. That was not something they saw and greeted from afar. But the promise of the land, they greeted from afar. The promise that their descendants would be like sand on the seashore, they'd greeted and they saw from afar. The promise that there would be a blessing is something they got blessing, but the blessing that they were really talking about that from there is something that they saw from afar because they hadn't seen Christ yet. And the reason why I say that is in John chapter eight, verse fifty-six, where Jesus says Abraham saw my day and was glad. But I'm talking about Sarah, not Abraham. Okay. Because of it it says today even Sarah herself So I thought that was important too because in those days back in Genesis was a very patriarchal society and the wife did everything that the husband told her to do and and all this. But this is saying, No, Sarah herself as that's important that the scripture says that. Then Sarah herself received the ability to conceive. And that's all that this verse is about, verse 11. Nothing about land. Right. So then when we get to thirteen, all these so it includes Sarah. All of these that he's just mentioned, from from Abel up to Sarah, died in faith without receiving the promises. Right, so she received what was promised. I beg she saw the sun. I have a nuance for you to consider, and that is Sarah, because she was married to Abraham Shared in the promises that were given to Abraham. It's the Sarah herself. Alright. We'll talk about that Abraham. Let's talk about the more about Sarah owns. I know. We're running out of time, but I'll talk to you more about that after the class. Yes, Daniel. Um I was going to speak to that point if I may. Oh you may Genesis seventeen. God said to Abraham, As for Sarai your wife, you shall not call her name Sarai but Sarah. I will give you a gun by her, I will bless her, and she shall become maidens. Kings of people shall come from her. So the promise was more than just four kings of people. Well that's a pretty good point right there. Wow. Alright. Well thanks for sharing that. Appreciate that. Uh that reference was Genesis seventeen, verse fifteen, down to Uh, nineteen. I'll just say nineteen. Um Sarah was uh included in the promise of the covenant. Um it's it's I want to get so going back to this section It starts off with and all these. Verse 13. And all these died in faith. Now, my assumption, my initial assumption when I read this is that the pronoun these there is referring back to Abraham and Sarah and potentially Isaac and Jacob because they're included in verse eight or nine. They're included in verse nine. So it may be that these four people are what that pronoun is referring to, but it may also be that that pronoun refers back to Noah. It could be that it refers back to Enoch and Abel. Yes, and Abel And the reason why I say this is because I'll get to you. Is because what was promised from Genesis 315 Is a savior. And none of them have seen their Savior yet except by faith. And that potentially now gets back to the promise that Hebrews, as a book, has been taught. Talking about when it says that Jesus is superior than all these other things, and he is our high priest and the mediator that brings us near to God All of these have died not having received that. Yes. I'm just gonna say we don't have to go that far back because if we're talking specifically about the promised land and many descendants, in verse twelve, immediately before it says these all die to faith. It says from one man, and there are more descendants as many as the stars of heaven, who really knows that the Abrahamic promises and Abrahamic covenants. So these all died faith without having seen a promise. So we don't have to go that far. I would agree with it still applies. Yeah. I I I love it because God has promised all kinds of stuff. I just want to give glory, right? God's promised to them a whole pile of people This really cool land that, oh by the way, if I remember correctly, goes all the way out to the river Euphrates. And also has promised them a blessing And also has promised them to be a blessing to all the nations. And when you stop and you think about what God has promised to Abraham And in Genesis chapter 3, they died in faith, not having received the things promised. And it doesn't say the thing It says the things promised. So anyway, but it is important to remember they saw Isaac. Jacob saw that he had twelve sons Um so they saw the start of it, but they didn't see descendants like the sand on the seashore yet, which is a valid point. Thanks for bringing that up. No land, no city, only one, maybe twelve descendants. They had to purchase their own burial site. But they had faith to the end. They were strangers and exiles on the earth. That's what they said. They said when Jacob appears before Pharaoh, Pharaoh says, Tell me about yourself. He says, I'm a sojourner My life's been hard. That was his testimony. When Jacob uh but but the but the point that the Hebrews the author of Hebrews makes here is their testimony that they were living in a land that wasn't their own is an interesting one. Because they could have gone back to the land of Ur They could have. In fact, Abraham sent his servant back to the land of Ur to go get away for his son. They said, should I bring your son? He said, No, no, no, no. Don't bring my son. And when Jacob goes back to the land, Jacob goes back. God says, I'm going to bring you back into this land. That was God's testimony. So they could have gone back if they wanted to, if they recognized that the land understanding in is I'm a stranger in this land. I could go back to my homeland because it's hop on a camel and get back there if I want to. It's just a travel. But the reality is They're looking forward to a land that doesn't exist yet. They recognize that the land that they're promised is a land that's in the future that they see based on faith. They understand God's promises. And in fact, if you look This is worthwhile looking at. Genesis chapter 15. God lays it out. Verse 13. Then the Lord said to Abraham, Know for certain That your offspring will be sojourners in a land that is not theirs, and will be servants there, and they will be afflicted for 400 years. But I will bring judgment on the nation that they serve, and afterward they shall come out with great possessions. As for you, you shall go to your fathers in peace You shall be buried in a good old age, and they shall come back here in the fourth generation, for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet complete. Who was it that said something about the sovereignty of God? This is God's plan, this is God's way, this is God's timing, and it comes to pass exactly how God tells him. He says, No, I have told you that this is your land, but you're going to be a sojourner, and this is the way. It is. But there's something powerful here back in the book of Hebrews. And I love how the author of Hebrews continues to bring us back to the promise And the covenants that God has given. In verse 16, but as it is, they desire a better country, that is a heavenly one. Therefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared for them a city. That comment right there, God is not ashamed to be called their God, is a comment that references us back to the Covenant, both the first covenant and the second covenant. Because in the first covenant in Genesis chapter twelve, God said to Abraham I'm making sure I'm seeing it. I'll make you great nation, I will bless you, and make your name great so that you will be a blessing I will bless those who bless you, and to him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed Wait a minute. It's not there. Sorry. It's in Genesis 15, I think. So ah sorry about that guys. Um God basically said I'm gonna be your God in the first Covenant. And he repeats it again in the second covenant when you see it in the book of Jeremiah. The book of Jeremiah makes it very clear that God's going to give Israel and those who are in the second covenant. A new heart, and he will be their God. And it's tied right back here. by those who walk by faith. So that God is not ashamed to be called their God. Remember what we s what we read back in in the top of this chapter is that By faith people of old received their commendation that those who would draw near to God must believe that He rewards that He is and that he rewards those who seek him. And we see here a part of that reward. It's that God is not ashamed to be called their God. And so we kinda already talked about this There's a strong parallel that comes forward to us is that we are a people who are living in a land that's not our own. We are strangers and aliens in this world. Because we are new creatures in Christ. Those who are in Christ have been made new, have the Holy Spirit inside them. And just like Christ was opposed, we'll experience that same sort of thing. We'll be sometimes weird to the people that are around us. Because we're going to be walking in a step that's out of step with the rest of the world. And so just like Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob We're living in a place that isn't our home. In fact, 1 Peter says, beloved I urge you, as sojourners and exiles, to abstain from passions of the flesh which wage war against your soul. In Philippians chapter one, I'm hard pressed between the two. My desire is to depart and be with Christ. For that's far better. So here's Paul's testimony. This world is trouble. It's difficult. And it's hard And Paul said, Wow, I sure would like to be going on to my real home. But it's better that I stay here And in Hebrews 13, for here we have no lasting city, but we seek the city that is to come. And Jesus at the upper room, which I already hinted at, said, Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God. Believe also in me. In my father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, I would have told you That I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself. That where I am, there you may be also. Our citizenship is in heaven. Just like these. Our citizenship is in heaven. And so we look to The hope of heaven from a distance. Or like, okay, this is a walk by faith. This is a a walk that we have, trusting that God's going to be faithful to the promise that He's given us. And seeing it from afar. So there's a call here to be obedient and to live in the place that God has us, and to trust God to empower us to do that, and to do that in a matter what we see physically in this world and train our hearts to see God based on faith and based on the promises that He has given us. So there's a picture here that I started our our teaching time with a reference to the back to the future. You know, uh there's always trouble. They always got to go back and fix something. But in the end, when they come back to the future You find out that everything's been made right. He's got a monster truck. Or they got a train with LEDs all over it. Or something like that. And what I'm telling you is When I say this to draw the metaphor out maybe too far, God's prepared a place for us. Streets of gold. Transparent gold. Where the glory of God shines through the entire city. And we will be with God. And that's going to be a wonderful and glorious time.