Okay. Uh back after uh an absence of a week where I was teaching a new member class. Thanks once again to Doug for teaching. Um and I'm finished with this quarter's new member class, so I'll be here for the rest of the uh the lessons out to the end of this quarter. And then of course next quarter we'll finish up the book of Hebrews. So we um we're going to be finishing up chapter nine this time. And then we've got three lessons going through chapter ten, and then we're just going to dip our toes into chapter eleven at the end of this quarter, and then we will spend many weeks in the rest of chapter eleven next quarter. going through each of the examples of faith in chapter 11. So that's just a preview of what's coming. So what we're going to learn today, we're going to once again be talking about the new covenant in Christ This will be our third week of talking about the new covenant in Christ. We're going to look at the fact that a testament requires death. Forgiveness requires blood. And judgment requires a substitute. So that's what we're going to focus on today, the last part of the last third of Hebrews chapter 9. First, let's take a look back. But I'll just go through just a few of the things that are in that section of Scripture, verses 1 through 14. So we have this idea of divine worship, and there was divine worship under the old covenant. There was rites and ceremonies. There was an earthly sanctuary, which of course will be contrasted with the heavenly sanctuary. There was a tabernacle. And then we got of course a description of the tabernacle. Uh interestingly enough, the it it only takes two chapters in the Bible to detail the creation of the entire universe. Whereas there are fifty chapters which focus on the tabernacle. Especially Exodus 25 to 40, which is really laser focused on the tabernacle. So quite a bit more in the scriptures about the tabernacle than there is about the creation of the entire universe. So the tabernacle is an important concept in Scripture. And so there was a description in in these verses, um up through uh especially up through verse five and then into verse seven. about the holy place, which is about two thirds of the inner part of the tabernacle, and the holy of holies, which was a fifteen foot cube, in the center. Uh so on in the holy place as the priest went in on the left was a solid gold lampstand with seven branches. Uh on the right was a table with the shill bread, the sacred bread, um, and then further in the center of the holy place was an altar of incense. Um These three pieces of furniture, of course, picture Christ. Jesus lights our path, pictured by the lampstand, he feeds us, pictured by the table of the bread, and he intercedes for us, pictured by the altar. of incense. So um so and then there was a second veil and there's the Holy of Holies, and in the Holy of Holies is the Ark of the Covenant, and we had the description of the Ark of the Covenant and the three things that were in there, the the manna, Aaron's rod, and uh of course the tables of the covenant, uh the um uh the Ten Commandments, the the the stone tablets of the Ten Commandments. And then on the lid was the mercy seat and you had the cherubim of glory. And it was between the wings of these angels on the mercy seat that God met men. That's what Exodus 25, 22 says. This is where I meet you between the cherubim on the mercy seat. Exodus twenty-five twenty-two. And so the author of Hebrews, what is he doing there? He's reminding them of all all these uh um how how detailed all this was and how God set up how exactly how the sanctuary was and exactly the way the method by which men could meet him uh could come into his presence. And so they had these divine services and every day the priests uh had to trim the wicks and add oil to the lampstands, put incense on the altars. Every Sabbath they had to change the twelve loaves to the bread. Um and so they were continually in and out of the holy place, uh the outer place, uh ministering on behalf of the people. Uh in this they picture Christ who does not cease enlightening and feeding and interceding on our behalf. Um and so it's a wonderful thing that uh the Lord never stops his priestly work for us. Uh He's an ever-living high priest. Uh but the perfect picture of Christ the more excellent picture of Christ is the Day of Atonement when the high priest goes Into the Holy of Holies, and that's summarized in uh that was summarized in verse 7. And so we have this illustration of the old sanctuary and its services, and the Holy Spirit is teaching three things. First, the worship of God was limited in the old covenant. There was no access to God. The people and even the high priest could come only so close. The high priest can only go into that Holy of Holies once a year, and it was only the high priest. Nobody else could go in there. Uh second spirit is teaching that the imperfect cleansing accomplished through these old sacrifices, um i it was in pe p it was imperfect and temporary. Um there was no freedom of conscience or assurance of cleansing with these particular with this method of um of worship. And then of course the old covenant was temporary. The sacrifices had to be done over and over again uh daily and and annually repeated. So the old covenant was limited, imperfect, and temporary is what we get out of that uh passage of scripture. And but then there's a com there's a contrast then in the last thr uh eleven to fourteen that Doug talked about two sections he talked about last week. The first section talks about how how the worship was done in the old covenant, the old way, but Christ. But when Christ appeared, it's now different. Uh here in eleven to fourteen. Uh he's the heavenly high priest, he is infinitely greater sanctuary, he's got the heavenly sanctuary instead of the earthly sanctuary. the heavenly pulpit tabernacle not made by hands. And he ministers in this heavenly sanctuary Um his service and his uh the the way to get into that sanctuary was by his blood. It was done once for all time, not by the sacrifice of animals. Um and it was sufficient for all people for all time. And then it's a permanent, eternal redemption for all sins, past, present, and future. So the purpose of the old sacrifice system was to symbolize the cleansing from sin. And it did symbolize the cleansing from sin. It accomplished that purpose. The purpose of the new sacrifice, however, is to actually cleanse from sin. Um it accomplishes its that's a superior purpose to just uh symbolize It's the actuality. And so it symbolizes it's it's accomplishes a superior purpose in a superior way. Um and so Jesus during his earthly ministry did everything in obedience to his father uh especially in his supreme sacrifice and through the eternal spirit offered himself without blemish to God. And so he provided the cleansing of our consciousness from dead consciousness from dead works to serve the living God. And so we can draw near to the living God because of Christ's perfect sacrifice. Any questions about uh what Deb went through last time? Yes, Kurt. This one is related but not Not exactly in the context of life, but just thinking forward into the our future consummation. And I wasn't here for the the roughly teaching, but this I guess concept of a tabernacle it it returns to earth. And is that is that correct? And we have an unmediated access and fellowship with God the Father? Well, so we have a Thousand year millennial reign where Christ reigns in person on earth. We have that. And then we have a new heaven and a new earth And there is no um there's perfect access to God kind of um face to face. We're face to face with Christ in the new heavens and the new earth. Essentially yes, only better Even even so the new heavens and the new earth are even better than the old earth. Um so um it's it's um creation for redemption is the giant arc of history, uh but in in glory, things are even better than they were at the start. So God has a has found a way to make things even better than they were at at the beginning. Okay. Any other questions about last time? Yes. Oh go ahead, go ahead. Yeah. Right. See yeah, so and that's That symbolism is I think deliberate, that fact that the Holy of Holies was a perfect cube and that the uh the new heavens New Jerusalem is a thousand miles by a thousand mile by a thousand mile cube. Yeah. Yeah, good. Good point. Any other questions or comments about where we've been so far before we dive into some new new material? Yes. Sure. You can also download all these slides from Hope Book if if you like. Yeah. Okay. Um let's see, where are we? Uh Hebrews chapter nine. So if you open your Bibles. Or tune your devices to Hebrews chapter 9, starting with verse 15, through the end of the chapter. So Hebrews chapter 9, starting at verse 15. This is the word of the Lord. For this reason he is the mediator of a new covenant, so that since a death has taken place for the redemption of the transgressions that were committed under the first covenant, those who have been called may redeem. receive the promise of the eternal inheritance. For where a covenant is, there must of necessity be the death of the one who made it. For a covenant is valid only when men are dead, for it is never in force while the one who made it lives. Therefore, even the first covenant was not inaugurated without blood. For when every commandment had been spoken by Moses to all the people according to the according to the law. He took the blood of the calves and the goats with water and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people, saying, This is the blood of the covenant which God commanded you And in the same way, he sprinkled both the tabernacle and all the vessels of the ministry with blood. And according to the law, one may almost say, all things are cleansed with blood. And without shedding of blood there is no forgiveness. Therefore it was necessary for the copies of the things in the heavens to be cleansed with these, but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these. For Christ is not not enter a holy place made with hands, a mere copy of the true one, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us. Nor was it that he would offer himself often, as the high priest enters the holy place year by year, But now, once at the consummation of the ages, he has been manifested to put away since by the sacrifice of himself. And inasmuch as it is appointed for men to die once, and after this comes the judgment, so Christ also, having been offered once, to bear the sins of many will appear a second time for salvation without reference to sin to those who eagerly await him. Amen. So let me just give you a few paragraphs from a couple of commentators. This one is from Ray Steadman, another guy that I've been reading. And he says this about this passage. The passage from 915 to 928 takes a slightly different slant. Though the same term covenant is used as in verses one to fourteen, it is now treated more as a bequest being administered by a living executor after the death of the willmaker. However, Christ is seen both as the willmaker who dies and the executor who administers the estate, just as he was both the offering for sin and the high priest who offered it. The phrase for this reason, which introduces verse 15, looks back to the close of verse 14, that we may serve the living God. The promised Messiah administers the new covenant to those who are called in order that they may be equipped to serve the living and true God. That equipping capability of the new covenant is called the promised eternal inheritance. We have already seen that it consists of an inner understanding of the nature of both good and evil, an intimate father-child relationship with God, and a total and continuing forgiveness of sins. This is the inheritance which our mediator offers to us whenever. whenever we come to the throne of grace, to receive it by faith. Just as the heir of a fortune may draw from its resources at any time, so we are expected to draw from this great bequest as it is now available to us after the death of the testing. tour. So, uh one more. Uh this is uh John Owen uh from the uh mid sixteen hundreds talking about this passage Uh let's see. Uh but before we proceed into the disposition exposition of the whole or any part of it, a difficulty must be removed from the words as they lie in our translation. For an inquiry must justly uh must may be justly moved why we render the word uh the testament in this place whereas before we constantly re rendered it as a covenant. So I'm going to show you here in a minute. The King James Version says testament. here. Term says that word testament. Um the NASB says covenant all the way through, but uh King James and others have testament in this place. Before we have constantly rendered it a covenant the same Greek word. And the plain reason of it is because from this verse unto the end of the chapter, the apostle argues from the nature and use of a testament among men as he directly affirms in the next verse. Hereby he confirms our faith and the expectation of the benefits of this the etheke that is covenant or testament, we may answer, he doth it because it is the true and proper signification of the word. So let me show you what I mean here. So this word, you think is the Hebrew word is usually translated covenant. In several of the versions, in this passage in a couple of verses of this passage, it's translated testament or will instead. The New King James um American Standard Version, which is the precursor to NASB. American Standard Version is from nineteen oh one, precursor to the NASB, ESV, NIV Translate Testament and will in a couple of these couple of verses and then all other places covenant. King James has a more even split between Testament and Covenant. Translates this word as covenant. It has a margin note uh by this passage saying it could also mean testament or will Um and so there's m th we need to be aware of why is it that it seems to be talking about a covenant and it seems to not match. Uh like i we're gonna see in a minute uh there has to be a death any time there's a covenant. Well, there was no death for the uh at the time of the making of the Noaiic Covenant or the Davidic Covenant for that matter. Uh so it doesn't seem to fit unless you understand that this word has a basic root and that basic root includes things like testaments and wills. And it's being used in that sense here. in this particular passage. Okay. So as background, keep that in mind when we get to a couple of places that seem a little bit strange. Okay. So uh starting with verse uh the first couple the The first verse here of our passage, for this reason he is the mediator of a new covenant, so that since a death has taken place for the redemption of the transgressions that were committed under the first covenant, those who have been called may receive the promise of the entire. eternal eternal inheritance. So for this reason of course refers back to what's just been said uh i last week that that we covered that Doug covered last week that Christ, because of his sacrificial death, had become the mediator of a new and better covenant. And so by God's standard of righteousness and justice, the soul that sins must die, Ezekiel eighteen four. The only way a person could come to God was to have the penalty of his sin paid. And so this payment Jesus has provided for everyone who trusts in him. And so doing, he became the bridge, the one and only mediator between God and men. And so this has been one of the the primary themes of the whole book of of Hebrews and especially this ninth chapter. Uh and so he accomplished in one act what the works of the old priests all could only symbolize, could only point forward to and that had to be repeated over and over. So Jesus' supreme act of mediation was his own death on the cross. And so he was both the priest and the sacrifice. Old Testament believers were saved on the same basis as believers today are saved by the finished work of Christ. Part of Christ's work as mediator of the new covenant was the redemption of the transgressions that were committed under the first covenant. So in other words, the blood of cr of Christ on the cross covered sins in the past that were under the old covenant. So even under the old covenant, those sins are covered by Christ's death on the cross. Alright, ever everybody see that? Everybody's with me so far. Okay, because Christ's blood was not shed until hundreds or even thousands of years after many Old Testament believers died, their salvation was on credit, so to speak. It was credited, their um their sins are it were imputed to Christ and his righteousness imputed to h to them, but But that all happened in the future and so there in a sense their salvation was on credit for things something that was going to happen. Uh by their obedient faith in God they were credited with what their promised Messiah would one day do on their behalf And on behalf of all sinners from all times. And this is what the author of Hebrews, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, is explaining to this room full of Hebrews That he's uh that the letter is being read to. God was forbearing and patient then, passing over their sins until the true sacrifice was made. Uh in a deeper sense, the sacrifice had already been made in God's mind long before. before it was made in human history because Christ's works were finished from the foundation of the world. Hebrews 4 3. So his works were finished from the foundation of the world. So when God has willed something We and the the Bible will often do this. We we talked about this in Revelation. Things that are in the future are talked about are uh are used with the Greek present or past tense. Sometimes when God wills something to show that it's so certain it will happen, the Bible will use the past tense about something that's in the future Because it's so certain, uh as if it's already happened. Uh and this is a case of that. Uh Christ's works were finished from the foundation of the world uh in God's eyes, because when he wills something it's certain to happen. Yes. Uh from the human perspective, however, the Old Testament saints can only look forward to salvation. So the Old Testament sacrifices were not means of salvation, but marks of faithful obedience and symbols of the one perfect sacrifice that would be the means of their salvation and everyone's salvation. Past, present. And future. So the internal eternal inheritance was the promise of Christ's death on the cross for all those Old Testament saints. And so the the author of Hebrews is making that point to this group of uh of Hebrews uh that would that would have maybe been a little confused about, hey, what about these Old Testament saints? Uh so uh verse sixteen, uh going on to the next couple of verses, for where a covenant is there must have necessity necessity be the death of the one who made it. Right? And so as I pointed out, that doesn't really fit the Noe Covenant and the the Davidic covenant. But if you understand that this word uh the Athake has a broader meaning and that um even though it's uh it's continues to be translated as covenant here in the NASB, um it's a different meaning uh really of that of that term here. But a covenant is valid only when men are dead, for it is never enforced while the one who made it lives. A testament, so this is really talking about a testament or a will uh in human terms, if you think about it in human terms. Uh requires the death of the testation. So if somebody makes a will, the will doesn't uh get executed until the person dies. That's really the point that he's making here. You have a will or a testament about something that's gonna happen, it doesn't happen until the person dies. Um and s that's really the point here. Uh Yet, as I mentioned, uh can be translated covenant or testament, it has a basic meaning which corresponds closely to that of our present-day will. Um and so the King James very uh more explicitly actually translates it as testament here in this section of Hebrews chapter nine. So does some of the others. ESV does for example. Uh Testament here. The will does not take effect until the one who made it dies. To that time it benefits uh its benefits and provisions are only promises And necessarily future. So the Jews being addressed were confused about the relevance of all these things to the old covenant. So the writer briefly explains how it applies. Building up verse 15, he is saying that God gave a legacy and eternal inheritance to Israel in the form of a covenant, a will. Um for a and now the one the the will has been executed because uh the the w the one h about whom the will is written has now died. That's really the the point of all this. Christ has died now, and this will is now executed. As with any will, it was only a type of promise until the provider of the will died At this point no mention is made in this section about who the testator is or how Christ fills that role, but but that's really uh the ultimate uh the full picture is that it's Christ who's um not only the one who dies but also the executor of the state uh the estate. He's filling both roles. Just as he was both the sacrificed and the high priest who offered the sacrifice, he's both the uh the subject of the will and also the executor of the will. It's a parallel there. Everybody see that? Any questions so far about any of that? Has that ever confused you before where it says covenant and somebody's got to die for there to be a covenant and then you look back at the old Testament and there's all these covenants where nobody that made the covenant, for example, died. Yeah. That that's this is the reason because that Greek word actually has a kind of a broader meaning and it's a little subtly different meaning here, yeah. necessarily be someone or something 'cause then they used to make the covenants by splitting or something an animal and walking the so will that also lead the tech or something in the Yeah, it could be, except this says the one who made it has to die. Um And there was no uh animal pieces for the Davidic Covenant at all. Um, yeah. So really this is talking about a will Yeah, so uh what do you got? Yeah, so this is of course a unique situation. And uh especially when we think about a human will, y you can't have the the guy who died be the executor of the will. Right that that can't happen. In Christ's case, of course, he came back to life and so he could be the executor. Both the dead guy and the executor of the will both because he came back to life. Um yes. Special cases for certain. But y I mean he's making but he's making this parallel to this human institution of testaments wills is is what he's doing here. Um okay. Um so uh but in order for the will to be itself to be executed, you know somebody's gotta die. Um and that's the point he's making here. For it it will never be enforced Well the one who made it lives, it's only when the guy dies that the will is is actually executed. Yes. Do you know if that's like a Greek thing or a Hebrew thing where they have uh obviously it's a Greek language concept where the From covenant was a catch all or covenant will testament. But is that like you know, like culturally was there a distinction between deep Greek and Hebrew as far as will go? So I don't know. I I don't know whether they had different uh different um uh w way of considering wills in in ancient Hebrew than they did in the Greek I I don't know. Yeah I just um to uh Hebrew audience in the Greek language. Yeah in the Greek language in in a kind of a uh they're living in a Greek world. Um yeah. But but it's it's obvious that they understood this concept of a will and a guy dies because that's that's really what he's using here. I mean that's He he's making it really explicit, you know, if you have a will, it doesn't get executed until the guy dies, is the point he's making. So they ha they had to at least understand that. point. Either either from their Hebrew background or from living in the Greek world. uh had to had to have that kind of um daily understanding. That had to be a common th thing for them to be able to understand this illustration. Any other questions or comments? Yes. Great. The Hebrew word Hebrew covenant it doesn't get translated will, but it can be translated alliance. So he can use the Greek word to do wordplay. He's not only referring to the Hebrew concept. Yeah. Good. Yeah, and and so that's um it's actually um I think I mentioned this in the very beginning. Um the Hebrews is the book that has the most polished Greek language in it of all the New Testament books. And there are word plays um throughout this book. He's a he's a whoever wrote it is was a c a clever Greek writer that the Holy Spirit used to make all these points. Uh okay, moving on to verse eighteen. Therefore, even the first covenant was not o inaugurated without blood. For when every commandment had been spoken by Moses to all the people, according to the law, he took the blood of the calves and the goats with water and scarlet wool and hyssop and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people. Um and so So m uh th this forgive this this concept that forgiveness requires blood uh was was kind of baked into the Hebrew understanding, uh all to look forward to the death of Christ, of course. Uh so blood is the symbol of death and therefore follows closely the idea of a testator's having to die in order for a will to become effective. Uh but blood also suggests the animal sacrifices that were the marks of the old covenant were the death of the animal was a type of Christ death, typical of Christ's death and prophetic of Christ's death, looking forward to the death of Christ that would ratify the second covenant. But in order to inaugurate the first covenant, mo even before there was a sacrificial system with with Aaron, this is before all that, uh Moses sprinkled blood on the testament and on the people to inaugurate that first covenant. So even before the old priestly sacrifices were begun The old covenant itself was inaugurated or ratified with blood. Moses sprinkled blood on the altar and on the people. That's in Exodus 24 So uh of course from our perspective from twenty-first century America it's it's difficult to understand how bloody and messy that old sacrificial system was. They were slaughtering animals and there was blood everywhere. Grotesque and smelly. Uh really. Think about all the slaughtered animals and the blood everywhere and how nasty that is. Um so yes. You know, um I think I was talking about this uh just I think today yesterday They look funny and make all these beautiful looks of movies with high trees. Yeah And there's blood everywhere. Yeah. And uh not to be disrespectful, but that's picture of what a butcher looks like, right? And they're they're a mess. Yep. And so that's what the high priest robes look like in some ways that carries around metaphor, right? Yep. It does. Yeah. So among other things the was a continual reminder of the penalty for sin was death. That there was blood and death involved because of sin. That sin brought blood and death And they had to see that over and over and over again. It was right in front of their eyes. This is what sin costs. Ugliness. Sin is ugly. And the penalty f uh the payment for sin is blood and death. Smell it, see it, all the senses assaulted by the results of sin. This is what it me this is what it means that we have sinned. It it means blood and death and awfulness. I think in uh in the New Testament parallels Christ will always have the wounds of the crucifixion for all of eternity. You know, in Revelation's robe of dipped in blood. So there'll be eternal robe. reminder of the consequence and the penalty of sin. Yeah, and so th and that was one of the I think the reasons why the the Lord did it. He show he was he had it right in their face that there was all this this is the consequence of your sin. Yeah. When I was in college I worked in a slaughterhouse. Nasty. And it it gives you it it really brings this really good work on you get an idea when you work in a slaughterhouse how The smell and the awfulness. Yeah. It's not like it's not like working in a butcher shop like watching the guy at the at the safe way or the penalties This is this is what it means, all this blood and death. Yeah. Yes it is. Yep. Yep. Okay. Uh continuing on saying this is the so this is what Moses said when he sprinkled the blood, saying, This is the blood of the covenant which God commanded you. And in the same way he sprinkled the blood. So when they set up the tabernacle the first time, uh he sanctified the tabernacle by sprinkling blood sprinkling blood all over it. Um and all the vessels of the ministry with blood, and according to the law one may almost say All things are cleansed with blood, and without shedding of blood there is no forgiveness. And so and Jesus, what did he do? Uh the night before his death, Jesus took the cup and said, This is the blood of the covenant which is poured out for the many for forgiveness of sins. And so, um he's talking to his disciples who are Jews, who know about this whole sacrificial system and how bloody and nasty it is. And so he's saying, okay the old covenant was inaugurated with blood. The new one is going to be inaugurated with my blood. This is my blood of the covenant, he said to his disciples, Matthew twenty six. So he ratified the new covenant with his own blood, just as the old covenant was ratified by Moses with the blood of animals. So the bloodshed was the s was the sym symbol for death when Moses ratified the covenant on Sinai, like likewise When the temple was inaugurated, Moses sprinkled the tabernacle on all the vessels of ministry with blood, again picturing the price to be paid for sin. This was something that the people could see so that they could really understand. The price for sin, the penalty to be paid for sin. Yes. Mm-hmm. I think didn't he also sprinkle the blood on the people then? He did, yes. Yeah he did. The the the both the so he both the book the law, the book of the law, he spread the blood on that. Sprint the blood on the people. And then when they first made the tabernacle, he sprinkled the So there were two incidents where he sprinkled blood everywhere, including on the people. Uh the law and the people. It was. Slaughtering animals. Yep. Slaughter of animals in order to make that very tent or tabernacle. Yep. Yeah, so y y y you think about that, the mechanics of that. Somebody had to clean all that stuff up. Each time. Yeah. Yeah. So the purpose of the blood was to symbolize sacrifice for sin, which brought cleansing from sin, therefore, without shedding of blood there is no forgiveness. This is what the author of Hebrews. Hebrews is saying, reminding uh his his Hebrew audience about, hey, all the way back to the old covenant there was no forgiveness without sin. It's the same and no s forgiveness of sin without blood, same way in the new covenant. No forgiveness without blood. The old covenant was pointing forward to this fact that it that it required blood to forgive sins. So since the penalty for sin is death, nothing but death symbolized by shedding of blood can atone for sin. So we cannot enter into God's presence by self-effort to be righteous. If we could do that, we wouldn't need atonement We cannot enter his presence by reading the Bible, by going to church, by giving generously to the Lord's work, or even by Praying. The only way we can draw near to a holy God and participate in the new covenant is through the atoning death of Christ and His blood. Made effective for us when we trust in Him with saving faith, acknowledging Him as Lord and Savior. That's the only way. Uh yes. It wants to extend our understanding of goodness. Ephesians have talked about us forgiving others just as God in us forgiveness. Understanding of what forgiveness here is includes the fact that because Jesus has officiated God's wrath work, God does not have to take out. Punishment for a steep on us. And so it will appear as though the interest is explained here means because Mr. Seek is pain, therefore you're excused. How do we how do we explain that in the context of us forgiving others who have sinned the Hebrews? Yeah, so uh I would say it's kind of like a shadow and and so Jesus taught a parable. about this. He talked about the the servant who was forgiven a debt of 10,000 talents. And and uh 10,000 talents is like hundreds of millions of dollars. And And so the forgiveness that we've gotten is some huge debt that that just can't be compared to any forgiveness that we give to other people. God's forgiveness is so much greater. Um and so So as a um as a reflection of this great forgiveness, we give little bitty forgiveness to other people. That's kind of the way Jesus taught it in that parable. Um It's a it's a comparison, the it's a comparison of things that are um similar in some superficial way But not similar in kind of quantity, uh, even in quality, um, because he makes it such an extreme example, between ten thousand talents and uh a hundred denarii or so, something like that. Yeah. The the parallel that we see though is in providing forgiveness, you're essentially laying down a right. Yes. God has the right to spend his death. Yep. And you didn't do that. So when we see terrible of the the servant, he had a right to collect that money and so a servant would borrow that money from him. Right. But in light of the that users Right. We should we should learn forgiveness from God's forgiveness, uh is essentially what what the teaching is. Now Henry's question is well he had to pay some big price for this and so there's no price paid so how can there be forgiveness? Um and and I think that that's a uh that's kind of stretching the parallel too far um i in this particular case. I I think we're we're learning um right behavior from God and God has forgiven us regardless of the exact mechanism for how that forgiveness worked. And so we should forgive others because God has shown us this example of forgiving us something huge. He huge. Um and so uh ultimately of course the debt for sin is always a actually a debt to God. Um w when we sin, we sin against God. And so uh there are m many examples of this in the Bible when Joseph was confronted By Potiphar's wife, and she wanted him to commit the sin of adultery. Joseph said, How could I sin against God like that? So i from a human standpoint it would be a sin against Potiphar, right? But Joseph considers it a sin against God. And and that's the correct way to see it. And so when somebody has sinned against you, who have they really sinned against They've really sinned against God. And so, um who who's who's paid the penalty for that sin as well as my sins and everybody else says. Well God has already paid that the actual penalty for that sin. And so my forgiveness is a different kind of forgiveness than than God's forgiveness. So the actual penalty the actual uh uh debt that the person has incurred by committing a sin, that debt is actually to God and He's already forgiven that debt. And so when I forgive, I'm not forgiving in the same way that God is forgiving. Because the actual debt for a sin is not mine. I don't hold that actual debt. G God actually holds that debt, yeah. Is sin really the correct word I mean the one person's sin is Yeah. It's uh is so i it i it it depends, but it it can the sin is the is the right word if the person has actually committed a sin And the sin has somehow affected me. But as Joseph shows in this particular case, where who's the actual sin? If it's a real sin, the actual sin is against God And it may have a horrible effect on me. Uh like if Joseph had slept with Potiphar's wife, it had a big bad effect on Potiphar's wife and on Potiphar. And we could say in human terms that he had sinned against Potiphar by sleeping with his wife, which he didn't do. Um, but if he had. Uh but the actual sin of adultery is a sin against God. And Joseph clearly identified that. Uh Um and so we can use the terminology of sin, but but when we use the ter terminology that somebody has sinned against me That's not really right. Somebody has sinned against God and there are some bad consequences for me would be a more I and I forgive that person for the bad consequences that he's caused me by his sin against God, essentially. Yeah. Yes, Richard. Peter bought the flow about uh forgive what he Yeah, it was it was yeah, t there's two different it's in two different of the books and one at seventy seven times and one at seven times seventy. Yeah. Yeah. But Jesus Um he was going by the principle of what the Pharisees had set up. Forget he was going a little bit above that. Peter was. He was looking at it to maybe justify himself before God. Whereas Jesus let him know that he can never Right. Right. That's exactly right. Yeah. Jesus taught Peter that that lesson. Peter was uh i if you read between the lines, Peter is coming to Jesus saying, Look how look how holy I am, I'm gonna be I I'm I'm thinking about being even more holy than the Pharisees by forgiving up to seven times. Uh, and Jesus says, No, no, no, no. There's there's no number He gives them a huge number, um, to show that there's really no number that he can earn his his way to to God by s forgiving people. Yeah. And they it's really clear. Uh when um he uh committed adult school and had rise uh uh guilt and Psalms four fifty one four you would you know praise God forgiveness. Against you only have I sinned and done what is he would in your sight. You understood that he did. So the right, so there are are numerous examples in the Bible that show this concept that a sin is a sin against God. Now did it have really bad consequences for Uriah? Yeah, his his w wife was stolen from him and he was murdered. That that was really bad for Uriah. But the sin itself was a sin against God. Yep. Yeah. Yeah, good point. Uh excellent example. Um sorry. Um so God has set the rules. Uh the soul that sins will die. Uh that's God's rules. Uh the soul that Is saved will be saved through the sacrifice of God's Son. That's God's rules. The one and only way for salvation. He's provided this way of salvation, and that's it. You sin, you die. If you don't want to die, you can be sent. saved through the sacrifice of the Son. Um last week I think Doug brought up the or somebody brought up this idea of atonement and propitiation. I just wanted to show you this little chart. Uh there's some little bit of difference between these two words. Atonement um is focused on reconciliation between God and humanity through the sacrifice of Christ. It's the restoration of a relationship between God and humanity. The method is through The sacrificial death of Christ on the cross, and the outcome is forgiveness of sins and reconciliation with God. Propitiation is focused on the wrath of God, satisfaction of divine justice, and appeasement of God's wrath through a sacrifice. The the focus Is unsatisfying God's justice and wrath. And through the offering once again of a sacrifice to appease his wrath, which is the sacrifice of Christ on the cross. And the resort is the removal of God's wrath and the restoration of peace. Peace between God and peace. Man through Christ. So there's some subtle difference between these two concepts of atonement, propitiation. Um the word atonement doesn't appear in the New Testament, but the concept of atonement appears in the New Testament, just like uh the The word Trinity doesn't occur in the Old Testament or the New Testament, but the concept of Trinity certainly appears. Okay. Um that was just a sidebar. Um verse 23. Therefore it was necessary for the Copies of the things in the heavens to be cleansed with these, the sprinkler of blood, but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these. So the Earthly tabernacle and instruments of worship were sprinkled with the blood of animals. But the heavenly sanctuary is cleansed with a better sacrifice, the blood of Christ. of the things in in heaven were the things of the old covenant. So the the true thing is in heaven, the copies are the things that are on earth. They were but shadows of the realities in heaven. It was necessary for these copies to have sacrifices sprinkled with blood. It was also necessary for the better covenant to have better sacrifices for that sanctuary. All the blood of the old covenant was just a copy, a faint picture of the shed blood of Jesus. God was so satisfied with Jesus, what Jesus did, that he highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those who are in heaven. and on earth and under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father Philippians two nine to eleven. Amen and amen. God is immeasurably satisfied with Jesus. Um and so and what was the um what was this the the satisf symbol that people could see that God gave to show for certain that he was satisfied with Christ's sacrifice. The resurrection. The resurrection is the the symbol that that people can see with their own eyes. A guy was dead and now he's alive. Therefore God is definitely satisfied with this sacrifice. Um and it was attested to by eyewitnesses. And so the disciples, um they they were laser focused on this resurrection Why? Because it was well it was something that everybody could see that showed that God was satisfied with this sacrifice. It was attested to by uh the the the apostles and disciples and he appeared to five hundred people at once, Paul says in First Corinthians fifteen. Um and he says, If there's no resurrection, then your faith is futile. Why? Because if there was no resurrection then there would be no symbol that everybody could see that God was satisfied with that sacrifice that Christ made on the cross. And but w the w the the both uh Paul and John and Peter say in numerous places in their writings That we were eyewitnesses. We saw all this with our own eyes. We saw Jesus' ministry, we saw his miracles, but more importantly, we saw him die and we saw him come back to life. Uh and so that was the testimony they gave, eyewitness testimony. Yes. Um I know that when we as the leaders die that didn't say I've also wondered when the unbelievers they're going to help me and and also and I'm this is purely speculational mind but I was just thinking is that at their moment of death too they go and then they see in second words they try to put the water and they pass the Yeah, so um the the Bible actually says that they're in a place called Hades. And they at the um at the resurrection of the dead for the great white throne judgment, they're resurrected for their final judgment and tossed into the lake of fire. And then it says death and Hades are tossed. into the lake of fire. And so we get a illustration of this with Jesus' description of the rich man in Lazarus. The rich man goes to torment. Um uh the the Lazarus goes to Abraham's bosom. But their form is because they didn't recognize Christ. Yes. When do they actually fell their immediate? Yeah, so um uh i I'm not sure uh whether they're doing that right now in Hades, maybe they are, um, or whether it it comes at the Great White Throne Um that could be as well. Yeah. But by this passage every knee will bow. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Uh but God of course is not satisfied with us. Uh Which is why we must come to him through Christ. He's perfectly satisfied with Christ, not perfectly satisfied with me. And so the only way that I can draw near to a holy God is in Christ, uh not in myself. He he's not pleased or satisfied with me. Um and so there's one and only way to d draw near uh one and only one way to draw near to a holy God and that's through Christ. Okay. Twenty-four. For Christ did not enter a holy place made with hands, a mere copy of the true one, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us. Nor was it that he would offer himself often, as the high priest enters the holy place year by year, with blood that is not his own. Otherwise he would have needed to suffer often since the foundation of the world. So what's he saying here? Christ Christ didn't go to to this earthly holy of holies. The the the earthly, Levitical high priest goes into this holy of holies, first in the tabernacle, then in the temple. Um he went into the presence of God. Sat down at the right hand of the Father, the real Holy of Holies. And he did it for us, this passage says. Appear in the presence of God for us He he's saying to this this Jewish audience then and to us who are reading this book of of Hebrews now. And how marvelous to realize that when he went in, he took us with him So he drew near into this presence of this holy of holies. So did the did the high priest bring the people? Well symbolically he brought the people with him because he had the breastplate in the ephod with the twelve stones and the twelve tribes. So kind of symbolically he was bringing the people into the Holy of Holies. But Christ does it for real. He brings us into the real Holy of Holies um with with him and he did it for us. Nor did Christ offer himself often, as did the earthly high priest, who had to make repeated offerings. Jesus' sacrifice was better because he takes his people into the heavenly Holy of Holies with him, and because he had to make an offering only once, once for all time. Uh and if that wasn't the case, the author of Hebrews is pointing out, the Holy Spirit is pointing out here, if if it wasn't the case that he made this offering once for all time, he would have had to suffer from the foundation of foundation of the world, that is from the beginning of humankind, he would have had to die continuously, as it were, since the time of A Adam's first sin. But he didn't have to do that. He did it once for all time a and the effects went all the way back to Adam and Eve's sin and all the way forward to whoever sins right before the great white throne judgment. Um so i he um he he doesn't have to die continuously uh the the point the guy's making uh the author of Hebrews and the Holy Spirit is making is that he did it once for all time. He didn't have to die over and over and over and over again, um like the high priest had to sacrifice over and over and over again. Um so otherwise he would have had to suffer from the foundation of the world, but now once Once at the consummation of the ages, he has been manifested to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. So Christ's sacrifice does not have to re-repeat. It is finished. Totalus die. paid in full, Christ said, on the cross. It's it's done. Uh his one sacrifice uh of himself was made at the consummation of the ages. Notice that. So what is the consummation of the ages? So the cross is the consummation of the ages. It's the focal point of all of history. From uh the creation all the way to the end of time, the focal point of history is the cross. That's what the Holy Spirit is teaching through the author of Hebrews here. That's the consummation of the ages and so So we get these New Testament passages which uh it's sometimes not easy to understand what they're what time they're talking about. Children is the last hour, first John two. For the coming of the Lord is at hand, James five eight. The end of all things is at hand, first. Peter 1 4. So are they talking about what are they talking about? Um and so even the disciples were confused. They they were uh there's there's a lot of indication that they thought Jesus was coming to inaugurate the millennial kingdom in a few minutes, you know, a few days, a few weeks. You know, he's coming and he's second now to do the rest of this. But uh that wasn't the case. Uh but it seems like the disciples were um they were kind of expecting they may have been kind of expecting that. But the real consummation of the ages, the focal point, as I said, of all of history was the cross. And that's what the Holy Spirit is saying here. That um At the consummation of the ages he has been manifested to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. That's talking about the cross, and and that's identified as the consummation of the ages. All the ages before, all the ages to come the consummation of all that is the cross. That's what uh the Holy Spirit is teaching here. It's like a bomb that dropped on the earth. And it went out all directions. Like a stone dropped into a pond and it goes in all directions. Yep. So the consummation of the ages was Christ at Calvary. Uh and and the as I said, the apostles expected Jesus to return at any minute and set up his kingdom and establish the final messianic age, the age of the eighth. Matthew twelve thirty-two. Um and as it has turned out, it has been two thousand years now. Um and he still hasn't had the second coming. So uh Christ was the consummation of the ages because of his Once for all sacrifice. He put away sin. He did not simply cover sin as the old sacrifices had done, he removed it. You may run into this. You may have heard it if you have a Catholic background. The heretical doctrine of the Catholic Church of the perpetual offering of Christ. That's why they have Christ on the cross in their churches. And it's creepy. Um I it really is. I I I don't want to tell you the story. I went to a a concert It was a it was a nice concert, but it was in a Catholic church and they had this gigantic cross with Jesus on there, suspended in the air, like right over top of the orchestra that was playing this concert. Very creepy. Um so um so the so this uh it it maintains uh this is the the Catholic teaching. It maintains that inasmuch as the priesthood of Christ is perpetual and sacrifice is an essential part of priesthood. Therefore the sacrificial official offering of Christ must also be perpetual. And so that's why the Mass is so important. Because they have the doctrine of uh transubstantiation that it's the actual body and blood of Christ, and you have to take that at mass, every every mass, and so there's a perpetual sacrificing of cr of Christ. That's what they teach. So the Calvin church teaches and that's not right. So they do recognize the resurrection, but they they teach this this doctrine of the perpetual offering of Christ, the perpetual sacrifice of cross of Christ. And so that's why they put 'em on that cross still up there on the cross. Um i it doesn't make sense to me, but yes. Um gracify. Yeah, sorry. Go ahead, Margaret. I I'm sorry, somebody went through the how many workers 25 and council six once for all the Catholic Church. Amen. And the contrast between new teachings and the perpetual Catholic teaching in the Catholic Church. The contrast the dark I had to choose. And I'm so thankful Bible study in nineteen eighty five. Praise God for home Bible study. Um, I'm so thankful that God pulled me out of the system. Some of useless dead work into salvation by faith alone in Christ's life. Amen. Amen. Yes. this and I just found out about this as well, you know, about um the essence of the Mass, you know, in the Catholic Church. And I was like, wow and I always see, you know, Christ on the cross, you know, and now understand much better. Yeah. Good. Uh yeah, so it yes they're going to have that cat later. Yeah. So that's Diane makes a great point. So uh Catholics are not encouraged to read the Bible for themselves, mostly. I I making a general statement. There could be Catholic churches that do encourage the people to read the Bible, but it it goes it's a tradition that goes back thousands of years that it's too dangerous for a non priest to read the Bible for themselves without a priest to help them understand what it means. That that was the basic thinking that goes back to the early, early, early early Catholic Church and especially through the Middle Ages and I mean there were some practical reasons for it. Most people were illiterate. They couldn't read it for themselves and so the but the the human reality was the Catholic clergy took advantage of the fact that people couldn't r or or first couldn't read for themselves and then were discouraged from reading themselves and then people were burned at the stake for translating the Bible into common languages to make sure people couldn't re read the Bible for themselves. And what all that led to was in general, and now I'm speaking in general again in a general ignorance of the basic teachings of scripture among Catholics. And and that s sometimes extends to even the basic teachings of the Catholic Church, like the doctrine here. You may run into Catholics and if you said, hey, you believe X, Y, and Z, they were like, huh? Uh-uh, I don't I don't know you understand what you're talking about. You may get that Yes. Uh well Bob first and then Nella. Go ahead Bob. Yeah, so I don't know. I don't know exactly how they teach it. Um but a as Margaret's experience is w once you're confronted with with this it it makes you make a choice. Yeah. So no read these verses before that home Bible study in nineteen eighty five. We're taught that great What's amazing is how can people that windows who said I was I was evangelical but now I'm Catholic too. That's what like how in the world do you go from that to that? It's just yeah it amazes me uh I came from a Catholic background also and I'm like y I I really don't understand how people go from the truth to what they were never a true believer to begin with. Yeah. Could could be if they know something yeah. Yeah. I it some i people take some strange journeys, it's true. Yes. But see when you're considering topics, I think it's really important to not talk about doctrine theology and just mommy. She came out of her childhood as Catholic and then realized that she could speak everything in the Bible. And so she the pastor who married my parents, she would call him and say, Don't tell me the answer, just tell me the verse. And she'd ask the question, she'd give her the verse, and she would have this rebellion spirit to reading the scriptures. And so like scripture, scripture. Yeah, that's great advice. Um the so the power is in the word. Not not in me, uh, but in the word. And so if you can direct people to scripture, then then w if if they're gonna argue, who are they arguing against? They're arguing against God, not against me. So don't set it up as an argument between you and another person. Set it up between well this is this is what God says. And so if you have a argument, well then who who who's your argument really against? Your your argument is with the author of the scripture, not with with me. To the power of God's word. Yep. And so and and as soon as Margaret was exposed to the power of God's word, what did it do? It changed her life. Yeah. Yeah. Very good. Good. Excellent advice. Um, okay. Uh let me uh get a couple more slides I think. Uh let's see, how many more do we have? Uh so i so then this this last two verses uh in a few minutes here. Inasmuch as it is appointed for men to die once, and after this comes judgment, so Christ also having been offered uh had to die. All people die. And our death is by divine appointment. God knows the number of our days. And it's an appointment that everyone will keep After death comes judgment, which is also appointed by God. And since people are not able to atone for their own sins, God's judgment demands that they pay, or Has a substitute, pay for them. Like all men, Jesus Christ was divinely appointed to die once. Because he took our sins upon himself, he took our judgment upon himself. But the judgment was for our sins, not his, because he didn't have any. Uh God made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. Second Corinthians five twenty one. He died the one death that judgment demanded. Yes. Yes. No. Yeah, so there were a couple of ex there was a couple of raptures I think to show us what the rapture's gonna be like. There are a couple there were at least two raptures. There's Enoch and there's Elijah. Uh they were raptured. Um and so y you know, I I don't know what the situation is for those particular exceptions. And also, uh, of course, uh Lazarus died twice. And so there's another exception there too, right? He d he died twice. He died and after four days he's resurrected. and then he died again, so he died twice. So I think this is a kind of a a general statement and we know of at least these three exceptions and uh e Enoch, Elijah and Lazarus are exceptions. Yeah, yes, so there were others raised from the dead. And and that's right. And so the disciples um yeah, so Jesus and the disciples raised people from the dead. Um and so yeah, there are other resurrects There's other examples in the Bible of people that died twice. Uh yeah. Okay, so this ties back to Revelation, which was I mean in precept you have. But many people believe the two witnesses were Elijah and Moses. I do not. I believe the two witnesses were Enoch and Elijah just because of this verse. They hadn't died. But the two witnesses were witnessed for three million years and then died. A cat is when they die here once and could be. Could be. Uh but of course we would have all these people that died twice as still being exceptions to the rule here Yeah. Yeah, it's a good point. So it could be. It could be Enoch and and Elijah. Uh yeah, good point. Uh so when he comes back our salvation will be f uh full when he appears a second time to those who expect him. So this is the second coming, and there's no reference to sin there. He's not coming back. He's already paid for sins. He's coming back a second time for a different purpose. Uh and so it's without reference to sin that second coming. And so there's three appearings that are talked about in this whole passage. Verse 26 of his appearing manifested at the consummation of the ages. That's his first coming and death on the cross. Verse 24 speaks of him appearing in heaven So he appeared on earth, and he appears in heaven, and now he's and he's going to appear a second time on earth. So there's three appearings, two of them on earth. Earth, heaven, earth again. The third appearing is the second time on earth therefore, and it's his second coming. Um and so w the people were always eager for the high priest to come out of the Holy of Holies. Because that meant that he had accomplished his purpose and hadn't died in there. He came out. Um and So Christians likewise should be eagerly waiting for our high priest to reappear from the heavenly holy of holies. And this occurs at the second coming. All right. Um I've run us out of time. I apologize. Um let me uh let me uh close this with prayer.