So we're in uh part eleven, so we've been working our way through this epistle to the Hebrews, and we started talking last time uh about chapter four and entering God's rest, and we're going to continue that discussion today. So what we're going to learn today about entering God's rest, just like last time. We're going to talk about Christ entering God's rest. We're going to talk about how we must be diligent to enter. We're going to talk about how God's word will judge, and we're going to talk about how nothing can be hidden from God. But first, let's take a look back at what we talked about last time. So uh last time we did the first uh nine verses here in chapter four And it starts with therefore, which uh harkens back to the discussion at the end of chapter three, which is about Israel's unbelief and failure to enter God's rest in the promised land of Canaan. Um so there's a talk of fear about entering God's rest. And so as we'll see as we work through this, uh as as we saw as we work through this passage last The entering God's rest, applied to us, us entering God's rest is a euphemism for eternal life. So it was that's what it's all about. It's and uh us entering God's rest is us entering eternal life. And so uh the fear about that Um entering eternal life. Um in the sense manhir, in the sense of entering God's rest meaning entering eternal life. Uh a Christian, somebody who's a true follower of Christ, doesn't have to fear in that sense. Uh of course there is fear. The Bible talks about fearing the Lord for believers. A Christian should have that kind of reverential awe We see that in First Peter chapter two and Revelation chapter fourteen, other places in Scripture. Uh that's the fear of respect respect and honor. Uh but not the fear of condemnation uh that this text is speaking about. Uh because Romans eight one there is now Well there for there there is now no condemnation for those who were in Christ Jesus. And so we said saw last time that there's a a promise remains As long as there's a promise in uh w that remains, there's an opportunity to be saved and enter God's rest. So we saw the Greek word for rest and it carries the idea of ceasing from work, from any kind of action. Uh to enter rest means to be at peace with God. That's why I'd say use euphemism for eternal life. It means freedom from worry about sin because sin is forgiven. So in Christ then we're established, rooted, grounded, and this kind of the kind of rest that's spoken of throughout Hebrews chapter 3 and chapter 4 that we're studying right now has all those kinds of meanings. But there are two other dimensions of spiritual rest that are clearly in view here to understand this passage, and that's the kingdom rest of the millennium and the eternal rest of heaven, which is definitely in view here. Um any questions that were on anybody's mind from last week before I go any further. Okay. Uh so then we've got But this um the requirement of course for salvation is faith. Um and so it's not enough just to hear the good news. It has to be uh paired with faith. Uh and so that's the the the meaning here that the the author brought out about it did not profit them, so it didn't profit the wilderness generation to see God's mighty works and Passover and passing through the Red Sea because they didn't have faith, they didn't believe, they didn't trust in the God who had done those things. It wasn't enough just to see, they had to believe. And that's what the authors is getting at here. That's why he used that analogy over and over again there in chapter three and into chapter four. So being a true Christian is not a matter of knowing the gospel, but of trusting it. Of knowing the one whom the Bible testifies about. And of course, salvation is by grace through faith. So we see here a very clear black and white, positive and negative. Negative, uh, absolute categories. Those who believed enter the rest, but those who don't believe shall not enter my rest It's uh either or, black and white, zero and one, uh no gray area. So uh and then we have a reference uh to God's uh resting from his work of creation. Um and the rest that he gives us in Christ. Um his so thi i is it's not the rest of weirdness, obviously. It God wasn't tired out from the creation So therefore, whew, I gotta rest now. That's that's not the kind of rest that uh that it's talking about here. Um that uh that that God that there's talking about God and the rest from creation. Um it's the rest of finished world. Of satisfy satisfaction of finished work. So God has finished his work, and of course, Christ, what did he say on the cross? Christ said, It is finished. John 19:30. So his work was finished. Finished work on the cross. Um and that's what that's what gets uh allows us to enter God's rest is Christ's finished work on the cross. And that's available only by faith. Yes, Ron. in my head is the those uh the slide you just took from it said like uh wrestling from the uh uh resting from the found creation of the foundations of the world but also the fact that it Doesn't mean that God set things into motion and he was done. Step back and then right. And the same every single millisecond discharged and working still. Right. And the same thing with Christ. So Christ said on the cross, it is finished. And then well, w wha what do you mean? He he I mean he rose from the dead after that, he m he met with his disciples after that, he he gave the great commission after that, he rose into heaven after that, he's coming again after that. So what was finished? What was finished? Actually the Greek word was to tell the sky. Yeah, paid in full. And it means to paid in full that they would write that across debts when people would pay them back in full it's right to telesty. Right. So what was finished? W the payment was made. Payment the payment for sin, the debt for payment of sin was finished, paid in full to telesty. Cur that's absolutely correct. Yep. Um and so So um wait a minute where what have I done here? Um Ah, Sabbath rest. So then we got this uh um he rested on the seventh day and so the a pattern was set up that we had the Sabbath and uh that the the whole Sabbath rest was into instituted as a symbol of a true rest that was to come in Christ. Um and so those ceremonial aspects of the Sabbath law were set aside under the new covenant. We don't uh we don't follow all those Sabbath rules because the true rest in Christ has come. And this Sabbath rules about rest were only a symbol pointing forward to Christ. Uh we we went back to the garden, Adam and Eve. Originally they were in God's wrath, they were uh righteous uh when they were created. Uh then the fall. So the fall came and uh they they were um they lost God's rest. They were they were outside of God's rest. Um and then the entire Bible of course, the revelation of the Bi of God's Word, the Bible, uh the entire working of God in human history is to bring back men into his rest, bring them back to bring men back to salvation. Um and God had to in order to do that he had to remove the b the barrier for his people to his rest that separated him. Uh-huh. And he did that in Christ Jesus. So, uh of course it remains for some to enter Uh we talked about this, uh that God has always reserved for himself a remnant, um and that his sovereign designs in history are never thwarted. They can't be thwarted by Satan, they can't be thwarted by dis uh disbelieving mankind. Some must enter it Because God's purposes will be fulfilled. And then there's this passage about today Uh he fixes a certain day today, so the opportunity for God's rest does not remain indefinitely. Um so each individual for each individual uh it will end with death. And for all my mankind it ends in the last day. Uh the age of grace doesn't last forever. And so there's the warning, it's repeated several ti a couple of times in verse in chapter three and then chap in uh chapter four as well, do not harden your hearts. So a person has a lifetime uh to believe in God. Uh a limited time for salvation. And so that's the uh the urgency that comes through of the the author here. Yes. What it was also uh in Noah's under twenty uh one. Yeah, so um yeah, so Noah was a preacher of righteousness and so there was there were warnings uh to mankind and um and then the flood came. And so there was a a an end to the period of grace, if you will, in that circumstance as well. So uh there's an egg the the example that he's giving is a f uh example of resting physical resting in the promised land, uh but that's only a picture. And the way the author uh points that out is for if Joshua had given them rest he would not have spoken of another day after that. So we talked about the fact that um the events of the wilderness generation are uh from Numbers 14 um and Exodus and that was hundreds of years before David wrote Psalm ninety-five and was still talking about entering rest. So obviously it couldn't have been just entering uh Canaan that was in view because the Holy Spirit prompted David to hundreds of years after they had actually gone into uh the the the rest in Canaan, if you will, that are s that it's still uh talking about another day after that, uh is the point that he was making. Uh and of course the people of God here, um really refers to uh Israel. And um th it it can generally be anyone who knows God, but here it's a specific reference to Israel. Uh and we see from the book of Revelation. Revelation that God is not finished with Israel, in fact. Uh any questions about what we did last time? Before we Yes, Kurt. in chapter four that it's it's almost like it's almost poetic because the writer is giving description but then at the same time is very much urging a these exhortations which is Yeah. We have a responsibility to to do this and to believe and to even on the part of resting, we we have a responsibility to to enter that rest and to to not be Definitely the urgency there to take action. And um the the the book of Hebrews, this letter, this epistle, has often been uh referred to or likened to a sermon. that this is a sermon that could be read out to the congregation. Um it would be a little bit of a long sermon, uh, for for our modern standards, uh, but a sermon nonetheless. Uh And it complete with the kind of exhortations that you would expect uh a pastor to give to his congregation. Um and so you can read it that way. In fact, uh I would encourage you to do that, to so sit down some time, give give yourself some time and read through the book of Hebrews from verse one to the end as as if it's a sermon being preached to you. Um and I think that'll give you a a good perspective on it. So I've mentioned this a couple of times that uh because of the constraints of time to be able to look in detail at these things. We're taking these little tiny chunks of uh of what is essentially a sermon, a letter or sermon, that would certainly have been read from start to finish to the uh to the original audience. There's no way we have time to do that in our in in this format, uh, but I would encourage you to do that on your own. I think you would profit fr from that. Okay. Any other questions about uh what we did last time uh about entering God's rest. Alright, let's roll on uh to verse ten. So we're gonna go from uh just four verses today, uh a little bit of a shorter class. So verse 10 to 13. So if you'll open your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 4 and beginning in verse 10. So Hebrews chapter 4, beginning in verse 10. This is the word of the Lord. For the one who has entered his rest has himself also rested from his works, as God did from his. Therefore, let us be diligent and Enter that rest, so that no one will fall through following the same example of disobedience. For the Word of God is living and active and sharper than any two-edged sword And piercing as far as the division of soul and spirit, of both joints and marrow, and able to judge the thoughts and intentions of the heart, and there is no creature hidden from his sight. But all things are open and laid bare to the eyes of him with whom we have to do. This is the word of the Lord. So, uh I'm going to start out with a bit of a controversy, so Uh let me just read um a a little paragraph from uh Dr. Martin I've um I've relied on and read from his commentary a number of times. That's this one right here. Um this is a very the most modern one that I have. This was published in twenty twenty. Um as I mentioned Doctor Martin has been teaching Hebrews for forty years and I think he's got a pretty good grasp on it. Um so he's teaching at uh It's one of the reformed cemeteries. seminaries. He's he's uh he's straight reformed and so you just gotta watch about him throwing in covenant theology in there. Uh other than that he's he's really good. Uh one of the reformed um seminaries. Um So h and here's what he has to say about this verse, uh this beginning of this passage we're we're talking about here. Hebrews four ten contains a statement that is explanatory of Hebrews four nine, which we just did at the end of last time, and preparatory for Hebrews four eleven. And its proper interpretation is critical. So there remains a Sabbath, Sabbath ras for the people of God. That's Hebrews 4. 9, and then roll into 4. 10 for Gar Because the one who has entered his rest has himself also rested from his work as God did from his Hebrews 4 10. Who is the one in this statement? On my accounting of the verse, the interpreter must explain the change of pronomial referent from Hebrew. Hebrews four eight to four ten, that Hebrews four eight, and previously, and every occurrence going back to Hebrews three seventeen, the referent is God But at Hebrews 4:10 it is someone else whose experience of entering the rest is to be compared with God's experience of it Further, the transition from the plural we in Hebrews 4. 3 to the singular of the one, himself, and his in Hebrews 4:10, and then back again to the plural us in Hebrews 4. 11 requires explanation. Owen, John Owen, R. So the writer is saying the one, i. e. Christ, who has entered his rest has himself also rested from his, i. e. Christ's works as God did from his. So, let's talk about that. So wh who are these pronouns, who are the who who's this referring to here in this So verse 10, for the one who is that, has entered his, who is that, rest, has himself, who is that also rested from his works, who's that, as God did from his. So it it's a little a little bit complicated at first gloss to try to uh untangle who who are these pronouns talking about. So many scholars and commenters interpret the one. This is the NASB, the one. It's really just the um a participle it's uh uh it's it's a Greek singular masculine is what it is. It's Greek singular masculine. So some translations just say he for he who has entered his rest or for the one who has entered his rest. So Greek singular masculine is what it is. So one man, the one or he. It's definitely not political. Um it's singular masculine. The one has entered his rest. And so many scholars uh will interpret that uh as referring to believers, even though it's singular. Um so the identification of the one and himself and his works with believers though presents some difficulties I think. For example, the Greek verb, he has rested kate pausen. He has rested is aorist indicative, which typically describes an action that is entirely completed in the past. This would seem to fit Christ and his finished work on the cross better than believers and our works. Um so uh the c you can see a a split among scholars and commenters. Uh for example, um John MacArthur s sees this as believers. And I'm loath to go against John MacArthur. Usually don't do that. But John Owen, on the other hand, says it's definitely Christ Um and I wouldn't like to go against John Owen either. Um but they're on opposite ends on this thing. Yes. So but The NES kids with his Yeah, so the the Nasbi translators, um, when they're certain, they put a capital for the for the uh pronouns. When they're not certain, they don't. And so they're not certain about um wouldn't the first his be also the same or the second his so the first his I think is God's rest. God the Father's rest. And the his the the one in his works I think is Christ and Christ's work. Um and so Yeah, and so the the Nazaret translators weren't sure so they didn't put the one So they could have put the one with the capital O if they were certain that it was Christ, but they didn't. They could have put his works with a capital H for his, for his works if they were certain, but they weren't, so they didn't. Um and as I said, there are there's some real There's a real split on on who this is talking about. Honestly, I don't think it matters because it's these we are followed as believers rest as well. If you go back to verse three, it says, Well we which have believed you enter rest. So it's already said saying in this uh passage to establish that that those who are believed and then mixed with faith uh will enter into the rest of God. So when you get to this statement, the one is just anyone, whether it's Christ or ourselves, enter into God's rest at the end of the So that's the uh yeah, so It's i it that's the the the view of MacArthur and others is that it's about us and we're since we're promised to enter the rest. But other commentators point out difficulties with it being us. Uh this Greek word, for example, and I'll talk about a couple of other things. Uh that that seemed to make a difference uh to me. Um yes. Uh I I take it from ver you know, in verse nine it it it says therefore, remains therefore a rep for the people of God. Yep. So it could be, but I'm gonna give you a couple of reasons why it might not be Uh-huh. But it might be talking about the people of God and then talking about Christ entering the rest and then talking about all of us entering the rest in in sequence like that So, in this section of the epistle, Hebrews 3 and 4, chapters 3 and 4, the writer refers to those whom he is exhorting only in the plural. We, us, are you. At no point in this passage does the author use the singular pronouns to refer to anyone except God the Father, God the Son, in the entire section of Hebrews 3 and 4. Only plural. And but in this sentence here it's singular. Talking about one person he. Um so it's a departure from uh the whole rest of the pattern. Um that's why Owen and others and Dr. Martin think that it's talking about Christ in this example. Also, if the one refers to the individual Christian or to class of people made up of individual Christians, the analogy of the verse seems to break down. And here's how John Owen puts it. John Owen asks, what are the works that believers should be said to rest from? Their sins, say some, their labors, sorrows, and sufferings, say others, but how can they be said to rest from these works as God rested from his own. For God so rested from his as to take the greatest delight and satisfaction in them, to be refreshed by them. According to Exodus thirty one seventeen, men cannot so rest from them as God did. But they cease from them with a detestation of them so far as they are sinful, and joy for their deliverance from them so far as they are sorrowful. to rest as God rested. So Owen's point is that the algae doesn't work. If you call it believers, uh we don't rest from our works. And because it specifically says his works It's not entering rest, it's resting from his works, notice in there. And so if that's talking about believers, that's not a very good analogy with God resting from his works and us resting from our works That doesn't seem to fit, uh, i in my estimation. Yeah. Uh I forgot we did or how you uh went over um verse eight. Uh looking at the Nazi it says for Joshua Uh looking at the Geneva Bible it says for it's Jesus. So if you Well so of course it's the same uh Yeshua, that's Jesus' name. Jesus it these plants in your head we're talking about Jesus and then a flu Right. But I think the Nazbi is right. I think because of the reference back to the Old Testament and it's referencing the time of Joshua. That's what the uh the wilderness generation was and Joshua led them into the the land of Canaan, I think it's means Joshua that's what the Nazbi translators came up with. Yeah. Yeah. Well although of course it's the same name. Uh Jesus is named after Joshua, Yeshua. Yeah. Yeah. Because There's a parallel with God's works and that doesn't seem to work. T for to I I don't think. I don't think our works the way God rests from his works is not the way that we're resting from our works. So our our life can't take that too. It's filthy rags. Yeah, it's the our righteousness is is is uh filthy rags and if we've done we're we're just done our duty we haven't Uh we can't brag about our our works. Um it doesn't the the parallel I I don't think works very well if it's us. The parallel works perfectly if it's Christ. I I I think from from the way that sentence is constructed. Now there's disagreement. As I said, there's some really fine Bible scholars and fine followers of Christ who see that as um as being talking about us. Yeah. I was just gonna ask if all our registers are silky rags and the only words that we can be credited with are simple white the box the Bible talk about that day of judgment, you will have to ask you fire. Some will have to have golden precious gems left. The Revelation promises us crowns a as rewards for our works that we've done in obedience to Christ. So why would the Bible both say that 'cause obviously all of our own works, works we do without God are simple rest. But we can't obey God and why would those works not be something that we can rest from I guess because we can only do those Yeah and so obviously that's what the people on the other side of this agreement will say. That's obviously what they will say. Um but still are are our works really, no matter even the good ones that are going to be rewarded Are they really a good comparison for God's works? Or are Christ's works a better comparison? Let me put it that way. Are Christ's works a better comparison for God's works than than even our really good ones? That are going to be rewarded in heaven. So the analogy that the the writer is making here to me fits better for Christ than it does for us. That's who that's why I would put it. I think some of us are getting lost on the works aspect and missing the point that the author is trying to make, which is talking about And in Joshua 22, 4 it talks about God gave Israel rest from all their enemies all around them because the campaign of Joshua was was complete. But it was not a complete rest because we know there were still enemies around them and they were still to go to war. And that's why he says there is a coming rest in verse nine he says there remains a rest for us, the people of God. Right. not yet have a rest. The rest remains. And so the I think the counter-argument um he's he's making is that with the verse 10 he's showing that the the rest that remains is the rest that God has, not the rest that we have. We will have that rest, but we do not currently have that rest as Israel after they completed the Joshua campaign and Joshua twenty two four says they had rest, they still have work to do. Right. So the analogy I think fits perfectly with Christ because Christ finished the rest. He has the rest that God the Father has. In completing the creation works, he to tell Right. And earlier in Hebrews we saw that he finished his work and then he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high. And so that's the f the final rest is sitting down at the the the right hand of the majesty on high. And someday that's that's our rest. Uh our eternal rest, yeah. Yeah. I was thinking something along those very same lines, um, that the the flow of the passage seems to be indicating there's still a rest were the people of God, nine times. That begs the question, what type of rest is that if it wasn't the rest they got from Joshua. That rest is the rest of Christ. E Christ's rest, Christ and his word. Verse eleven, let us try to enter that price. Right. I think that's right. I think that's the progression. Uh yeah, from nine to ten to eleven that we're gonna we're gonna see here in a moment. So he He has made provision and the only way to enter that rest, we're going to see in the next verse, is in Christ. So Christ has entered. We'll see in later on in uh chapter four that he's entered the veil of heaven, um, and that's the rest. So it would be a rest of salvation? Yes, so it would be the rest of salvation and and in effect the rest of eternal life is really what it's talking about. That's what we look forward to, yeah. Um and Christ has already entered it and we're and looking to enter that rest. And we'll see that in the next verse, yeah. Doug. issues too. Many of us may be reading from PSD that makes it more challenging to help for whoever instead of for one. Yeah. Yeah, it's a uh yeah, th it's actually It's actually much more fundamental in the Greek. It's just a um a masculine singular. Um i in other places it's just uh translated as the uh so it's the one or he or or and some translations use differently, but really that's a that's a in the Greek it's a masculine singular is what it is. Masculine singular pronoun. Could be, yeah. Yes, you could. Yeah, so uh whenever translating from one language to another, there's the opportunity for confusion. Uh if any of you have done translation, I've done a little bit of translation work. I I speak Japanese and I've done translation work from English to Japanese and Japanese to English and there's many things that um it's just not possible to translate it Exactly. There's no such English word as that word in Japanese. Uh so you do the best you can. Um yeah. So that's why it's profitable to go back and wrestle with the with the Greek here, I think. Um Yeah. Okay. So uh so that's the setup so that Christ has entered the rest, uh he's rested from his works, uh entered God's rest. Um and taking all the available information into account it seems that the one himself and his works are all referred to. I think, but uh as I said, there are other giants, uh you know, uh spiritual giants who disagree. Um so uh verse eleven. So that sets up verse eleven. Therefore, let us be diligent to enter that rest, so that no one will fall through following the same example of disobedience. So uh what is it talking about here? So the need for God's rest is urgent. There's some urgency here. There's you we've seen it throughout this epistle already and we'll s continue to see it, that the writer is um he he w he wants to you can almost see him wanting to reach out and shake the people that are hearing this, that it the hearers of his sermon. Uh wake up God's rest is it's an urgent thing. We have to be diligent. The Greek word to be diligent means to take pains, to make every effort, to strive zealously, and so you just see the flavor of what the writer is trying to say here uh to this congregation. Uh it's not that anyone can work his way to salvation, of course, but that all should diligently seek to enter God's rest by faith in the finished work of Christ. Christ is in Colossians 1. 8, the firstborn from the dead. We'll see next week in Hebrews 4. 14. He's a great high priest who has passed through the heavens. So it is only in Christ that we can enter that rest. The rest that's being set up by verse 10 here in verse 11. Um it's only in Christ that we can enter that Rest. The Christ that has already entered in. Ultimate rest. Yes. Just like Adam and Eve had work to do in the garden, but they were definitely in God's rest as originally designed in the garden, and yet Adam was was um commanded to work the garden, uh to tend the garden. Uh so there will be rest of the I I I think about it as the same nature as Adam and Eve's original work, uh, when they were in definitely in God's rest there in the Garden of Eden, but yet there were things to do. So it's not the kind of rest that um means that you sit on the couch and don't do anything. Um it's r it's a spiritual rest. Um yes, I saw a hand a ha yes. So like The rest that God took in Genesis was a rest from his creation work. Yes. Because if he rested from all of his work, the cosmos would fall apart. Correct. And so it's just that it's just that Yeah. And so there's a series of analogies here and one of the analogies is God resting from creation and a Sabbath rest and he set up a whole system based on that. Right? He he created in six days, he rested on the seventh day, and why did he do that? Well, one of the reasons he did that was to set up a system where there was a Sabbath rest for the people of God, the the Jews, and they weren't supposed to work on that. day and but what was that whole Sabbath rest set up to point towards? It was to point for towards this rest here, uh the rest that's available in Christ that Christ won on the the cross, uh salvation, eternal life, uh it was pointing forward to that rest and that's why in the new covenant we don't have those Sabbath rules because the true rest that it was pointing towards is now here. Yes. Uh I just said so quickly, so when the Pharisees confronted Christ about doing what wonders and works on the Sabbath, we referenced back to God's rest. Genesis one and two and said, But I and my father have been working until now. Right. So there's that the I think the way to understand that is the the Hebrews do not use the word rest as we use rest word. We use rest to say to retire, essentially. Right. They do nothing. Well you can't rest to show that this task is finished and does not need to be revisited. Yeah. Yeah, that's right. There's a difference between rest in English and rest in Hebrew. That's a good point. Uh and he also said uh he also said Jesus also said that um the Sabbath was created for man and not man for the Sabbath. Um a and what Jesus is saying there is that the Sabbath had a had a purpose that was pointing forward to him, um and it wasn't yeah, the other way around. Yeah. Well I think it's also important to also remember that in Hebrew culture you're also never supposed to complete any real task. You're supposed to leave the hems of your garden garments unsew, you're supposed to leave the edges of your field unplowed, you're supposed to have the savage rest and jubilee rest. So there's It implication that there's always something that you yourself leave undone undone for the subjourner and anybody else. There's always a remnant that's left. And the static sort of points to that as well and says like Hey, you know, it doesn't really matter, like it's still your day of rest, and if it's undone, it's just not done. Right. Yeah, and so but all of that was pointing forward to uh the ultimate rest in Christ uh in heaven uh with Christ, um all of that is is pointing forward to something. Uh there is a um um an endpo to all of it. Yes. Uh maybe you can give us um have any in your head, practical picture of what it means to be diligent to rest. I think about this and the song that comes into my head is Everybody's Working for the Weekend. You know, I'm I'm gonna work hard so I can go on vacation. Um but is is that really the sense that's being talked about here? Or is there something what does it mean to be diligent? This is important for me to make sure that I'm doing. I know that as a believer I have a re a set of rest. Now there's a future rest that I'm to be diligent with more technically if this applies to me. So so yeah, so the the author of Hebrews has no uh no room for passive Christianity. Th there's no room for I'm saved now so I'm gonna sit on the couch. Uh there really isn't, uh thro throughout this book of of Hebrews. Um and so there's a there's a sense of o o okay, there's there's this rest that I'm going to enter. But in the meantime I'm supposed to be diligent and what does that Greek term mean? It means to take pains, to make every effort, to strive zealously. That's what that that Greek word means. And so that's what the the author of Hebrews is calling his original audience to uh to do and uh by extension the Holy Spirit has placed it in the in the scriptures so that we could also uh take that um that meaning to uh to heart, this idea that we're supposed to be diligent. Um so that's what it means. It means to strive zealously. So i if you're saved there's a Um i it's a um it's a kind of um an interesting poetic word picture. Uh we think of rest as laying on the couch, but that's not what the Hebrews really meant by rest. Uh but there seems to be kind of a juxtaposition in our modern uh American minds between diligence and rest. That's those seem to be contradictory, right? That's the point that you're that you're getting at, yes. No longer have to stay command and strive against it. And so our diligence here is communicate that one day will be able to deal with it. Yes, so that's a an excellent way of thinking about it. So um If you think about our salvation, we're justified, so we're free from the penalty of sin. Um we as we're being sanctified, we are progressively freed from the power of sin and in heaven we're free from the presence of sin. So there is no longer any struggle. So if you think about um a timeline of a human life Everybody's born with a sin nature. We're dead in our sins and trespasses. None is righteous, no, not one. And then you're saved. If you're saved, then you are a new creation in Christ's. Christ Jesus, you put off the old man, you put on the old man. However, you still have a sin nature. So there's a war between your spirit and your flesh that Paul describes in Romans chapter seven. There's a war. in a saved person between the spirit and the flesh. And in obedience, you you you diligently uh pursue Christ, pursue your sanctification, um uh work out your your sanctification and in uh work out your salvation in fear and trembling. Um you're progressively um putting to death the works of the flesh. Um and you so you're progressively becoming um uh free from the power of sin as you become conformed to the likeness of Christ. But you'll never be completely free from your flesh, from your sinful nature until You die physically and you go into the presence of Christ um in heaven and then you'll be completely free from the presence of sin. And that is the ultimate rest. Right? That's the ultimate spiritual rest is to be free from the presence of sin. And we don't get that Until we die here on this earth and we go to heaven and we're in the presence of Christ. And so that's the ultimate rest. And so there is a uh the the way eternal life is uh described in the Bible. Um in 1 John chapter 1, you have eternal life Um and so we have eternal life, but we're still stuck in this shell, in this uh reality here uh with a with a fallen human nature. Uh even though we have the assurance of of eternal life. So in some respects there is rest involved with being saved. But it's not the final rest, it's not eternal rest. It's not the perfect rest in heaven with God. And Christ of course has that perfect rest. Um and we don't have it yet. We will have it. We don't have it yet. Uh yes, Richard. uh as that diligence we're talking about the desire to uh to live uh wait to Christ. Desire to live in obedience to Christ, that's exactly right. Diligence Desiring to live an obedient life, um obedient to the to the will of God, just like Christ did. So how did Christ live his life? He lived his life in perfect obedience to the will of the Father. That's the example. Example, uh the example that we cannot live up to. Uh if we could live up to it we wouldn't need Christ. But we can't live up to it, and so we need Christ. Um but we're supposed to strive to live as Christ did in his obedience to the Father. Oh sorry. Any any other any other questions? Good yes, sure. Because Hebrews is talking about the law, no? I compared that Jesus is the reason of the law. So that's that when we are saying to Jesus we don't need to work in in the law anymore, we don't need to sacrifice, we don't need to Jesus. But at all now we we have the salvation, we are in the right of God. So we can That's true. So definitely true that um the sacrificial system was Pointing forward to Christ and we don't do sacrifices for sin and and and the Bible makes clear that uh the the the blood of bulls and goats can never take away sin. Um and so but Christ came and so Christ has taken away sin. Um it's a finished work on the cross. He he has taken away sin. And so we can certainly rest in that fact. But there is an eternal rest that still lies before us. But we're supposed to diligently strive zealously in this life to live the life of obedience. Um and that's contrasted at the end of this verse with the example of disobedience. So uh here in verse eleven the author once again refers back to the example of the wilderness generation from Numbers fourteen through Psalm ninety five. So David brought up the wilderness generation uh in Psalm ninety five. It was from Numbers fourteen, the author of Hebrews brings it up again here. Um that this th this is uh w what the diligent Diligently entering the rest is contrasted with the disobedience there. So diligently entering the rest, so what does it mean in a practical way for us today? It means obedience, living a life of obedience and um and the As I mentioned, the example is the life of Christ. How did Jesus live his life in relation to the Father? He lived it in perfect obedience to his will. And so the author of Hebrews here is encouraging people urging people to diligently strive zealously to to live as Christ lived, to live a Christ-like life. And is that possible for us to do perfectly as Christ lived? did. No. It's not. It's not possible for a person with a fallen nature to live a perfect a life of perfect obedience to the will of the Father as Christ did. That's why we need Christ. He lived the perfect life that we couldn't live. But the this author of Hebrews and none of the authors of the Bible ever condone a couch potato Christian existence. Uh they just don't. Um they don't the example of their lives is not like that. Um Paul did not sit around and do nothing. Right? So yes, evidently there was some there were some in the first century church that thought that Christ was coming back any minute and so they there was no there was no use, there was no um there was no reason or purpose for working to make money to eat because Jesus is coming any day now. So there's why why should I do that? And so Paul reacts very harshly to that in that particular instance. Uh he who does not work shall not eat. And and he's he's not laying that down as a uh a general principle not to give to the poor, obviously. But what he's talking about is Christians within the church being lazy um and not getting to uh to diligently work, uh to obey the will of of God. Okay. Uh any other questions about any of this great discussion? Yes. Yeah, so um the that's a not a good not a biblical belief, I don't believe. The the the Sabbath is um, as I said, is is pointing forward to Christ, to the true Sabbath. Sabbath rest in Christ. And what day you worship on is not prescribed. The early church, uh, because Christ rose on the first day of the week, worshipped on the first day of the week to celebrate the resurrection. Uh that's why the the early church met uh on the first day of the week. Um but Paul also says not to regard particular days and Sabbaths. Um And so if you and it sounds like the Seventh day Advis Advocate Adventists are are disregarding Paul's uh admonition in that case not to regard new moons and festivals and sabbaths. Um now there are other pseudo Christian cults that take it even further. Uh the Jehovah's Witnesses say that there's hundred and forty four thousand and it's them and if you're not one of those we're not them and the hundred and forty th four thousand you're not going to heaven. Uh the Catholic Church says if you're not a member of the Catholic Church you're not going to heaven. Um yeah. Jehovah's witness was and he was okay with not being one of the hundred and forty four thousand artists. So what are you gonna do? He's like, Oh, I'll be here on the new heaven in the new earth or whatever But he admitted he wasn't one of the hundred and forty four thousand, I'm like, Okay. They've actually uh slightly modified their theology when uh when their when their group got bigger than a hundred and forty four thousand. They they had to do that. Um so they do have some subtlety about what's gonna happen. Um they they used to teach Strictly that the hundred and forty four thousand was them and that's what was going to happen. They've changed that a little bit recently. You're you're you're right about that. How can that be, you know, when you have eight on the things. He's working on his salvation, not yours. Um right. He he's he's earning points. Um yeah. Okay. Um the writer is anxious that none of his ears will fall like the Israelites in the wilderness who lost their opportunity. So uh this admonition to diligence of course can uh refer to he's he's preaching this out to an audience that it includes like every single church, both believers and unbelievers. Um and so the disobedience of the Um wilderness generation of course were those that didn't enter the rest, that those who didn't uh come to God's salvation. Um and he doesn't want anybody to be like that He doesn't want anybody to fall, to fall outside uh God's salvation. Uh he's he's concerned about that. Um he he's anxious that none of his hearers will fall like the Israelites in the wilderness did. Uh the Greek word for disobedience here, uh, it brings this warning to a close and points forward to the what the writer is about to say in Hebrews twelve and thirteen. Uh the verb to disobey, so this is uh disobedience, and now for in the the verb form of that word means to refuse to be persuaded, to not comply with, or to rebel. That's what that Greek word means. And in the Septuagint account, so the Septuagint remember is a Greek version of the Old Testament. So we can look back at these Greek words in the Old Testament if we use the Septuagint. And that Greek word for to disobey To refuse to be persuaded, to not comply, to rebel. That Greek word in the Septuagint is used over and over again to describe this generation in Numbers fourteen forty three, in Deuteronomy one twenty six, and Deuteronomy nine seven and twenty-three to twenty four, and Joshua five six. that Greek word over and over again in the the account of that generation. The term disobedience is used to describe the behavior of those who turn away from God's revealed will. God has a revealed will, and people who have turned away from that revealed will are described by this term disobedience, both in the Old Testament and the New, um, and who have ultimately rejected the offers of his Grace. That's what disobedience is talking about here. Uh and he's he's very anxious that no one of his hearers fall into that category Uh he doesn't want anybody to be left behind. Um is what he's saying here. Okay. Uh verse twelve. So verse twelve is uh uh twelve and thirteen are a fun part of the the scriptures here that you've probably heard before. For the Word of God is living and active and sharper than any two-edged sword, and piercing as far as the division of soul and spirit, of both joints and marrow and able to judge the thoughts and intentions of the heart. So God cannot be trifled with. Um the the the God and his word are um are can be terrified. to those who are not saved, but encouraging to those who are. So it's both a warning And an encouragement in that in that sense. Um yes. I'm a little bit moderated to do this um I guess it's very controversial because close by the church and we we have two parts. Yep. Other churches believe in spirit, body, soul, and spirit. And Tom Lee used to always always say the soul and the spirit are the same. They're interchangeable. Here it says The soul and the spirit can be torn apart. Right. They are separate. Yeah, and so what that means is the Word of God can separate things that are inseparable, I think, is the image that's being painted there. Um I I don't don't think it's teaching tripartite. In fact, uh this this uh this commentary has a an excellent section on that. And he points out that there are a bunch of other things in Hebrews that would make you have to have four, five or six parts, like the mind for example. If you go through all of the analogies that are used uh in uh in Hebrews in in this regard, you come out with five parts, not three. Um and so i his point is that this is a word picture uh that's that's being painted about how sharp the word of god is and he's using something that uh that can divide even something that's indivisible uh in other words, is is the point I think it's trying to make. Um and able to judge. So there's this idea that it's um Um it's active. It's not just uh it's not an inanimate object, in other words. Um this is a manifestation of God's character, really. Um so yeah, so there there have been, of course, for millennia uh this uh this um um argument over whether we're two parts or three parts and um but I I don't think that that's what this is talking about and I think that if you tr if you try to go down that road with the way Hebrews describes uh the parts of man, you end up with five parts. Um which I don't think anybody believes believes in. Um okay. So uh the word of God is a alive we get here. Word of God is not static but active. Uh it can pierce right down to the innermost parts of the heart and to see if belief is real or not. Um that's really the the point that the author is making here. Um the Word of God is not only saving and comforting and nourishing and healing, it's also a tool of judgment. It's a standard. Uh it provides a standard by which people are judged. Um so uh at the end there it says So in the great day of judgment, his word is going to penetrate and lay bare all hearts who have not trusted in him. So sham and hypoc hypocrisy will be revealed, um and no profession of faith, no matter how orthodox, and no list of good works, no matter how sacrificial, will count for anything before him. Only the thoughts and intentions of the heart will count. God's word is the perfect discerner, uh the perfect kritikos is the Greek word there, translated judge, kritikos, from from which we get the English uh word critic, um like a film critic or or something like that. Uh so God's word not only analyzes all the facts perfectly, but also all motives and intentions, which even the wisest of human judges or critics could could never do. So the sword of his word will make no mistakes in judgment. All disguises will be ripped off and only the real person will be seen. You can't fool God. And that's the point that the Hebrews author is trying to make to his congregation in this sermon here is in like in any church, there are people that are saved and there are people that are unsaved. And there are people that um that put on a good face Um but you can't do that with God. It it won't work, uh is is what he's saying here. Um th the word of God is uh a sharp sword that can def d define uh the intentions and You can't fool God. The final verse. And there is no creature hidden from his sight But all things are open and laid bare to the eyes of him with whom we have to do. Uh so God's eyes see everything. Uh Hebrews four thirteen is exegetical of the previous verse, it's explaining the previous verse. There's no creature hidden from the sight, but all things are open to the eyes of God. Since the word is a revelation of God Himself Here the character of the word is proved by the character of the God who spoke it. Um no creature, nothing is hidden from his sight. So in the nature of things, nothing in all God's creation is hidden from his piercing gaze. Rather, all things are open and laid bare to his discernment. Since these things are true, we need to beware of self-deception. So, uh we talked about last time that uh the quote from Jesus that um on the last day there will be those who say, Lord, Lord, didn't we not prophesy in your name? Um and he'll say we we never knew he never knew go a away from me, um, evildoer, I never knew you. Uh there's some self deception that's possible. Um and the fruit uh it's the fruit of the deceitfulness of sin, which we saw in Hebrews three thirteen. And that's involved in thinking that God does not notice our reception of His Word, that God does not notice um our own self He can't penetrate and look through our own s even our own self-deception. So God can see past any outward religious facade to view the hidden but real state of the heart. That's what the the uh author of Hebrews is is warning here Um, he's he's gone through this whole thing about uh not being disobedient like the uh the the wilderness generation. And then he's this final warning here is a and don't don't pretend or don't think that you can fool God. Um, that he sees everything. Uh the Greek word open, gumas, uh had two distinct uses in ancient times. Um it was Some specialized uses for this these uh this particular word. It was used of a wrestler taking his opponent by the throat Um in this position the two men were unavoidably face to face, open, face to face as a wrestler who's grasping the other one by the throat, that word was used. The other use was in regard to a criminal trial. A sharp dagger would be bound to the neck of the accused with the point just below the chin So that he could not bow his head but had to face the court. So i he couldn't put his head down so you couldn't see his eyes and his face. I he had to look up at the the judge and the uh and the others in the court. His face was open, in other words. Um and so those are the two specialized uses of that word gum nas. Uh both uses uses had to do with grave face to face situations. And so that's the word used here about things are open and laid bare to the eyes with whom of him with whom we have to do. Uh, those two word pictures, uh, from the ancient uses of those words. Um and so when an unbeliever comes under the scrutiny of God's word, he will be unavoidably face to face with the perfect truth about God and about himself. He will be unable to look away and God will see him face to face. the face for who he is, who he really is. Um yeah. So in light of such certain and perfect judgment and of such beautiful and wonderful rest. So the choices are perfect rest in God with him in heaven, or this face to face meeting with uh uh God in judgment. Those are your two choices. So uh is that's what the he author of Hebrews is laying out here. You have two choices, this perfect rest in Christ, or judgment before a God who sees you perfectly for everything that you've ever done and for every thought and intention of your heart. So which one are you going to choose? That's what the author of Hebrews has laid out here for his audience, and the Holy Spirit has laid it out for us To this day for the modern audience. Those are your choices. Perfect rest in Christ or facing judgment of God who sees every thought and intention of your heart. Yes, Kurt. Well, Rob, it it does open up the can of worms as as far as how we become saved. We we know that we don't have any responsibility or we don't have any we can't say ourselves. ourselves, even if we exercise great diligence. And so we we we know this passage is a teaching that we can bring about our own salvation. Right. But then it it's curious, and I I go back to my College experience in which there was a navigator in the dormitory from the navigator ministry. And so I was attending this investigative Bible study, and he urged me, Kirk, this is not just an investigative Bible study. study in the book of John. I'm urging you to place your faith in Christ, to to believe and to commit, and not just observe and read and follow along. And and then you ask questionable would I have come to faith unless there were someone like that to urge strongly or when we hear a a message being preached, is it the intensity of the the preacher that's really bringing conviction to to our heart. Of course we know it's the Holy Spirit, but it it's that um it's kind of an ex it's not as easily explained as far as the the the urge to appeal to Through the Word of God and through our human voice. And then yet yet the Lord is the one who saves and brings people to faith. God uses means. I mean it's clear that he does use means. Um and he's commanded us to make disciples, for example. But who's really making the disciple? The Holy Spirit is really m the one that regenerates the heart of men. But but we're commanded to make disciples. And so he's y he uses means um in spreading the gospel. He uses missionaries. We're commanded to go into all the world and preach the gospel. Um why do we do that? Why why do we do that? Wha why it it it doesn't seem like go Well, a it not only does it not seem, but it's true, God doesn't need us. Right? He doesn't need us. But he has commanded us to participate in his great story of redemption in in mankind. mind and it's a great privilege to do that. And we do it primarily because he he commanded us to, out of obedience. Out of love for him, because he first loved me, I o I I want to obey him, and he's commanded me to do it. He's commanded me to preach the gospel and so I do, uh, in obedience. But does he need me? He does not need me. He doesn't need any of us. But he's allowed us to participate in the process. He's he uses me. And that's a that is a mystery. There's a mystery there. But in my Esther, when you were turned, if you Esther don't step through it to save your people. As somebody else. Yep. Somebody else does. Yep. He did indeed. Uh, for such a time as this, but if you don't step up, you've got to raise up somebody else. But he uses means. He used Esther and he would he if she if she had not been obedient, he would have raised up somebody else. Yes, Harlan. Yes, that's that's good another good way to put it is we're instruments Um and he's made some for noble purposes and some for ignoble, but we're vessels in his hands and we do uh in obedience, we do what he's commanded us to do with the uh the gifts and abilities that he's given us to be instruments in his hands. That's a good way to put it. Alright, so we have run out of time. So let me close us in prayer.