Uh so we're in part twenty-eight, part two of this quarter, uh part twenty-eight of the overall series um on the book of Hebrews, and we're gonna be talking about Enoch, the great man of God, Enoch, and walking in faith today. So this is what we're going to talk about. Enoch walking in faith. Enoch believed that God is Enoch sought God's reward. Enoch walked with God. Enoch preached for God. And Enoch entered God's presence. So that's what we're going to talk about today. First, we're going to take a look back at what we did last week. We talked about Abel. So in this 11th chapter, there's a number of examples of faith from the old Testament that the uh these first century Jewish people that were in this congregation would have been very familiar. with these Old Testament saints and so the author of Hebrews under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit is is reminding them of the faith of their ancestors. And so we did Abel last time. Uh he brought a true sacrifice, uh he was truly righteous, um and he was a true witness. Uh he he because he believed he offered a better sacrifice and because he offered a better sacrifice he obtained a w uh a a righteousness Because he obtained righteousness, he is a living witness, even to this day, even though he died thousands of years ago. So um there's only the one verse in the uh Hebrews about Abel, but of course we have a description of his life in Genesis chapter four, of uh just not his whole life of course, just the one little incident there of his life. Um and they brought sacrifices, Cain and Abel as described in in Genesis chapter four. And because they were bringing the sacrifices to a certain place, there that means there was a place. There was a uh must have been an altar for them to bring the sacrifices to. There also seemed to be a time for worship, the way the Hebrew phrase in Genesis 4, um, in the course of time, that implies a set time, uh, when they did sacrifices. It also seemed That God had designated a way to worship. Cain and Abel wouldn't have known anything about the need for worship or sacrifice had they not been told by God. have that revealed in scripture, what how God revealed it to them, but but somehow he did uh reveal to them that they needed to sacrifice. And of course it's significant that the first recorded act of worship was sacrifice sin offering. And as we're stepping through this book of Hebrews, we have the comparison and contrast between the Old Covenant and the New Covenant. The heart of the new covenant is Jesus perfect once for all sacrifice on the cross. Cross. And it seems very unlikely that Cain and Abel would have just accidentally stumbled into this idea that they needed to sacrifice. They had to be told that this is what they were supposed to do. And the fact that God accepted only the one sacrifice. Also seems to indicate that he had established a pattern of requirement for the worship. Abel offered his sacrifice by faith, we're told, uh, here in Hebrews. And since faith comes from hearing, Romans 10, 17, Abel must have had some revelation from God on which his faith was based. He had something to believe in, because he had been told something that he needed to believe in. And when uh Abel did what God said and Cain of course disobeyed, um Abel offered God a better sacrifice than Cain because God had prescribed the blood sacrifice. Somehow Abel and also Cain knew what God wanted. One gave God what he was c uh commanded to do, what God wanted, and the other did not. So, and of course the only reason that he obtained So faith faith produced righteousness for Abel. He did what God told him to do in faith, and therefore he obtained righteousness. Abel was just as sinful as Cain in his nature. Um and it's possible that he was a better person than Cain. We don't know. It's not uh specified there. But it wasn't his character qualities, what a good person he was that was the basis upon which he obtained righteousness. It was the faith, uh be because of his faith that he obtained righteousness. So God considered Abel righteous, not because he was righteous in himself, but because he trusted God And obeyed him in faith. And therefore he stood righteous before God, because he had faith in God. The primary meaning, of course, the last phrase of the verse that we studied last time, though he is dead, he still speaks. speaks uh has to do with able speaking to later generations including the generations uh of the that the author of Hebrews was originally writing to in the first century and then of course all the way up to us today. And basically he says three things. Man comes to God by faith alone, not works. Man must accept and obey God's revelation above his own reason and self-will. And three, sin, which is disobedience to God, is severely punished. And so that's Abel's three point sermon, uh, that still speaks thousands of years after his death. Uh any questions about what we did last time? Yes, Kurt. Yeah Pastor Rob, there's there's a period Yeah. It almost suggests that both of them had value, but one happened to be better than the other. And God had regard for Abel and his sacrifice, but God had no regard for Cain and his sacrifice. So put into the context of what we know from Genesis chapter four, that's not really the um the flavor of of that what that's saying there in in Hebrews. Yeah. Okay. Yes. Uh can you elaborate a little bit on why God uh didn't show us Adam Ebez oh my face but with So Abel first? Yeah, so we don't know. So it's very interesting that we don't really hear anything more about Adam and Eve. So Adam and Eve, we we hear about them being created, we hear about them being placed in the garden, we hear about them the fall and their punishment, tossed out of the garden, and then they live hundreds of more years and we get nothing about what happened in their lives, except they had other sons and daughters. And so uh the short answer is I don't know why there's nothing about Adam and Eve after that, and so it has to be Cain and Abel. But uh one of the things that I suspect God is showing is that Right away in the first generation you have sin um and it and not just uh uh you know, a little white lie here and there. You have well bro brother murdering a brother right away in the very first generation. to be born under the curse. And I think that's probably why God goes to Cain and Abel. That's just a guess though. Can you also put it if you've seen God, if you walk with God, you know, and no one's Yeah, well so that's true that Adam and Eve had had a pre-fall experience of God, and now they were separated from that Um and and what uh how that caused them to live their lives or what their lives lived like after that, we just don't know because the scripture doesn't tell us. But for God's own reasons and purposes the um um the very next event that takes place is Cain and Abel with the next generation rather than anything about a and there's no revelation about um how exactly Exactly what words God used to to tell Cain and Abel and probably Adam and Eve about the requirement for sacrifice. the way that the the the scripture is structured it looks like there was a a specific place an altar a specific time and a specific way but but how did they know? They must have known because God told them but how and in what words he told them is not recorded in in scripture. Uh yes, Larry. God warned him ahead of time. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So i God takes an interest in Cain, even though Cain is not saved, um, God moves towards Cain. Uh it's very interesting to see that. And he goes and warns him specifically. Yeah. And so i yeah, the the way God did the punishments is Is illustrative in Genesis chapter 3. He did punish Satan, but he punished Adam and Eve. They couldn't just a and they he tried. Um I mean they tried to blame Eve tried to blame Satan, Adam tried to blame Eve. Eve, um and by extension tried to blame God. Uh but God didn't buy any of those excuses. The punishment came. Yes. Bible as well. Well, of course we don't know. Um they're n they're n they're not in the Faith Hall Hall of Fame here. Um w I mean we don't the Bible doesn't explicitly say w what happened to them after the the fall, yeah. It's true. Eve was looking for the promise, that's true. Um And as I mentioned last time, the the way the Hebrew is structured for the birth of Cain, um, the Hebrew actually says I have got a man, Yahweh. That's what the Hebrew says. Many translators have added a lot of words in there that are not in the Hebrew. I have gotten a man with the help of Yahweh is what most translations say, but the Hebrew actually says, I've gotten a man Yahweh. That's uh what Eve said when when Cain was born. Um so yeah, it seems that Eve was looking forward to the promises. That's that's true. But we we s simply don't know, yes. That reminds me of Apple. Uh before right before he said now you're getting a continuous Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, and in the first century church evidently there were people that were sitting around not working because they just assumed that Jesus was gonna come back before all the bills were due. Um yeah, that's that's not a good way to to live your life. Um yeah. Yeah. Um and that's that was what prompted to say if a man if a man doesn't work he shall shall not eat It was because people were sitting around waiting for the second coming and not working. Um yeah. Okay. Uh let me roll on then to um Enoch. So if you'll open your Bibles to Hebrews chapter eleven Now we're going to have to jump around a little bit because we're going to go to Hebrews chapter 11, we're going to go to Genesis chapter 5, and we're also going to go to the book of Jude uh during this lesson, which is the three places that Enoch has mentioned. So starting with the text here in Hebrews, uh verse 5 and 6, Hebrews 11, 5 and 6, by faith Enoch was taken up so that he would not see death. And he was not found because God took him up. For he Obtain the witness that before his being taken up he was pleasing to God, and without faith it is impossible to please him For he who comes to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of those who seek him. So that's Hebrews 11. Let's also take a look at Hebrews 11. Genesis chapter five and so uh uh sorry, Genesis chapter five, thank you. Uh Genesis chapter five, of course, is the genealogies that go uh all the way from Adam to Noah in Genesis chapter five. Um and so right in the middle of that is the description of Jared's uh his father Jared and Enoch and um and then his sons and daughters. So Uh starting with verse eighteen, Jared lived one hundred and sixty-two years. Uh so he was old when he became the father of Enoch, one hundred and sixty-two years. Uh then Jared lived eight hundred years after he became the father of Enoch, and he had other sons and daughters. So all the days of Jared were nine hundred and sixty. sixty two years and he died. Enoch lived sixty-five years and became the father of Methuselah. Then Enoch walked with God three hundred years after he became the father of Methuselah, and he had other sons and daughters. So all the days of Enoch were 365 years. Enoch walked with God, and he was not, for God took him. So you'll recognize that as the quote from Hebrews 11:6. He walked with God. With God and he was not, for God took him. And one more, let's take a look at the book of Jude If you'll fast forward all the way to the book of Jude right near the end, I won't read through the whole passage. I'll just give you a couple of verses, four eleven and fourteen through sixteen. Uh fourteen through sixteen is about Enoch, the four and eleven is about the people that Enoch prophesied about. And so the Jude is about false teachers. Second Peter and Jude both are Very parallel books. They have in in many cases they have the exact same Greek phrases in Second Peter and Jude. Jude uh verse four says this, for certain persons have crept in unnoticed. Crept in where? Crept into the church. Certain persons have crept in unnoticed, those who were long beforehand marked out for this condemnation, ungodly persons who turn the grace of our God into licentiousness and deny our only Master and Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. Woe to them, for they have gone the way of Cain, and for pay they have rushed headlong into the error of Balaam and perished in the rebellion of Korah. So comparing these people to these uh Old Testament figures that were also false, false worshipper, false prophets. And then verse 14, it was also about About these men, about those described above, that Enoch in the seventh generation from Adam prophesied, saying Quote, Behold, the Lord came with many thousands of his holy ones to execute judgment upon all, and to convict all the ungodly of all their ungodly deeds which they have done in an ungodly way, and of all the harsh things which ungodly sinners have spoken against him. So where did that quote come from? We'll get to that uh later on. Uh these are grumblers finding fault, following up to their own lust. They speak arrogantly, flattering people for the sake of gaining advantage. So thousands of years before, this man Enoch had prophesied about false teachers in the church. Way, way, way back in the seventh generation. of of mankind is what Jude is saying. Okay. So let's go back and take a look. Let's just set some background by looking at the genealogies that uh that the Bible gives us. So first of all Adam and Eve had Cain, their firstborn, and the Abel, and then Cain killed Abel, so he's gone. Um and then they had Seth, uh but they also had other sons and daughters. And the way the the scripture puts it, it's not clear um when those other sons and daughters were born. Some of them may have been born before Seth And then after Seth also, um, because Kane was very worried about all the other people. But all the other people were going to think of him once God had punished him. Well, who could the other people have possibly been? Sons and daughters of Adam and Eve. And so Seth was born after Cain killed Abel. But right when Cain killed Abel, he was worried about all the other people. And so that seems to indicate that there were sons and daughters born between Abel and Seth. Yes. Well the scripture doesn't say, so we don't know Uh it's possible but we would just be purely speculating because the scripture doesn't say anything about able having kids. But we know that there were lots of there were eventually other sons and daughters of Adam and Eve. Um uh yes, Michelle, you have a question. Because it doesn't even say how old Cain is when he has his children. Correct. So we don't know what the You don't know we don't have the timeline for his line. That's true. Yeah, and uh w uh one of the points I want to make from this slide though is that there are lots and lots and lots and lots of people Especially eventually after many generations, that are not in the line of Cain and also not in the line of Seth. See where it says other sons and daughters? Well, those other sons and daughters had sons and daughters and grandchildren and great grandchildren, and very soon thousands and thousands. thousands and hundreds of thousands and millions of people were all over the world that were not in the line of Cain and also not in the line of Seth. That's important. Okay. Uh then we follow the line of Cain. So Adam's the first generation Cain's the second, Enoch's the third, Ired's the fourth, Mahujael the fifth, Methusiel the sixth, and then Lamech. And Lamech is there's and there's nothing about any of these people and that Enoch is the not the same Enoch we're talking about here. The son of Cain also named Enoch is not the Enoch that we're uh that Hebrews is talking about. So it's the same name but a different person. Um and then we all get all the way down to Lamech, and this is a different Lamek than the Lamech that was the s father of Noah. Uh so there were common names. Right? There were there were names that same uh same name used by different people, just like there is today. But anyway, this this man in the seventh generation was particularly wicked And the scripture talks about him bragging to his wives about killing people. Um in the seventh generation there. Okay. Uh and then in in Seth's line we don't follow the other the other many, many, many sons and daughters of Adam and Eve have Many, many children and grandchildren and all that, but we don't follow them. Why do we not follow them? They're not in the line that leads to Christ. So the Bible is a book about Jesus Christ. And so it follows the line that leads to leads to Jesus Christ. It's not that those other people are not important. God cares about those people too. But the Bible is a book about Jesus Christ. So it follows the line, the red boxes here are all ancestors of Jesus. And so all those other sons and daughters did have to be wicked. Yes they did. Yes. So so notice other sons and daughters of Seth and so there were thousands, hundreds of thousands millions of descendants of Seth by the time of the flood of Noah that were also wicked. Um only this one very thin narrow line from Seth to Noah uh was the seed line. There were lots and lots of other descendants of Seth that were not in the the seed line. Um okay, so Seth Seth is the second generation, he's the son of Adam and Eve, and then Enoch and Kenan and Mahalalel And Jared the sixth, and then Enoch is the seventh generation. So just like Lamech, the seventh generation in the line of Cain, is particularly wicked. Enoch, the seventh generation after uh from Adam through the line of Seth is characterized by outstanding faith, both in the seventh generation. Um okay, and then of course the you have another Lamek, not the Lamech that was in the the in the line of Cain, but in different Lamak, in the line of Seth, that is the father of Noah. Alright, so everybody have the genealogies fixed in their their minds? Got it. Um okay. So let's Let's go back then to Hebrews. So by faith Enoch was taken up, so that he would not see death. So Enoch didn't die. The second year of the faith after Abel is Enoch. Abel exemplified worshiping by faith, uh, which must also always come first. Enoch exemplified walking by faith. So worshiping by faith with Abel, walking by faith with Enoch. God of course never intended works as a way for people to draw near to him. He intended works to be a result of salvation Not a way of salvation. An important distinction. God has always intended that works be a product of the salvation we we receive when we approach Him on the basis of faith. That's the way it's always been. And that's one of the points of the author of Hebrews going back to these Old Testament saints and showing that it was by faith that they worshipped. It was by faith that they walked with God. It was by faith that they were accredited righteousness. That's the point here. Adam and Eve, of course, walked with God in the garden Uh but then they fell and were thrown out of the garden. Uh the ultimate destiny of mankind is reinstituted in a certain sense with Enoch who stands as an illustration of what it is to be in fellowship with God, what it is to draw near to him. It's a the the the ultimate example in the Old Testament of somebody who drew near to God, drew so near to God that God just took him up to heaven. Um so he Enoch, the true destiny of man is again reached, so the the God intended for man to walk with him, and so that's what Adam and Eve had in the garden. And then you had the fall and the curse, um, and then we have redemption. But we have this early example of somebody who um was able to, through faith, uh draw near to God like uh a a in a likeness to what Adam and Eve had before the fall to such an extent that God took him up to heaven. So uh he experienced the fellowship with God that Adam and Eve had forfeited, uh, in other words. And without faith it's impossible to please him, for he who comes to God must believe that he is. That's pretty basic. If you're going to come to somebody, you you better believe that there's actually somebody there Um and also more interestingly, and that he is a rewarder of those who seek him. So absolutely nothing from people can please God apart from faith. Uh religious works apart from faith do not please God. Nationality and heritage do not please God. Uh Paul talks about that in Galatians chapter three. Uh Of course, there remember the original audience. There were many Jewish people that Jesus encountered in his ministry that thought that they pleased God just because they were descendants of Abraham. And and and really the right descendants of Abraham, because Abraham had many other descendants that were not in the line of Isaac. Remember, God said that it's through Isaac that your descendants will be numbered, but his physical descendants were many, many more outside of the line of Isaac. You have everybody that's descended from Ishmael, and you also have many descendants from Keturah after Sarah died. And so So Abraham had many, many, many descendants that are not from the line of Isaac, but the the Jewish people were from the right line of Isaac, uh right line of Abraham. Isaac to Jacob, and of course not Esau, but Jacob. Um and so they um at least some of them believe that just being the right descendants of Abraham um provided them with righteousness, that they had a right standing with God because of that. But as we saw in Jesus' earthly ministry, they were often displeasing to him. So good works in themselves do not not please God, because by the works of the law no flesh will be justified in his sight. Romans 320. Without faith it's impossible to please him, is what the the author of Hebrews says here. So the first step of faith Is simply to believe that he is. And this of course he knocked did. God is pleased with those who believe in him, even with the first step of believing that he exists. This belief alone, however, is certainly not enough to save a person. Just believing that he is, um we get the description in the New Testament that the demons believe that. that he is, uh, and shudder. Um so that's not enough. It's the first step. It's important. It's listed here that you have to actually believe that he is But of course that's not sufficient in and of itself. Uh but if it's a sincere belief and if it's followed up, it will lead to full faith. It's a first step. Believing that the true God exists is what Uh is the first step to pleasing him. A mere recognition of a deity of some sort, the man upstairs or any of the man-made gods throughout history, is not the object of belief in mind here. Only belief in the existence of the true God revealed in Scripture. Scripture really counts. We cannot know God by sight, of course. John 118, no man has seen God at any time. Nor can we know God by reason. There are two chapters in the book of Job, chapter 38 and 39, devoted to God's colorful illustrations of how man cannot even fathom the operations of nature, much less understand God Himself by our own observations and reasonings. Where were you when I established the foundations of the world? God says to Job, Um, to show that he can't he can only approach God by faith. He cannot approach God by human intellect and reason and understanding, is what God is explaining to Job there. And with the Holy Spirit Spirit is caused to be recorded in Scripture so that we would understand. Yes. Yeah, amazing. And so uh and even w we don't i it's not explicit, but it's certainly implied that uh Cain and Abel also had some sort of conversation with God. I mean it it's pretty clear that Cain, that God came to Cain and talked to him. Uh uh the warning about sin crouching at his door that's a conversation between God and Cain. What a wonderful thing that must have been. Yeah, I mean Cain totally blew it. Uh but but and even after the sin God came to Cain and talked to him face to face, Where where's your brother? Um and so yeah, that's uh there's some uh i it um sometimes we gloss over that when we read it in the Old Testament, but um that's a that's a a weighty thing to s to just uh pause and think about. That they that e even before Enoch there were people that actually had these face to face conversa face to face, I I don't know about face to face, but they had actual conversations with God where he sp spoke of the Yeah. Uh and of course what what do we have instead of that? We have the Holy Spirit, one, and we have the full revelation of God in Scripture, which they did not have. Right? Th these early generations they did not have the revelation of God in Scripture and so they got other kinds of revelation. Um God or something like God because his face broke it and he had to put the veil over it. Mm-hmm. Yeah, so Moses later on, we'll talk about Moses. Um he had a very close relationship with God. Um where he where God said, with others I speak in well I speak in in dreams and visions, but with Moses I speak m face to face as a friend. Uh that's a amazing thing as well. Yeah. That sure is. And and so and that does highlight the one of the primary differences between uh their God Allah And and our God Yahweh. Um yeah, they they would never b dream of approaching Yahweh in a personal way. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Uh good. Any other questions or comments? Sorry, Grace. Go ahead. I'm just going to ask him if she is here in reference to I am. Um know that he is. Uh probably. Uh probably a Probably a play on words. Uh the the uh the author of uh the book of Hebrews is well known among Greek scholars to be very sophisticated writer of Greek and so that's the kind of thing we would suspect that that author would would do. Yeah. Yeah. And any others? Yes, Doug? uh we went through a series a little while back and led that series with important thing about God is one of the most important is the most important as a quote from A. W. Tozer, uh what we think about God is the most important thing about us. Yeah. Yep. Very good. Yes. Yes. Uh no fact problem. Um God also displayed his grace even at the painfall. Um, like you said, if you do well, will not your account needs to be lifted up? His God wants to get displaying his grace. Yeah, and and yeah, there's grace all along. Uh Cain Yeah, f French Well he didn't kill him. Right. He he could have just struck him dead, but he didn't strike him dead. He left him alive. Uh and yes, put the mark on him so that nobody else could kill him. He did have uh compassion for um even for sinners. And so we see that as part of God's character, that that he um i even even before even while while we were sinners, he loved us enough to send Christ to his death, for example. Okay. So God does give much evidence for his existence, but it's not the kind of evidence that people are generally looking for. Uh he cannot be proved by science, for example. At best science scientific evidence is circumstantial. A man named Paul Little wrote, uh but it can be said with equal emphasis that you can't prove Napoleon Napoleon by scientific method, either. So I've often used this with uh unbelievers. Um yeah, come up with a scientific experiment that proves the existence of Napoleon Bonaparte. Go into the lab, design experiment, and prove the existence of no you can't do it. Uh you know, prove that there was such a thing as the Roman Empire with a scientific experiment. You can't do it. Uh where do we n how do we know about those things? How do we know there was a Napoleon Bonaparte the things that he did. Through the legal methods. So through eyewitness accounts. Brumbooks, we have books written by people who live during the time of Napoleon who wrote down the things that he did and the things they saw him do. And then we have others since who have written about him based on those primary sources. But eventually it goes back to the primary sources, eyewitness accounts. So how do we know about God? How do we know about Jesus? We know from the historical record, from eyewitness accounts, it's exactly the same way that we know that Napoleon existed and we know there was such a thing as a Roman Empire. Yes. And he said, uh, why do I believe that believers on trust authority? Don't be scared by the word authority. Believing things on authority only means believing them because you've been told them by someone who thinks trustworthy. Ninety nine percent the things you believe are believed on authority. I believe there are such a place in New York. I've not seen it myself. I do not prove by abstract reasoning that there must be such a place. I believe it because the libel people told themselves. None of us have seen the Norman conquest with a Man is giant authority and other things Yeah. So C. S. Lewis of course says it better than I can say it, but the the point is that they're uh that doing a l experiment in the laboratory is not the only way to know things and in fact most of the things that we know did not come from a laboratory experiment. It came because somebody told us and we trusted what they told and um and that's how we know most things as as C Including the fact that Napoleon existed and that there was such a thing as the as the Roman Empire, for example. Um and it's by the same method that we know about Jesus and his life and his death and how we know about God and the creation of the universe. It's recorded by an eyewitness account. The Holy Spirit was an eyewitness to the creation and then wrote it down. It had uh inspired uh human authors to write it down. Okay. So um the point is that we cannot apply the scientific method to everything. It does not work in many cases. Uh you cannot put love or justice or anger into a test tube. Uh but no sensible person doubts their existence. Uh by the same reasoning God's existence should not be doubted merely because it cannot be scientifically proven. Yet many things learned from science do give evidence of his existence, that he is, as the author of Hebrews put it here. Uh the law of cause and effect, for example, holds that every cause, for every cause there must be an effect. If we keep pushing further and further back, uh Causes, eventually you'll end up with an uncaused cause. The only uncaused cause is God. This is the argument used previously by the writer of Hebrews in chapter 3, verse 4: for every house is built by someone But the builder of all things is God. If you go far enough back, there was a God who made the uh the substance of everything in order for people to start building houses. Um and in logic and in philosophy that's called the cosmological argument. argument, or the Kalam cosmological argument, that there had to be a first cause. Um that's the logical argument called the cosmological argument. Uh according to the second law of therm dynamics, the uh universe is running down Um that uh everything tends to disorder in a closed system. And if you make your closed system the entire universe well the entire universe is running down Um, it's going towards disorder. So who wound it up and gave it order in the first place for it to start having disorder? Uh there had to be a cause of that. Um if it's running down then it's not self-sustaining. If it's not self-sustaining, then it had to have a beginning. If it had a beginning, someone had to begin it And we are back to the uncaused cause, the cosmological argument. There must be a first cause for which only God qualifies. Now is this a proof of the existence of God? No, it's exist it's uh evidence of the existence of God. The proof of the existence of God is his word. This is just kind of corroborating evidence. The law of design also indicates that God is. The fact that things have the appearance of design. When we look at plants and animals, all their marv marvelous intricacy, if we look at the cell underneath the living cell under a microscope, we see thousands of amazingly complex designs that not only function beautifully together, but also reproduce themselves perfectly. reproducing little machines in these uh in these cells. Uh when and then on a macro scale, so that's a microscale, macroscale we look up at the stars, the planets, asteroids, comets, meteors, constellations, galaxies, And we see them kept precisely in their courses by gravitational forces. So when we look at that, um the the heavens declare the work of his hands such massive, marvelous complex From the microscopic all the way to the macroscopic, we see design uh in the universe. And that demands the existence of a designer. This is called the, in philosophy, called the teleological argument. that if if we see something that's designed, we we automatically our mind automatically understands that somebody had to design it. And so if you go to uh Mount Rushmore And you look at the president's faces on there. No one looks at those presidents' faces and says, Wow, what a wonder wonder marvelous job the wind and erosion did in making Nobody thinks that. understands from looking at that that somebody designed that and did it on purpose. How do we know that? How does the human n mind knows that? Well, there's a whole study of how the human mind knows that something is designed. Uh but we can see that uh that's an obvious example, but we can see the same sort of evidences that somebody deliberately designed the living cell, for example, by the same exact reasoning process. Now, does that prove the God of the Bible? No, it does not. It's evidence for the existence, it's corroborating evidence for the existence of the God of the Bible. Uh the teal teleological argument. Okay. Uh like science, reason cannot prove God, but also like science, it gives a great deal of evidence for him. Human beings are personal, conscious, rational, creative. Where did that come from? Uh it's inconceivable that could have been some sort of an accident, uh that all of a sudden just sprang up consciousness, for example. Um that that our creator could be anything less than personal, conscious, rational, and creative. Uh we you don't get those sort of things from um uh chance. Uh to believe that personal thinking, decision making people somehow could have developed from slime to amoeba and on up the evolutionary chain, it does not make intuitive sense. The idea of goo to UV of the zoo, the idea of microbes to microbiologist doesn't make intuitive sense. Does it prove the existence of God? No, it does not. It's corroborating evidence. Studies by anthropologists show that people are universally God-conscious Uh sometimes uh people will say we have a God-shaped whole. Uh this does not mean that there is no one who does not believe in some sort of God, much less than one true God, but that people in general do tend toward belief in deity. Where did that come from? The very idea that God lends substance uh idea of God lends substance to the fact that He is. The fact that a man can conceive of God suggests that someone has given the possibility of such conception and that there is someone who Corresponds to this conception. This in philosophy is called the ontological argument for the existence of God. Once again, not a proof, but corroborating evidence that He is. But with all the Natural, scientific, and rational evidences of God, cosmological, theological, ontological, acknowledging Him is still a matter of faith Right? You can't human reason your way to faith, to saving faith in the one true God. All of these evidences are um they're n they're nice. They're nice to have. with somebody who's who doesn't have faith in the one true God to give all these corroborating evidences is nice to plant doubt in his atheistic mind But to come to a saving faith in the it's saving knowledge of the one true God is a matter of faith, not of human reasoning. Y y I'm not gonna sit down and logically prove somebody into the kingdom. See you see the distinction there? It's nice to have these arguments that that are corroborating evidence for the God of the Bible. But it's not enough. It's not going to get somebody over the finish line to true saving faith. See that? So apologetics is useful. But it's only just one tool and it's not the most important tool in the end. In the end. Okay. Uh any questions about any of those uh philosophical arguments? Yeah. Messer up questions and the gospel and the law and then you can get into a rabbit hole with apologetics and and never get to the gospel. That's a danger. Um uh apologic You're putting a rock in their shoe to to bother them. So they so they're not just they're not just blithely and comfortably walking off the cliff into hell Right? Put a rock in their shoe. Make make 'em think. Um but you can't reason and argue them into the kingdom. It's only by faith, yeah. Yeah, I mean that's that's a good voice, you know, can't argue someone or reason someone in in medicine. At the same time faith is good. As Hebrews eleven says about faith has to be a certain thing, so it's what you can make. It's not blind faith. It's not it's not ignorant. Yeah, and so uh knocking down strongholds is good. So uh people have these uh they build up these strongholds of a of of disbelief and in some cases some of these arguments can knock down some of the edifice of unbelief that that they've built up, some of the reason the excuses they give themselves for unbelief. You you can knock some of the down and and that's a a way to to to strip a person down of false beliefs first uh to open the door, open the way, or pave the way for the Holy Spirit to present uh uh to change the heart of the person so that they can come to true saving faith. So yeah, and so the Holy Spirit uses means and And so uh giving people these arguments can be a means that the Holy Spirit is using. We never know what uh when the Holy Spirit's gonna use us to uh in the f in the journey to saving faith. of a person that we encounter. And part of that could be these kind of apologetics arguments. So I think it's important to know them, to know these apologetics arguments, uh so that if somebody just smugly makes a statement Um that you can counter it and and make them think deeper. Uh yes. I think we've heard talking about you and stuff worth that word and use in particular context. But thank you and uh thank God for people who were brave enough to do that. And that's oh well what about evolution? I think I think alchemy Carl Sagan said so, right? Right. Um and the teaching in school said so and I said, doesn't that disprove the Bible? I I I honestly assume that I I could discard religion because I usually disprove the Bible. So my question I said, not that they didn't go into any of the details. They just said, no, that that thought and then we went ahead of that thought over the bridge so then I could actually ask other questions and not just assume all the Yeah. Yeah, so I think it's important to know those sort of things uh because the Holy Spirit could very well be using you and using that sort of thing to work on a person in their journey towards saving faith. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Uh so the the proof comes after belief in in essence. The one who believes in the Son of God has the witness in himself. First John five ten. Even the scientist receives proof after faith in many cases. Not the not the kind of saving faith we're talking about, but faith in his hypothesis. When a scientist develops a hypothesis, his faith becomes greater and greater as evidence for the hypothesis mounts. It is his commitment to the hypothesis, his faith in it, that eventually leads to proof. Right? He makes a hypothesis before he gets in the in the laboratory to make the experiments. And the experiments kind of confirm his faith in his hypothesis which he had before he had evidence. Uh the witness of the Holy Spirit in the hearts of believers is infinitely greater proof of God's existence than the conclusions of a laboratory experiment for the validity of scientific theory could ever be. So we have the witness in ourselves, the Holy Spirit in ourselves. Uh but faith comes first. Before that, right? Faith comes first and then you have that perfect witness inside you in the Holy Spirit. Faith first. Then the perfect witness. Okay. Um do I have time? I I'll do this really quickly. Uh There's w there's uh a whole bunch of uh so called proofs for God, which aren't really proofs, they're just kind of um corroborating evidence. There is one that really kind of almost gets into the area of the actual proof. And that's the transcendent transcendental argument Uh it's the argument that attempts to prove God's existence by arguing that logic, morals, science, and ultimately presuppose the theistic worldview, that uh that the laws of logic, for example, are an extension of God's character, and without the God of the Bible, you don't have the laws of logic And you don't have any means to argue or prove anything, that's the transcendental argument. It takes some deep thinking to wrap your mind around this argument. Once you've got it, it can be a powerful argument, but it takes you You really have to think through it. W we won't be able to I won't be able to really give you an understanding of the transcendental argument in ten minutes here in the class. But all deductive reasoning presupposes the laws of logic. Like the law of non contradiction. Uh that's one of the laws of logic. But you can't have a married bachelor, for example. Because a bachelor is somebody who's not married. And so you can't have a married uh bachelor, that's one of the laws of logic, the law of non contradiction. You can't have a square circle. Because a square is a thing with four corners and and four sides that are the same length and a circle doesn't have any sides or any corners. So you can't have a square circle. That's the law of non contradiction. And it's a universal law and it walks works in all all cultures and all societies and all ages and all times. And it's because the law of non-contradiction is an outworking of God's character. And so unless you have a God who has a character like that, where do the laws of logic come from? In the atheistic worldview, you can't have universal laws of logic. It doesn't make sense to have universal laws of and they will of course use them. The atheist might respond, well I can use the laws of logic, and I'm an atheist. But this argument is illogical. Logical reasoning requires the existence of a transcendent and immaterial God, not a profession of belief in Him. The laws of logic are not material. You can't measure out five meters of the laws of logic. They're an immaterial thing. Where did they come from in a material universe? Well, they come from the character of God, and if you don't believe in the character of God, where did they This is the transcendental argument for the existence of God. So there's it it takes you have to really think through this to see how possible. It is a powerful argument. So one common response is we can use laws of logic because they have been observed to work. Right, the laws of logic have worked in the past and therefore we believe that they work in the future. But this is to miss the point. All agree that laws of logic work, but they work because they are true. The real issue is how can the atheist account for absolute standards of reasoning like the laws of logic? Why does the material universe feel compelled to obey these immaterial laws Moreover, the appeal to the past to make such deductions concerning the way matter will behave in the future from the materialistic point of view is circular. Indeed, in the past, matter has conformed to un uniformity. But how can one know that uniformity will persist in the future unless one has already assumed that the future reflects the past i. e. uniformity. To use one's past experience as a premise upon which to build one's expectations for the future is to presuppose uniformity in logic Thus, when the atheist claims to believe there will be uniformity in the future, since there was uniformity in the past, he is trying to justify uniformity by presupposing uniformity. Which is to argue in a circle. This is the transcendental argument for God. And so you can read about it at uh this a great organization called gotquestions dot org. They they have all uh uh just about everything there is. about questions that one might have about Christianity in the Bible at this organization called Got Questions, and that's the website, gotquestions. org, and I took that those paragraphs from that That website. Okay. So God is. So that's a long detour into uh i this this fundamental belief that god is. It's one of the presuppositions of Christianity. God is and he's not silent. But but Enoch knew that God is. But it's not enough simply to believe that God exists. In order to please him, it is also necessary to believe that he is just and that he will reward faith in him. Why is that Why is it necessary to believe that? We must recognize that God as a personal, loving, gracious God to those who seek Him. Enoch believed this Within the revelation he had. So he didn't have scripture. He but he did have revelation. Um things that God had said. Uh he did not believe God was merely an impersonal cosmic force. He believed in and knew God. in a personal way. So for 300 years Enoch had fellowship with the one true God, whom he knew to be just, merciful, forgiving, caring, and personal. In other words, he drew near to God. This concept we've been talking about in Hebrews, he drew near to God. Uh it's not enough merely to believe in the right God Perhaps there were Jews to whom the letter of Hebrews was addressed who acknowledged the God of the Scriptures, but did not have true saving faith in him. Enoch knew the one true God and trusted him with saving faith, and therefore he He was able to draw near. For those who seek him, the reward that God gives for faith is salvation. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son Why? That whoever believes in him shall not perish, but have eternal life. That's the reward. And Enoch had faith, and his faith was not just that God is But that this reward that God had this reward in store for him of eternal life. So and that's requ and according to Hebrews chapter 11, that's necessary He who comes to God must believe that he is, and also that he is a rewarder of those who seek him. In other words, that he's promised these things and that he actually will fulfill His promises. So let's go back to Genesis chapter 5 again. And so the description in Genesis 5 of uh Enoch's Ending is uh then Enoch walked with God three hundred years after he became the father of Methuselah, and he had other sons and daughters, so he was living his life. He wasn't a hermit living in a monastery and chanting. He was living his life, having sons and daughters. So he had a wife, he had sons and daughters, he had a family life. But he was walking with God. He's had drawn near to God. And in fact He drew so near to God that Enoch walked with God and he was not, for God took him. But he just walked on up. So uh trusting fully in Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior is only the beginning of the faithful life in God. So you he's trusted unto salvation, but then what Then there is the walk. So to continue pleasing God, we must draw near and fellowship with Him. We must walk with Him just as Enoch did. Uh in the Genesis passage, five twenty four, uh twenty two to twenty four. four Enoch is twice described as walking with God. In the Septuagint, the Septuagint is a early Greek translation of the Hebrew Old Testament. This uh phrase, walking with God, is translated using the same Greek word. Yorasteo to be well pleasing, but he's used twice in Hebrews 11, 5 to 6, that that that Enoch pleased God. It's the same Greek word uh that translates this walked with God. So walking with God and pleasing God, that's the same Greek word. That concept here in uh Genesis chapter five and Hebrews chapter eleven of walking with God and pleasing with God. That's the exact same Greek word in those two places. Walking with God is pleasing God. The term walk, in fact, in the New Testament is uh to represent faithful living uh is peppered throughout the New Testament. Romans 6. 4, 2nd Corinthians 5. 7, Galatians 5. 16, Ephesians 5. 2, and Revelation chapter 3 as well, talking about our walk with him in eternity as well. So, like ye not, every believer should walk with God every day is on earth. When we get to heaven, we will Walk with him forever. That's what the Bible teaches us. So walking with God implies a surrendered will Jesus was very explicit about this in his earthly ministry, about the submission of his will to the Father. A surrendered will is a is a surrender of in love. Willing surrender is not abject submissiveness. But what might be described as a glad and free surrender. Second John 6, and this is love that we walk according to his commandments. Enoch walked with God three hundred years. No wonder the Lord went for a walk with them one day and just took them right on up to heaven. The New Testament refers to this sort of living as walking in the Spirit. We are to live continually in the Spirit's presence, powered. direction and teaching. That's the application to us today. The fruit of this walk in the spirit are love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. Galatians five, twenty two and twenty three. Uh walking in the spirit. That's the description of what uh Enoch was doing there in the in the Old Testament. Walking in the Spirit is allowing him to pervade your thoughts and guide your actions. Then the final place that we have a description of uh Enoch is in the book of Jude. And so if you turn to the book of Jude We have this description of Enoch as a prophet, a prophet prophesying or preaching. Jude, starting in verse 14, says, It was also about these men that Judah described. described earlier uh in in the letter, uh these false teachers coming into the church, it was also about these men that Enoch, in the seventh generation from Adam, prophesied, saying, Behold, the Lord came with many thousands of his holy ones. to execute judgment upon all and to convict all the ungodly of all their ungodly deeds, which they have done in an ungodly way W uh uh were they ungodly? Do you think they were ungodly? So it's pretty pretty clear they were ungodly. uh God brought a blood upon the world and we are gonna say and it used to be that the sun is much very easy to uh actually take him an example ashes let's go to the bottom. Yeah, so elaborating. Yeah, so if if you've never done a study of Second Peter and Jude, I recommend it. So they're very parallel. In fact, there are the exact same Greek phrases. a whole long Greek phrase, like whole sentences, are exactly duplicated in Second Peter and Jude. And almost to the point where uh it it seems that Jude wrote his letter first. Peter saw it and said, well, that's really good. I'm going to elaborate on that. And so 2 Peter is much longer than Jude. It's three chapters long. Um Jude's only like eighteen verses when it's only one chapter. Um and so it seem i the and so Peter took exact the whole sentence in Greek, the letter for letter, exactly Exactly the same from Jude is translated into Second Peter, including in places like that. Um and so it's worth a study of those two books. They they they're both addressing false teachers and ungodly ungodliness um in the church and they're worth a study. Um and and you should study them side by side Uh I wouldn't study one without the other. Study both 2 Peter and Jude together. Uh okay. Um so here we have this, but there's a quote in here Where does that quote come from? So that Enoch preached for God, we learn only in the book of Jude. We don't learn anything about his prophesying or preaching from Genesis or from Hebrews, only here in Jude. Even before the flood, Enoch prophesied that the Lord would Come to judge false teachers. By citing Enoch, Jude emphasized the motivation behind God's judgment on apostasy while also reinforcing the certainty of it. Even though this prophecy is not recorded in the Old Testament, the Holy Spirit inspired Jude to use it because it was familiar, historically valid, and supported his overall thesis. So it's not from the Old Testament. This this quote is not from the Old Testament. It's actually from the book of first Enoch, believe it or not. Yeah. Uh Jude took the quote from the pseudopigraphal book of first Enoch, so a non-canonical book, not from the Bible, but it's quoted from a book It's called First Enoch. The book was part of the written history and tradition of the Jewish people, and rabbinical allusions are common, so it was this book was commonly alluded to by the rabbis, even though it was not part of scripture, and so it was very familiar to the first century Jews. And so that's w uh so I don't know if it's existing in any other way except for quotes. There's lots of quotes from the Rabbin I'm not sure we have an actual copy of the book of First Enoch. Uh and of course it wasn't written by Enoch. It was written thousands of years after Enoch was translated, uh though not the author of the book. Enoch's message was passed down to through oral tradition and recorded in what was called this book of first Enoch, which was not part of the Old Testament canon. But since it was accurate, it was acceptable for Jude to use it to bolster his argument. The Holy Spirit knew That Enoch had actually prophesied these things. And so the Holy Spirit had Jude record them in a book that is part of the scriptures. Interestingly enough, Paul did the same thing on a couple of occasions, quoted something from Alzheimer's. side of of Scripture. Okay. And then that becomes recorded in Scripture. Something from the Book of First Enoch is actually there in Scripture now. Um this prophecy that that uh Enoch made. Okay. We have no hint as to how effective Enoch's preaching or prophesying was, but his purpose was to be faithful, not effective. That's the case with all prophecies. The prophet says, Thus saith the Lord, and uh whether anybody believes or accepts or acts on his prophecy is is not his primary concern. His primary concern is to be faithful to what the Lord has told him to prophesy. Uh so Enoch did what God required One thing is certain, because of his faithful preaching and faithful living, no one who heard Enoch or lived around him had any excuse for not believing in God. Here was a great witness for the Lord. Would you not know if Enoch is not a good idea? Enoch had the fellowship of other believers, but he battled against his own generation in the same way that Noah would later battle against his. He let them know they were ungodly. Ungodly, ungodly, ungodly, in that uh little quote there uh of Enoch's prophecy. And he let them know that God was going to judge them. God was pleased with Enoch because his faith was not just something he felt in his heart. Enoch talked the talk and walked the walk. His faith was active and dynamic, vocal, and fearless. At last, after three hundred years of believing and walking and preaching, he went to be with the Lord in a woman. wonderful and unique way. God just took him up without his experiencing death. He pleased God so much that God just reached down and lifted him up to heaven. One moment he was there, and the next moment he was not, for God took him. Genesis 5. 24. Enoch walked so closely with God for so long that he just walked into heaven, as it were. Just strolled right in. We do not know why God waited three hundred years before taking Enoch to be with himself. Maybe it was to allow sufficient time for him to preach and witness to his generation Yeah. That was just I don't know. Absolutely. Mm-hmm. Yeah, it could very well be and that the that family tradition of faith made it well m made it all the way down to Noah. Um that could very well be that th there was took some time to uh to solidify that into the life of his descendants. Um and we don't know of course why he decided to take him up in such an unusual way. Uh perhaps it was because God wanted to be even closer with one who pleased him so much. Psalm one sixteen, fifteen, precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his godly ones. God loves his saints and he loves the fellowship of his saints. Enoch was so precious to the Lord that he bypassed physical death for this remarkable Saint. So the story of Enoch provides a picture of how believers will be taken directly into heaven when our Lord returns for his bride, the church. Just as Enoch was translated to heaven without seeing death, so also will be those of God's people who are alive at the rapture. First Thessalonians 4 17, then we who are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and thus we shall always be with the Lord. That was Enoch Experience and that'll be the experience of those who are um followers of Christ at the time of the rapture. Okay. Any questions about any of those things? Yes. that that anyone who uh comes to God must first believe that he is it reminds me of something that's on character with us as a mathematical term of being Necessary but insufficient. Yeah. Necessary but not sufficient. Necessary that you must believe it he is. But uh it's insufficient and then it doesn't it doesn't say. Right. Yep, that's true. That's wrong. I can also imagine that Well may not uh wife and kids thought he didn't come. Just disappeared. Just just disappeared, yep. Also he died at a young age, man. Yeah, she put to the whole rest of them living at nine hundred and he was he was gone at three hundred and something. Yeah, the yeah, the the s the spry young age of three sixty-five. All right, let me close us in prayer. Do you have