Okay, we're on uh part thirty-three uh of a thirty-nine-part uh series in the book of Hebrews. And um if if any of you remembered or looked at the original schedule that I made for this class, I actually made a transcription error for my larger uh thirty nine part syllabus. And I originally when I did the syllabus for this quarter I left out these verses. Uh I don't know if anybody noticed that. I I changed it and it's it's It's correct in the uh what's posted in Hope Book now, but um I I did I made a s mistake in the original schedule that I that I posted at the beginning of this class and I left out these verses. But we're not gonna leave out these verses. So we're going to talk about uh chapter eleven, verses thirty to forty today. So uh I thought I would include a few photos. Um so the week before last um uh on uh the week before that I was at my niece's wedding and so this is just a few photos from my niece's wedding. The the photo uh the photographer posted uh all the photos online now and so I just put a few of them on there of uh Alex and Kinoko and I and also uh one photo with uh my mother and my brothers and sisters uh up there in the corner. That's my siblings, uh my mother next to me and then and my brother Dan on my right and then on my mother's other side is my brother Scott and my brother Greg and my sister Heather on the on the end them my family. So, uh today that's what I was doing a few weeks ago, uh at my niece's wedding. Today we're going to talk about the courage of faith. We're going to talk about how faith conquers struggles and some examples of that from the Old Testament, how faith continues in suffering. uh and how faith counts not coots but counts on salvation uh but first we're gonna take a look back at what we did last week so last week we talked about the faith of Moses and uh about the decisions of faith and of course we started with actually Moses's parents. Uh the beginning of that passage talks about the faith of Moses' parents actually. Um and so we talked about the story of how the Pharaoh was trying to kill the uh the the all the Hebrew boys and of course the midwives intervened, but Moses' parents in particular intervened by hiding them and then putting him in a a little basket, a Tava, a little ark, and putting him in the Nile 'cause they were not afraid of the king's edict. Um and then Moses himself then was raised in the Egyptian word as a prince of Egypt. Um and he was educated in the Egyptian the best education that could be uh could be had in the Egyptian court in those days. But then when he was forty he had a a choice to make. He could either stay in this uh as an Egyptian royal, or he could join the slaves. Um and by faith Moses refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, and he joined with God's people instead putting aside all of that um uh all that wealth and power that he would have had as a prince of Egypt. So we talked about sin and the fact that uh this passage points out that sin is passing. It's always passing passing. Uh it can have temporary pleasures, um, there can be uh temporary uh it can seem to to be enjoyable, but then it's always passing and it's always got consequences. Uh we talked about the fact that the Bible, over and over again, um it reveals this attitude that we sometimes have, that people of God have always had, of uh expressed by Jeremiah in chapter 12, verse 1, why has the way of the wicked prospered? Prospered. Why are all those who deal in treachery at ease? And sometimes it can seem that way, e even to this day. But as we see at the end of the story Um the Bible reveals what's going to happen uh at the end is those who are outside of Christ will be tossed into the lake of fire. Uh those who are um, saved by faith in Christ will be with him in glory forever. Um and so that's the the final um judgment, the final um th the final separation of uh of the good and the and the evil, and so knowing that we can have patience with God's perfect plan. So Moses made this choice, uh this choice of faith to forego Egypt and join God's people in obedience to God. So, um he reached the conclusion, it was well founded conclusion, because he was uh he understood that um the the the reproach of Christ was greater riches. That that even greater than all these riches he had experienced as a prince of Egypt was uh the riches of Christ. Um it's interesting we talked about this fact that of course he Hebrews talks about Moses uh considering the reproach of Christ, even though Christ was born fifteen hundred years after Moses. Uh that Moses identified with the Messiah's people and purpose long before Christ came to earth, and uh we see that with all the Old Testament saints. Their faith is in God's plan to provide a Savior. Jesus specifically tells us in John chapter 8 that Abraham saw Jesus Day and rejoiced. And Moses was as uh was similar here. So he left Egypt. He left Egypt twice. He went left Egypt once when he was forty and once when he was eighty. And And the first time they were after him because he had killed the slave master, and the second time, although the Pharaoh let him go, he chased after him with his whole army. But Moses did not fear the wrath of the king. He had faith in God and God's purposes for his people, and so he did not fear the wrath of the of the king. Uh fear did not work on Moses because he was seeing him who is unseen. Um he he saw God, he saw God's purposes and plans, God's calling, and because he saw that He didn't fear what every everybody could see this gigantic army of Egypt with chariots, but Moses could see God. Then they had the Passover as they were coming. out and this passage mentions the Passover and of course they did not understand all the symbol of the Passover that we can see looking back after the cross we can see, hey, the Passover is a foreshadowing of Christ's death on the cross. They didn't know that, but they had been commanded to do What in human terms seems a little bit silly. Sprinkle blood on the doorposts? What what what what's the what what possible power could that have? But God had commanded it They obeyed and their obedience and faith did have power supplied by God to save them from the angel of death. So, um when they got to the Red Sea, of course, they had to have faith to step off, uh as there were walls of water on both sides of them. They had to have faith to step through that, but God was not gonna let them drown And then, of course, when the Egyptians tried to go in, God did drown them with the Red Sea. This was a test of faith for the people. They trusted God and his promises. Any questions about what we talked about with Moses? Moses, really Moses' parents and then the faith of Moses and a little bit of the faith of the people when Moses told them to step into the Red Sea. Go ahead. Yeah, it's baffling that this man who did not have any weaponry or an army. would would dare to step into the court of maybe you could say um Putin and really not um maybe be afraid of his life that he was just gonna be taken out on day one to a court. Yeah. Quite remarkable. He stood right in front of the most powerful man in the world. and told him things that he did not want to hear over and over and over again, seemingly without fear And and it's the scripture here tells us that he did not fear the wrath of Pharaoh. Yeah. Um on YouTube Joel Kramer has a video out on Exodus Pharaoh, the tumor of Exodus Pharaoh. And They they have the the mommy of of the Sarah and the his son is also uh buried in the same tomb, which Which wouldn't have been the case if if the sun had died after the Pharaoh. So they know that the sun was died before God from the plague, uh death angel. But the Pharaoh's body had these stars and thing oils on skin from one break that's just free. Wow. Yeah, so um It it's interesting how much archaeology digs out of the ground and it confirms what the Bible says in in details um in many, many different ways. Um yeah. Yes, Richard. He did, like uh so the court uh the the the place he was going to see the pharaoh, the the audience chamber or whatever, would have been familiar to him. That's true. Uh he did have some advantages in that way and he was he was raised in his household, he spoke the language fluently from his childhood he um he was familiar with the settings of the palace. Yet he was a man, so he didn't fear to go there. Yes he feared to speak. told God, No, no, I stutter, I can't, I don't speak well. Yes. Yeah, he he he was a he did e exhibit some fear of the commission that God was giving him when God was conversing with him in the in the burning bush He exhibited signs of being afraid to uh accept God's commission to go and do what he was gonna do. But once he did accept it, once he got into this face off with the Pharaoh. And here in Hebrews we see he did not fear the wrath of Pharaoh. Yep. So his faith grew. He he grew along this whole long way. God was molding him all this time until he was ready to to be useful. Yes. I would think that um I guess he had to force a little accept What God was asking God gave him what he needed to do it. Right, he did. So and and then uh as happens with all followers of Christ, we we grow in grace, we grow in conformity to the likeness of Christ, and we grow in trust with with of God when uh we life events go go by and we gain experience of God's faithfulness. That happens I think with all with all followers of Christ. Yes. But most of the also had confidence because God had already told them exactly that Pharaoh was on the hard side and God was on the hard side as well. But also went in with that confidence. That's right. He he went in with that confidence and and the confidence grew as his interactions with Pharaoh continued along and he saw God was absolutely in control. And the great part controlled Pharaoh consequences. Right. Yeah, so uh God through Moses gave Pharaoh opportunity. To repent and change his ways. Okay, uh, let's get on to this passage that we're going to look at today. It's uh Hebrews chapter 11, verse 30 to 40. And it's kind of a summing up in a litany of of others uh very s very briefly of some other examples of faith. We've done a whole bunch of individual people that we've looked at from Abel uh all the way up to Moses and now there's gonna be kind of a roll call in these last few verses. So if you'll open your Bibles to Hebrews 11, chapter 11, verse 30, or Tune Your Devices Uh let's read along here. Uh Hebrews eleven, uh, verse thirty. By faith the walls of Jericho fell down after they had been encircled for seven days. By faith, Rahab the harlot Did not perish along with those who were disobedient after she had welcomed the spies in peace. And what more shall I say? For time will fail me if I tell of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, of David and Samuel and the prophets, who by faith conquered kingdoms, performed acts of righteousness, obtained Promises, shut the mouths of lions, quenched the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, from weakness were made strong, became mighty in war put foreign armies to flight. Women received back their dead by resurrection, and others were tortured, not accepting their release, so that they might obtain a better resurrection. And others experienced mockings and scourgings, yes, also chains and imprisonment. They were stoned, they were sawn in two They were tempted, they were put to death with the sword, they went about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, ill-treated, men of whom the world was not worthy Wandering in deserts and mountains and caves and holes in the ground. And all these, having gained approval through their faith, did not receive what was promised, because God had provided something better for us, so that apart from us they would not be made Perfect. Okay, so let's take a look. Um I'll give you the usual few paragraphs from John MacArthur here at the beginning. So this is from John MacArthur's commentary, uh his introduction to this section of scripture. He says, faith is trusting completely in God's Word. It is unconditional confidence in what he says, strictly on the basis that he has said it. The fact is that we either trust what God says Or we are left to trust our own intellect, instincts, and attitudes. These are our only two options. Our own way is the way of unbelief. God's way is the way of faith. The faith illustrated in Hebrews eleven is that which takes the bare word of God and acts on it, risking all. It is faith that does not question or ask for signs or miraculous direction, looking for signs and wonders and explanations God sometimes gives explanations and reasons for his word, but he He is not obligated to give them, and faith does not require them. As Jesus said to Thomas, Blessed are they who did not see and yet believe, John 20, 29. Faith is therefore opposite from human nature, opposite from opposite from the world system. It often requires accepting from God that for which we can see no logic. or reason. Faith believes and obeys God because faith knows that God cannot lie, cannot make a mistake cannot do wrong, cannot be defeated, cannot be surpassed. A God like this can be trusted. In fact, with a God like this, it does not make sense to do anything else but trust and obey Him Unbelief, of course, is blind to this sort of God and therefore sees trust and obedience as foolish. It walks by sight. Faith then is based on a person's attitude toward God. As J. B. Phillips observes in his book, Your God is too small, if we have a tiny God, we should not trust him. Only the true God, the great, sovereign, loving, faithful, omniscient omniscient, omnipotent, and holy God of Scripture deserves trust. It is because the heroes of Hebrews 11 knew this God that they trusted him so completely. Perhaps the supreme mark of true faith is courage. It is not so hard to believe and follow God when things are going well. When most of the people around us are believers And when our faith costs little. Faith is proved when it faces disaster, trial, persecution, and ridicule, and still stands unwavering. Faith is the source of courage. We do not have great faith by having great courage. Courage, we have great courage when we have great faith. Certainly Moses demonstrated this courage in facing Pharaoh, but the writer chooses other models of the courage of faith. Bless John MacArthur to introduce this list of courageous, faithful people in the Old Testament. Okay. Uh so let's take a look. Verse by verse. We'll start with verse thirty. By faith the walls of Jericho fell down after they had been s encircled for seven days. So we don't have time to go back and read all the scriptures with that are uh But uh in summary, uh what happened when Um the the people of so Moses died, uh Joshua became the leader, replaced Moses as leader of the people as they crossed the Jordan, went into the land the promised land of Canaan, and the first big battle, the first big opposition. was Jericho. And how did they lay siege to Jericho? They laid siege to Jericho by m walking around it Sh blowing trumpets and shouting. Now that is not the normal way of siege warfare. Walking around blowing trumpets and shouting does not normally win Siege warfare. Um but that's what God told them to do, so that's what they did. Um God told 'em to do it, so they did it, even though it made no sense in human terms and in in uh as to be a battle strategy. It's a ridiculous battle strategy. Um so forty years passed between Verse twenty nine and verse thirty. So verse twenty nine is crossing the Red Sea. Uh verse thirty is the battle called the Battle of Jericho. So there's a forty year gap there. Um uh between the faith that that caused the uh people of Israel to to step into that uh dry land between walls of water. Uh and that was the last faithful act of any consequence exhibited by these people. They were unfaithful. Uh the trip to the wilderness of Sinai should have required uh less than th forty weeks. If they had gone the straight way it probably would have been less than forty days. Um uh because God judged the sin of the older generation and and c made them water for forty years so that they would die out Unbelief and grumbling discontent made them unworthy of entering the promised land, so none of them except Caleb and Joshua went in. Uh nothing in that forty years was worth mentioning in this chapter on faith. Right? So we're talking about all these heroes of the faith and there are none for four years and then they all die except Joshua and killed. Jericho is the first obstacle when they get to Canaan. Uh from the human perspective it seemed an impossible obstacle. High walls, uh thick walls that they could never uh batter down. They didn't have any s m big equipment to knock down these walls. They didn't have any training. They didn't have any experience in battle Uh it seemed like an impossible thing uh for this group of ex-slaves wandering around in the in the wilderness. Uh God would later use the army of Israel in in uh kind of more um standard battles uh to conquer land later. But his plan for Jericho was for the people to do nothing except d a few f symbolic acts. And what was the purpose? The purpose was to demonstrate for them as well as for the Canaanites, how powerful God is. That was the point o of this exercise with Jericho. Uh they could and and because of the way it was done, there was no possible way for the people to take credit. for for this. Walking around and blowing trumpets and shouting w wouldn't ordinarily knock down walls. God knocked down the walls. And it was obvious to the people that God had knocked down the walls. Uh so all God had Wanted from them was faith. That's all he required. I s I told tell you to do something, and in faith you obey what I told you to do. That's what he required of the people. And that's what the writer of Hebrews says here. By faith the walls of Jericho fell down. Um, if they had not obeyed God, the walls wouldn't have fallen down. He was testing their faith. They passed this test of faith and he knocked the walls down. Um so any any questions about that? the the the th the what happened in Jericho, yes Richard. What's interesting about the wall if we were thinking of technology five to feet from the wall on the outside, standing from and um and then the fact that it is in the wall. You lived in the walls and um and I'll I'll show you something else that was in the walls here in a minute and one of the reasons why God knocked the walls down. I guess that part of the wall did not fall. Yeah, obviously that didn't fall because there's yeah she Her and her family were in in her house and and it didn't fall. Yeah. So God made the whole wall fall down except for where Rahab was. Yes. It is. Yeah. Mm-hmm. Didn't he really have uh chariots and everything? What's that? Have the what? Chariots Chariots. Um I so modern armies at that time had chariots. Egypt had chariots and uh I assume other modern armies armies also had chariots. So I assume they had chariots. Uh but there was no kind of maneuver battle here. The walls just fell down the world. So there was if they had chariots there was no opportunity for them to use them. Well what I was thinking is there was the fact that they had to walk around the wall had they released the chariots they put it in. Well yes, so uh so what were the what were the residents of Jericho? What was the king of Jericho putting his faith in? He was putting his faith in his wall He had a big beautiful wall and that big beautiful wall was gonna protect him and um and that was where his faith was. I'm sure they were uh because walking around the walking around the walls wasn't What good was that gonna do? Yeah. Right. But it's no outward and it's grid like a brain. Right. Yes, I yeah, I I have heard that from from other people who have studied the actual site of Jericho, is that those walls all fell outward, ooh, which is very unusual, and provided a ramp for the people of Israel to go right in there and and take the city. Um yeah. Plus that shows they connected it. Right. Because if it were humans it would have fallen inward. Right or some people. Right. Or if it had crumbled for you know f or something it would have gone everywhere, not all all falling outward. Yeah. Yes. The other important thing to remember is that, you know, in when the spy went in, um uh Rahab and said, Hey, we remember what happened to the his Egyptian to the Egyptians when God opened the Red Sea. So forty years earlier that word had gotten out and around. And because of that they were kind of afraid of what God would do because they kinda had some faith in God as well. Yeah, not just kinda, they were uh the the Bible describes great fear among the people of Jericho. They were terrified of of God for what he had done. Yeah, yeah. Maybe they'll just pass by, something like that. Yeah. Yeah, that's a good point. Okay. So uh so Jericho, that's the first uh example. here in this past description. And continuing along with this exact the same story, drilling down on the faith of Rahab. So verse 31 says, By faith Rahab the harlot did not perish along with those who were disobedient. after she had welcomed the spies in peace. So how do we know Rahab had faith? Well first of all the book of Hebrews tells us here, uh but we we have other indications that she had faith. Um uh sh She did, yeah. Um she was an unlikely candidate for the Faith Hall of Fame, to say the least. Um first she was a prostitute Um and then of course she was a Gentile and she was actually an Amorit, uh a race that God had long before marked for destruction. All the way back in Genesis chapter fifteen, he had said he was going to destroy these Amorites. And this was one of this Rahab was one of them. So a very unlikely candidate for any faith hall of fame, uh, Rahab. But that's how God's grace works. Each and every one of us is an unlikely candidate for faith. His mercy is open to all who will receive it, and his grace has always been wider than Israel, even in Old Testament times. And we see that from this example. and and i i we'll we'll talk here in a minute but um the the lineage for the messiah includes Rahab. She is the mother of Boaz, who's the great great grandfather of King David. Um and of course uh Boaz's wife is Ruth and she is a a Moabite. And so all this this uh the genealogy of Jesus includes all kinds of people that are not descendants of Abraham, um n very unlikely people to be in if you wanted to have uh if you wanted to make a s a a brilliant sterling genealogy for your savior, it wouldn't have Rahab in there Um that's not what a uh a person that was inventing a religion would not put her in their savior's um genealogy. Um by the fact that they marched march around the walls for six days uh in the you know before the wall fell. Um because I think God was giving the people in Cherough a chance to repent other than recent but uh we see that they didn't but um I think it still shows God's grace that he didn't do it immediately. He he kinda put the fear of the Lord in their heart prior and then he gave them time to repent, you know, almost days but to repent. So there's two main purposes for that six, seven day uh period. One is to give a chance to repent. The other is to make a uh a real test of the faith of the people because uh What do you think would go through your mind if God tells you, okay, I'm gonna uh all you have to do is is do what I say and you'll be able to take the city? And so the first day they walk around And what happens? Nothing. Absolutely nothing happens when they walk around that first day. And then they walk around a second day and what happens? Nothing. And a third day and a fourth day and a fifth day and a sixth day, they're doing what God said to do. and nothing is happening. God promised Abraham a son and nothing happened. So God tests people's faith by making them wait, by by by having them um follow him and have to be patient for his um delivery, his fulfillment of his purposes. Uh it happens over and over and over again in the Bible. So there's I think there's two two main purposes for that a big period of time occurred uh to have the walls fall down. Uh yes. Uh her even though her came I think that it reflected her because the violence of co-work for it. Yeah. Uh although she she flagrantly disobeyed the king. Uh the king t told everybody to report if they saw these Israelites and she flagrantly disobeyed her king. Uh so this is a very interesting case study when we read Romans 13 about obeying government. And we have examples from the Bible of uh people being given an order. Now it's very clear if the if the I if the king orders you to do something that's in and of itself sinful, like telling the midwives to murder babies, and they don't do that, that's a really easy, straightforward case. But but what was sinful about just reporting enemy combatants coming in to the king into the city in and of itself. Yes. That's related to where I was especially just because uh Rahab and the midwites are two some of the most notable cases of people lying with we all know you're not supposed to lie but they lie and that's they're commended for it. Yeah. Yes. At the very least they're not criticized for what they have it in the Hall of Faith. Yes. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, so it is very interesting. Um Yes. Yeah, and and so uh and we we we understand uh she had faith while all the other inhabitants of Jericho were Disobedient. That's how the scripture describes it here. They wanted to kill the Israelite spies, but Rahab welcomed the spies in peace. For her faith, Rahab and her family were spared. For their disbelief, all the others of the city were destroyed. The Canaanites, we know some from scripture, we know some from extra-biblical sources, that they were uh they were noted for gross immorality and general cruelty. For example, they put live babies in jars and built them into their city walls as sacrifices to their gods to s to so that their gods would strengthen the walls. And so this was a uh known custom of the Canaanites. And so um I I think this is another reason why God would tear down those walls. Um a very specific reason that we see in the plagues of Egypt that each of the plagues of Egypt is is actually laser focused on one of the gods of Egypt to show that those gods had no power, that the d one true god had power over these things like the Nile and the Frogs and Locusts and things like that. Uh but the same thing with these walls. The the Canaanites were are n were known to have put live babies into jars and put them into the walls as sacrifices. Um Yes. Yeah, so they knew something about God in his way. And and so um this was the the discussion from before, that they had heard what God had done, that there was some God that could part the Red Sea and could do all these miraculous things and and that this God was the God of these people. people. They they had heard that, they knew that. Um Rahab confirms it in her discussion with the spies. Um and so they had enough information uh to worship this god, that they should have worshipped this god. Instead they didn't. They tried to kill his people. Um so yes, and that's what Romans one is uh is about, uh in a in a different kind of way, but but God revealed himself somehow, such that these people knew who this God was and that this was his people that were coming. Yeah. And so the Hebrews describes them as disobedient. Yeah. Yeah. Any others before we roll? Okay, so uh so the Canaanites were noticed, they they were tremendously evil people, tremendously evil. Um in the midst of this pagan unbelief, Rahab believed So uh this is a quote from Joshua chapter two verse eleven. And this is Rahab speaking, the Lord your God, He is God in heaven above and on earth beneath. That's a direct statement of faith. Direct statement of faith. Um and so Wahab had faith in the one true God. And she confessed that faith verbally to the spies that came to her. The Lord your God, he is God in heaven above and on earth beneath. Uh and so Rahab had faith and she's commended for that faith and she's um and she's honored for that faith in this hate faith hall of fame and by God inserting her into the line of the Messiah. Um she became an ancestor of Jesus. Uh her son Boaz is right there in uh Matthew chapter one in the um in the ancestry of uh the family line of Jesus. Um and so that's Rahab, uh a remarkable example of how God uses anyone. And God can call he can uh uh grant faith um unto repentance to anyone. Uh and then we have a uh little bit longer list and and we have this little uh um um author's little um inserts himself in there by saying and what more shall I say? What what more can I say? I've given you this whole list. Um time for time will fail me if I tell of Everybody who had faith in the old testament, Gideon and Barak and Samson and Jephthah, of David and Samuel and the prophets. I I think that we really know that this the book of Hebrews might be an oral sermon. So this gives credence to that, you know what more shall I say? I will say, you know, I have time and I'm preaching. If he's writing it That wouldn't matter to I think he would have the time to write it and he would say if I tell a giddy, if I write a giddy. Yeah, so there's a lot of little clues here in this book of Hebrews that the the author, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, intended for it to be like a sermon preached to to these people. Yep. Um and so he's g he doesn't have time to go through Every single example of faith in the Old Testament and he just rattles off yeah he rattles off a few uh a few examples here. Uh there's six specific men listed here in verse thirty-two, and they're not listed in chronological Order, interestingly enough. They were all rulers of one kind or another. They had authority, uh authority figures. Samuel was both a judge and a prophet. David was a king and a prophet, but none of the men is praised for his office. All are praised for what they accomplished by faith. Gideon's three hundred men were outfitted with what? Trumpets and jars, uh pitchers. Pictures with torches inside. And so this is an even more extreme example. At least there was a a big multitude of people marching around Jericho. This is just three hundred guys with with trumpets and pitchers of all things. Um and so with this tiny little force, uh of course if you remember the story of Gideon, he started out with a big army and God said that's too many and he whittled it down and whittled it down until it was only three hundred. And what was the purpose? The same purpose as at Jericho to show that this was not Gideon and his three hundred people that were doing this, it was God that was doing it. Um and they routed a massive army. Uh the the the scripture describes it as a gigantic army, a huge, huge army that they routed with three hundred people with trumpets and pitchers. Um and so it was obvious to everyone that it was God who did that and not Gideon and his three hundred people with torches and pitchers. The trumpets and pitchers. Um so um and then uh Barrick of course Deborah was the actual judge. Beric was the m kind of military commander, um and but the instructions were given to Deborah who gave them to Beric. Uh the instructions from the Lord were to assemble a force of only ten thousand men and only from two tribes, Nephthalai and Zebulun. Not from the whole people of Israel, not not get everybody, you know, all the able-bodied men, get them together, we're gonna have a big struggle. Well no, I only want 10,000 from two tribes. That was the instructions of the Lord, and they followed the instructions of the Lord. Barak believed God's promise of victory and was not troubled by the fact that the um kind of the glory all w went to others. Uh for example it was this woman jail who drove the tent pipe tent peg through Sisera's head, killing Sisera Um and of course uh he insisted, Barak insisted, that Deborah, the whoop the woman judge, go to battle with him. She was God's representative and he took her along with with him. Uh Baric was not concerned about Sisera's great power because he had God's power He was uh he was he was getting God's instructions uh through Deborah. Uh then we have the story of Samson. Uh he was a judge of Israel. Uh was given the special task of opposing the Philistines, who then ruled over Israel And of course there were Samson had all kinds of flaws. But one thing he never doubted was the the source of his power So he knew that his power came from God. And when his power was restored, it was restored by praying to God to restore his power. The one that he knew had given him the power in the first place, and taking the power away from him after that, the one who could give him the power back to fulfill his mission to uh oppose the Philistines was God. Um and so he's commended for his faith here. Um we we are inclined to judge Samson by his weaknesses, but God commends here for his faith. Um and so in spite of tremendous flaws uh that we read through when we read through that story of Samson we think, well how can he be such a knucklehead? Uh how can he fall for this thing with with Delilah. Um but in the end he had faith and he's commended for having faith here in the the Faith Hall of Fame. So But by the end, he God had had formed him into the instrument that he needed by the end By by the end. Yeah. Yes. Yeah, and so yeah, he's so he's an interesting one again to be included here in all the Hall of Fame. Any other questions about this one? I think it uh supports where God uh God he doesn't look at the outcome, he looks at a hot you say, he uh mostly Yes. Yeah. Yeah. And and so one once he had lost everything. His eyes had been gouged out. Right? He had not only lost his strength, but he was a slave with his eyes gouged out. Uh once he had hit rock bottom, obviously His faith was still there and his faith grew through that whole uh experience until he was really ready for to fulfill God's purposes. To give his life to fulfill the purpose that God had given uh at the very end. Yeah. Yep. Yep. Yes indeed. Yes. I've got a hot potato question. Okay. But when Baric uh said um to her, if you will go with me then I will go, but if you will not go with me, I will not go. Is that an example of godly discernment because he recognized who Deborah was, or was it a weakness of faith? So it could it could be a little bit of both, but but since he is commended here for i his actions and those are the actions that are recorded in Scripture, it seems to be that he knew that Deborah was the one who God was communicating through. And so I think that the primary thrust of what that says is he he wasn't gonna move without God and his uh i he uh and where it comes to be a little bit of a weakness of faith is he needed to have that physical representation that God was with him and that representation to him was Deborah. That's that's my sign, my physical sign that God is with me. If she's coming along and then I know God's coming with us and so therefore I'll go. So I think it's a little bit of both. Uh he he he's he's got the right general idea that he doesn't want to do anything unless God is with him. Um and h he he demonstrates some weakness in that he he needs to have a physical symbol that God is with him, even though he's already heard Whatever said that God said, go through this ten thousand people and go attack Sisera. Um so yeah, I I think it's a little bit of a little bit of both, I I would say. Yeah Yeah, uh so that's a good question and a sensitive one. Um so and it's also uh i we have to put ourselves into the uh position think about the position that God had put uh not just Samson but all the people of Israel in, um and that he he has commanded them to slaughter. He commanded his people to slaughter these Canaanites. In some cases, slaughter all the men, women, and children. That's really harsh and very difficult for us to wrap our minds around sometimes. That goes back to Abraham Absolutely and and we have some indication in the scripture and more indications from extra biblical archaeology that these Canaanites were extraordinarily wicked, extraordinarily evil. This just these all these little things and they did they practiced child sacrifice on a massive scale. They they put live babies into jars and put them into their walls. They were extremely evil, and God had judged them. And God used the people of Israel as an instrument of judgment. Um And we have to be very careful when we read things like that, um, because it's God who did the judging. And Israel carried out his commands in many cases to do that. And so what was Samson's primary purpose? It was to kill Philistines He was to kill Philistines and he and he is uh the the wrapping up of that whole story of Samson is he killed more Philistines in that last event than he had killed in all his life And that's portrayed as a good thing, that he killed lots and lots and lots of Philistines in it with his last breath. And why is that? Because God had judged the Philistines God who is the the only uh person who is um uh has the authority to r to truly judge human beings as the Creator. Our Creator has the authority to judge us. We don't have that authority. Once he judged them He commanded this people of Israel to carry out that judgment in many different ways and in many different circumstances. One of those ways was Samson. Um now the idea that Samson killed himself in in killing this uh Israelites, uh killing all these Philistines, um i I I have heard it um talked about what about well this is an a an kind of a celebration of suicide in in a certain case, in a certain sense. However, I I I don't really see it that way. It's um he had been given this purpose from God to Uh oppose uh and and actually kill these Philistines that he had judged. And he was like dying in battle. He he had been given this commission from the Lord, he was carrying it out, carrying out, carrying it out. carrying out and he died and finally in this final uh effort to carry it out. Was it just uh taking his own life? I don't believe so That's right. I don't believe so. I don't believe he was despairing. I believe he was in faith carrying out his purpose that God had given him, which was to oppose these Philistines and to oppose them by killing them. And so he did. Yeah. Yeah. But it's a good question and a good thing for us to struggle with. Um we should struggle through all these thinking through these things. Um we shouldn't shy away. We shouldn't pretend that God did not order um the the the slaughter of men, women and children in this land of Canaan. We shouldn't shy away from that. We should try to understand what was God's purpose is and the fact that God is not like us. That as the Creator, He has absolute authority over His creatures. He and only He. And we don't have that authority. And so Uh there's there's two extremes, there's two f um fallacies that we can fall into. One fallacy is thinking that we have that authority to judge people like that. And we don't. Um the other fallacy or extreme is to think that God does not have that authority. But he does have that authority. Uh absolutely. Right. And his judgment isn't based upon how he feels about any education or more people. He judges according. to his uh his will and and and his law. And it's and it's a common sense. Right. It's it's as he judged his will, he judged his will also. Right. So it's by his perfect standard and his perfect understanding and knowledge of each person he's judging. Yes. This thing point out the uh one standing you know, Silver Sultan and Philistines it's three thousand Philistines but includes all of their leaders and they're in the middle of offering sacrifices to a false god. So this is it's not all Yes, and fulfilling ultimately fulfilling God's purpose for his life. was from the the very beginning. Yes. Yep, absolutely. So yes, so we see this over and over and over again in scripture the the sinful behavior of sinful men is used for good purposes for God. And both things are true that God's purposes are good and that the people's behavior is bad and they're responsible for it. Both things are true, yeah. Um is saying, you know, let me die, so we see acting kind of parallel um each so they can just kind of mount and um then serve it now as a part of the beast saying I can die almost because I've seen it on the side. Oh yeah, when Jesus was a little baby, yes, yes. He has seen the death of Israel with an eye. Now this purpose is Yep. Yeah, so all all the all the events of Samson's life brought him to this point where He had the opportunity to kill all the s the Philistine leaders all at once and and right in the midst of their sacrifice to have the whole thing collapse, the the temple collapsed, the leaders all dead. Yeah. Mm-hmm. parallel with Thomas, because as much as as much as black as we give Thomas for being skeptical after the resurrection, when Jesus says, Let's go to Jerusalem four pastor, Thomas was the one who said, We will go up and we will die with you Yeah. So like she had a lot of patience. He did. Yeah, and and so um and and it the way the the interaction with Thomas goes, uh uh Jesus says here put your fingers in the holes in my hands and by my side. He doesn't do that. He he he immediately says My Lord and my God, yeah. Somebody did I see another hand? Yeah. This is all about faith and and that Samson had faith and I was just thinking, maybe Samson knew, oh I could die, but God could raise me from the dead or protect me just like when um Abraham was gonna kill his son, you know he well if I kill him God could raise him from the dead again So maybe that was part of Samson's faith. That faith that he either would not die or God could bring him back to figure out. Yeah. Um he he did say, let me die with the with the Philistines. But he could have had uh he could have um had the possibility in his mind that God could save him. Yeah Samson was on two statements in the Bible. One of the worst statements he had, and there was the best. And the first one was we did not know That is pretty and the second one was when he was brought to the college in and said oh and he was working there But his hair began to grow again. Yeah, yeah, very interesting. Yeah. And of course he understood that the hair was not really the source of his strength, it was God It was the source of his strength because he prayed for God to give him his strength back. Even after his hair had grown, he he needed to pray to God to give him his strength back. Okay. Uh Jephthah. Uh Jephthah actually came before Samson. He's listed after Samson. Samson here, but he was the judge before Samson. Uh his responsibility was to subdue the Ammonites, one of Israel's many enemies. Uh Jephthah's trust was in the Lord and his power was from the Lord and God honored Jephthah's faith. Uh David stands out as one of the great men of the Old Testament, although uh flawed and uh committed adultery and murder. Um but so like the other heroes of the faith, David was not perfect. Uh but God calls him a man after my heart who will do all my will He pleased God because of the courage of his faith to trust him and to do his will and to in some uh very stressful circumstances in his life. Samuel's foes were not external, really. They were idolatry and immorality among the people. His greatest opponents were frequently not the Philistines, the Amorites, or the Ammonites, but his own people. Uh it often takes more courage to stand up against our friends and family members than against our enemies. When it comes to a time where we have family members who are in sin or are unbelievers. It can be extremely difficult, extremely painful to confront those family members, friends co-workers. Uh in many cases it's more difficult to do that than to confront a stranger. And that was what Samuel faced. Yeah, he faced it with his two sons too and and the the way the Uh the way the scripture talks about that, it seems like Samuel was um He it was a failure of his. That's how it reads to me that he failed to confront his sons for their immoral behavior. King Eli had the same problem with Israel and try to correct that. Yeah, you would think. But yeah, it turns out that seems to have been a weakness of Samuel's. Uh and then we have this whole summing up of all the prophets. who are unnamed except for Samuel. Samuel's name specifically, but then s is Samuel and the prophets, so all of them. Courageously and confidently delivered God's word and faced whatever opposition that came. Now, some of the prophets were more uh uh courageous than others. Uh Jonah wasn't particularly courageous in running away when God told him to go to Nineveh. Of course he eventually did do what he was supposed to do. But all in all, the the prophet prophets were under a lot of stress and pressure as they delivered God's word and the human tendency to blame the messenger uh was real in the life of many of the of the prophets. Um And then we get a description of what happened what some of these people did. Um verse thirty three who by faith conquered kingdoms, performed acts of righteousness, obtained promises, shut the mouths of lions, quenched the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword. from the weakness were made strong. That's obviously Samson became mighty in war, put foreign armies to flight. So the exploits of the deeds that are listed here in thirty three and thirty-four are general and refer collectively to the people mentioned in verse thirty two. So the mouse of the lion, that's probably of uh Daniel, uh quench the power of fire, probably Shadrach, Meshach, and Abendigo. Uh the point of mentioning these works is to show that whether the need whatever the need was, there were various needs, political victory, uh h helping those in need, overcoming enemies, protection uh from war or weakness, winning in war. The power to accomplish all these things was always from God, and the power was always received by faith in him. It was by faith that all these things happened. So look at that the the the introduction to that whole list of things. By faith they did this whole list of things. Power was always from God, and it's always by faith. Uh and that's the really the point of of the the preacher here in Hebrews to his uh first century Jewish uh audience. Uh and then we get it continuing, uh women receive back their dead fruit by resurrection, and others were tortured, not accepting their release, so that they might obtain a better resurrection. So the women uh listed here, they suffered for a while, but the pain was alleviated when their Children were restored to life. Now, of course, God does not always work that way. He does not always resurrect our uh dead loved ones. Um many of the afflictions mentioned here in this series of verses from 35 to 38 were long-term, even lifetime afflictions that God did not take away. God gave power through faith to see some of his people through these problems, but not always to escape them entirely. Paul had a thorn in the flesh that he prayed for God to take away, and God said, My grace is sufficient for you. In other words, my grace will be for you to continue to serve me with this thorn in the flesh, not to take it away. And that's sometimes the way God does business with the the people that are that have faith in him. Sometimes affliction is escapable Sometimes it is not, in God's sovereign will. To the person of fa faith, no affliction is escapable that requires denial or compromise of God's Word. We don't want to escape that kind of affliction if the escape requires denying God or His word. And so we got examples of that with Daniel and with the Shadrach of Meshach and Abednego. They could have very easily escaped the consequences. All they had to do was deny God. And they weren't about to do that. Uh when suffering comes because of God's word and because of standing for him, God's people would rather be tortured not accepting their release in order that they might obtain a better resurrection. That's what the author of Hebrews is saying here. And so here is the pinnacle of faith, willingness to accept the worst that the world has to offer, torture and death. Because of trust in the best that God has to offer, resurrection, and all eternity with Him. So this is the point of faith here. Um we have a few more verses. Yeah we have we have time. And others experience and there's another list of things, bad things that they experienced. Others experienced mockings and scourgings, yes also chains and imprisonment. They were stoned, they were sawn into They were tempted, they were put to death with the sword, they went about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, ill treated. Some of God's people experienced um harsh uh condition Harsh suffering for the sake of God and his word. So Old Testament believers referenced here endured both mental and physical anguish, mockings and scourgings. Jeremiah, for example, was emotionally abused. Along with the physical abuse he suffered, he was called the weeping prophet, weeping not for himself, but for the people who rejected God. Uh he endured all sorts of pain for the sake of faithfully delivering God's word. Tradition which these first century Hebrews would have known well, it's not in the Bible, but uh but Hebrew tradition uh Jewish tradition holds that Isaiah was sawn in two That's the reference here. Isaiah is the one that in Jewish tradition was sawn in two. The people became so irritated at his powerful preaching that they cut him in half Like Abel, he continues to speak even in his death, the prophet Isaiah, even though he was sawn in two. The various kinds of suffering mentioned in these verses, like the conquests mentioned in the preceding verses, so the good and the bad. apply generally to the faithful saints. They are a summary of the many kinds of affliction God's people are called to endure for him. That's what the this preacher is saying to these first century Hebrews Remember your history. Go through this Old Testament. Faithful followers of God have been called to suffer for him all throughout your history, you you you Jews. Um and so don't be surprised if this comes your way. Uh Old Testament Saints courageously suffered for the Lord because of their faith. They trusted the Lord. Um and then we get this little uh interesting statement at the end of that whole list men of whom the world was not worthy wandering in deserts and mountains and caves and holes in the ground. The world is not worthy of having such people as in their midst, just as these people did not deserve the sufferings they received. For inflicting the suffering, the world will be judged and punished. For enduring the suffering, the faithful saints will be resurrected and rewarded. So that's the end of the story. Those who inflict the suffering will be judged and punished. Those who endured the suffering, resurrected and rewarded For example, Paul wrote, The sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that is to be revealed to us. Romans 8:18. And also, momentary light affliction is producing for us an eternal weight of glory. Second Corinthians four seventeen. As we look forward to an ahe an inheritance which is imperishable and undefiled and will not fade away reserved in heaven. 1 Peter 1 4. And so the scripture tells us what the end of the story is, what we have to look forward to. Um and so we have this hope as an anchor to our souls of what we're looking forward to. God does not promise his saints deliverance from all suffering in this world. In fact, Jesus told us that if they persecuted me, they will also persecute me. Persecute you, John fifteen twenty. Both Paul and Philippians chapter three and Peter in first Peter chapter four advise us to rejoice in sufferings for Christ's sake. That's tough. That's a tough teaching to to take, to rejoice in suffering for Christ's sake. But it's the uh the teaching that we get from the Bible. Victory in the end, always w uh with our eyes uh keeping our eyes fixed on the author and perfecter of our faith, the Lord Jesus Christ in heaven. Uh pleases. Yes, yes it is. and claiming health and wealth, prosperity, gospel is not what you get from reading the the whole council of scripture. It's not what you get. Okay. Um Let's try to land this plane with the last few uh verses. Uh and all these, this whole list of people, having gained approval through their faith, did not receive what was promised Interesting. Because God had provided something better for us, so that apart from us they would not be made perfect. So all these serves as a summary of the entire chapter, from Abel through the prophets, uh sent to the divided nation as the people were taken into captivity. All these, all these examples that you had from the whole history, uh from Abel all the way up to the prophets. The faith, uh, true faith has the courage to count on salvation. These faithful saints had to live in hope. They knew little of the nature of the world. or timing of God's salvation, but they knew it was coming. They had abiding confidence that one day God would redeem them and reward them. They did not receive what was promised, but they had gained approval through their faith. Their faith was in the ultimate fulfillment of God's promises. And the ultimate promise, of course, was a redeemer. the Messiah and of his covenant that would bring righteousness before God to his people. First Peter chapter one, uh ten and eleven. Go if you go through twelve it's even better. As to this salvation the prophets who prophesied of the grace that would come to you made careful search and inquiry, seeking to know what person or time the Spirit of Christ within them was indicating as he predicted the suffering. And so they searched, they wanted to know, but they didn't have the complete knowledge of what this uh salvation, what this Messiah was going to be like. Sometimes the faith saved them. From death, sometimes their faith brought them death. No matter. They knew that God had provided something better. And God has provided something better for us. That's what the author of Hebrew says. First century to those who are after the cross, right? He's he's writing this and it's being preached to a first century uh group of Christians that are after the cross. So for us, for the all of those who are after the cross, that first century audience all the way up to us. And uh under this new covenant, which is why apart from us they would not be made perfect. That is, not until our time, not until the time after the cross, the time of Christianity, could their salvation be completed and made perfect. Until Jesus atoning work on the cross was accomplished, no salvation was complete. No matter how great the faith a believer may have had, their salvation was based on what Christ would do. Ours is based on what Christ has done. Their faith looked forward to the promise of Christ. Ours looks back to the historical fact of Christ's sacrifice on the cross. That's what the that's the point of what the author of Hebrews is saying here. Yet though their salvation was not completed in the lifetimes these were not second rate believers. They were believers of the highest order. They courageously struggled, suffered, and counted on salvation. They provided an example for believers of all times for that first century congregation. All the way down to today. Okay. Um any questions or comments about any of this list of faithful people? Blessed by those who are yes at the way suffer from the land, I believe those both have to be safe. Or they can have to have the narrow suffer of the land. Yep. Yes they are. Okay. Any other comments, questions? Alright, let me close this with prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we