Okay, so here we are in part twenty three. Oh, I gotta make an announcement. So right here behind me, kind of hidden by by by me here, uh, is some information about uh a couple of events that are coming up the weekend of the twenty first, Friday the twenty first, and Saturday the twenty second. There is an international Um missions night on Friday the 21st, followed by an international dinner on Saturday the 22nd. And so 7 p. m. on the 21st, International Missions Night, 6 PM. six to eight thirty inner on Saturday night the international dinner and there's a QR code as long as I'm not standing in front of it that you can you can get with your phone to um register. for the dinner, register to host a table, register to make a dish for the international dinner. You can also uh it's there's also something about it in the Life at Hope newsletter that came out on Friday and will be in the next Friday too. There's a a l there's this QR code and also a link to be able to sign up for those things. Okay. Uh the other thing before we get started is Uh, February is Black History Month, and so I like to go through some African Americans that are followers of Christ, uh, that have uh remarkable stories And so I'll do uh one a week, I'll do uh one from the eighteenth century, one from the nineteenth century, one from the twentieth century, and one from the twenty first century. And so here's the eighteenth century one. Um, a lady named Phyllis Wheatley. Uh so I I think I've done this before. How many have heard of Phyllis Wheatley before? Maybe a little less than half. So uh Phyllis Wheat Wheatley was born sometime around seventeen fifty three. Uh She was the first African American author of a published book of poetry. She was born in Gambia in West Africa. She was kidnapped from her parents at the age of seven and sold into slavery. And brought to America. A Boston tailor named John Wheatley purchased her as a personal servant for his wife Susanna. Uh she displayed in ready intelligence and learned English very quickly and soon was reading and writing poetry, this little girl The Wheatleys were members of the famed Old South Meeting House in Boston, where Phyllis attended church with the family and was baptized at age 18. She achieved some renown with the publication in England of her poems on various subjects, religious and moral, in 1773. Though she had been examined by 18 of the most respectable characters in Boston to prove that she She, a black woman, had actually written these poems, no American publisher would publish her. Only with the help of evangelical philanthropist Selena, Countess of Huntingdon in England, did her poems come to the public's attention. As a result of her obvious gifts, her owners eventually gave her freedom. So, um the the picture here is of the copy of her poems that's in the Library of Congress. And the stamp from the Library of Congress there says 18 uh uh eighteen sixty seven. So in eighteen sixty seven a copy of her poems was put in the Library of Congress and here's an example of one of her poems. 'Twas Mercy Brought Me From My Pagan Land taught my benigned soul to understand that there's a God, that there's a Saviour too, once I redemption neither sought nor knew. So uh remarkable lady who overcame uh a very extreme circumstances, being kidnapped out of your home when you're seven and sold into slavery. Uh who does that remind of you of in the in the Bible? Joseph, kind of kidnapped and sold into slavery. Well it's a little little girl and it happened to Joseph when he was seventeen. Here's a little girl it happened to her when she was seven. Um Uh anyway, so Phyllis Wheatley, uh first African American to be published, uh have a book of poetry published. Uh um uh in the seventeen hundreds, seventeen seventy three. Okay, uh so back to our schedule of our class. So uh today's class, um part twenty three is Christ the perfect sacrifice. We're gonna start into chapter ten. So what we're going to learn today is about how Christ is the perfect sacrifice. First we'll start out with the failure of the old sacrifices, and then we'll get into the effectiveness of the new sacrifice, how it reflects God's eternal will, replaces the old sacrifices. system, sanctifies the believer, removes sin, destroys his enemies, perfects the saints forever, and fulfills the promise of a new covenant. All these things are the result of Christ's sacrifice. Uh but before that we'll look back at what we did last time. So uh last time we did the last part of chapter nine. And uh it starts out with for this reason, let's look back to the early part of chapter. Chapter 9 about Christ being the mediator of a new and better covenant. Of course, God's standard of righteousness and justice demands that souls that sin must die. Ezekiel 18, 4. We talked about last. Last time that Old Testament believers were saved on the same basis as believers are today and for all of time by the finished work of Christ. Um so part of the new covenant, as the author of Hebrews explained in our text last time, was the redemption of the transition. So it's very explicit here in Hebrews that uh the the Old Testament believers were saved by the finished work of Christ on the cross, the the basis of the new covenant. It was retroactive. back to those uh under the old covenant. Um we talked about the fact that uh this Passage of scripture last time was talking about a will or testament, and it requires the death of a testator, the one that made the will. It's not effective until the person dies Um and so in case the Jews were confused about how all this this newness and the new covenant applied to the old covenant um th the writer kind of goes through that. Uh he went through that in our in our text from last time. Um so then he went through some reasons for the death of Christ and um uh it the one of the reasons he gave was that um there was a uh blood was required um for forgiveness of sins. Blood is a symbol of death and uh it follows closely with the idea of the fact that uh the the attestator of the will had to die first. And there was um i a built up example in their um in their their knowledge as a people that blood was required to inaugurate a covenant. Moses had done that when he inaugurated the uh the old covenant. I sprinkled the people with blood, he sprinkled the the testament with blood, the the the Ten Commandments with blood, he sprinkled the tabernacle when they made that with blood. Uh every time there was an inauguration it required blood. And so they knew that. Th these people that uh these first century Hebrews that were receiving uh this this letter in the first place, they had this uh this corporate knowledge as a people of this this is how you do things. Um and so Jesus of course did the same thing when he and Inaugurated the new covenant. Matthew 26, Jesus said, This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for forgiveness of sins, and so it would have been familiar to the Jews that a covenant is inaugurated with blood and Jesus did the same thing with the the Lord's Supper. Um so he ratified the new covenant with his own blood then uh on the cross, uh just as Moses had ratified the old one with the blood of animals. And then we got this passage about how um an explanation from the author of Hebrews to these first century Hebrews that uh everything that they knew about the old tabernacle and the old sacrifice system was only a copy of the reality in heaven. The things of the old covenant were shadows of the of the real things. And that a better sacrifice had come. And uh then we um uh we we went to uh uh Philippians two to talk about how Well once Christ had made this sacrifice, that God was satisfied with it, and he got demonstrated satisfaction by raising him from the dead. But in Philippians 2 we see that God highly exalted him and that at the name of Jesus Jesus, every knee should bow, uh, those in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of the Father. Uh that's the the the firm idea that God has accepted this sacrifice of Christ. Um and of course after he finished the sacrifice, he went into the Holy of Holies, the real Holy of Holies, the one in heaven, of which the one in the tabernacle and the temple was only a copy. Um Um and so and then for uh human beings of course after death comes judgment, um and we're not able to pay the penalty for our sins. Um and so we need a substitute to pay it and God's judgment demands a payment. Christ made the payment. Um and God made him who knew no sin to be sinned on our behalf, that we might become the righteousness of God, Second Corinthians. five. And then there's the discussion at the end of this passage about when he comes back. When he comes back the second time, it's without reference to sin. So the second coming Jesus said it's finished on the cross, the penalty has been paid, the sacrifice has been made, and when he comes again there's no reference to sin, because sin has already been dealt with uh by the time he comes back in the second coming. Okay. Any questions about what we went through last time? Yes, Kurt. Rob, you you mentioned that in this chapter chapter that you just reviewed, that the old comment is referring And not sort of noadics or the different kind of work of this and the mosaic is I guess uh characterized by it's a it's a bilateral covenant of blessing and cur cursing and whereas the others are the other covenants that could be referring to but but not are those are unilateral covenants. So it's the old the uh the old covenant the new covenant is better than the old. Um that's a good point. There are a lot of covenant In the old in the Old Testament and the one he's referring to, uh and how do we know that this is the one he's referring to because of all the details. He's talking about the sacrificial system, making sacrifices and priests. And so which covenant does that have to do with? it's the Mosaic one. There there there's no series of sacrifice and priests and things like that detailed in the Noaiic Covenant or in the Davidic covenant, for example. So the because of the details we know that that's what the author means, the the Mosaic Covenant. Right. And the Mosaic Covenant did include the blessings and the cursings. It um um it did include that. But the details that he's really focused on are the the Leviticals sacrifices. How does a sinful person approach a holy God? And the old covenant way of a sinful person approaching a holy God was all those sacrifices, the high priest priest, the high priest on the Day of Atonement went into the Holy of Holies. That's how God had laid out in the old covenant how a sinful person can approach a holy God. Uh come into the presence of a holy God. And what he's what the Hebrews is saying is there's now there's a new way. There's a new covenant that allows sinful people to approach a holy God. It's by the sacrifice and blood of Christ. That's that's what the he the authors say, yeah. Yes, that's true, that's true. So he uh yes, uh there's many details in there that make sure his audience understands which covenant he's talking about. But it's a good point that there are many covenants in the Old Testament, but the one he's focused on, we know because of the details, is the Mosaic Covenant. Yep. Any other questions? or comments? Alright, let's dig into chapter 10. So if you'll open your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 10 or tune your devices to Hebrews chapter 10 We're going to read starting in verse 1 and we're going to go all the way to verse 18 today. Hopefully I'll be able to accomplish that. So uh Hebrews 10, uh chapter 10, starting in verse 1. For the law Since it is it it has only a shadow of the good things to come and not the very form of things, can never, by the same sacrifices which they offer continually year by year make perfect those who draw near. Otherwise, would they not have ceased to be offered, because the worshipers, having once been cleansed, would no longer have had consciousness of sins But in those sacrifices there is a reminder of sins year by year. For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. Therefore, when he comes into the world He says, Sacrifice an offering you have not desired, but a body you have prepared for me. In whole burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin you have taken no pleasure. Then I said, Behold, I have come. Come in the scroll of the book it is written of me to do your will, O God. After saying above, sacrifices and offerings and whole burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin you have not desired Nor have you taken pleasure in them, which are offered according to the law. Then he said, Behold, I have come to do your will. He takes away the first in order to establish the second. By this will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. Every priest stands daily ministering and offering, time after time, the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. But he, having offered one sacrifice for sins for all time, sat down at the right hand of God waiting from that time onward until his enemies be made a footstool for his feet. For by one offering he has perfected for all time those who are sanctified And the Holy Spirit also testifies to us, for after saying, This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, says the Lord, I will put my laws upon their heart, and upon their mind I will write them. He then says, and their sins and their lawless deeds I will remember no more. Now where there is forgiveness of these things, there is no longer any offering Alright. Amen and amen. Let's uh just take a look. Uh I just uh I'll give you a few paragraphs from John MacArthur to s Kick us off. He tells a little story in his commentary right before this section of scripture. He says, There is a story of an English village whose chapel had an arch on which was written, We preach Christ crucified. For years godly men preached there and they They presented a crucified Savior as the only means of salvation. But as the generation of godly preachers passed, the generation arose that considered the cross and its message antiquated and repulsive. They began to preach salvation by Christ's example rather than by his preacher. blood. They did not see the necessity of his sacrifice. After a while Ivy crept up the side of the arch and covered the word crucified, and only We Preach Christ was visible. Then the church decided that its message need not even be confined to Christ and the Bible, so the preachers began to give discourses on social issues, politics, philosophy, moral rearmament and whatever else happened to spark interest. The Ivy on the Arch continued to grow until it covered the third word Then it simply read We preach. In cultured, sophisticated Corinth, Paul was determined to know nothing among them except Jesus Christ and him crucified Corinthians two. Christ crucified is the only one. Here is the record of Jesus' death from the theological rather than historical standpoint. We were shown the meaning and the depth of his death and all its of its richness. In his death Jesus was the perfect sacrifice. That's John MacArthur. And then going back uh three hundred years before that More than three hundred years before three hundred and fifty years before that. Here's what John Owen has to say about uh Hebrews chapter ten. There are two parts of this chapter. The first concerneth the necessity and efficacy of the sacrifice of Christ from the beginning unto verse eight. eighteen. The other is an improvement of the doctrine of it, unto faith, obedience, and perseverance from verse nineteen to the end of the chapter. Of the first general proposition of the subject to be treated of there are two parts. One, a demonstration of the insufficiency of the legal sacrifices for the expiation of sin, verses one to four. Two, a declaration of the necessity and the efficacy of the sacrifice of Christ unto that end, verses five to eighteen. And so the scripture is the scripture is the scripture, and whether John MacArthur in the late twentieth century or John Owen in the early seventeenth century, it's the same. Scripture has not changed. Or whether the it's the author of Hebrews under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit preaching it to the first century Hebrews, the story is the same. Okay, uh so let's dig into this uh this passage of scripture. So verse one, for the law The Mosaic Covenant, since it has only a shadow of the good things to come and not the very formal things, can never, by the same sacrifices which they offer continually year by year, make perfect those who draw near. Under the old covenant, the priests were busy continuously slaughtering and sacrificing animals. But no matter how many sacrifices were made or how often they were ultimately ineffective, insufficient, uh to take away sins. Uh the Old Testament saints, many of them earnestly desired to be in the presence of God. We see that in various passages of scripture and Exodus Moses writing it and Psalm uh sixteen David writing it. But they really had no way of getting there under the old covenant. Uh Even the high priest on the Day of Atonement could not take the people inside the veil. He did it symbolically with the ephod and the breastplate. But he couldn't actually take the people in there to the the Holy of Holies, um inside the veil where sim and and of course God only symbolic. Only old ceremonies and sacrifices could never save, in other words, never bring true access to God. They could never make perfect those who draw near. That's the point that the author of Hebrews is making uh to his audience. They were shadows and could only reflected the very form, the real thing, of the good things to come, the realities of the privileges and blessings of true salvation in Christ. Judaism today is even without many of the shadows. uh in the first century when this uh letter was written, most likely written before seventy AD, so they still had the temple, they still had actual sacrifices. Uh but today they don't even have that. Um they in some cases actually have the Old Testament scriptures if they care to open them, and they continue to celebrate certain feast days But they have no tabernacle or temple or priesthood and therefore no sacrifices daily or annually. Uh so they don't even have the shadows today in many cases. Uh Yom Kippur, the day of atonement. Atonement uh is still observed, but without a high priest, without an altar, without a sacrificial lamb. Um and so what at best was pale has faded even more uh for Jews today. Um and of course Most Jews today uh sorry, oh yes, go ahead, Kevin. Yeah, so uh very interesting. Um there there are Of course there's three main branches of Judaism today. There's uh conservative, reformed, and Orthodox. And in my experience they have kind of vastly different views of things. Um if you talk to many reformed, a lot of them don't even believe in that there is a hell, for example. I I I can remember being shocked by that. I went when I went to college I went to the University of Pennsylvania and the undergraduate population was exactly fifty percent Jewish when I went there. I don't know if it still is, but it it was fifty percent Jewish and so So when I was in the dorm as a freshman, you know, half of the people in my hall were Jewish. And so I started talking to them assuming that they knew things from the Old Testament and and and they were like, no, no, we don't believe in any of that. Uh y what about heaven and heavy? No, we don't believe in hell, but we're Jews so we go to heaven That's what they said. We're Jews, so we go to heaven. Just being ju being born a Jew is what is your ticket to heaven. And there is no such thing as hell That's what many of them, in my experience just one-on-one talking to them, actually believed. But I I later learned that there were Um there were different these three different main branches of Judaism and modern Judaism, um Orthodox, Conservative and and and Reformed, and the Reformed are the most what we would say theologically liberal, farthest away from scripture. And the Orthodox were the closest ones, and there was a house on campus, the Hillel House, where Jewish students actually lived, and all the Orthodox lived there And they kept kosher and they believed in heaven and hell and they actually read scripture. But there's a big divide I think. And so m my uh all this is a long way of saying if you're going to witness to a Jewish person today, it's important to witness to that individual. You can't assume um anything about what they actually believe until you get to know 'em. You gotta get to know 'em. You gotta if you have a neighbor or a coworker or whatever who's Jewish, you gotta find out. What what do they actually believe? Um before you can even start know where to start. Um yeah. So uh that's a long way of saying it it really depends what what they're gonna think and believe about about the the sacrifices and what the what they what are they doing on uh Yom Kippur for example, um and what are they doing and saying for Passover, for example. Uh one of the one of the they recite a kind of a um a script for Passover and one of the things in the script is how long do we have to wait for the Messiah it's a plea to God for how how long do I have to wait for this Messiah that you're planning to send some day. Um, yeah. Good question. Uh any other questions or comments? Okay. Um so most Jews have kind of they have some ceremonies but there are different branches of Judaism and different beliefs within Judaism. But the point is they have even less of the pale shadow than these first century Jews did when the author was preaching to them in his letter. Um in in when the author was preaching to them in the letter, they still had the temple They still had a high priest, they still had sacrifices. Now they don't have any of that. Um this Greek word that means uh made perfect or make perfect uh means to uh bring something to completion, to bring it to a The end to which the old covenant pointed was ax it was accessed to God for full salvation. That was what it was pointing to. But it was never intended itself to bring men to God just to point to that which would, to point forward to Christ, in other words. That's what it was there for, its intended purpose. Um and so therefore uh to make perfect required Christ. Okay. Um so then why did God go to all the trouble to make an old covenant? W why even have this thing, this old covenant, with its shadow ceremonies, its shadow rituals, and its shadow sacrifices? Well there's some reasons. God had reasons. God has reasons for everything he does. especially something big like this. First, uh even as a shadow, it had a purpose to reflect the reality of which it was a shadow. Uh it was to show point forward to something, to point forward to Christ, it pointed to the salvation that was to come. It was to make God's people expect it. Second, the shadow sacrifices reminded people, uh, God's people that the penalty It was right there in front of their eyes all the time. Not just their eyes but their smell uh all the time. Uh all these dead animals. Um was uh front and center showing them over and over and over and over again so that they wouldn't forget What's the result of sin? It's death. Although since Adam and Eve, the result of sin has been death. The penalty of sin is death. They were constantly shown that. So there was a purpose to this another purpose to this sacrifice system. Third, God gave his people the sacrifices as a covering for sin. When properly offered from a true heart of faith, the old sacrifices removed immediate temporal judgment of God They didn't completely do away with sins, they covered temporary. Those sacrifices had some temporal effect and value. They could not bring a person into God's presence, but they were important in maintaining a demonstration of a person. Covenantal relationship with him, his relationship with his people. And if if he did something wrong under the sacrificial official system, what was the penalty? Sometimes the penalty was death. Other times the penalty was being put out put out of the assembly of the people, uh separated from God's people. And what that was you know, you know, what is the purpose of Oh it was a symbol again of the sin being put off onto something else. So the sin was uh put off into the scapegoat and the scapegoat was w wasn't killed he wasn't killed but he was he was put out of the camp and so he was put away Um and so yeah, it was so the sin went away with the scapegoat. It was just another symbol for putting away sin. Yeah. So um when we were discussing it in the class does also it so what we kinda came out with was that because during the the the the scapegoat ritual there's actually two goats one is lots are drawn one is sacrifice to God and is propitiation of sin between the congregation And God. The other one basically takes on the secret sin by its will. Not just the secret sin, but just it it's so one makes you right with God. And the other one is sending the sin away. 'Cause there's two effects of sin, right? There's the effects of sin between vertical and a horizontal. Yeah, yeah, yeah. The horizontal um sin between the people being sent out of the congregation and out of the the the city to back to the desert or the place from which the sin arises. Okay. Yeah, that I mean that sounds good. And a symbol of the putting away of the the horizontal effects of sin So to speak. Yeah. That's good. Yeah. Very good. Okay. Um verse two. So we finished with verse one. On to verse two of eighteen. Uh we'll do two, three, and four here. Otherwise Would they not have ceased to be authors? So otherwise, so if the sacrifices under the old covenant had been able to do away the sins Would they not have ceased to be offered because the worshippers, having once been cleansed, would no longer have had consciousness of sins? But in those sacrifices there is a reminder of sins year by year. For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. So, as a shadow, the animal sacrifices could cover, but never remove sin. Yet removal of sin is exactly what we need. The old system, though, couldn't do it. It couldn't remove sin or guilt. If it could have, the sacrifices would have stopped. So if it had actually removed sin and guilt, then it would have been finished. Uh once ha that's the point that the the preacher is making here to his congregation. Uh once having removed sin, they would no longer have been necessary. Like Christ's sacrifice, for example. And those sacrifices which is what he's gonna he's building up. To. In those sacrifices, there is a reminder of sins year by year. Even the covering of sin was temporary. It lasted only until the next sin. It was a burdensome and disappointing system. Instead of removing sins, the sacrifice only gave temporary. Temporary relief and were a constant reminder that sin was still there. Another year, another lamb, another sacrifice, and sin was still there. The sacrifices kept reminding people that they were sinful and therefore could not enter God's presence. A holy God can't be in the presence of sin, can't do it. So far from erasing sin, the tabernacle and the temple sacrifice is only solved to call attention to it. It's front and center right there in front of your eyes that sin is always a problem. It keeps being a problem. We keep having to do these sacrifices year after year, day after day, because sin is still a problem. That's what the sacr one of the things that the sacrificial system was doing for the people. So the Greek word that's translated consciousness here in 10 2 is the same Greek word that's translated conscience. Elsewhere in the book of Hebrews in 9-9, 1022, and 13. 18. Consciousness, the same word as conscience elsewhere. The basic meaning is the same in all four places. The word has to do with mankind's innate awareness of wrong in his life and his sense of guilt because it because of it. That's what the conscience does. And this is the consciousness of sin is the same thing that he's talking about here. Conscious is built into our makeup as human beings And acts on our minds and hearts much as pain acts on our physical bodies. Guilt reacts to moral and spiritual injury the way that pain reacts to physical injury. Both are warning systems. Neither is enjoyable, but both serve a good purpose. So I think that's a good and Decent analogy, it's the best one I heard. I read it in one of the commentaries, that just compare it to your pain system. Nobody likes the feeling of pain. But what's it there for? It's there so that you don't stick your hand on the stove. And after you've stuck your hand on the stove once as a child, you never do it again. That's what the the pain is there for. And the conscience serves a similar purpose for your spirit. Well if you've if you've touched sin, the conscience tells you no that was bad. I don't want to do that again. Uh that's the purpose for which it serves. Um Okay. And that's what the this Greek word is talking about here in this passage of Hebrews as well as in other passages. Um so Old Testament believers were never Finally and fully freed from guilt or the anxiety and tension that it brings. Paul talks about that in Romans chapter 5 and 6. There was no freedom of conscience under the previous covenant. So it's a wonderful blessing for Christians to know that there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ. Romans eight one. It's a wonderful thing to be free from guilt and to recognize that sins are continually being forgiven by the grace of God through the death of Christ. Now, I don't want to I won't don't want to um put you under any illusions. It's not that the Christian who is really cleansed of sin is no longer conscious of sin in his life. No one should Should be more aware of sin than the Christian. Just like the faithful and godly Old Testament saint, he is keenly aware of God's holiness and standards of righteousness. That's not what we're talking about here. The Christian should be conscious of his sin, but his consciousness. Conscience should no longer be unduly burdened by it. It's the unbeliever or in the carnal or untaught believer who is deluded about the presence of sin in his life 1 John 1, if we say that we have no sin, we are deceiving ourselves, and the truth is not in us. And we make him a liar Uh 1 John 1, 8 and 10. Uh the forgiven sinner is not insensitive to sin, but he knows He is forgiven in Christ and is thereby delivered from fear of judgment. Romans eight one again. That's the um the rest that we we have right now um in Christ is that we know we're forgiven. We're aware of the presence of sin. Um we hate the presence of sin, but we know We know all the way deep down into our bones that we're forgiven. Um see the difference there? It's not like we say that we have no sin because that would be making God out to be a liar. It's that we know we're forgiven for the sins uh that we have. All right, let's continue on to verse five. So now we're going to start quoting uh some Old Testament scripture here is uh from uh Psalm forty. Therefore Yes, go ahead. Is that the crux of the better promises that we have versus the promises that were embedded in the composite? That's a big part of it. That's a big that's the that's the the real visceral daily um outworking of the fact that we have salvation in Christ is yes, we can rest in the knowledge that our sins, past, present, and future, are forgiven. By grace through faith in Christ. Yes, Doug. David says he's removed our sins as far as he's pushing the left. Yes. That's perfect. I I guess based on everything you Looking forward. Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah, and we see glimpses of that in other places in the Old Testament. We see it David in his Psalms, we see it in some of the people who are not going to be able to do that. of the prophets where under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit they point with laser focus forward to Christ. Yeah. Yes. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah, so there's a struggle. Uh Romans chapter seven, Paul details this struggle that he has, he makes it really personal, he uses personal pronouns. This is the struggle I have uh because sin is still there in my life. Uh yes, so there is still uh the struggle with sin, but in the midst of that struggle We have this confidence that our sins are forgiven in Christ. So even in the midst of the struggle we have this confidence of Romans eight one. So read all the way through Romans chapter seven, what's the very next verse? It's Romans eight one. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. So he does doesn't leave us hanging after Romans chapter seven. He immediately says, even though we've got this struggle that I've just told you all about in Romans seven, using a very personal example, um using my own life as the personal example, And yet there is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Uh he he gives us you know, y you would never want to just read Romans chapter seven without reading Romans eight one. Um yeah, yeah, yeah. We s it it's not it's not that the sin is not there or it's not a an issue or a problem. It's that in the midst of the struggle with sin we have this confidence to rest in the knowledge that Christ has paid the penalty for that that sin. Yeah. Very good. Okay, so now we're going to quote and um who's he when we when we quote here? Jesus. So it's Jesus and um and who's he talking to? The Father. So it's God the Son talking to God the Father in in uh Psalm chapter forty and here recorded in in uh in in Hebrews chapter ten. So therefore when he comes into the world, he Jesus comes into the world, he Jesus says to the Father, Sacrifice and offering you God the Son talking to the God the Father, you have prepared a body for me. In whole burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin, you have taken no pleasures No, no pleasure. So it's essential to know as we walk through the theological implications that the external ceremonies had an internal requirement to make them acceptable to God The person who did not sacrifice out of an honest heart was not covered even externally or ceremonially. And several of the prophets talked about this. It was particularly Amos. Amos chapter 4 and Amos chapter 5 is talking about when the The people sacrifice uh with a wrong heart, and how God knows what's in their hearts, and he doesn't uh doesn't see their sacrifice, doesn't take into account their sacrifices because they're sacrificing with a wrong heart. Um it is this sort of sacrifice that thou hast not desired uh here. The people had taken what was meant to be a symbol of real faith and used it as a substitute for faith. Their trust was in the outward form. They believed in the sacrifices, not the God who commanded them Um and as Samuel reminded Saul, when the old system was relatively new, to obey is better than sacrifice and to heed than the fat of rams, first Samuel fifteen twenty-two. What was God teaching from the very beginning? That the real purpose of this was obedience to God and a right relationship with God and not The the focus was not on the physical sacrifice. The physical sacrifice was a symbol, uh a symbol of faith and trust and obedience towards God. And so if you if you were just going through the mechanical motions of making these sacrifices without the faith and obedience and relationship with God, well then th it was that was worthless. That's what God taught from the very beginning, uh of even the old cov covenant. Uh yes. By them doing those sacrifices to get the world instead of uh temple. Exactly. Uh exactly. Uh to so to sacrifice without obedience, to go through a ritual without faith and devotion to God was mockery and hypocrisy that was worth than worse than no sacrifice at all And that was God's uh um God revealed that even under the old covenant in various places, including in First Samuel fifteen. Uh so uh Christ's sacrifice was effective. So the old sacrifice ineffective. Christ sacrifice effective, why? First of all, because it was God's will all along This was God's plan from the very beginning that Christ would come, all the way back to Genesis chapter three. From the beginning he had planned that Jesus would come and die. When he comes into the world, he says, A body you've prepared for me. This was uh the plan from the foundation of the universe. Uh when Christ was ready to be incarnated Talking to the Father here and uh Psalm forty, he acknowledged that his own body was to be the sacrifice that would please God God could never have been satisfied with animal offerings, and he became less satisfied with them as they became a sham and a mockery. To many offerers, they had come to be meaningless religious ritual and had nothing to do with obedience or. Faith. But Jesus' supreme mission on earth was to do his Father's will. And he said that over and over and over again. In the gospels, Jesus speaks of his having to come to do the Father's will. So what's his focus? He's laser focused on doing the will of the Father. Eventually that will lead him to the cross and the sacrifice. But what's the what's what's behind? Behind all that. The foundation of all that is obedience to the will of the Father. That's the foundation of the whole house. The sacrifice is you know, the the the the roof uh of the house, but the foundation is obedience to the will of the Father. Uh and Jesus made that really plain in his earthly ministry Um so his was the perfect sacrifice because it was offered in perfect obedience to God. Uh any questions up to this point? Yes. Just a random question, not that important. Uh the previous slide you had in there it said like uh uh where we got. Behold I have come and then in parentheses in the scroll of the book it is written of B is that what the writer of Hebrews is putting there or is that actually sort of quoted from the Rino Old Testament? And I was wondering is In the scroll of the book, is it a reference to old testament scripture or some heavenly book that we don't know of? So I think he's referring to scripture. Um And I think it was originally referring to scripture even when it was first written in Psalm forty. Um, in the scroll of the book is it written of me, is the Holy Spirit's way of saying in Psalm forty and in Hebrews that this was God's plan all along and it had been revealed through uh various prophets, maybe not in whole, uh maybe not um uh crystal clear, but it had been revealed uh in the in the scroll, in the Old Testament scriptures about Christ. And so if you remember um the uh the road to emaeus, what is what does Jesus do with these these disciples that are walking with him? He shows them everything in the scriptures about himself. And so at that time what were the scriptures? Only the Old Testament, not the New Testament. And so he showed the old what in the Old Testament scriptures was all referring to him. And And um I think this is saying the same same thing there. Yeah, yeah. Yes, sir. Right, yeah. A Abra he says Abraham saw my day um and rejoiced, yeah. Um all right, so continuing to verse eight, uh sorry, uh what that was. Uh considering verse eight. Uh so after saying the above, so after th saying those things, uh sacrifices and offerings and whole burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin you have not desired, nor have you taken pleasure in them. which are offered according to the law. Then he said, Behold, I have come to do your will. He takes away the first in order to establish the second So this is continuing the dialogue between the Father and the Son. So once again, this is the Son saying to the Father, I have come to do your will. And this is Old Testament scripture quoted here by the author of Hebrews. So the writer continues his commentary of Psalm forty six through eight, uh which he has referred to already in verses five through seven we just did, uh pointing out that God took away the first took away the old covenant, the old sacrifice is to make way for the second, the new sacrifice. Um and so he's explaining to his Jewish audience the old sacrifice was done away with because the new sacrifice had come. And so this is not the first time he's making this point. He's saying it over and over again. Uh his point was to show the Jewish readers once again. that the old covenant could never have been satisfactory. It was not meant to be permanent or truly effective, only temporary and symbolic, pointing forward to this new covenant and the new sacrifice. So God's focus was always on this Second Covenant. All the way back to Genesis chapter three. There was a focus on this new covenant that the the old covenant was pointing towards. The superior and perfect covenant. And the author is pointing out that the second covenant has now come. This thing that God has been saying from the very beginning has now come, is what he's saying to this audience. Uh therefore the purpose and validity of the first one is now passed. It's done its job, it's done. Uh God has forever set it aside. All this and so this repeated emphasis, so he's been saying this same thing. So um this this is one of the reasons why many Commentators think this is a sermon. You know, think about a sermon. If you've got a really key point to make, you don't just make it once. You make it over again and you say it again And you say, as I as I was saying to you before, this is the old sacrifices are done away with because the perfect sacrifices come. He said it many times in many different ways. He keeps saying it over and over again. 'Cause he's preaching to these people and he wants them to get this point. This repeated emphasis by the author reveals a pleading heart, calling on readers to salvation in the Lord Jesus Christ. Uh he's he's got this deep concern for their souls and And so he's going to make this point until they understand it. He's going to make it, and he's going to make it, and he's going to make it and he's going to make it. That old covenant, it had a purpose, it was good, it was pointing forward to Christ, but now Christ has come. And so it's all done. That's done away with. And he's made that point now over and over and over and over again in chapter 9 and chapter 10 to make sure they get it. Okay. It's like a professional. Telling you what's going to be on the test. Stomp at his foot and say, this is going to be on the test. The fact that the old covenant is done away with and the new has come Um yeah, he's saying it over and over again. Okay. Um Chapter uh verse ten. Uh by this will, by this will of the Father, by this will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once. for all. The new sacrifice is effective because it sanctifies the believer, makes him holy. The old system had no way of making a person holy To be sanctified or made holy basically means to be set apart. When the word is used in scripture of people, it always refers to being set apart by God for God. Set apart by God for God. It is God's will that we be set apart, not only positionally, but practically. For this is the will of God, your sanctification, first Thessalonians four three. So when we talk about Sanctification we talk about two things. One is your positional sanctification, the sec the fact that you're separated from the old person. Now you're a new person in Christ Jesus. That's positional sanctification. You're set apart to by God, for God. And then we also talk about practical sanctification or progressive sanctification that is you're continually being more separated. from the world and being conformed to the likeness of Christ. So there's both a positional sanctification and a practical progressive sanctification. Both. Um the Greek verb in verse 10, we have been sanctified is a perfect participle with the finite verb which shows in the strongest possible way the believer's continuing and permanent salvation. It's talking about positional sanctification. The force of the statement is you have been permanent Permanently made holy. That's positional sanctification. It's not talking about progressive sanctification. This fulfills the Lord's desire. You should be holy, for I am holy. First Peter 1, 16, which is actually quoting Leviticus. Regardless of the Lord, how holy your walk may be, your practical progressive sanctification, in our standing we are completely and permanently set apart unto God if we trusted in the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. You see the point that's being made here by the author of Hebrews? If you've trusted in Christ, you're sanctified, set apart, set apart by God, for God, Because of the finished work of Christ on the cross. Yes. The previous class, there was this wordplay between covenant and testament and will. Yep. God's will from like a desired time whatever. Yes. No, no, this is different. Um so yeah, this is different. It's it's this is not talking about a a will like in our uh I filled out my last will and testament. That's different. This is a different word, yeah. Uh good question though. Yeah. It is different here. Uh so any questions about this? Yes. Yes, absolutely. Yep. Very good All right, verse eleven. Every priest stands daily ministering and offering time after time the same sacrifices. So now he's he's talking again about the old covenant, the Mosaic covenant and Levitical sacrifices. Those priests stand there day after day ministering and offering time after the city. Time after time, sacrifice after sacrifice, day after day, year after year, which can never take away sins. So he's pounding on this point again. Going back to it again. But he, Christ, having offered one sacrifice for sins for all time, sat down at the right hand of God, waiting from that time onward until his enemies be made a footstool. for his feet. So Christ's sacrifice is effective because it removes sins, unlike those old sacrifices that could never remove sins. Christ did in fact remove sins. Verses eleven and twelve has a series of contrasts between the old covenant and the new covenant, the old sacrifice and the new sacrifice. Number one, the many priests and one priest. Number two, standing priests, as opposed to the one priest who sat down Um three, the repeated offerings contrasted with the one for all offering, once for all time offering. And number four, the ineffective sacrifices that only covered sin, with the effective sacrifice that completely removes sin. So once again Again, he's he's drawn this stark contrast. Old sacrifices, new sacrifice. The Levitical sacrifices with all their priests and all their repetition could never take away sins. Christ's sacrifice took away sins of believers for all time. Past, present, and future, Old Testament saints, New Testament saints, uh millennial saints, all of 'em. For all time, uh scripture says. So Christ's sacrifice was also effective because it conquered his enemies, we learn here. All the sacrifices of the Old Testament did nothing to get rid of Satan and his demons. But when Jesus died on the cross, he dealt a death blow to all Those enemies which God had said all the way back in Genesis chapter three. Uh he said of Satan then he would bruise Christ's heel, but um Christ would strike his head. A mortal blow to Satan Christ dealt on the cross. So he's now only waiting until all his enemies be made a footstool. That is, until they acknowledge his lordship and bow at his feet, as we saw last time in Philippians two, uh, that every knee should bow and every tongue confess that Christ is Lord to the glory of God. Uh he's waiting for that. That will come um uh at the second coming. Okay. Um any questions? Yes? Well you know what we can is uh in now because it's put away to insurance. Uh yes, the um yeah. So there there is the um There have been cropped up from time to time people that say I don't sin anymore. And 1 John 1 tells us that if we say that we're we're a liar. by saying that we have no sin. And so that's a really bad place to be, a really, really kind of harsh scripture that talks about that particular false teaching. That we can't say we don't have sin. 'Cause we make God out to be a liar if we do that. The truth is not in us and we're making God out to be a liar. But that does crap crop up. You will hear that from time to time. Um there are those who profess to be Christians that don't have sin anymore, yeah. But back when it's in Revelation that when you miss all these horrible sins, murderers and blasphemers and adulterers I mean also always put wires. Like line we said, Oh, it's a little white line, it's not terrible. But to God it's like one of the most serious things. Yep. Yes indeed. Okay, then he continues, verse fourteen, For by one offering he has perfected for all time those who are sanctified. And the Holy Spirit also testifies to us, for after saying, This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, says the Lord, I will put my laws upon their heart, and on their mind I will write them. He then says, And their sins and their lawless deeds I will remember no more So once again, according to the Old Testament, the new sacrifice of Christ is effective because it fulfills the promise of a new covenant. So there had been this promise of a new covenant, going back to the book of Jeremiah Um and th the Christ's sacrifice was able to accomplish that, to bring this new covenant. In other words, the new sacrifice had to be made and had to be effective because pr God promised that it would be, and God keeps his word. The new sacrifice was central to the new covenant, which God said would put his laws upon their heart and on their mind, and which would cause him to forget their sins and their lawless deeds. So the new sacrifice was effective because it had to accomplish these things which were prophesied in Jeremiah thirty one, thirty-three to thirty-four, in order for God to fulfill his promises which cannot be broken. Though the new covenant was new, it was not a new revelation. They they were told that there was going to be a new covenant. So it wasn't a new revelation, but the fulfillment of an old revelation The new promise was not really Jeremiah's promise, but God's promise. The witness was the Holy Spirit. And the author of Hebrews puts that right in here. The Holy Spirit testifies. So uh this is we've seen this pattern before. Um there's n there's the only author acknowledged for these Old Testament scriptures is who? The Holy Spirit. Uh even though Psalm forty was written by David, he doesn't say and David David says, he says, the Holy Spirit testifies. Um he's really explicit about that. Where do these Old Testament scriptures come from? They come from the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is testifying. The Holy Spirit is the witness. Here, uh made explicit uh in this letter. Uh so verse eighteen, uh we've come to the end. Uh now there were Now where there is forgiveness of these things there is no longer any offering for sin. So this is his final point in this whole section. The work of sacrifice is now done Um so now where there is forgiveness of these things there is no longer any offering for sin. He said before about the old sacrifices, well, if they were effective, then they would have come to an end because the sacrifice would be done, it did away with sin, you know, no more need for sacrifice. sacrifice and that didn't happen in the old covenant, but it does happen in the new covenant. There's no more sacrifices because sin has been done away with Sin has been finally defeated. Sin has been overcome. Sin has been conquered. Sin and death have been conquered by this one sacrifice. And so there's no more. Where there is forgiveness for these sins, there is no longer any offering for sin because it's done. Uh there will be no more. Forgiveness is already provided for those who trust in this one. So why would anyone want to go back to the old sacrifices? This is the the point that he's hammering on in all through chapter 9 and chapter ten. This one sacrifice has done it. It's done. Why would anyone want to turn back to those old ineffective sacrifices that had to keep being done over and over again and never did away with sins and never could do away with sins. Well now there's this sacrifice that has done away with sins. Why in the world? Would you ever want to turn back to that old way of doing things? Yes, so they um they didn't recognize the Messiah and so they missed it and they've they're stuck. They're they're stuck in the past because they didn't re recognize God's uh God's will and God's purposes in Christ. Um and so of course Christ said, or what did he say on the cross? It is finished. Uh it is finished. So what was finished? So if you think about Christ saying it is finished, well, he he did other stuff after that. I mean he came back to life and he taught his disciples for a time and he ascended into heaven and he's coming back again. So it wasn't it wasn't like everything that Christ was ever gonna do was finished, but what was finished Sacrifices for sin were finished. This was it. He when he died on the cross, that the sacrifice for sin was done. It's finished. Paid in full to telescide. Um it's finished, it's done, the payment is done, the sacrifices are done, it's finished, Christ said. Um and so there's no longer any offering for sin because It's finished. The sacrifice has been done. Uh, to reject this is to have no other hope of forgiveness ever. And so anybody that rejects this and so there it's a very black and white thing. Jesus taught about this in his Um in his earthly ministry there's sheep and there's goats. There's no in-between. There's no other hope. There's um in in The book of Acts we learn that there's no other name given under heaven by which men must be saved. Uh there is nothing else, um no other hope. And there never will be any other hope. Um Christ finished work on the cross is it. Old Testament pointing forward to it, everything else since then pointing back to it. But there's nothing else. There's no other way, there's no other plan. And so um in today's modern society this is very offensive. The f the exclusivity of Christ is very offensive. Um if you want to believe in Christ as a great moral teacher uh and follow the way he lived his life, that's great as far as modern society is concerned. But as soon as you say that Christ is the only way and every other way is wrong, then you have a big problem in modern society. You can't say that. You're being intolerant. Um and so it's this is Where the the rubber meets the road when you're evangelizing um you're giving the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ is when you give the bad news that every other way does not lead to God. Um if you say that this is one among many ways, Jesus is one of one among many ways to uh to approach God. Well, first of all you're lying. But that will be okay with the modern secular society. And it was actually the same way in Roman society. The Romans were perfectly willing to have another God among many. Uh i if all Jesus was was another God among many, the Romans were perfectly fine with that. It was when Christians started to say, well, no, Jesus is the only God that got them martyred. thrown into lions and and you know, crucified upside down and all c sorts of other things. Yes. Yeah. And so w what do we what do we to do then in that cir circumstance? What do you do in that circumstance? Well um I think it's important uh to make sure That when you're talking to people about the exclusive claims of Christ, that they understand that it really is the claims of Christ and not my claims. That I'm only the messenger and I did didn't th I didn't make this up. This is what Jesus said about himself. Um that there's only one way to to the Father. Um so and Jesus said that in his earthly ministry. And you can find scriptures where Jesus said that, that he's the only way to the Father. Um and I think it's important when you're when you're presenting this to make sure that it's not pres that you don't present it as your opinion. Yes. Also you know say it's still that they can recognize that uh it's uh the other sacrifice that you're talking about. Yes. Yeah. Every religion that lands on earth is a self-sacrificing world. I did I did once teach a comparative religions course and compared and contrast Christianity with various other religions and and what Richard says is true uh somewhere at its core Every other religious system i it's you earning your salvation. It it really comes down to that, is is you earn your salvation. Only Christianity is I I don't earn my own salvation. Uh it's by the finished work of Christ. Every other you Y you're i i in Islam you're trying to get a fifty one percent on the scale. Uh you know, you're trying to do your um your five pillars of Islam, your five prayers a day. You're trying to add up on the scale, fifty-one percent of good So forty-nine percent of bad and then you're into into paradise. And and then and then only if Allo decides at the end. And so they have no s they have no assurance whatsoever because they're trying to pile up works but at the at the end all they can just say, No, I'm not letting you in anyway. Um that would say and some views that I thought they can have to scale they can say that's And a myth but it really could be a myth part to make it happier on the side of the yeah. Yeah, it's a workspace religion. Um everything else, it really comes down to a work space reliv uh religion. The um the uh what do you call 'em, the guys that come to your door, the uh Jehovah's Witnesses, they're trying to earn their salvation, not yours, when they come to your door. They gotta knock on so many doors because they're doing They're works that are required to get them into heaven. That's what they're there for. Um they're trying to be the one of the one hundred and forty four thousand. Um yes, uh yes, go ahead, Grace. Uh I was just gonna point out that uh when you're talking people who either they have rights to a Christian specifically or they're trying to say that they're Christian but they are also affirming some female pastors and gamers and all kinds of stuff. This would be the chapter to point to just because uh five through seven and verse nine especially specifically references the fulfillment of ceremonial law where the reference in ten sixteen, uh fifteen through seventeen but mostly sixteen is a reference to the continuation of the moral law because God's law is continually written on our hearts and the fact that we're over with. So you have the continuation of the moral law and so gay marriage uh homosexuality, adultery, all that stuff still against the law. But political law, don't eat shrinks, don't wear clothes with two kinds of fibers correspond with the second. Yeah, that's a good point. And So y there there are some clever atheists out there that will try to trip you up by by trying to conflate those things. They'll say like, Well, do you eat shrimp? Well then may you know it says right there in your Bible that you're not supposed to eat shrimp, so you know, w what are you doing? So you need to be you need to have some um some understanding of what the scriptures teaching, like what Grace just said, the difference between the moral law and the ceremonial law, and the fact that the moral law is a manifestation of God's character. And so does God's character ever change? No, it does not. And so the moral law is baked into the universe because it's part of God's character and could never, under any circumstances, change or be done away with. Um but the ceremonial law is different Um y you know the dietary laws God has changed a number of times. In Genesis one, twenty-six and twenty-seven, he said both people and animals were only allowed to eat plants. In Genesis chapter nine, he said that people are now allowed to eat animals. He changed it. He changed the dietary laws from Genesis one to Genesis nine and then he changed it again when he made very specific dietary laws for uh his covenant people Israel. And then he changed it again when he let down the sheet in Book of Acts when Peter uh Peter s he tells him to kill and eat and um and he says, No, I would never do that, it's unclean stuff and And and God changed the the the dietary laws again. Yes. But you want to look at the Yes, unless it's still on a graphic as a working class. So that's why I'm warning you. Yeah. Yeah. And if you keep reading in Hebrew school, uh you know, if you deny the truth, then of course on what it's like, that's it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Right. What are we being saved from? Um R C Sproul has a little book called called Saved from What? Uh and uh he explains it saved from the wrath of God, but it's important to know that. What what do I need to be saved for? Well, I need to be saved because sin brings the wrath of God. Yeah, good point. All right. Yes, it does. What? What? Wrath of God? Yeah. Yep. All right. Run us out of time, let me uh let me close this with prayer.