Okay, so here we are in uh part twenty. Uh here's our schedule for this quarter, and um Next week I will be once again teaching the new member class. So uh Doug Baldridge has once again volunteered to step in and teach next week. So today we're gonna be going all the way through the entire eighth chapter of Hebrews, a a huge challenge, so we'll see if uh if we can do that, get all the way through. But uh Deb has assured me if there's anything left over from chapter eight He will cover chapter the whatever's left next week in addition to the first part of chapter nine. So what are we going to study today? We're going to look at the new covenant in Christ. At the beginning, we're going to look at uh a little bit of uh kind of a summary of what we've been talking about about the person of Christ, his seat, his sanctuary, but then we're gonna get into the new covenant itself, the fact that it's a better ministry, a better mediator and better promises. And then we're gonna uh Finish up by looking at the fact that this new covenant is so radically different from the old one, especially in that it's internal and personal. Uh everything is internal from the uh from the incarn uh personal from the incarnation which was Emmanuel, God with us, to the um uh to the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit. It's it's internal and personal. So, uh, but first let's take a look back at what we just did last week that leads into what we're going to do this week. So uh last week at the end of Uh chapter seven we talked about the fact that uh God swore an oath for this uh this new high priest. He never swore an oath uh to Aaron or any of his priesthood that they would be forever. He never suggested that uh priesthood would be anything but temporary, but with Christ he did swear an oath to establish an eternal priesthood. Um when God makes an eternal transaction, he is chosen to do so with an oath. It's not technically necessary. So when God gives his word, then that's perfectly adequate, really. But he has chosen to add an oath to uh to emphasize permanence when he's giving a permanent promise or covenant. Uh there's another example that we talked about last time about uh with Abraham when he made the c the eternal permanent covenant with Abraham, uh, in uh the book of Genesis, he did so with an oath. The Libit Little the Levitical priests, uh, of course couldn't uh be permanent because they all died. None of them could serve indefinitely. And there was a, of course, a point in time in the history of Israel where first Aaron died And then Moses died and both of them died before they went into the the promised land and that symbolized that this old covenant was not permanent. It couldn't uh permanently save people, it couldn't permanently bring people into the true promised land. Uh Which was for the future. Neither the law represented by Moses nor the sacrifices represented by Aaron could ultimately deliver from sin. Christ, on the other hand, is contrasted with all that Uh because he abides forever, he holds his priesthood permanently is what the sc the scripture tells us. Uh therefore we have uh summing all that up, the Jesus priesthood is permanent and eternal and eternal. Uh this priesthood then can save eternally. Uh he can save forever because he exists and ministers forever. Um and the power of salvation lies in the fact that he is able Um he other priests were not never able to save, uh, but Christ is able to save. So and the nature of salvation is bringing men near to God. A key key phrase in in this particular part of scripture The previous part of scripture that we saw the week before that that Doug covered, this idea of drawing near to God, that that Christianity is more than the the simple transaction of the forgiveness of sins. As wonderful as the forgiveness of sins is, that particular transaction, there's a lot more to Christianity than that. There's the drawing near to God part of Christianity. And that's emphasized here. Uh the l ludical priests themselves, of course, were sinful, so they had to offer sacrifices for themselves before they could offer for the people. But that was not the case with Christ. Christ is holy, innocent, undefiled, separated from sinners and exalted from the heavens, and so he didn't have to sacrifice for himself. Um he didn't need um he didn't need atonement for sin 'cause he was sinless. Um So therefore Jesus was able to offer one sacrifice not for himself, but for others, a perfect sacrifice by a perfect priest done once for all time. So the Old Testament I preach Priest had these symbols when he went to the Holy of Holies, the ephod and the breastplate where he was symbolically bringing uh the children of Israel into the Holy of Holies. And of course our high priest carries our names on his heart and shoulders, but he doesn't need an ephod or a blue breastplate, uh he is able to perfectly save us. So that's what we did last time. Any questions about the end of chapter seven before we launch into Chapter 8. Okay, if you'll get out your Bibles and open your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 8 or tune your device to Hebrews chapter 8 And we're going to go through the whole chapter. Of course, a huge chunk of this chapter is a quote from the Old Testament, and you'll see that. We'll talk about that. It's from Jeremiah chapter 31. Everywhere you see the small caps font. That's a quote from the Old Testament. So Hebrews chapter 8, beginning in verse 1. Now the main point in what has been said is this. We have such a high priest who has taken his seat at the right hand of the throne of the majesty in the heavens, a minister in the sanctuary. and in the true tabernacle which the Lord pitched, not man. For every high priest is appointed to offer both gifts and sacrifices. So it is necessary that this high priest also have something to offer. Now if he were on earth, he would not be a priest at all, since there are those who offer the gifts according to the law, who serve a copy. and shadow of the heavenly things. Just as Moses was warned by God when he was about to erect erect the tabernacle, for see, he says, that you make all things according to the pattern which was shown you on the mountain. But now he has obtained a more excellent ministry. But as much as he is also the mediator of a better covenant, which has been enacted on better promises. For if that first covenant had been faultless, there would have been no occasion sought for a second. For finding fault with them, he says, Behold, days are coming, says the Lord, when I will effect a new covenant with the house of Israel. and with the house of Judah, not like the covenant which I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt. For they did not continue in my covenant, and I did not care for them, says the Lord. For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord. I will put my laws into their minds. And I will write them on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. And they shall not teach everyone his fellow citizen and everyone his brothers, saying, Know the Lord. For all will know me, from the least to the greatest of them. For I will be merciful to their iniquities, and I will remember their sins no more When he said a new covenant, he has made the first obsolete. But whatever is becoming obsolete and growing old is ready to disappear. This is the word of the Lord that we're going to look at today. So I'll give you a few paragraphs from a couple of commentaries. The first one is John Owen And of course John Owen wrote this commentary in the sixteen hundreds. Uh he lived from sixteen oh three to sixteen sixty one. He wrote this commentary sometime in the mid-sixteen hundreds. And of course he wrote it in Latin, because that's what they all wrote in. They wrote in Latin. And so this is a eighteen fifty five uh version that's been translated into English. But the English is old 'cause it's made uh long time ago into English. So uh here's what uh uh uh John Owen had to say about this portion of scripture. There are two general parts of this chapter one a further explication of the excellency of the priesthood of Christ, or of Christ himself as vested with that office. That is both in his personal glory and in the usefulness of his of his office unto the church, above those of the order of Aaron. Number two, a further confirmation hereof, wherein is introduced the consideration of the two covenants, the old and the new. For unto the former was the whole administration of the Levitical priests. of this new covenant above the old, which redounds unto the glory of its mediator. The first part is contained in the first five verses, the latter extends from thence to the end of the chapter. That's John Owen about this this report. Uh and another commentary uh that I I uh I like not not as much as a couple of the others, but th he's pretty good on some things. Uh Ramsey Michaels is his name. He wrote a commentary on Hebrews, uh a fairly Recent one, two thousand nine. And he says this about this part of scripture. Uh ever the effective preacher, so remember this is a sermon, ever the effective preacher, the author pauses to summarize his arguments so far. Here's the main point, he begins, gathering up the whole of chapters one through seven into a single verse. We have a high priest is more literally we have such a high priest, echoing the expression used just three verses earlier. He is the kind of high priest we need. At the same time the accompanying Relative Clause who sat down in the place of honor beside the throne of majestic God in heaven, takes us all the way back word for word to the author's opening presentation of God's Son, who when he had cleansed us from our sins, he sat down in the place of honor. In this way, Psalm 1101, sitting the place of honor of my right hand, is linked inseparably to one ten four, you are a priest. Forever, laying a firm foundation for the next step in the author's argument. Jesus' exaltation to heaven means that his eternal ministry as high priest does not take place on earth, or at least not only on earth, in his death on the cross. cross but beyond the cross in the heavenly tabernacle, the true place of worship. Chapter eight verse two. The author's language here begins to shed light on his mysterious reference earlier to what the New Living Translation calls God's inner sanctuary. a place inside the curtain where he says, Jesus has already gone on our behalf, from chapter six, verses nineteen and twenty. He now confirms that this inner sanctuary or true place of worship is where Jesus is, beside the throne the majestic God in heaven, it is a holy place or heavenly tabernacle built by the Lord and not by human hands. So another commentator uh introducing this section of scripture. So Uh let's take a look verse by verse starting with uh verse one and two. Now the main point in what has been said is this. So he's talking about what I've said all the way up to here in the first seven chapters. Now the main point In what has been said is this we have such a high priest who has taken his seat at the right hand of the throne of the majesty in the heavens, a minister in the sanctuary, and in the true tabernacle which the Lord pitched, not man. So the Greek words mean Main point means just to add the main or the chief point. Uh so what's given here is the primary thrust is the of what he's been said in the letter. So think about it as a sermon. He's gotten a good way into this sermon and now he's gonna very briefly kind of sum up what he said so far in the sermon. And he uses this couple of verses right here to just sum up what he said so far. In case anybody's sleeping. Shake he's gonna pound on the podium and say, this is what I've said so far. Wa wake up there uh as I as I preach this sermon. Um so uh this is what the author's been emphasizing from the beginning, the high priesthood uh of Jesus Christ. A great many things have been presented and explained. But they all relate directly or indirectly to this concept of Christ's high priesthood. So the primary focus of Hebrews 8 will now be on the new covenant. Uh but as an introduction to the discussion of this covenant, the writer first mentions two more indications of Jesus' superiority as a high priest. And and he's mentioned them before but he comes back to them. His seat uh at God's right hand and the heavenly sanctuary. So uh we've mentioned before that the Levitical priests never sat down Um and also the priest's job was never done. They had to keep going over and over again, day day after day and year after year, because the sacrifices they offered had to be repeated over and over again So as the Levitical priest ministered at the altar, uh he never rested because he was never through And there was of course no place for him to sit anyway in the tabernacle or the temple. When Jesus, by contrast, offered his sacrifice, he sat down And the author had said that right up front in chapter one, verse three. Jesus sat down at the right hand of God. Um and of course at the end of uh one of his last words uh uh among his last words on the cross where it is finished, the telescope paid in full. Um so he had finished the justification part uh of of the of his work, uh and then he sat down at the right hand. Uh so Christ is Accomplished in one glorious act what all the priests of the old covenant had not accomplished and could never accomplish really the forgiveness of men's sins and their reconciliation to God. And the author's mentioned all this before, he's just kind of summing up here. And so Christ did it all in one sacrifice. He sacrificed himself. And as far as our salvation is concerned Uh he has taken his seat. It is finished. Justification's done. Christ sat down. He's accomplished all that can be accomplished, all that needs to be accomplished in terms of our redemption. Yet people are still trying to add to the simple, pure grace of God and salvation by faith. Though it is quite frankly absurd to think that the work of Christ needs anything added to it, the saving effort of our Lord cannot have anything added to it. Because it's already perfect. But people still try. They try we try to add our own works to what Christ has already done, the finished work of Christ on the cross. The right hand, of course, is symbolic, right hand of a Monarch symbolized honor, exhortation, power, whoever got to be on the right hand side of the king. Uh to stand at the right hand was an honor, but to sit there was the supreme honor to sit at the king's right hand. So that's the symbolic language here. Christ sat down at the right hand of the throne of thrones, God's heavenly eternal throne. So Jesus Christ has been given the place of honor, the ultimate place of honor. He's been ushered into the heavenly holy of holies. He's been seated with God on the throne. That's the word picture being painted Painted. The author of Hebrews started painting that word picture all the way back in chapter one, and now he's kind of uh referring back to it, summarizing back to it here at the beginning of chapter eight. The sanctuary. In which Jesus is a minister is infinitely superior to the one in which the Jewish priest ministered. Everything's better about Jesus, including his sanctuary is better. So, of course, the superior priest ministered. in the superior sanctuary, um and he does not minister in a tabernacle made of animal skins like uh the original tabernacle, or even in a fancy temple made of cedar and gold and white marble. Um So of course when think about the time when this is written, it's in the first century in the mid-sixties AD, probably. So when the book of Hebrews was written, the tabernacle had not been used in a thousand years. And the temple would remain standing for almost. A few more years till 70 AD, and then that was gone. But Jesus sanctuary is the true tabernacle. What started a thousand years before with the tabernacle, uh, and then the tabernacle was really replaced by the temple, but the true tabernacle is the sanctuary of Christ. Um the and the true tabernacle which the live pitch not man, which can never rot or crumble or be destroyed. The permanent eternal Tabernacle, if you will. The word true here, the Greek word that's uh translated true here, it's not The it's not the opposite of false. That's not what this is. The true Israelite tabernacle is not being contrasted with a false temple of pagans, nor is the idea that the Israelite tabernacle It was in itself somehow false. It was temporary and inadequate, but it was not false. True is used here as opposed to the shadowy or the symbolic. True versus symbol See see what see the the difference here with that what this Greek word means? Um it's not that the the Jews work a worship in a false tabernacle. It was just the shadow of the true tabernacle. Okay. Any questions so far? earn our justification because that's been made for teachers. But they're I guess they're important for and to live on in obedience to God. It's an act of worship. Yes. And it's a yeah, it's a it's a way of drawing closer to to the Lord, not for not for justification, but for our sanctification and for an acknowledgement of response. abortion. Yes, so when we think about our relationship with God, um there are many scriptures that say For example, if you love me, you will obey my commandments. So how is it that we can show love in a personal relationship with God. Well the Bible over and over says that's by obedience. And so obedience means to do what God tells us to do. So those are works And so how what category do our works fall into? They fall into the category of worship, of of showing love. and uh worship towards God, we do that by obedience. And obedience is uh in a practical sense is in doing what he's told us to do. So it's in doing works we We show obedience to him and we demonstrate love to him in our drawing near to him and in our personal relationship with him. So it has it has nothing to do with earning salvation, it has everything to do with uh showing uh love and um worship towards God. Yep. Yep. Good question, good comment. Any any others? Alright, so um we We get to let's see. Verse three. So going on to verse three and verse four for every high priest is appointed to offer both gifts and sacrifices, so it is necessary Now, if he were on earth, he would not be a priest at all, since there are those who offer the gifts according to the law. Alright, what's this talking about? So verse 3 begins to take the argument from the general to the p particular. The question would likely come up at this point among these uh Jews if Christ has finished his work and he is seated in heaven Is all his priestly work finished? What what is there more for him to do if he's uh if he's in heaven he needs to finish his work? And the answer of course is no the he's the there's not There is more for him to do. His sacrifice is finished, his atoning work is finished, but all of his priestly ministry is not finished. Uh if every high priest is appointed to offer both gifts and sacrifices, then Christ is Perfect high priest can do no less. He is a ministering priest, so he still has a function as a priest ministering, mediating on our behalf If you remember back to our discussion during Hebrews 5, we looked at the distinction between gifts and sacrifices. The same phrase was in there. The priests offer gifts and sacrifices. Gifts referred to meal offerings under the Leviticus. code and sacrifices to the blood offerings. So there were these two kinds of offerings, gifts and sacrifices, meal offerings and blood offerings. The gift offerings represented personal commitment and thanksgiving to the Lord. The blood offerings were for cleansing of from sin. They were to cover sins. They were the sacrifices. The priests were responsible for both offerings under the Levitical priesthood. person would actually bring the offering, but it could be presented to God only by a priest. So the layperson could not go into and sacrifice on the altar. He could bring the gift in to give to the Lord, but he had to there was a mediator, there was an intermediary. There was it had to go to the priest to go from the from the person to God. There was this intermediary, the priest did that. And that was to symbolize of course that was to point forward to Christ, uh being a uh intermediary between us and God. Um so we have this uh now if he were on earth he would not be a priest at all Um of course he wasn't a uh a a Levite. Um and so but those priests serve a copy in the shadow of the thing of heavenly things, just as Moses was warned by God when he was about to erect the tabernacle. See, he says that you make all And so God had shown Moses the heavenly tabernacle And so when Moses came down from the mountain, God said, make sure you lay out this earthly tabernacle based on the pattern that I showed you of the heavenly tabernacle. So that's what this verse is talking about. Uh the those who serve in the earthly priesthood serve in a copy, a shadow of the heavenly things. Uh a and he refers back to when Moses came back down from the mountain, had seen the heavenly tabernacle, and God said, Pattern the earthly one afternoon. So if the temple were still standing, he would not be a priest at all. So thus Jesus could not minister for us on earth under the terms of the old covenant. So, during his earthly ministry, Jesus did a lot of things. He healed the sick, he raised the dead, he preached in the open and also in synagogues. He forgave sins. He called himself God's true son, but he never claimed the right to minister in the temple. Never in his earthly ministry did he go into the temple and offer sacrifices. He did not venture one step closer to the inner sanctuaries than any other Jew of his day. who was not a priest. He was not of the priestly tribe. He wasn't a Levite, and therefore was not qualified for the old covenant earthly ministry. And so he didn't do it. Th there there's a that was deliberate. He deliberately didn't do the priestly functions in the under the old covenant God never mixes the shadow and the substance. Jesus could not minister the old offerings and the old earthly sanctuary. He ministers the new offerings and the new heavenly sanctuary built by God, not man. So he is a new kind of priest for a new covenant, not the old kind of priest under the old covenant. And so he did not do that Nowhere does scripture even uh intimate that he might have gone in there and started making sacrifices like the the Levitical priest and high priest. Because he wasn't a Levite. Everybody see that? And that was deliberately done. Why God deliberately And and this is one of the things that the the author of Hebrews is bringing their attention, these Jews that he's talking to, see how God did this? He didn't have Jesus be a priest during during his uh during his earthly ministry because he wasn't a Levite. Yeah. There's nothing exodus that necessarily says Moses saw this tabernacle. Is there? So I want us to say for the first time. So um this is a quote. This is an old testament quote here in Hebrews. Um yeah. So there is, yeah. It's an exodus. Yep. Yeah. So I I don't remember what verse this is, but this is a quote. See that you make all things according to the pattern which I w which was shown to you on the mountain. Yeah, you know the money has it passed I thought that's that's the thing. So excess twenty five forty. Yeah. Yeah, and so the the language could theoretically apply apply to God drew him a drew him a map on the dirt and I showed you that, it could apply to that. Um but it seems more likely that he probably showed him what it looked like. And in some ways it has to be different because I I think and this is an assumption Right. Is on earth we have this veil between the holy and holies. Is that true in heaven? Yeah, so a good question. So remember it's a shadow, so it's not exactly th that thing that that we have there. Yeah, so obviously there's no veil there. Yeah, in the in the one in the heaven. Uh yeah, so yeah, good yep. There you go. Yeah. When when Doug teaches that next week we you will definitely see Yeah. So uh this is a marvelous thing that God has done to m to paint this picture so that we can see that the uh that Jesus is different kind of priest and this new covenant is different. It's not the same. Uh he deliberately made sure Jesus didn't fulfill, didn't d do anything that was uh of the priestly no priestly functions under that old covenant. Um okay. Uh the tabernacle built under Moses' direction according to the pattern was not the original In other words, the tabernacle that Moses made was not the original. The one in heaven is the original one And the tabernacle that he made is just a a shadowy kind of copy, and the temple's just a shadowy kind of copy, but the real one is the one in heaven Uh the heavenly sanctuary is not an enhanced improved version of the earthly. It's the opposite. The earthly is just a shadow of the original, which is in heaven. Uh it's just a barely suggestive copy of the heavenly, which preceded the earthly. The heavenly was the first one. The tabernacle is just a shadowy copy of that first one. And the temple is just a shadowy copy of the first one that's up there in in heaven. Uh the gifts, the sacrifices, the sanctuary and even the priesthood themselves served as copies and shadows of their heavenly counterparts. A shadow has no substance in itself, no independent existence or meaning apart from what it is a shadow of. The real thing. The real thing is in heaven. Okay. Any questions so far? We might actually get all the way through verse chapter eight. Verse number six. But now he has ordained a more excellent ministry, by as much as he is also the mediator of a better covenant. which has been enacted by on better promises. For if that first covenant had been faultless, there would have been no occasion sought for a second. So Jesus Superior Seat and Sanctuary are evidences of his superior ministry. His superior ministry is evidence of the superior covenant, which he mediates, and which has superior promises. The Greek word for mediator here means someone who stands between two people and brings them together a go-between in this dispute or conflict, he must represent both parties. He has to be someone who can represent both parties, bring them together, stand between them. bring them together. And so Jesus is the perfect mediator between God and man. Why? Because he is God and He is man. He's the only person who's ever existed who could represent both God and man. And so Jesus had to be both God and man to be able to fulfill this perfect mediator role between God and man, representing both parties. Uh in religion a priest is the mediator between God and man. Um of course there are many false religions that have priests who claim to reconcile men with God or gods These are all pseudo-mediators because though they may represent men to some degree, they do not represent any true God. There's only one true God, and they obviously don't represent him priests of a false religion. And so they're not true mediators. Only Christ is a true mediator. The old Christ uh covenant with Israel had mediators The head priests on ceremonial matters, but Moses also, specifically in Scripture, is described as a mediator uh both in the Old Testament and the New Testament. There's scriptures that that uh describe j uh Moses as a mediator go between between uh God and his people. Um and also in a sense the prophets were mediators of God. God's word. They were go-betweens. They spoke God's word to God's people. And in some cases they were also kind of representing the people to God. uh there are conversations recorded uh in scripture between prophet the a prophet and and God, uh specifically speaking on behalf of of Israel. So there were a number of different kinds of mediators described in the old covenant priests and Moses and um and the prophets and so uh interestingly enough of course Christ is uh in all of these positions uh Christ is uh is described as the best Moses, we've already seen that earlier in Hebrews. He's also the better high priest, and he's also described as the prophet in Scripture as well. So all these kinds of mediators that that God introduced to his people in the Old Testament, Christ is that same kind of mediator, only better. i in in all circumstances. Okay, everybody see that. Any questions? Yes, Ron. I don't know if it's a question, but maybe it's a statement. I never kinda considered the mediator being like a bi directional. I always thought of hey, Jesus has allowed us to talk to the Father without getting smited instantly because of our sinfulness. But um kinda going over like like what message are we see receiving in the reverse direction that Ju uh Jesus is taking taking uh ownership of in place of uh the the father. You don't have to actually answer that, but it's just kind of rumbling around in my head as you know, like I haven't never thought of the bi directional Yeah, so all the way back to the incarnation, Emmanuel, God with us. So God is now among us in the person of Christ. So that's from God to us. And so the He also brought God's word. um and kind of many of the things that he did were to clarify things that had been taught before, uh to clarify what God's word had always been uh to people as he was preaching and teaching in his earthly ministry. But um that Greek word mediator is definitely a it's a it's a two-way thing. It's it's representing both sides and bringing both sides together. And and a true when we think about a mediator in our own um um experience, human experience. That that's really what a mediator is supposed to do in human terms as well. He's supposed to be able to bring both sides together. He's a he's a kind of a neutral arbitrator between these both sides uh able to um to to bring them uh they they start out with well each one has a position over here and over here and he's he's bringing them together on in a human sense. But uh this mediator here that Christ is between Correct, yeah. But he does he he does allow um these two uh this this these two beings that are that have a big gap between them. There's a big gap between God and us. And Christ makes a bridge between God and us He can bring men to God, he can bring God to men, he did that in his incarnation. Um and in that sense he's bringing us together and he's the only one that can bring us together. Yeah. Bringing together in Jesus' provisionary work by satisfying God's wrath. So God wasn't compromised, but God is satisfied. Right. And and so that that contributes to bringing it under on God's perspective. Yeah. Yeah, remember whose initiative it was to send Christ. It's God's initiative. So God came down. Right? In in Christ God came down. So he he came to us. Uh y you know, did we did we deserve that? No. Did he you know, did he have to do that for our sake? No. But he did. He did come to us in the form of Christ. God came down uh and became a became a Okay. Good comments, good discussion. So the new covenant not only has a better mediator, but also better promises All covenants are based on promises. Sometimes the promises are by only one party, sometimes by both. Uh sometimes the promises are conditional, sometimes they're not. Uh there are different kinds of covenants um in that respect. As far as God's covenants are concerned, it's always his promises that are the significant ones. Men break their promises, but God does not. So when he promises something that's you can take that to the bank. The benefits of the power are always from God's side. And therefore the significant promises are always from his side. Consequently, it's God's promises in the New Covenant that are called better Better promises coming from God than make this better covenant. The old covenant, of course, was not false, but it had faults. That's what the scripture tells us here. The first c if the first covenant had been faultless, there would have been no occasion for a second. So what is the scripture telling us here? There were faults in the first covenant. So what does that mean there are faults? In God's perfect plan, there was a second better covenant. There was a follow-on. uh covenant already from the beginning of his plan. Uh there was a better one. So uh continuing on to verse eight So this verse 8 to 12 is all of one big long quote from Jeremiah 31. From the Septuagint version of Jeremiah 31. So if you look at your most English translations of the Bible, of course the Old Testament is the is a translation from the Masoretic text. So if you look at look back in your Bible at uh Jeremiah 31 you will notice definite differences between what is was quite quoted here because this is quoted from the Septuagint. And uh I'll show you if we have time, especially in verse thirty-two. There's there's a one one that looks really funny. Uh so let's get into this quote. So uh verse eight for finding fault with them He says, Behold, days are coming, says the Lord, when I will effect a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah, not like the covenant which I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt, for they did not continue So that's from Jeremiah thirty one. of not uh giving any credit to the auth Old Testament authors. Um and I think that's on purpose to show that it's the Holy Spirit that wrote the whole thing. Um okay the faults and limitations of the old covenant were pointed out by the prophet Jeremiah. Long time ago. And so that's what the author of Hebrews is pointing out to his Jewish audience in the first century. Hey, your prophet Jeremiah pointed this out a long time ago that the old the old covenant had false and we he had to make a new one. Uh with the exception of the first few words of verse eight, uh the the first few words you can see there are not in small caps. Uh but after that, uh Hebrews eight through twelve eight, eight through twelve is a direct quotation Of Jeremiah 31, 31 to 34 from the Septuagint. The writer is pointing his Jewish audience to what their own scriptures have to say about the advantages of the new covenant. So one of their own greatest prophets told them of the supreme. superiority of the New Covenant hundreds of years before. Yet many Jews of that day, the first century, were hanging on tenaciously to the old covenant, as many still do today. uh many Jews still do today, uh two thousand years later. Uh in the quotation from Jeremiah we note several factors that show that the new covenant is superior to the old covenant. So let's take a look at those things that the author brings out from Jeremiah 31. Um so the new covenant in Christ is based solely on God's sovereign terms. I will effect a new covenant. So whose covenant is it? It's his. He's gonna uh he says through the prophet Jeremiah, I'm gonna do this. It's my will, I'm gonna make this new covenant. That's what the Lord said through Jeremiah. So the new covenant in Christ is not just an enhancement or a modification. It's not slightly different, but radically different from the old one. And that's the point that the author of Hebrews is making here. Its basic nature and provisions are completely different. God effected a new covenant which was not like the covenant which I made with their fathers. So the the The Lord said through Jeremiah that this thing is not gonna be like the old one. It's not just a um a few tweaks, it's not an upgrade, it's not uh n Old Covenant two point oh. It it's a totally new thing. It's not like that one. Um that's what the author of that's what the Lord said to Jeremiah, and that's what the author of Hebrews is pointing out to his Jewish audience here in the first century. Hey, remember The Lord said through Jeremiah that this new covenant was going to be totally different. It's not going to be like that old one. In one regard, the new covenant is, though, like the old one, it's made with Israel. Notice who this covenant, the new covenant, so Jeremiah in Jeremiah is talking about the new covenant Hebrews, according to Jeremiah, the new covenant, who's the new covenant going to be with? The house of Israel and the house of Judah Right? That's what the scripture says. And so um why did he say both the house of Israel and the house of Judah? When is Jeremiah prophesying during the divided kingdom period? So he's making sure it's really clear that it's the whole The whole thing, not just the ten northern tribes and the two southern tribes, is all of it together. So he says, the house of Israel and the house of Judah. But who's it with? It's with Israel, not with some Gentiles or the church or anything like that. Um Jeremiah said it, the author of Hebrews repeats it, that this new covenant, the new covenant, is with the house of Israel Um some people um don't like that and and don't like what the scripture has to say, but that that's what it says. That's that's what it Don't shoot the messenger, that's what the scripture says. Yes. Absolutely. Absolutely. It is. And so that's that's actually he He's one slide ahead of me. That's going to be the next slide. As we are Gentiles are definitely beneficiaries. So uh the new covenant is not made with the church, but the same people the old covenant was made with Israel Gentiles can be beneficiaries of the new covenant just like they could be beneficiaries of the old. We saw that in Genesis that i uh definitely the the the old covenant, all the way back to when it was first given to Abraham in Genesis twelve, it's repeated in uh Genesis fifteen and Genesis seventeen and Genesis twenty two, but it was always benefiting both um Jews and Gentiles. Remember that through you, Abraham is told the nations of the earth will be blessed. So the old covenant was always to benefit everyone. The old covenant was made with Abraham and his descendants and made And then repeated with the the nation of Israel, the Jews, but it was always to benefit everyone So excellent point. So that's who they uh they can never proceed or understand that one feel. Right. You know, they just give back together. Yeah. And so a lot of the the New Testament is focused on that. Sh sh Paul in many of his letters points out that um the the the all the benefits of the old covenant and especially the benefits of Christ go to everybody, not just Jews but Gentiles too. Yeah. So good point. Israel is a nation of course rejected God by rejecting his son. But God has never rejected Israel, nor has he transferred his covenant with her to anyone else. Uh when Gentiles are s saved, uh just look at Galatians chapter three. Gentiles are saved, they become descendants of Abraham, spiritual descendants of Abraham. That's how they're just were described. Therefore be sure that it is those who are of faith who are sons of Abraham And the scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, All the nations shall be blessed in you. That's Galatians three, seven to eight. So that it's always been that way. It's always been that way. That that everybody who is a spiritual descendant of Abraham is the heir to the promises, going all the way back to the old covenant when it's first given to Abraham. Abraham in Genesis chapter twelve. So it's always been that way. That the benefits of this covenant are for everyone. But the covenant itself was made with a particular man, Abraham And his descendants, and his descendants, the scripture then further makes clear, are through Isaac, not through Ishmael, for example. And then through Jacob, not through Esau. Question, comments? Very good. Okay. So uh yes, continuing. For the the time being, Gentiles are sharing more of the new covenant than our Jews Right, there's there's many more saved Gentiles right now than there are Jews. Um But one day this will change. After Gentiles have had sufficient time to respond to the gospel, all Israel will be saved. Romans 11, 26. Israel will be grafted back into the trunk of Covenant salvation, Romans eleven seventeen to twenty-four, and we see uh the nation of Israel and Jews very prominent in the book of Revelation, um in uh the second coming of Christ. Um so um uh this covenant Covenant was an everlasting covenant, it was made with Israel, but the benefits accrue to not just Jews, but Gentiles, and that's really clear from Scripture from beginning to end. Uh any questions about that? Yes. Yes. Yeah he did. So uh uh a a heart of flesh instead of a heart of stone, yes. A very similar promise to this promise in Jeremiah. For some reason the author of Hebrews uses the one in Jeremiah rather than the one in Ezekiel, but the one in Ezekiel makes a very similar promise It's talking about the new covenant, a heart of flesh instead of a heart of stone. Okay. Uh any other questions, comments about any of that? All right, continuing this long quote from Jeremiah, um Uh so he says, Not like the covenant which I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to lead them out of Egypt, for they did not continue my in my covenant and I did not care for them, says the Lord. Uh for this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel And after these days, says the Lord, I will put my laws into their minds and I will write them on their hearts. And I will be their God and they will be my people. So what will this new covenant look like? This new covenant will look like I will put my Um, I will I will write them uh I will put my laws into their minds and I will write them on their hearts. Uh this is through the prophet Jeremiah. He's he's he's foretelling what he's going to do with the new covenant hundreds of years ago. Earlier in the prophet of Jeremiah, and as Harlan pointed out, he said a very similar thing to the prophet Ezekiel, um, including putting his law on the heart. Yes. It is a very good description of born again, that's right. Yes. A heart of stone to a heart of flesh. Um yes. So uh for for reasons I don't particularly no, the author the Holy Spirit inspired the author of Hebrews to use the Jeremiah passage instead of the Ezekiel passage, but the Ezekiel passage is excellent to make the same point. Um My law on their hearts. So we're gonna talk about that. So what does it mean to have your law written on the heart? Um and in your mind. So um it's this the focus here is on the personal and the internal. So remember the old covenant, the law was written where It was chiseled on stone tablets and written in a scroll. That's where the law was written. And you were supposed to write it on your doorposts. And you were supposed to put it on frontlets. But but the new covenant, then what's the covenant? Contrast here. The contrast is now everything is internal rather than external. And so the what's the ultimate expression of that, of course, is the giving of the Holy Spirit. So the giving of the Holy Spirit is God inside us, i very internal and personal, uh as opposed to the old covenant, which everything was external. Um and so I think that's the real point. The real point of this passage is that this new covenant is so radically different in that it's it's personal. God is is a radically different concept. Something that uh the especially the Jews of the first century would have found astounding. The the the Jews found that astounding that that God could be so near to me that his laws could be written on my heart, uh that the Holy Spirit, God and the third person of the Trinity could be in me. No way, 'cause you know, i i if you if you if the the horses that were drawing the um th the the Ark of the Covenant, you stumbled and you touched it, you fell down dead. You know, i only the whole the high priest could go into that Holy of Holies once a year and you had to have a rope around to pull him out in case he something happened to him in there. Oh how could it possibly have a God that God, creator of the universe, be so near as to write his laws on my heart and in my mind and to have his Holy Spirit in me? Yes. Um what you're saying makes since um the the part that I don't think I can clearly explain as to what I understand would be I think practical medical um has to be uh there needs to be a an initiative on the part of those who are who are beneficiaries of this covenant to learn, to hear read and meditate on the word of God, these laws, or to be on their heart's father. Yeah, but so uh that that practice of that um process I don't see I do not yet uh I cannot explain how it's different from uh beneficiaries of the old company. So I'm trying to say maybe you can get that here in a second. Yeah, hold hold that thought for just a second and once we've once we've getting to the once we've gone through the explanation of the the work of the Holy Spirit, we'll we'll go we'll circle back to that question. It's a good question. Yes, Doug, you were gonna say. So um i it it is it is um it is there are we've gone through examples of other covenants for illustration purposes, the Abrahamic covenant, because the Abrahamic covenant is not being replaced here. It's the Mosaic Covenant that's being replaced. Yes, good point. Good point. Uh Okay, so uh the blessings of the old covenant were conditioned on Israel's obedience to the law that God gave with the covenant. Because Israel did not continue, they didn't obey God did not care for them. Under the law, his care depended on their continuance. Uh his dis their her disobedience, Israel's disobedience, did not abrogate the covenant, but it forfeited the blessings. So remember in uh Deuteronomy twenty eight nine we got the blessings and the cursings, but God told them exactly what would happen. If they followed his law, this is what will happen, all you get all these blessings. If you don't follow the law, this is what will happen, you will you'll get shipped off to a foreign country. He promised them that in in Deuteronomy twenty nine. nine. And so they didn't obey him, and so he followed through on his promise that he would ship them off to a foreign country. Uh so the blessings and the cursings. Um and so they did not Obey, and so he did cut them off, send them off to uh to a foreign land. Um so under the law his care depended on her continuance, whether they were gonna get blessings or n or or curses. And her disobedience didn't end the covenant, didn't do away with the covenant, but they forfeited the blessings that they were promised if they obeyed, the conditional blessings were forfeited. Um that was the covenant of law. So the new covenant was We'll have a different law, internal, not external. Under the old covenant, things were primarily external and obedience was mostly out of fear of punishment. Under the new covenant, obedience is due to adoring love and worshipful thanksgiving. Formerly God's law was given on stone tablets, was written on wrists and foreheads, and on doorposts as reminders, as we see in Deuteronomy six. Now it is written on the heart. So let's get to what that means. So even when the old law was given It was intended to be in people's hearts to uh in a certain way. But people could not write on their hearts like they could write on their doorposts. At that time the Holy Spirit, the only changer of hearts, was not yet given to believers, but now the Spirit writes. Writes God's law in the minds and hearts of those who belong to Him. This is a work of the Holy Spirit. In the New Covenant, true worship is internal, not external, real, not ritual. And we see that throughout the scripture in Ezekiel as well as in uh the book of John. Uh being internal, the new covenant has to be personal. Every believer has a resident helper and teacher. Helper and teacher. What did J what did Jesus say in John chapter 14 about the Holy Spirit? But the helper the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all that I said to you. So this is a work of the Holy Spirit. So writing uh the laws in his heart, when God said, I will do that, The w the the the way he did that, the mechanical means for that was by giving the Holy Spirit, the helper and teacher. So that's how. is through the Holy Spirit. So without the Holy Spirit we can't do that. Um and so that's what's radically different about the new covenant. is the Holy Spirit is in us to be a helper and teacher, to bring to mind, bring to remembrance all that Christ had said. Yes. Find that particular passage of the vertical meeting today, maybe it is an application of that word. Specifically the the second half of that statement that brings to your remembrance what I have said. Yep. Can you I would couple that with Matthew twenty eight uh eighteen to twenty. So look at Matthew twenty eight, eighteen to twenty. So um the context of course is Christ has taught his disciples for three years. Then he is crucified, dead, buried, resurrected. He he teaches them some more for some time after the resurrection. And then right before he goes up to heaven. What does he give? He gives a great commission, Matthew 28. He says, All authority is being on heaven and earth is given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to obey all the I have commanded you. Right? So uh that's the that's the great commission that he gives right before he he f floats up into heaven. So that great commission uh means you make disciples, you baptize and you teach. Everything that Christ taught them to she to obey. So, uh including the Great Commission, right? That's one of the things that Christ taught. So when the disciples taught the next um generation of believers They taught all that Christ taught, including the um the Great Commission. So then what that next generation then is responsible for what? Teaching everything that Christ taught the disciples. And that that generation by generation comes all the way down to you and I. Somebody taught you and I, somebody discipled us, we were baptized and we were taught, and we are taught also. Also Matthew twenty-eight, eighteen to twenty, which requires us to make disciples and teach. And so that multiplication of uh the spread of the gospel requires everybody from the disciples all the way down to today to do this, to c to remember all that Jesus had said because uh the disciples were responsible for teaching all that including Matthew twenty eight, eighteen to twenty. So you and I are responsible for all of that, just like the disciples were responsible. Yes. And when it goes to calm, we won't have to be functioned. You won't have to know the Yeah, so that way we'll have a law. Yeah, so um there's a couple things going on here. So one thing I think is clearly being pointed out is um is the I think it's a reference to the Holy Spirit to begin with. So uh how is it that the the law is actually written on your heart as a believer. So this is the new covenant, so this is talking about people who come to faith in Christ. Of course, faith in Christ was always the salvation method even in the old covenant, but under this new covenant, what is different? So if if you look at how the the new covenant is applied as opposed to the old covenant, what what is one of the major differences? The the giving of the Holy Spirit is a major difference. Um and I think that's the thrust of what he's what he's pointing out there. Yeah. Yes. Uh okay, that's a that's a another angle that yes, I think fits as well. That um The uh yeah, the the old covenant was a a national thing that included both believers and unbelievers. And the new covenant is a Um a covenant of believers. Yeah. That's a that's a good way to to think about it as well. Yes. Uh the law of God, uh in my study, the law of God started in the garden. There was no written uh law. Adam was the pure question of God before the fall. Yes, he was righteous before the fall, yeah. But pure reflections of the fall, you know, you actually uh imitate God's map until it's darkened by you know false by sin. Yeah, so uh so Adam was created righteous And then he fell and sin entered the world. Yes. So um the whole story of scripture is a s uh starting with Um a perfect creation. God made the the creation perfect without sin in it. Then there's a fall, so it's creation Fall and redemption. Uh that's the whole arc of the the story of of scripture. Creation, fall, redemption. Yeah, so uh we don't have an uh much um we don't have much detail about what the dispensation looked like for Adam. Um, you know, how how was it that God that Adam understood what um what God's law and rules were? The only the only rule that we know of was don't eat of the one tree of the knowledge of good and evil. That's That's the the one rule that we know about. Um we don't know much about anything else about the dispensation that God had with Adam. Uh but I think it's reasonable to assume that Uh in that sense God's law was written on his heart in the f in the fact that he was righteous, created righteous without sin to begin with. Uh I think that's a reasonable assumption. Yes. One of the distinguishing factors that like the keys to point to about that now is that they had the law. They had physical copies of the dog law written on tablets. Yep. And so the profits were pointing to a kind of world where it's like you're not gonna have it Yeah, uh although I I think that goes a little bit too far. are in that um yeah Jesus said I've come not come to do with the law, I've come to fulfill it. Um that the the laws usually separated into a few categories. There's the ceremonial law which has all been done away with, but there's the moral law, and the moral law certainly hasn't been done away with. The moral law is a i is all d a direct outworking of the character Of God and the character of God doesn't change, so the moral law doesn't change. And so the moral law is all still there. Uh it's not been done away with. Uh the moral law has not been done away with. Um and but but this idea of the law being I think the thrust of it is this radical difference between the old covenant and the new covenant in that we have the Holy Spirit. the the helper and the teacher, uh, within us. Uh but the the the moral law all still exists. Um it's still it's still wrong to kill people. Under the old covenant and under the new covenant. Um that that law doesn't change. And why does that law not change? Because people are created in the image of God And so extinguishing an image bearer of God is morally wrong. And that doesn't change from one Covenant or dispensation to to another. Yeah. It's sort of relevant with my thinking at this point. When when When you're referencing the laws that were written on tablets, they're they were finite, they were limited in their soccer many respect. They didn't represent every every particular issue or person had to respond. moral terms. So but but the Holy Spirit has spoken to us then, there are things which I believe would would be uh would be in the realm of moral discretion. people have to make that the because the Holy Spirit is in them, it constrains them or allow them to do those things. And those things you will those specific those particulars will not be found in the moral written code. So I I think it makes sense when you say that. I think that's right. I I think that's right. That um that the Holy Spirit uh you know as a helper and teacher, uh helps uh helps us to understand God's will helps us understand how to glorify God with our lives in in ways that are often would often be impossible to to to write down some written specific law to to govern every single case that could possibly come up. Um it's much more personal and adaptable than uh uh just a written law. I I I think that's right. Yes. Probab. Yeah, so I think that's right, and that's um what Harlan was bringing up earlier, the the passage in E Ezekiel about the heart of stone, the heart of flesh, is a uh an excellent uh uh word picture of uh born being born again. And that in involves of course the process of being born again involves the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. Um yes, I think that's an excellent passage as well. God is saying I want to show you. Um I want to show you. You screwed up, okay. I'm gonna put this law on your heart. Yeah, and I'm gonna give you the Holy Spirit, I'm gonna give you my very presence w within you to guide you uh to be able to do this right. Yep. Redemption. Creation fall redemption. Yeah. Uh so let's the last two verses Verses, for I will be merciful to their iniquities and I will remember their sins no more. When he said, A new covenant has made the first obsolete, but whatever is becoming obsolete and growing old is ready to disappear. So uh verse twelve is the cap capstone of the new covenant. Here is what men need. need more than anything else and what the old covenant could not give, I will remember their sins no more. That's the the heart of the gospel. Under the old covenant sins could never really be forgotten because they were never really forgiven. They were only covered uh foreshadowing and anticipating true forgiveness in Christ Jesus. For those who belong to the Son, whether they believe under the old covenant or under the new covenant, God will remember their sins no more Uh in sharing the gospel of the Jews, whether in the New Testament times or today, one of the biggest stumbling blocks for them is the idea that the old covenant is passed away. What verse thirteen says here when you when a new covenant comes, that means the old one uh is ready to disappear. a big stumbling block for Jews. It's hard for Jews to realize that the Old Covenant, with its laws and ceremonies, was only a symbol, a picture of God's plan for them and for the world. Uh so the Old Covenant symbol is not bad. It had a God given purpose pointing towards the sun, but now that the sun has come, the symbol has no more purpose, and God means for it to be discarded, for it to disappear, as he says here. The human writer of Hebrews could not have known how literally this truth would be fulfilled within a few years of writing. So within a few years of this writing the Roman general and future emperor Titus destroyed Jerusalem and destroyed the temple. So the old covenant literally disappeared Without the temple there was no altar, no holy of holies, there could be no sacrifices and no ministering priesthood. And without a priesthood and his sacrifices, there could be no old covenant. It was finished. Uh in Hebrews here it's it's ready to disappear. A few years later, poof, it was it was really gone. Um so when verse thirteen was written the obsolete covenant was ready to disappear. In just a few short years it had completely disappeared. Okay. Uh yes. So well so they have no temple, they have no priests and no sacrifices, they have synagogues with rabbis teachers who teach them um mostly the rabbinic tradition, the Talmud, which is a commentary on the Old Testament, not the Old Testament itself. But they don't have a temple, they don't have sacrifices, and they don't have priests. And those were a big part of the Old Covenant. And they're gone. Yeah. And and they of course they're still anticipating their Messiah A and Passover they say they say how long, O Lord, do we have to wait for this Messiah? Uh so they're they're still waiting for that Messiah to come and and he's already come and they missed him. Um yes. What is the starting point of the new covenant? Is it like the Last Supper, the communion there, or is there a point that we can put a pin point to the transition between the two? So um the the the um the the initiation of the new covenant is Christ's death on the cross. So Christ said it is finished and so that was the uh the justification for sins is is finished. So Christ Christ's work on the cross is the initiation of the new covenant. Okay. Any uh any others? Alright, let's uh let's quo some prayer.