Okay. So here we are in part thirty five and uh last week thank thank you very much, Doug, for uh for filling in as I taught the new member class last week and uh last week he talked about running the race that was uh set before us, that each and every one of us has a race to run, uh, that is the Christian life. And then also about uh the discipline of the Lord and how important it is and how beneficial it is to us. that the Lord disciplines his children. And so today we're going to talk about we're going to continue in in uh Chapter twelve, uh, we're gonna do uh verses twelve through seventeen today. We're gonna talk about falling short of the grace of God. Falling short of God's grace is this little exhortation or word. warning that's embedded in the middle of this passage we're going to talk about today. But primarily it's an it's an exhortation to believers to live in a certain way. Uh ex a continuation of course of what uh what Doug talked about last week. uh with even an illustration that uh talks m that really fills uh follows on from the running illustration. Uh it's an exhortation to continuance, it's an exhortation to diligence, and it's an exhortation to vigilance, all contained in this short passage of Scripture. So here's the scripture. Let's open our Bibles to Hebrews chapter 12. Before we read this, So there are any uh questions left over from last week? And I'll just direct them over to Doug if you have any. Uh okay, so nothing uh nothing that was nagging at your mind from uh last week. If it comes up during the uh during this uh class, if you think about it, uh just raise your hand. Alright, so um uh Hebrews chapter twelve, um starting in verse twelve. We're gonna do We're going to talk about verses twelve through seventeen, so uh let's read through this. Uh starting in verse twelve. Therefore therefore, because of bec because of what we've just heard from the These first uh eleven verses of chapter twelve, uh, and really what we've heard uh for the all through chapter eleven and and chapter ten as well as Deb pointed out last week. Therefore, strengthen the hands that are weak and the knees that are feeble. And make straight paths for your feet, so that the limb which is lame may not be put out of joint But rather be healed. Pursue peace with all men, and the sanctification without which no one will see the Lord. See to it that no one comes short of the grace of God. That no root of bitterness springing up causes trouble, and by it many be defiled. That there be no immoral or godless person like Esau who sold his own birthright for a single meal. For you know that even afterwards, when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no place for repentance, though he sought for it with tears. So a negative example here at the end, we had this great cloud of witnesses in chapter 11, and now we have a uh a negative case. Alright, let me give you a few paragraphs from John MacArthur in his commentary on this passage of Scripture. So MacArthur says this nothing in scripture is more important than doctrine. It is foundational to everything else. Biblical doctrine can be defined simply as God's truth. And apart from his truth, we could know nothing about him or anything about ourselves spiritually or how God looks at us or what he wants us to be or to do. Apart from doctrine, there could be no basis for obedience. faith in God or love of God, since we would know nothing about him. But scripture contains much more than doctrine Much more than information about God and about ourselves. It also contains exhortation for living out the truths we learn. Knowing and believing are one side of the coin, living and obeying are the other. The basic thrust of Hebrews 12, 12 to 17 is clearly exhortation. The purpose here is not to teach truth only, but to encourage living up to the truth. With all the doctrine that the book of Hebrews contains. Taines its primary original purpose was not to teach but to exhort. Much of the doctrine the readers had heard before They had a good intellectual grasp of the gospel. They were being urged now to believe it and to follow it, to trust it and obey it. Truth that is known but not obeyed becomes a judgment on us. rather than a help to us. Teaching and exhortation are inseparable. Teaching sound doctrine that is not applied is worthless. An exhortation that is not based on sound doctrine is misleading. God's method for instruction is simple. Explain the spiritual principles and then illustrate and encourage the application of them. Many people have an intellectual grasp of the doctrines of Scripture, but know nothing of practical criticism. Christian living. As someone has said, they understand the doctrines of grace but do not experience the grace of those doctrines. It is one thing, for instance, to believe in the inspiration and inerrancy of Scripture is quite another to live under the authority of the world. It is one thing to believe that Jesus Christ is Lord. It is quite another to surrender to His Lordship. It is one thing to believe God is omnipotent. It is quite another to lean on his mighty arm when we are weak or in trouble. It is not enough to know the new covenant is better. We must accept it for ourselves. It is not enough to know that Christ is the superior and perfect high priest. We must trust in his atoning sacrifice for us. It is not enough to know that we should live how we should live, we must actually live what we know The biggest fool of all is the one who knows the truth but does not apply it to life. That's John MacArthur intro introducing this section of scripture. So it's going to be exhortation. Doctrine. and he he's been through a bunch of doctrine, now he's gonna get to the exhortation. Remember that this really does read like and sound like a sermon. So think about a sermon where the where the pastor has gone through the basic truths, the doctrinal principles, and now he's getting to the application and the exhortation to his congregation to live in accordance with the doctrines that he's taught. Okay. So let's take a look at these verse by verse. Therefore, once again, when we see therefore, we want to know what it's there for. And it's talking about all the things, the things that he's he's been talking about in this little sermon, this written sermon, about this great cloud of witnesses in chapter eleven and then we're gonna run the race uh in chapter twelve and therefore because of all those things. Uh we also need to keep in mind a couple of other things that he's going to point out here. So therefore strengthen the hands that are weak and the knees that are feeble. And make straight paths for your feet. So that the limb the limb which is lame may not be put out of joint, but rather healed. So when anyone experiences spiritual hands that are weak and knees that are feeble the only hope is in fixing our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfecter of our faith, which we saw last week. This is the solution to weak hands and knees. Uh the Red of Hebrews probably drew his inspiration from Isaiah thirty-five. Uh there's a passage in Isaiah thirty-five where the people of Israel had been through a lot They had a succession of evil kings. Uh they were plagued with false prophets. They um there was general disobedience and stubbornness among the people of Israel. Uh they had powerful enemies all around. And it seemed like there was just no prospect of them living in peace in their own land. They were discouraged and ready to give up. And so the prophet Isaiah reminds them of the coming kingdom. When the wagon in in the words of the prophet, the wilderness and the desert will be glad They will see the glory of the Lord, the majesty of our God. And then it's the passage in Isaiah turns to exhortation, just kind of like the exhortation here in Hebrews. Take courage, fear not. Behold, your God will come. Come with vengeance, the recompense of God will come, but he will save you. So an exhortation to the faithful, uh, in Isaiah thirty five. And there's a similar kind of exhortation here in Hebrews twelve. So uh the emphasis of Hebrews twelve twelve is the same as the the tail end of that passage, the the exhortation in Isaiah thirty-five. Uh we are not told, notice in this passage, we We're not just hold the strength in our hands and our weak and feeble knees, but the hands and the knees, regardless of whose they are. So it's not it's not really addressed just to people that are struggling, but to all the congregation as the preacher preaches to him to watch out for those who have um uh weak hands and knees uh and weak and feeble hands and knees uh to strengthen them um regardless of who whose they are. So um this so this Exhortation is not necessarily to concentrate on our own weaknesses, though that that's a uh possible to do as well. It could be me that has the weak knees and the weak hands, uh but not n not necessarily, not uh primarily, I don't think. Um so we're told to um to help strengthen others uh in their weakness and um difficulties and struggles. Of course, um you get you actually get um uh a two for one here because the best way one of the best ways often to encourage ourselves is to give encouragement to someone else. Hebrews ten twenty five that we saw a few lessons ago encouraging one another and all the more as you see the So this is a theme that he's touched on before in this this big passage uh of of exhortations between um chapter ten, eleven, and twelve. Um encouraging one. another. That's really, he's coming back to that really here. And make straight pass for your feet refers to staying in your own lane in the race. Each one of us has our own race. Run the race that's set before you. And so make straight paths for your feet. Stay in your lane, the lane that the Lord has you running And when you get out of your lane, you not only disqualify yours in a race, in an actual race, you disqualify yourself, but often interfere with other others. Have you ever seen one of these Um YouTube video clips where uh one one runner bumps into the other runner and then they all end up in a giant heap. Um that's uh that's the picture here if you don't stay in your own lane. Yeah, or NASCAR. Something like that. If you if you get out of the lane, you can stumble yourself, but you can also trip up a whole bunch of other people. That's the idea of making straight paths for your feet here. A runner can get out of a Lane when he is distracted or careless, or when he loses focus on the goal, or when fatigue robs him of the will to win So there can be distractions and Deb talked about this last time. The thing that can distract us, cause us to run out of our lane. And uh and it can be a consequence not only for ourselves but for others as well. All right. Any questions so far? Questions or comments so far? Yes, Grace, sorry. Uh I was gonna begin. historical context. Um one make sure you're cross through a group one to also try to avoid don't be cross country running in a place that you know have some bunch of molars. Don't put yourself in situations where you know that you will be caused to stumble uh the and uh make the limb out of joint rather than on the heel. Yeah so uh we're gonna talk about the uh kind of follow-on application to this about how Part of this is talking about um believers making a straight path or a testimony for unbelievers. For this is the the way you should be running And uh we can see from the rest of this passage that at least part of the application is that you want to run in such a way that It is an example to others. Um that's part of what this straight path is is talking about. Uh but yes, uh the there uh as as as you talked about last Week, each one of us has a race that's uh that's a God-ordained race, and so we're supposed to be running the path that God set for us. Um and that may or not may not be a very smooth path. path. Uh so some are given paths through minefields to run, um and some are given paths that goes up a steep hill to run. And um I I would say that experience teaches us that there that none of our paths are uh e easy, gentle down slopes the whole way on a smooth, uh paved road. Um yeah. So um but but But the but one of the ideas is we're not supposed to you know, stray off that straight the path. Whatever the path is that he said us on we're not supposed to stray off of that. Anybody else? Yes. Scott. Yeah, so um it it it seems to be a a general uh the hands that are weak and the knees that are feeble. Uh what version are you are you talking about? Kind of looking at all the Nest Allen, therefore ESD are uh Yeah, I was really where you were going with the yeah. Yeah, so I I think it I think it's supposed to be general And when when the ESV says you're I think it's a that's kind of a a universal UR. Um so the I think the the the point is I think it's not it's not drilling down on just mine um as a singular me um but it seems to be saying we're supposed to be watching out for others and uh and I think that fits with This passage of scripture going all the way back to ten where it says, Encourage one another. Um I I think it fills it fits in with that same vein in this Chunk of scripture. Any other questions, comments? Okay. So when we set out in the race of faith, nothing should destroy distract us or cause us to waver or change course. If we do, we will not only stumble ourselves, but could cause others to stumble as well. Uh Proverbs 4, 25 to 27, let your eyes look directly ahead. And let your gaze be fixed straight in front of you. Watch the path of your feet, and all your ways will be established. Do not turn to the right more to the left. Uh this is the same kind of um concept, uh Hebrews four, I think, and what we're seeing here um in Hebrews. Uh the Greek word for Paths uh Trochia refers to the tracks left by the wheels of a cart or chariot, which later travelers follow. So remember most roads in this time period are not paved. The the Romans have a few paved roads, but most of them are not. So most of them are cart wagon tracks. And people go where the tracks of the carts or the wagons or the chariots went before. And that's this word, this Greek word is talking about that. Wagon tracks that that have been run into the ground and so that's where everybody goes because that's where everybody's gone before That's this Greek word. Um and so when we run we leave a track behind us, uh which will either lead or mislead others. So that's the road picture from the Greek here. A path It's like one of these tracks that's laid down by cartwheels that others will just follow in that path. And so we're supposed to make a straight path. Uh we should take take great care That the tracks we leave are straight. Uh the only way we will leave a straight track is to live right and run a straight course. That's the exhortation here. Yes. Uh the picture that immediately uh followed here is the concept uh in the old testament where the sin will follow from generation to generation to generation because it's a bad path. Right. So so if one of these red Wagon wet trails goes to the edge of a cliff and over, and wagon after wagon keeps following those ruts and going off the cliff uh that's bad. Um yes. Yeah. So that's the kind of the the word picture there. It can you can have generations of the bad path. people are following. Uh but the exhortation here is to make a straight path for others others to follow. Okay, everybody see that? Yes. It's an exhortation. It's an exhortation for Christian living as an example to others. An exhortation of obedience and Christianity. in living for others. Um that's that's what it is. Yeah. Because I I I guess I'm following the metaphor, right? And there's a where we kind of started was I'm staying in my lane and this is a lane for me. It's not necessarily a lane for somebody else. Are we right but it's well so uh but all all the lanes that we can possibly be on are lanes that are lanes of obedience. Okay. Yeah. And they all should be leading to the Lord, so all the they may be coming from ten different directions. Yeah, so it is a correct path for someone in that from that direction. Yeah, so it it is a little bit different different emphasis or focus. Um in that yes, everybody has their own path to run, but each one of those paths is a path of obedience. Now your path of obedience may um take you through some different things than my path of obedience is, but the the the key um exhortation here is to follow the path of obedience. That's now why you've got a cloud of witnesses and I'm not going to do exactly what they did, but I can follow the Obedience, faith in obedience, that's right. So that's a good way to think about it. Um the particular path of faith and obedience for each one of the witnesses that we had in in eleven was different. They had a different life story, but every one of them was obedient in faith. And so therefore that that's what uh uh uh the straight path is uh that this is talking about. Um it's very similar to Proverbs three five six. I mean that's the goal of the goal, you're not me not your Straight, yeah. Yep. Yep, that's a good one. Okay, the limb which is lame could apply to weak limping Christians who are easily tripped up or mislipped. But based on what we've seen previously in the letter, this is probably referring to those who have identified themselves with the church but who are not saved. Um and there's some subtlety in the Greek that uh I think bears that out. Uh They have the appearance of being in the ra in a race of faith but are not. They are particularly vulnerable to stumbling and are prime candidates for Satan to trip up. Uh these are the kind of people Elijah challenged on Mount Carmel Elijah was with the Lord and the prophets of Baal were against him. Most of the people, though, were though they were Israelites, were undecided. They preferred not to take sides if they could avoid it. So in First Kings chapter 18, uh Elijah confronts them. He says, How long will you hesitate between two opinions? In other words, there's this great crowd of witnesses of this uh the people of Israel there, and they're not deciding between the Lord and Baal. They're trying to stay on the fence. And so Elijah calls him out. He says, How long will you hesitate between two opinions? If the Lord is God, follow him. But if Baal, follow him. So this is the story uh where who whoever can call fire down from heaven, that's the real God, and and so the prophets of Baal make an altar with wood on it. in a sacrifice and they dance around and cut themselves and Elijah um he he mocks them, he says, Well maybe he's asleep or he's on a journey or something, he can't hear you. And and so when it then when it's uh Elijah's turn he he prays to God and the fire comes down and it burns up the offering and it burns up the water and it burns up the stones it burns up everything. And then the people are are saying oh yeah we're for the Lord But before that they're hesitating between two positions in First Kings eighteen. So it turns out that uh the same Greek word, kolos, is used For hesitate between two positions in in the Greek Old Testament that in this story of Elijah, hesitating between two positions, Kurios. It's translated lame here, that exact same Greek word. Lame is hesitating between being put out of joint and being healed. Same Greek word. Hesitating between two positions. In the Old Testament case, it's hesitating between God's. God and bail. In this illustration, it's the lame limb, it's hesitating between being put out of joint and being healed. See the illustration? What this illustration is pointing to? Um in in Hebrews twelve, thirteen. So Elijah was confronting lame, hesitating, vacillating Israelites, and trying to persuade them to take a side. The letter of Hebrews was warning believers about the danger of misleading lame, uncommitted, unbelieving church members and of causing them to turn back to Judaism. So remember the context. We this is a first century church. You've got a bunch of people in the church. They're Jewish believers, but there's also Jews who are not believers. in the church and they're hesitating between um saving faith in Christ And returning to Judaism. And so that's a continual theme of this sermon from beginning to end. And it comes out here again in this illustration. Okay. So under the pressure of persecution, these professing but unbelieving Jews are beginning to doubt the gospel and to weaken in commitment. And so the exhortation here if to the true believers in the church is to be a good example for them to but be an encouragement for them because an inconsistent Christian leaving living an inconsistent life, leaving a wandering path instead of a straight path, would be no help to Jews who are wavering between the new covenant and the old That's the picture here. A poor testimony from a true believer can cause an already limping unbeliever to be put out of joint. to go the wrong way, completely dislo dislocated spiritually. God wants unbelievers healed, that is saved, our living testimony should glorify God and therefore be the best possible influence on those around us. Um everybody see that. See what he's getting at here. Encouraging the true believers to be on a straight path, uh to be faithful and obedient, um, not only for themselves But as an example to those that are unbelievers that are seeing their testimony, witnessing their lives, how they live their lives. That's really what he's getting at here. You know, that's going to have in the fact that Satan goes after leaders because when a first leader falls, so many people see that example and and as you say they just Yeah, but they're like a heavier temptation than we are. But each and every one of us um has a witness and that witness is both direct and indirect, spoken and unspoken. Uh people are watching how we live our lives. Okay, any questions about that? Comments. Moving on to verse fourteen. So pursue peace with all men, and the sanctification without which no one will see the Lord All right, so what is this talking about? Uh first of all, who can pursue peace? Well only the Christian has the ability through the Holy Spirit to actually pursue peace and to be set apart to God in sanctification. impossible for the unregenerate. This is a work of the Holy Spirit to take us from spiritually dead to spiritually alive, to put off the old, put on the new. Um and so this is an exhortation to believers, pursue peace and the sanctification or righteousness, uh set set apart for righteousness to God. Uh we have a there's a couple of Old Testament passages that talk about uh Um the fact that unbelievers can't have peace with God or men. There is no peace, there's my God for the wicked, Isaiah fifty-seven twenty-one. And any righteous um righteousness that men try to produce apart from God is a filthy garment, Isaiah 64, 6. And so to pursue peace is um uh is a work of the Holy Spirit in us. And so uh in this particular passage the author is referred to practical peace and sanctification or righteousness. Uh positionally of course in Christ we already are at peace and already righteous. But practic practically we have a lot to do and we have a long way to go. to become conformed to the image of Christ. Romans eight twenty nine. So when we are saved, we are um uh we are we go from a position of being enemies of God to being at peace with God because of the righteousness of Christ. We're imputed the righteousness of Christ at our um at our salvation, at our uh the point of justification. So uh And that's our positional sanctification. We're set apart from the world, set apart to God. However, we also have a progressive sanctification, a becoming conformed to the likeness of Christ as we live out our Christian life. Um that's the sanctification that it's talking about here in the context of this passage. Uh becoming conformed to the likeness of Christ. Um and we're supposed to be pursuing that Pursue peace with all men, pursuing sanctification, becoming um conformed to the likeness of Christ. And without which no one will see the Lord. Uh so because we are at peace with God, we should be peacemakers. with other people. Because we are counted righteous, we should live righteously. Our practice should match our position. This is an exhortation for um um what we say and do to match what we say we believe. That's what this exhortation is for, all the way through really. Uh pursue pre peace primarily relates to loving people. Pursuing righteousness to loving God. So if we love people, we will be at peace with them or we will pursue peace with them. And if we love God, we will live righteously. Or pursue righteousness in our lives, the way we live. And so, what does this sound like? It sounds like what Jesus was teaching is the greatest commandment and the second one. is you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind, and the second is like it, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. Matthew 22, 37-39. This is loving your neighbor and loving God. Be at peace with all men, and sanctification, which is righteousness, which is loving God. So this is um uh a very consistent teaching throughout Scripture that was Christ's teaching in in his earthly ministry that his disciples then went on to teach over and over and over again. Loving people and loving God. pursue peace with men and the sanctification without which no one will see the Lord. Alright. Any questions, comments? Yes, Doug. Is this related back to making straight paths for your people? So uh I think so because uh making straight paths for your feet I think is referring to pursuing righteousness uh in whatever the path is that the Lord has set for in the race that you're running uh make a straight path, in other words, uh run that race um in righteousness um such that um you not only receive the prize yourself but also So uh make a path and the particular Greek word is talking about those kind of wagon ruts in the road for other people to follow um such that your um your your righteous living or your straight path is an example to others. Okay. Yes. I mean others very quiet today. Uh okay, so um let's continue then. Uh peace of course is a two way street. Peace between people. is a two way street. It's not possible for two persons to live at peace with each other. If one of them is persistently belligerent, if if one of them refuses to be at peace, um y y you can't you can't do that all by yourself. Uh In human terms. Jesus was peaceful toward all men, but all men were not peaceful towards him. Paul clarifies this principle by saying, if possible, so far as it depends on you be at peace with all men. That that's the I mean, that's the uh the bigger picture of what it means to be at peace with people, i if possible, as so far as it depends on you, be at peace with all men. Um there are examples of people that refuse to be at peace with another person, no matter what that other person does. Um there's nothing we can do about that. There's nothing you can do about that's why Paul puts it that way. If possible, so far as it depends on you, be at peace with all that. Romans twelve eighteen. When you try to uh reconcile with them or try to you want to forgive them and whatnot, they will not allow it. All you can do is just forgive them and uh let it rest with them. Right. That's right. So uh as far as it depends on you, do what you can to be at peace. Yes, Grace. You can forgive somebody for treating you badly and also put out Yeah. Yeah, reasonable boundaries are uh are are consistent. with forgiving somebody. That's right. So, um um however, we can't use another's belligerence as an excuse to respond in kind. We have an obligation to live peaceably, whether or not those around us treat us peaceably. So uh there there's it involves some self-reflection when we have a difficult circumstance with another person. Uh just make sure that uh from my side that I'm not contributing to the lack of peace. Um that as far as it d really it is as far as depends on me. Um have I really gone as far as it depends on me? That's something that we need to be able to do an honest self-reflection on. Have I really done everything that I can do? Um and then my conscience is clear. I've done everything I can to be at peace with this person. And I'm not using his belligerence as an excuse to respond in kind in any way. Um in word word or deed or thought. Okay. Uh everybody see that. Uh pursue peace. Pursue peace as far as it depends on on you. Um and so Jesus said during his earthly ministry, by this All men will know that you are my disciples if you have love for one another. John thirteen thirty five. So within the body of Christ, our love for each other is our part is part of our testimony for unbelievers. Pulling on to the Father and to the Son. So this is consistent what we're doing here from the author of Hebrews. Under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit is consistent with what Jesus was teaching during his earthly ministry. Of course it is. But this is what Jesus was saying to his disciples that the love that you show for one another is how uh people will know you're my disciples and will be a witness pointing to me, pointing to my father, if you do that. So this is a means of drawing people to Christ uh apart from whom no one will see the Lord. Uh as we run the race, leaving a straight path, showing love to men by peacemaking, and showing love to God by holiness, people will see the Lord. That's what this is talking about here. This is an exhortation to Christian living so that people would see the Lord in our living. Yes. One of the things that's so valuable about that scripture is that It's something that unbelievers can see, know, and recognize. So the type of love that we should have for each other should be far beyond anything that anyone sees in the world. And b and because the unbelievers don't have the Holy Spirit to see Christ to to to to to see and understand, you know, what what what God is doing in our lives. They see our example, they see what we do, they see how we respond and act toward one another and so therefore it's gotta be so very different that they connect it to God. Yep. That's exactly right. And it is very radical. It's a radical teaching. And it's something that we need to be intentional about in the body of Christ. Because in this first century Hebrew church, and in every church today, including the whole Bible church, at least some of of the people that come through the door are unbelievers and they're watching. Um and so uh w one of the things that I think this church does very well And I hear this from visitors is boy this church is really a loving church. That that people get that feeling when they walk in the door. I've heard that feedback from visitors to this church. So um and that's what that's what this is talking about. So w when a when a s when a newcomer, when somebody comes into the door and you don't recognize them as somebody that's a regular attender of Hope Bible Church, how do how do you treat that person? You know that it could that could be a brother and sister in Christ, or it could be an unbeliever, we don't know Um so we treat that person with love. They're either uh brother and sister in Christ, or they're somebody that Christ could have died for. We don't know if they're gonna be saved in the in the future. future uh and therefore worthy of our love. Um and that should flow out of us and and I think uh to a very large extent that that is true of this church and people see it and people comment to me. about it. And that's what that's what this is is talking to. Okay. Any other comments or questions? Yes, sir. It also kind of extends to you know the disagreements that we have with others uh how we are seen in the community. I remember 29 years ago when there was an elder who who who left California to k come back to the polk. And the church showed up to move to to get their stuff moved into the house. And a neighbor said, What's going on here? And and one of one of the people explained. Says, uh this this this guy's coming said and he said, Wow, that's love. That's love. And but But it also extends to how we how we disagree with each other and and how eager we are to reconcile. As a matter of fact, the uh uh when the member was when the guy joined joined us a couple weeks ago talked about reconciliation. among among believers. It's it's it's gotta be it's gotta be radical. It's gotta be we have to be as as as we talked as false talked about, willing to accept wrong to in in to to to to deal with the in s in in the right way. In in in a very uh generous way. Right. S that that's right. So it should look radically different. So somebody who walks into a church should be able to see, hey, this is different from how people normally are. They should be able to see that. And they should see us pursuing peace with all men. And sanctification, righteousness. Uh uh they should be able to see that when they walk into a church, when they walk into this church. And it should cause people then to see the Lord. Well yes, so that's uh yeah That's the other way of looking at it that, hey, they have something that I don't have, and I want that. Yeah. Yes, that that's the other way to look at it, that uh from the unbeliever's perspective, the unbeliever sees that we have something. thing that they don't have. Yeah. Uh and what uh just like we shouldn't be we shouldn't be allow allow ourselves to be negative to uh the situation that we had for this person. That uh you know we should use all wisdom to be cautious concerning this person. Right. And and to be conscious and thinking about how in this situation situation can I point this person to Christ? How what what kind of actions can I take that that person will see and it will point them to Christ? So that people will see the Lord in the actions that we take. Alright, verse 15. See to it that no one comes short of the grace of God. That no root of bitterness springing up causes trouble, and by it many be defiled. So a little bit of a warning here for uh believers here. See to it translates a single Greek word episcopo, which is closely related to episcopas. It's a same root, uh overseer or elder. So oversee, see to it, look over, watch over. is what it's really saying here. We're to have oversight of each other. We're supposed to be watching out for each other, helping each other grow in holiness and Christlieness. Uh we are also to look out for or oversee those in our midst especially within the church who may not be believers. So that's people that that come short of the grace of God. We're supposed to be looking out for the people that we see in our midst who are uh coming short of the glory of God. Um we are not to judge, but to be sensitive and concerned for opportunities to present them with the claims of Jesus Christ, so they will not come short of the grace of God. The goal is for them not to come short of the grace of God. And so we should have our uh we should be um you should be attuned to ch opportunities, chances to be able to um help people that might be coming short of the grace of God. What can I do? to help that person not to come short of the grace of God, to see to it that no one comes short of the grace of God in our little f little family here. Um so not a not from a judgment perspective. perspective but from a um there but for the grace of God go I how can I help this person into the kingdom? What what kind of um uh what kind of things can I say as an ambassador for Jesus Christ? What kind of things can I do as an encouragement or as an example for this person to see to it that he doesn't come short of the grace of God? Tragically, many people spend their entire lives in church yet never come to salvation. Now I'm talking in general terms. Others may come to church for a while and see nothing spiritually attractive and turn away. Um now uh all of these things that I'm talking about here are part of the reasons why When we do new member interviews, we ask personal and intrusive questions about people's spiritual lives because we want to know who it is that we're saying as a formal member of the church. We want to avoid situations where somebody comes to church for year after year and just sits in the pew and everybody assumes they're a believer but they're not. And so when we do member interviews, we ask about their conversion story about their salvation. We ask and we ask him to give details and we ask about their everybody uh everybody who's been through a new member interview here knows what I'm talking about. We ask what your life is was like before Christ, what your life has been like after Christ, and why do we do that? So we can see the fruit of repentance in their testimony So we know for sure that they're not in this very dangerous category of people that are kind of identified with the body of Christ but are not saved. We go to great pains here at this church to um to find out at the very beginning if people are truly saved or not. Now is that perfect? Of course it is. not. We we can't look into somebody's heart and people can mm can have a if if people are if especially if they've been in churches for years, can know the right things to say in an interview to to fool us. But we take pains to make sure that if somebody's a member, we know that they're a believer. But that's not the case at many churches. I've been in a lot of churches over my Fifty years of of following Christ. And most of those churches do not have such a membership process. Anybody that once comes in to the church and and the leadership of the church doesn't know Or hasn't asked the questions to find out if those people are truly followers of Christ or not. They just kind of assume. Um anyway, so and that leads to many churches, I don't think this one but many churches having many people that are um that are comfortably unsaved in their pews. A very dangerous place to be. We talked about that before. So we're exorted to see to it To be on the lookout so far as we can influence people so that no one around us lives under the illusion of being a Christian when he is not Or that no one is exposed to the gospel and turns away from it. And so, uh, Jesus gave a warning during his earthly ministry in Matthew chapter seven about um you know, people coming to him on the last day and saying, Uh we knew you We did we not prophesy in your name and so forth, did we not sit in that pew for all those years? Um and Jesus that the judgment says, Away from ye, I never knew you. What a terrible thing that is. It's it's a terrible, stark warning. And this is the in the same vein as Jesus Jesus' warning in Matthew seven. See to it that no one comes short of the grace of God uh is to to to see to it oversee, look over, watch out for Anybody in your midst that maybe fall short of the glory of God. Um okay. Uh first John two nineteen is a similar thing, a little bit different. It's really talking about leadership, I think. They went out from us, but they were never of us. Um okay. So a start thing. Um so the root of bitterness uh is another case. So see to it that no consumer of God, uh Joyce of God, but also see to it also in a different situation, see to it that no root of bitterness. springing up causes trouble. Bitterness refers to a person who is uh superficially identified with the people of God. He may have come to church for a while. It falls into apostasy, but he's not an ordinary apostate. He doesn't just kind of slink away. Uh he's an arrogant and defiant concerning the things of God. Uh God's response to such boastful unbelief is harsh and final as we see in the Old Testament about uh bitter uh this root of bitterness exp uh explained in In Exodus 29, people that uh flagrantly turn away from God. This is the way Exodus 2920 describes it. The Lord shall never be willing to forgive him. But rather the anger of the Lord and his jealousy will burn against that man, and every curse which is written in this book will rest on him, and the Lord will blot out his name from under heaven. Very harsh. Who turns away from God and is arrogantly boastful about turning away from God This is the root of bitterness, yes. Um that's fine, but I know okay, I truly believe that no one recognized in the case was treated very poorly by a church and less that church and since seems to not want to join any church and and I I sense bitterness uh because that happened but this is a true believer it's not an apostate. Right, right. Sure. Yeah, so uh of course it's not possible for us to really see into a person's heart, uh but the word can and in this case The Lord is identifying people that He can see into their heart and see that they are uh a bitter root. And this is how God um says he will deal with such people. So I I don't so I don't think this is talking about a true believer Um it's not that uh so this root of bitterness is different from just ordinary bitterness. So yes a a true believer can become bitter, can become angry, these sort of things. But This is a root of biz bit bitterness that springs up and causes trouble and defiles many. Um so this is a this is a word picture of somebody that is not only apostasizing but is dragging others down. with him on purpose. This r that's a root of bitterness as as this word picture is describing, yes. Is that sort of implied that there's no there's no hope for that that person could Well so that's what the that's what the old testament was talking about, a a bit a root of bitterness kind of person in the Old Testament. Yeah, God's gonna burn blot his name out from under heaven. Um and we saw earlier in Um in Hebrews this idea of somebody that's a uh a willful, kind of malignant apostate, that there there's no longer any sacrifice for him is the way it was put earlier in Hebrews. Uh but there are people People that have turned away and they've turned away for good. And we can't always identify who that person is, but the Lord sure knows. The Lord knows a person who's who's really turned their heart a away from him. And he identifies People like that in the Old Testament. And I think this is identifying people like that here in the New Testament. Yes, Chris. So if a refusal to repent someone isn't safe, if they do repent, then there should be forgiveness as far as I understand. So Yeah, so uh this is a person that's yeah, go ahead. Well the context of this happen is in the church. The root of internet is a person in the church. Mm-hmm. Believers individually like are not a Right. But this is this is not talking about that. Yeah, I think this is a different level. This is um and and so we're supposed to see to it, watch out for this that this that no root of Bitterness springing up causes trouble and by it many be defiled. So this is another thing we're told to watch out for. So this is a uh this is one of the purposes of vigilance. Um important purpose of vigilance. is to guard against apostasies, lest they cause trouble and by it many be defiled. Some apostolates simply fall away from the church and are never heard from again A person with the root of bitterness, however, is corrosive, has a corrosive influence, a serious contamination in the body. He stays in a near the fellowship of the church and spreads wickedness, doubt, and general defilement. He is not content to apostasize by the church. himself but seems intent on dragging others down with him. That's what that's the kind of person I think that this is warning against. That you need to get that person out. Um if he's if he's negatively influencing others uh within the church y you need to get the that cut the cancer out. Um yes. Yes. Well Well uh I don't he did take angels with him, so he's got demons that he took with him. Um and yeah, and so th Satan was cast out, um and the demons were were cast out and eventually they're gonna be cast into the lake of fire. Um yeah. Yeah, so this is something about uh y you go ahead. Uh Um yes, it's Deuteronomy, yes. Sorry, sorry about that. It's not Exodus, it's Deuteronomy. Um yeah, that's uh that's a typo. Uh Deuteronomy twenty nine, twenty. Uh the blessings and cursings. Um in the at the end of Deuteronomy. Yeah. So I think it's also important to know that the grading is such that we need to look out and be on watch for the root events. Yeah. But we need to be on watch and on guard for them so that they do not cause the trouble in the classroom. They will appear, but we need to pull out the wheat. Yes. Yeah, so this is an Exhortation to be on guard, to be vigilant, to watch out for these things, and there's no sense in watching out for something that's never gonna happen. I mean there i the this Holy Spirit is warning us about things that he never Those are going to happen. Yeah. Um Okay. So uh this root of business, watch out for that. Uh watch out for individual people to make sure that they don't fall short of the grace of God and then watch out for this root. root of bitterness that has the potential to spring up and cause trouble and and by it many be defiled. It spreads, yeah. You know, you deal with this, but it's springtime. And last year there was this plant that was in my garden and it was just taking over uh it was being a monster. And so I'm like, I'm done with this plant, it's gotta go. And I I I worked hard and it was one that sent a a runner underneath just underneath the surface. And I tried to pull up all the runners I could and this year springtime I realized I missed some of the roots because it's as this sprung up in all these places where I didn't want it. And so I gotta get after it again to get this thing all out and I think there's a picture of our relationships with people that if we don't make sure that we're all the way reconciled with people, that there could be bitterness underneath the surface and And any little thing can just sprout that thing right back up in our face, uh either in me, right, or in somebody else that I've offended. And that's it's really important to make sure that and that gets back to striving for peace. Yeah, pursuing peace, striving for peace with people is work. It's it's it can be hard work. Um we we got this lesson on reconciliation from um the pastor that preached uh a few weeks ago in the conference that we had. a few weeks ago and there it's not an easy thing. We i it's something that has to be pursued and sought after. Um yes. Uh Okay. Uh verse sixteen. Um and why do we do this? Why do we why do we do the things that we just talked about in verse fifteen? That there be no immoral or godless person like Esau who sold his own both right for a single meal. So why are we doing, why are we looking out for this root of bitterness? The explanation is right here. That there be no immoral or godless person like Esau That's why we're looking. The explanation is right here, we don't have to guess. That there'll be no immoral or godless person like Esau. who sold his own birthright for a single meal. One of the saddest and most godless people in scripture outside of Judas was On the surface their acts against God do not seem as wicked as those of many brutal and heartless pagans. Mass slaughters and baby sacrifices and things like that. Just on the surface, their wickedness doesn't seem to be exceptional. But the Bible sends them out. The Bible strongly condemns them. And why? Because they had great light. Both Judas, who sat under the teaching of Christ for three years, And Esau, who had a family that was blessed by God, he He uh he would have heard everything that Jacob heard about the blessings that had come down from Abraham to Isaac They had great light. They had every possible opportunity, as much as any person in their times, both Judas and Esau, of knowing and following God. They knew his word as far as it had been revealed, had heard his promises, seen his miracles, and had fellowship with his people, yet with willful determination they turned their backs on God. And so Esau is singled out as the immoral and godless person that we don't want to have among us. So he's not only immoral but also godless According to Scripture, uh he had no scruples or reverence or faith. He was totally worldly, totally secular, totally profane. Uh Christians are to be vigilant that no person such as Esau contaminate Christ's body See to it that there be no immoral or godless person like Esau. That's what this whole passage, and I mean we've broken it up into verses that actually break into the middle of sentences, but this whole long sentence says, see to it that a bunch of things not happen and see to it that there'd be no immoral or godless person like Esau. Yeah. How do you explain how he reconciled the chief? Uh so obviously he didn't really repent. But it's interesting to look at things like this, to see things like Lot is commended as a believer. Lot. And Lot slept with two of his daughters. But the Bible says he was a true believer in God. Esau, reconciled, seemed on the outside to have reconciled with his brother, but the Bible points him out as a particular example of an immoral and godless person. And so this is an example of a situation where um God sees into the heart and we don't see. We don't see. And we is there are some cases where it's direct. directly revealed to us in Scripture so we know for certain that Lot was a believer. He repented, had faith, and Esau was not. Um and we'll see in verse seventeen that there was no repentance. in Esau. Um, yeah. Um so here's the example of a godless, uh immoral person and we're supposed to see to it that there's there's not a a moral and godless person like Esau uh uh among us. Um so uh Esau's brother Jacob was not a paragon of ethics and integrity. Right? We see over and over again. Uh you know, he does all sorts of shady things. Um but he genuinely valued the things of God. The birthright was precious to him, though he tried to procure it by devious means. Um but to Esau the birthright or the things of God were not precious. Um and that's the that's the point. uh here that a person like that um immoral and godless so uh and then in verse 17 uh the it it does it it it kind of amplifies it says uh for You know that even afterwards, when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no place for repentance. There was no repentance in his heart Uh though he sought for it with tears. So when he saw finally woke up to this the extent and realized that he had forsaken um uh what he had forsaken and made a half-hearted attempt to retrieve it, the Bible is telling us here in no one's terms the Holy Spirit revealed that there was no repentance in Esau's heart. Now do do we do does that come out clearly from what we read about him in the Old Testament? Not necessarily. It doesn't. And so, um the Holy Spirit reveals in here in the New Testament that there was no repentance in Esau's heart. Even though he um he was sad about losing his birthright There was no repentance in his heart. Just because he stopped for it with tears does not indicate sincerity or true remorse Since we read that, he found no place for repentance. Something that God saw in his heart that doesn't necessarily leap out of the pages of the story in the Old Testament. He bitterly regretted, but did not repent. He selfishly wanted God's blessings, but he did not want God Himself on God's own terms. No repentance in his heart. He had fully apostatized and was forever outside of God's grace. He went on saying, And therefore there no longer remained any sacrifice to cover his sins. Um and the J uh Jacob was very leery of Esau when he came to meet him, even after he met him. Um but hi d Esau's actions seemed to be fine after that. I mean he didn't attack Jacob. He didn't try to take his stuff or kill his kids. Uh but the New Testament here makes clear There was no repentance in Esau's heart. In spite of that, there was no repentance in his heart. Okay. Uh so we must be vigil vigilant so that no one among us turns from the truth, becomes bitter, or follows the course. Of selfish Esau, who wanted God's blessing, but not on God's terms. Does everybody see that? Kind of this exhortation and warning mixed here for us to be vigilant and watching over the world. over uh each other in in inside the church. So this is directed at all uh local body church members, not just the church leaders. Yeah, so uh so think about the uh original um the original letter would have gone to this church and the church would contain believers and also unbelievers and the letter's going to be read out. And it's going to be heard by believers and unbelievers inside this church. Like a sermon, like a sermon on Sunday, the sermon that's about to be preached, um, by Pastor Mike. It'll be heard by Believers and unbelievers, everybody that's sitting there in the pews and also out on the internet as well. Um this particular look out for, see to it that it's directed at us, not just our Uh yes. Yeah, that's right. That's right. So uh the the word uh episcopo is uh look out for, watch out for, oversee, um, is not in this case an office, uh which is episcopas, is an office, overseer, elder. Um This is a general exhortation to all believers to watch out for these things. Yeah. So not just the elders. So it's not episcopas, it's episcopo Uh yeah, not an office but a exhortation in general. Yes. Um in my mind is also kind of harking back to the other. encouraging one another daily as long as it's called a day. May not be pardoned by the sequences. I I'm kind of seeing a a parallel there where it's You know, for Poss even though it may have been even perhaps even more school, you know, at at that point it was already too far gone and it had already been past today. Right. You know, really that would have had a genuine impact as hard to say. I think that's right. He had hardened his heart to the point where it was truly hard and i i i he was past repentance. Now, um that's something that God can see And we generally can't w w whether a person has passed that point where his heart is hard and it's not gonna repent. And so we preach the gospel to everyone. Um and then it's the whole in the Holy Spirit's hands, so whether that heart is truly hardened or whether that's a a heart that's can be re can repent. Yeah. Yeah. Sorry, go ahead, Grace. Okay. All right. So make sure you write it down so you don't lose it. Uh any short questions, Larry? Shorty. Yeah. Repentance is granted by God. Yes. That's what we pray for repentance of the heart. Yeah, so the unregenerated heart cannot repent, so it's a work of the Holy Spirit to re regenerate the heart such that they can repent, and and we don't know. Oh. That's right. That's right. So we know that there is such a thing, because the scripture has revealed it to us, but we cannot see it. There are there are evidences of it But we can't know for sure. And and some of them are quite um quite surprising when revealed, like Esau was was did not repent and Lot did. Yes, yeah. But but to me, if you look at the stories in the Old Testament about Lot and about Esau Which one which one seems on the surface to be the worst person? Lot. I mean the last thing we hear about him is is sleeping with his daughter. That's the last thing we hear in scripture in the Old Testament about Lot is sleeping with his daughters a after having been living in Sodom. Um but it turns out that Lot did repent and Lot was a a regenerate a faithful follower of the one true God. But Esau was not. Let me close this in prayer