Okay, it's good to be back. Uh after a couple of weeks away, uh thank you very much to Doug for teaching the class for the last two weeks. Uh I was out at my niece's wedding the week before last, and last week I was teaching the new member class. So it's been a couple weeks since I've been here. We are now up to um lesson number 32 in our 39 part series on the book of Hebrews. Uh we've been uh walking through chapter eleven, going through the kind of the Faith Hall of Fame and uh we saw Abel and his worshiping in faith, bringing the right sacrifice. We saw Enoch walking in faith and the Lord taking him up. We saw Abraham and his life of faith. Uh and then last week he went through the faith of uh the the situation with Isaac and I and the the faith surrounding uh the early patriarchs, um Isaac and Jacob and Joseph. And today we're gonna do Moses. We're gonna look at the life of Moses and his decisions of Faith. So what we're going to talk about today is Moses and these decisions of faith. We're going to talk about how faith operates in the life of a follower of Christ. Faith accepts God's plan, faith rejects. The world's prestige. Faith rejects the world's pleasures. Faith rejects the world's plenty. Faith rejects the world's pressure. And faith accepts God's provision and accepts God's promises. So accepting and rejecting various things based on faith and to an unbeliever these things will all be very counterintuitive. Um the the worldly wisdom would say the opposite in in all of these respects. That's a lot of illiteration. It is. Okay, so let's take a look. We're gonna do a little bit of review, but we're gonna do it in in counts in the form of my usual m-weekly quote of John MacArthur. So bear with me. We're gonna start off by looking at this passage in Hebrews. So if you'll take out your Bible or two Tune your device to Hebrews chapter 11. We're going to do the last part of Hebrews chapter 11. So starting in verse 23, Hebrews chapter 11, verse 23 to 29, this is the word of the Lord. By faith, Moses, when he was born, was hidden for three months by his parents, because they saw he was a beautiful child, and they were not afraid of the king's edict. By faith, Moses, when he had grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, choosing rather to endure ill treatment with the people of God than to enjoy the passing pleasures of sin. Considering the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt For he was looking to the reward. By faith he left Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king. For he endured, as seeing him who is unseen. By faith he kept the Passover and the sprinkling of the blood, so that he who destroyed the firstborn would not touch them By faith they passed through the Red Sea as though they were passing through dry land, and the Egyptians, when they attempted it, were drowned. So this is the word of the Lord that we will. take a look at today. First I want to uh read you a few paragraphs from John MacArthur's commentary on this section of scripture. And he does a good uh good job here at at reviewing Well, we've uh just been through over the last several weeks in this little set of paragraphs. So I'll read it to you uh in uh by way of review. Uh life is made up of decisions This is MacArthur qu quoting MacArthur. Life is made up of decisions. Some are simple and unimportant, and some are complex and extremely important. Many are made almost unconsciously, whereas others we think about carefully for a long time. Some decisions are made by default. When we put off deciding, a decision is made for us. But it is still our decision because we decided to put it off. The course and the quality of our lives are determined much more by our decisions than they are by our circumstances. Christian living involves making right decisions And here comes the review. Abel chose God's way by offering the proper sacrifice and was blessed Cain rejected God's way by offering his own kind of sacrifice and was cursed. Enoch chose God's way by walking with him all his life, and God took him directly to heaven Noah and his family chose God's way by continually obeying him, and they were saved from the flood. Everyone else on earth rejected God's way and was drowned. Abraham chose God's way by believing him, regardless of how things looked from his own perspective, and he was counted righteous. Others In his day rejected God's way and died in their sins. Isaac, Jacob, and Joseph chose God's way, and they exhibited faith that conquered death. The unbelieving peoples around them chose another way, and death conquered them. Right choices are made on the basis of right faith. When we know God's will in a matter, we choose it by faith. When we choose God's way, we put up the shield of faith, and the temptations and allurements of Satan are deflected. Ephesians 6. 16 The opposite of choosing God's way is always Satan's way, and not believing God is believing Satan Whenever we sin, we believe Satan. We believe that his way is better than God's way. We believe the Father of lies above the Father of truth. Moses lived most of his life before the covenant of Mount Sinai with its system of commandments and rituals But both before and after Sinai he lived by faith, not by works. No person in Scripture other than Jesus illustrates the power of right decision better than Moses His decisions were right because his faith was right. In the Jewish mind he was associated with commandments, rituals, and ceremonies, with all the religious requirements and works of the old covenant. But he was a man who lived by faith. Because to the Jews, Moses ranks as one of the most respected Old Testament figures to show that he lived by faith, not legalism. is one of the most powerful arguments possible to convince Jews that God's way has always been The lay of faith. John MacArthur. So a pretty good introduction to this section, a pretty good review of uh the people that we've looked at previously in chapter 11 as well Okay. under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit has given so far in chapter eleven. Abel and Enoch and Noah and Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and Joseph. Any questions about any of that? Okay. We'll roll y yeah yes, sorry Scott. Go ahead. So uh are you talking about the uh the the The s the some time the sometime uh tension that's oh what happened? Oh. The the sometime uh tension that is s the the the seeming dilemma sometimes between Paul and James, faith and works, that that is that what you're getting at Maybe I I would actually think we've much more personal, right? Right. Obeying that and obeying that over and over again in in faithful ways, continuous ways, right? Yeah. So I I think the the the this is this gets i in a personal way that gets at the the seeming dilemma, the seeming tension between Paul and James in that um Paul says uh you know that um we're saved by faith by grace through faith and that not of yourself it's it's not faith alone and then james comes along and says faith without works is dead Uh but I think the teaching is um those are compatible if we think about it in the way uh that I think all of Scripture describes faith. That that faith that true faith always leads to obedience. And when we're talking about obedience, what are we talking about? We're talking about some command that God God's given and obeying that command. And so um and faith that doesn't lead to obedience, obeying God's command, doing something, doing something that God's commands, um, i i according to James, especially chapter two, is fake faith or dead f dead faith as he puts it. So it's not true saving faith. So if you in fact have true faith saving faith, then you will have obedience to commands which um are can can be described as works. So you will have works as an uh kind of an outworking of faith. And I think that's the teaching and and we can get um There can be a a card and horse kind of issue where uh and there can be a uh an issue of discernment Um both when I look inward and when I look outward at other people of God. There can it's uh uh uh we're we're masters at deceiving ourselves So i i it we c a person can be deceived about what what is the motivation for this thing that I'm doing? Am I truly doing this good work for God's glory or am I am I really doing this God this good work for for me, for s for pe for people to see that and to say, oh what a great X, what a great teacher he is. And and that's why I'm I'm doing what I'm doing. Um we have a great capacity for self-deception. Um we can't deceive God He can look right into our heart and know what our motivation is for it. And people can deceive one another So it does take some discernment, both self-reflection and looking out at the works that others do to see whether they are uh obedience to God in faith, which means doing doing works that you do for his glory, and legalism, which is doing good works for uh people to notice me. Um there there's there's no getting around the fact that um that can That discernment can be difficult to to tell what what the difference is there. Yeah. I don't think obedience is always a matter of faith. It's also a matter of love. Be obeying him because we don't say if we love him, he's like obeying him Correct. So there's faith, hope, and love and the gospel uh uh the the teaching of scripture about uh what motivates us to do what we do, if we're a follower of Christ and if we are truly seeking God's glory that that that's motivated by faith, hope, and love. All three of those things. And when we get to heaven Which one of those is left? Love. Yeah. Okay. So good point, yes. Motivated by we're motivated by faith, hope, and love. Yeah. Okay. Any any other questions? Really easy ones like that like that? Uh no, good it was a good question. It's a good thing to think through in in your own life, to to think through it. Uh we should always be doing a self-assessment. Why am I doing the things that I'm I'm doing? I I know that I should be doing them for God's glory. Am I Um yes. I was just gonna say kind of supplementing to that, the um delineation between right choices between what we should and legalism. Uh Hosea six six, uh I desire steadfast love, not sacrifice, the knowledge of God rather than burnt offering. Uh making the right choices might you know, it might not go along with what everybody else thinks that you should be doing where legalism is very much defined by man. It's checking boxes and it doesn't matter if you actually believe anything where God shows again and again and again that he prefers people who flip up and they sin and then they repent but they love him. versus people who like obsessively go through every single sentence to make sure that they're doing the right things and there's no argument Right. Yeah. Doing the right thing for the right reason is always uh what what God is looking for. Yeah. Yes, Bob. Yep, there you go. Yeah, so the the Westminster Divines were uh were quite wise um and they spent three years putting together the uh the shorter and larger catechism and the Westminster um confession and I think they did an excellent job and so Um i it's you can get excellent summaries of theological positions by going through uh the Westminster Confession and the Westminster Larger and Shorter Catechism. Uh it's a good resource. Okay, um any other questions, comments? Alright, let's roll into Moses. So uh starting with verse twenty-three, by faith Moses when he was born was hidden for three months by his parents. So Whose faith are we talking about here? Are we talking about Moses' faith? No, he was just a tiny little baby. So we're not talking about Moses' faith here. He's they're actually talking the author of Hebrews and the Holy Spirit is talking about the faith of Moses' parents here. By faith Moses when he was born was hidden for three months by his parents, because they saw he was a beautiful child, and they were not afraid of the king's edict. So if Moses had been an ugly child we'd never No so no so that that's we'll see that that's not really what we're getting at. They didn't look at him and say, oh what a cute baby Therefore we better hide him 'cause he's a cute baby. Alright. I just want to get past that for a second. We'll get we'll we'll circle back to that. Right, no parent has ever had an ugly child. Uh yeah. Uh so Uh well let's go back. I won't we won't read through the whole passage, but um I'll just summarize. Uh to control the population of the growing population of the Hebrew slaves in Egypt, Pharaoh gave an edict that the male babies were to be uh killed uh if you read all the way down through the last part of it uh it ended up being that that they're supposed to be drowned in the Nile. Um so that was what Pharaoh ordered. Um To protect and of course we had the Hebrew midwives and they disobeyed that and uh but when we get to Moses, uh to protect their newborn son, Amram and Jacobed, uh Moses' parents, first hit him they hit him for three months first, the first three months they hit him And then they put him in a waterproof d basket, a tabah. Now the Hebrew word tabah is very interesting. It's only used twice. It's used for Moses' basket And it's used for Noah's Ark. That's the two places that Hebrew word is used. Noah's basket. Noah's Ark and Moses' basket. Same Hebrew word. Not used anywhere else, but those two for those two uh instances. So they put him in a little arc, interestingly enough. A tiny little ark with with just Moses in it, and they covered it with pitch, just like Moses. covered the thing with pitch and put him in the Nile. Uh placed him in the Nile near the place where Pharaoh's daughter bathed. He was found by the princess, taken to be raised as her own child Uh and then of course Moses' sister Miriam is hiding in the reeds there of the Nile and watching the basket go down and and she sees the princess pick up the basket and uh And she, Miriam, goes up and and uh asks her, hey, do you want one of the Hebrews to to nurse this baby? And then ta takes a takes Moses home to his own mother uh to nurse him. Uh pretty clever. The whole thing is very clever. Uh so Miriam gets her own mother and was then able to raise her son almost as if he had been at home And that whole story is uh Exodus one, uh chapter one, verse fifteen to Exodus two, uh verse ten. The the whole story of uh Pharaoh's edict and Moses' uh parents and Moses and the Tabah, the little ark. Um and how he came to be raised in the palace, in Pharaoh's palace So Moses' parents, Abraham and Jacobed, uh were not afraid of the king's edict. Notice how the Holy Spirit puts that in there. They ignored the pressures and threats of the world when these conflicted with God's way. Uh there was God's way and there was this threat, this pressure from the world, but they were not afraid of that Pressure. From the New Testament we see that their concern was for more than just a beautiful child in human terms. Stephen, in his sermon before the Han Sanhedrin, says Moses was lovely in the sight of God. God. That's Acts 7. 20. So we're not just talking about, well, that's a cute baby there. This as explained by the Holy Spirit through this sermon by Stephen Moses was lovely in the sight of God. That's the real point here. Um the the New Testament gives us further insight into what this what this means, this sermon of of Stephen does. Uh so we understand that it that it's not just hey he's a cute cute baby. So Moses' parents may have been somehow aware of God's special concern and special purposes for Moses because look what it says. It says by faith in God they hid him and opposed Pharaoh's orders uh Pharaoh's order to have the baby killed. So this was faith in God. So uh what so we don't get any details, but somehow they knew that it was God's will that this child be saved It was by faith in God that they did this. We're not we're not given the full details, but somehow they knew. Uh Moses' parents were willing to risk their own lives uh uh disobeying f uh flagrantly flaunting an edict of Pharaoh uh would have been very, very dangerous Imprisonment, death, the these sort of things. But they were willing to risk their own lives. They did not fear that. They were willing to risk their own lives to follow God's way. Their decision was clear, save the child, whatever the consequences. Saving Moses was more than their own will, it was also God's will. It was faith in God and his purposes. Obviously all most parents, all parents r probably would want to save their own child, but that's not the point that the author's Hebrews is getting at here. Yes? Um correct me if you think this is a wrong statement. But But I think this is somewhat of allusion to the realms of authority where first threatened the family. So therefore it's taken precedence over The the King's Edict. So uh i i there there could be an element of that, but there's more than that Uh we can see that both from this passage as we read through it and also from the passage in Acts that we have that that there's more than just the the run of the mill ordinary okay the family's in charge of of kids and the government doesn't have a right to come in. That that I don't think that's the main purpose of of this passage to say, hey in in any case no matter whose child it was the parents have control of the child and the government can't take them away. I don't think that's the real point of this, although also true. Yeah. Yeah. Okay, yes, Richard. They did. Yeah. So they were descendants of Levi from the tribe of Levi uh both of Moses' parents and so um uh Moses and Aaron, of course Aaron his brother was a Levite Um yes, so it was that that tribe, yeah. Um and Miriam too. Um his sister So his parents were uh this was all by faith, faith in God, uh that the parents were doing this, uh, according to the inspired author of Hebrews. We have no way of knowing how much they knew about God's plan For the destiny of their son, but it was enough for them to know that he had a special reason for Moses' protection and to take these kind of steps to save Moses. It took considerable faith to put Moses in that basket and and to trust that Pharaoh's daughter would take pity on this Hebrew baby. I mean he could have just floated down the Nile and out to sea. Um You know, they didn't have very much control over where this basket went once they put it out there in the Nile. Uh they did send Miriam out to watch it But they still didn't have control of where this basket was gonna float. Uh, and what was gonna happen to him once and who was gonna fight him and what was gonna happen to him. Um, it also took faith to believe that if he were adopted by the princess he would be raised in the way of the Lord rather than in the paganism of Egypt. I mean he could have turned into a standard uh standard issue uh Egyptian pagan Um they were taking that chance, so to speak, uh, by putting them out there. From a human perspective, his parents had no way of knowing even that his life would be spared Uh I mean the the daughter of Pharaoh could have said, Hey, here's a Hebrew baby. Uh my father the Pharaoh says that they're supposed to be killed and have one of her attendants drown them right there and then That could have been the outcome. She could have been a faithful daughter of her father the Pharaoh and had carried out his edict, and there goes Moses drowning in the Nile. Yet they willingly let him go, entrusting him to God. Uh Jacob had nursed Moses and probably taught him Israel's promises from God that they were to inherit the land of Canaan and be a great nation and a blessed and bless the world. Remember this was the promise that was given over and over to Abraham that Abraham passed down to Isaac and Isaac passed down to Jacob and um and so this was something that was part of the The national story, the story of this people, were these promises to Abraham. And we don't get an explicit scripture that tells us, but it seems reasonable to assume. assume that this is one of the things that parents, uh the the Jewish parents, uh the Israelite parents typically taught to their children, and so most likely she taught Moses, uh that they were to inherit the land of Canaan She also may have instilled in him God's promise of a great deliverer the messianic hope in which Abraham had rejoiced. Do we see in John chapter 8 that uh Jesus particularly says, Abraham saw my day and rejoiced. Um and it could be that the same thing uh with Moses that Moses was taught this sort of thing. His mother most likely helped build in him the faith that was to become characteristic of his life. Again, this is It is speculation because the scripture doesn't tell us in particular, but she was obviously a faithful woman We see here the Holy Spirit tell us that his parents had faith. And so what does a a parent that has faith do with their children? The parent who has faith instills that faith or teaches that faith to uh their children And so it is a reasonable assumption that she did that with Moses in the time that she had with him while she was bringing him up. Of course she did not fully know why God allowed her son to be raised in the court of Egypt, but she trusted that this was God's plan and unlike Sarah did not try to adjust his plan to her own. So we see that Sarah God had given his uh prophecy about what was gonna happen and Sarah decided that she needed to help God along, uh that God needed her help. Um well Uh it doesn't appear that uh Jacobet did that. She just went with God's plan and let Moses go. She didn't try to like substitute him with a different child or something. Um okay. Uh any questions so far about what we see f for with Moses' parents in his early life when it's really the faith of his parents that we're talking about here in verse twenty three. Uh verse twenty four. By faith Moses when he had grown up refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. So now we're on to Moses' faith himself. For forty years Moses had been a prince of Egypt, raised in the court which in Egypt at this time was the wealthiest, most advanced Nation in the world. And the New Testament fills in some gaps. The New Testament tells us, and Moses was educated in all the learning of the Egyptians, and he was a man of power in words and deeds. So he was really raised as a prince. and educated as a prince, and had the words and deeds of a prince of Egypt, the most advanced, most uh richest country in the world, that's what the New Testament tells us in Acts chapter seven, how he was raised, is education would have included it uh the way uh Egyptians in the court were raised at that time. He would have learned to read and write hieroglyphics, which was the Egyptian language, and probably some of the Canaanite languages and other languages. Um he had of course learned Hebrew from his mother. So he he would have known Hebrew, he would have known uh uh Egyptian, the Egyptian language and probably other languages from the area. But his training in Egypt never dulled his knowledge of the hope of Israel and of the promises of God. They were still there. What his mother had taught him was still there when he was forty years old and had to make this life-altering decision. When Moses reached the age of 40, he had to decide between remaining a full-fledged member of the Egyptian royal family. and joining his own people, Israel. The deciding factor was his faith in God. The scripture tells us by faith Moses refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. So it was a faith decision that he made, according to Scripture. So from a worldly perspective, Moses was sacrificing everything for nothing. of he's sacrificing being in the royal family of the greatest nation on earth, and he's trading that in for being a slave That's trading everything for nothing. But from a spiritual perspective, he was sacrificing nothing for everything. Spiritually, the Egyptian royal house was nothing. And spiritually, the people of Israel and the promises that they had in God to be his people Spiritually that was everything. So in reality, he was trading nothing for everything. From the any human reasonable human perspective, he was giving up everything for nothing Moses renounced the world's power and prestige for the sake of God, but he knew that doing so would gain him infinitely more than he would lose. And why is this? We see in verse twenty-six, for he was looking to the reward. And we'll get to that when we talk about verse 26. That's what he was really looking forward to. Yes. um elevated training in languages, culture. And then yes, and got another he felt inadequate to do the job that's he did, yeah. Yeah, uh it's interesting to to contemplate that, to contemplate the later um verse that says that m Moses was the humblest man on the face of the earth. I mean the scripture says that, that Moses was the humblest man on the face of the earth. Written by Moses, so That's another thing that you gotta wrap your head around. That the man who wrote that Moses was the humblest man on the earth was Moses here. But really the Holy Spirit wrote that. Yes. Absolutely. So the the the Lord was preparing him to be useful to him And notice, uh we won't uh we don't have time to really get too much into this, but uh God spent eighty years preparing Moses to lead The first forty years in Pharaoh's household in great luxury splendor and luxury, and the next forty years on the back side of the desert. as kind of a outcast and a and an outlaw. Two totally very different phases of Moses' training But both necessary for him to be useful to God by the time he was eighty. So you can uh divide up Moses' life into th three forty year blocks. Forty years in the court of uh Pharaoh, forty years on the backside of the wilderness. And then forty years leading to people from age eighty to a hundred and twenty when he died. Very well rounded. Very well rounded. Uh yeah, let's uh grace first and then we'll we'll come back over just a point um if also worth considering that first forty years in Egypt he would have been surrounded by pagans who would have had like maybe worldly wisdom but no real wisdom and he spent the next forty years living in Jethro's household who like clearly was at least pretty wise he gave Moses advice later on. So maybe that's part of the reason he felt slow speech and slow tongue because in Egypt, sure, he was really smart and then he moved it into Jennifer's house and he has to relearn everything and he sees and he gets humbled by that. Yeah, that could be and and it's very interesting to see that God used these two f very different experiences, four years worth, to get him ready to to be I think we have to think of the first point we were a little bit differently. It wasn't point in Pharaoh, of course, because when I was in the University of Maryland We learned that the first five years of any child's life formed their foundation. their foundational belief, what that is. And I suspect mostly to the first five years there'll be some other because they didn't mean that until very early. And that was where he got uh Yeah, so this is a good point. So the first forty years of course included those first early formative years that he spent with his mother. Um and so it wasn't just the court of of Egypt that formed him in his early life. He had this foundation that we just talked about from his mother who had taught him uh who who this who who th who they were as a people, I'm sure, and the promises to Abraham and all those sort of things were inculcated in him. He learned Hebrew most likely, because that's what they were probably speaking in the house and So a child that grows up as a child hearing his parents speak, that's gonna be his first language. Hebrew is definitely gonna be his first language. Um he had he had a foundation before he actually went to the court. Yeah, that's a good point. Yes. Yeah. So he but he had this this he did have all this worldly wisdom by all this the the best teachers and tutors that the pharaoh could bring to come teach his royal family all this knowledge. Uh knowledge and and wisdom of the world he knew. And then of course he needed forty years of a different kind of training with Jethro after that. Um and then after eighty years he was finally ready to to lead God's people. Um so don't be discouraged if you haven't found if if you if you haven't found your spiritual niche yet. Um S some of you have actually gone past eighty and so uh but if you haven't quite gotten to eighty and you s and you're still looking for your spiritual niche, uh it took Moses it took God a while to form Moses into the useful tool. that he became uh eighty years worth. Okay, but he had a certain decision to make when he was forty. The things the world considers great had nothing to do with what God considers great. That's what we get from this this perspective. i i I mean here's this this Prince of Egypt and you would think that was the thing that w God really needed, but it wasn't. There was much more that Moses needed to go through before he was truly useful. Um God is not interested in what family we came from or how much money we have or how much education we have or what positions we hold. These are not related to his primary concerns for us. Right? So you don't have to be um a rich and famous person to be useful to God. That's not how God sees things. That's not how God evaluates people. Um Okay. So uh and and he was God's the same yesterday, today, and tomorrow, so the way he was evaluating in Moses' days The same way that he's evaluating today. Moses cared nothing for his Egyptian heritage or advantages. Moses decided to give his life over to much greater things. Moses gladly joined with God's chosen people, though they were slaves, rather than take advantage of the prestige and privileges of Egypt and be unfaithful to God. That was his choice Be unfaithful to God and get all this wonderful worldly wealth and privilege, or be faithful to God and join in with the slaves. That was his choice. Now Try to put yourself in the Moses' position and don't be so quick to assume that it would be easy for me to do the same thing that Moses did, to put aside wealth and privilege. It's um Think hard about it. Think think how difficult that would be. Uh and think about than your own life and situations and whether it's easy to put a w put aside the the wealth and privilege and and and worldly things that we have right now, uh, in order to obey God, to serve Him, uh are we willing to part with um anything uh in order to obey God. If God calls me today to to leave my job and to go into the mission field, a am I ready, willing, and able to do that? Um it requires some self-examination. It's not easy. Yes, Scott. Subtle variation in that. Subtle variation in that. I spoke to them all the time. That often means that I can't keep the sources of action every other distance under 1931. And I gotta tell you I I talked to the smaller I struggle with it roughly hard. Like I'm home, like I wouldn't do my best. Why do I always have to be back at the moment? Why do I always have to you know the opportunities for you know, gain or opportunity where involved or something like that. But I I hear you I feel like you put your finger on that same thing and Yeah, and I think every single follower of Christ has to struggle with that at one time or another. Um uh uh you know the the the the siren call of the things of the world are there and and they manifest themselves differently in every single person's life. Um yes Yeah, and so that's the point of this uh c this whole exercise of uh the the Holy Spirit and this uh writer of Hebrews, walking through these examples of faith in the Old Testament that yes, that that the things that they did, the decisions that they make, the way that they lived their lives was by faith and not by sight. And in many cases they made decisions that are that seem counterintuitive to uh human or worldly sight But with the eyes of faith you have you have different priorities and different ways of looking at life and looking at the world that causes you to make different decisions than a than a a person that's not a person of faith would would make. Uh uh threat not that. Threaten not yourself because of the evildoers, be not giving yourself wrongdoers, but they will say like the rat. And with it like a green earth. Green earth. Trust in the Lord, do good, dwell in the land, and be friends and faithful. thing when we get to the point where we look at our competitors in business who are prospering because they're willing to do unethical things and I'm not. And that can be frustrating. Um I we'll we'll we'll look at a verse uh about that here in a second. Um in fact we'll do it here just in a minute. So uh verse number twenty-five, choosing rather to endure ill treatment with the people of God than to enjoy the passing pleasures of sin. This is once again talking about Moses and his decision to forego the Egyptian royal family and join the slaves. Uh part of the seductiveness of sin is that it often seems fun. It can feed our pride. Satisfy physical desires and offer many other pleasures. But sin has two characteristics that the world often fails to notice or just ignores. Number one, it is always evil Sin is always uh to go against God and it is always passing. Uh the the momentary pleasures are always passing. No matter how temporaries temporarily satisfying it may be Sin satisfaction is destined to fade, as this Psalm 37 says. It has no good in it, and it can bring no good to us or to God. Sometimes we wonder why unbelievers, worldly people, and even criminals seem to get along so well. They are often successful, famous, wealthy, healthy Getting the good contracts. We want to plead with Jeremiah, why has the way of the wicked prospered? Why are all those who deal in treachery at ease? Jeremiah 12. 1 Uh there's a long section of Job that says a very similar thing. Job is complaining to God about this very thing Why do the wicked prosper? On the other hand, many of God's most faithful saints are poor, sickly, unsuccessful in business, and ridiculed. And we want to ask, why, Lord? Why is this? Um But if we patiently endure, we know what the final outcome is. Well what's the final outcome What happens to the wicked in the long run? They're they're tossed into the lake of fire. That's where they go. Uh the the wicked go into the lake of fire. Um and what about the righteous? Those who are justified by faith and obedient to God, where do they go? They go into the everlasting presence of Christ and uh into heaven. Um and so we need to have some patience. We see some a little bit uh glimpses of impatience throughout Scripture. We can see it in our own lives. We see the saints under the altar saying, How long, Lord, do we have to wait till you avenge us? And so yeah, there's this impatience, yes. Psalm seventy-three is all about that. And he says it was trouble from his sight until I came into the vocalist office. Yep. Yeah. So until we fix our eyes on God, it's easy to look around and a at the world and see the wicked seeming to prosper. And and so what Psalm seventy three tells us that the The antidote to that is to fix our eyes on God. Um yeah, matter of respect. Yeah. Yeah. So we fix our eyes on the author and perfecter of our faith, who is Christ Jesus. That's the antidote to this looking around and seeing the wicked prosper, yes. Right. They persecuted me, they will certainly persecute you. Um yes. So we're promised persecution. Okay, Moses knew God was calling him to give his life for his people. He had a choice. He could have obeyed or disobeyed. Disobeying had many attractions, among other things. It would have been a lot easier and a lot more enjoyable in the short run to continue to be part of the royal family. It's hard enough to stop seeking worldly things. It is even harder to give them up once we have them So it it it's hard for us to imagine giving up being a prince of Egypt. Imagine how hard it was for somebody who was already a prince of Egypt and knew exactly what that wealth and privilege was like. It had to be difficult. Um so um But Moses did it. Uh Moses a had a great many privileges and he and he gave them off. Moses enjoyed the pleasures of an extremely comfortable life. He had the best food, the best living quarters, the best of everything that that age could provide. And of course, these things were not sins in themselves. Joseph had enjoyed the same pleasures in the same place while being perfectly obedient to God. He was the prime minister of Egypt But they would have been sin for Moses had he decided to stay in Egypt and forsaken God's call. So the the the things themselves they're not sins in themselves. It's desiring them above God that's the the problem. He made a conscious choice to endure ill treatment with the people of God rather than enjoy the passing pleasures of sin. This was an act of faith. It says by faith, and then this whole string of things. He believed that if he did what God wanted he would be better off in the end. He made a choice. Um and and we see uh we'll talk about this word considering here in a minute. Verse twenty six, considering the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt. He made this calculation. He considered the reproach of Christ to be greater riches than all the treasures of Egypt, for he was looking to the reward. The Greek word hegeomi, considering, involves careful thought, not quick decision He carefully weighed, cons he carefully considered the reproach of Christ's greater riches than the treasure of Egypt. He thought through this decision, weighing the pros and cons. He weighed what Egypt had to offer against what God had to offer. That's what that's working. considering implies, and he reached the conclusion it was well founded and certain. God's offer was infinitely superior in every way, offering greater riches That's what the scripture is telling us here, that Moses did that. In the eyes of the world, being ridiculed and persecuted would never be worth sacrificing all these riches for. Yet Moses believed that the worst he could endure for Christ would be more valuable than the best of the world. That's the this is the key teaching here in this passage of Scripture, that the worst we can endure for Christ Uh light and momentary affliction is building for us an eternal weight of glory, uh the scripture tells us. Yes. Yes. Yes. So uh yeah, let's talk about that, the reports of Christ. So it's interesting the writer of Hebrews speaks of Moses considering the reproach of Christ since he Lived nearly 1,500 years before Christ. This is very interesting. And of course, the word Christ is a Greek word that means anointed one. The word Messiah is a Hebrew word that means anointed one. It's the same word. Christ the Messiah is the same word in two different languages. Anointed one. Anointed one. And so the Messiah is the anointed one. So Old Testament teachings about the Messiah is talking about the anointed one. New Testament teaching about Christ is the anointed one. It's the same. It's one and the same. Christ and Messiah are the same thing. Um and so here in the Greek New Testament, uh the reproach of Messiah The Hebrew would be Messiah, in Greek it's Christ. The reproach of Messiah, who they knew about, um in the Old Testament. Um it was something that they considered. And so uh Jesus said, Abraham saw my day and rejoiced. And so they had a A at least a rudimentary understanding of this concept of Messiah or Christ. All the way back to Abraham because that was part of the promise to Abraham. And that promise to Abraham was passed down to Isaac and Jacob And the people in Isra uh the people of Israel that were in Egypt, um, they had this concept of a coming Messiah anointed one. And s so if you look at the Old Testament, what what offices in the Old Testament were anointed? Prophet, priest, and king. Prophets were anointed, priests were anointed, and kings were anointed, prophet, priest, and king. And so the anointed one is the ultimate prophet, priest, and king. the ultimate anointed one, the ultimate prophet, priest, and king. That was Messiah, and that's Christ, and that's when uh Moses considered any reproach for Messiah, the anointed one, to be greater riches than all these riches that he had experienced first hand in Egypt. He considered any kind of um even reproach for the sake of this Messiah would be greater. He carefully considered that. Yes. So yeah, the proto-evangelion Yeah, so uh i there's evidence that Eve was looking for that Messiah in the very first generation of her children that were born. So, um all all the way in the descendants of Adam, there was at least some understanding of a promise of um the one that would bruise Satan's head all the way back to Genesis 315. Yes, that's that's so Uh but still but it's still interesting that um this is put in terms in this book of Hebrews, in terms of the reproach of Christ, and Christ wasn't going to be born for fifteen hundred years, but they were looking forward to this anointed one. All all the way back. Yes. Saving faith, yes. It's it's clearly saving faith. revealing telling us what we do. It's like his eyes were open, just like ours I didn't know Jesus Christ was going to be buried Three days for rain, yes. He didn't. That's right. So he didn't have the prophecies of Isaiah. That was hundreds of years later. That's right. And so there was a progressive revelation going back to Genesis 315 about God's plan of salvation. And people believed that by faith, all the way back to in in this particular passage, Hebrews eleven, all the way back to Cain, uh and Abel, all the way back to uh to Abel having faith in this this plan of redemption that God had, uh, but he believed it by faith. He didn't have very much revelation, but he it was enough. Yeah, good point. Uh yes Yep, wrote it all down, gave him the law. Uh yes. Yeah, so he had faith in God's plan of redemption in an anointed one and yes, and he was the foundation, kind of the cornerstone of what you might call the Jewish faith. Yeah. Yeah. Um so uh Moses identified with Messiah's people and purpose long before Christ himself came to earth. But that was uh God's plan of redemption in an anointed one was something that was known to the Jewish people even way back then. Okay, good good question. Yes. Yeah. Yeah, uh it's a g it's a great point that uh that Jesus taught a similar thing Um it it teaches us, I think, two things. One is i it's not the the f the faith that the Bible talks about is not a blind leap of faith. It's something that is involves consideration. And that there is this uh this constant idea that people were created for relationship with God. And when you try to fill you know, sometimes described as a God shaped whole, when you try to fill that with other things, no matter what it is that you try to fill that with, it it won't work. It won't be filled uh by no matter how much wealth you have, no matter how much power you have. Uh it's never enough Um, you know, w wh what is what does some people have y y you know, somebody becomes a billionaire and and that's that's still not enough. They gotta be they gotta get ten billion and fifty billion and a hundred billion. Um i you know, w uh the because it's never enough. When you're trying to fill the ultimate need that people have, which is relationship with our Creator, i i it's never gonna be enough. Stuff power, wealth, privilege, it is never gonna be enough. And and and the Bible I think is pretty clear about um about that fact and about different ways and and goes through different ways to explain that fact. Yeah, good point. Okay. Anything else? Most people go back to thinking about well that cloud. But clearly Jesus is speaking, it's only on faith. Uh it's it's faith um that um you know you Yeah, so this is the the Moses is the crescendo of this argument. So uh the author of Hebrews under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit is making this argument about about these Old Testament heroes, um and all the Jewish people that he was speaking to in the first century, uh this first century church full of uh Jewish believers, they would have been very familiar with these people. But the ultimate example, the one that he puts at the end The best example, leave the best example at the end, is Moses. Because Moses is the ultimate symbol of the law. Ultimate symbol of the law, the ceremonies, uh all the religious traditions of Judaism are really Mm symbolized by Moses. And so if the author, the preacher, can can show that Moses live by faith, that's the ultimate example that you could give to a Jewish person. And that's why he leaves it to the end. By faith. Yes. Absolutely. Yeah. That's the really the the big point of the sermon, the crescendo of the sermon as he's preaching through uh uh he Hebrews chapter eleven to this first century congregation. By his letter, uh it it it reaches a crescendo with Moses, the example of Moses. Yeah. Okay. Uh any others before we Yes Correct. Marbling at this whole passion, just thinking about how an unbelievable uh evil edict of the Pharaoh can kill all the first born or adult children. But I was the parents, you know, uh for three months hiding him until it became obvious that they could no longer protect him to building an ark to put him in and and putting him in the hands of the Lord, you know what happened. And that even with this evil edict that the deliverer of Israel will be raised in his own Yeah. So the providence of God is evident throughout that God is working events to br to fulfill his purposes. Even though Israel didn't was unaware of what was taking place, you know, that their deliverer was was there on the scene and and being prepared, you know, being raised So so even though they click they were unaware of what was they can point and I'm trying to think enough God's getting you know maybe unaware of what God is doing behind the scenes, but he is working, he is prepared. Yes. Yes, and so and that re that requires faith to just trust that God is working, that his purposes are better than my purposes, that he's working uh in circumstances in ways that I can't understand, um, and that can be frustrating for us because we want to control things. Um and there's so many things that we can't control and it m oftentimes turns out that it's a good thing we couldn't control and because God had everything well in hand and the way he was doing it was n would never have been the way that I did it and his way was better and uh uh oh it's a good thing that I wasn't in charge. Uh and uh sometimes sometimes we can look back and see that. Not always, but sometimes we can look back and see that. But There are enough examples of that in Scripture, enough examples that we can know from our own life or from others' lives, that we should trust God in the future based on his trustworthiness in the past. He's got a very good trust track record of trustworthiness. And so we should trust them. It's not easy We want to control things, uh, but we should trust, based on his track record. So uh let me roll on. We're almost out of time here. Uh we do not know how much Moses knew about God's future great deliverer. Uh he Moses was going to deliver his people in the short term, but there was a greater deliverer coming. Uh Jesus tells us plainly that Abraham looked forward to Jesus' day and rejoiced, John eight fifty-six. In the same way, Moses probably looked forward in some way to Jesus. God's reward is always greater than the world's. God shall supply all your needs according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus. Philippians 4. 19. Moses surely saw the reward of a blessed life, but the emphasis Here is best seen as being on the eternal reward. That's really what Moses was looking forward forward to, and what we should be looking forward to is uh the eternal reward. Uh Psalm 37, which uh Richard quoted before, better is the literal. It is not a sin to be rich. If we work hard and honestly and to God's glory become wealthy in the process, fine But if we prioritize getting rich, we have the wrong motivation. Paul told Timothy, For the love of money is a root of all sorts of evil, and some by longing for it have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many a pang. But flee from these things, you man of God, and pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, perseverance, and gentleness. And so, uh what should the the the follower of Christ be focusing on? What should we be pursuing? We should be pursuing righteousness, pursuing godliness, pursuing faith, pursuing love, pursuing perseverance in all of those things. And What is this one doing there in there at the end? Gentleness. Gentleness. Pursue gentleness. That doesn't seem like the kind of thing that we would um right away think about pursuing Pursue gentleness. Yeah, I mean it's not um it's not human nature really, uh to to pursue gentleness. Isn't it more of an attitude? It's an attitude of it's an attitude towards other people. Uh an attitude towards other other people of gentleness. And it particularly comes into play with somebody that we have a conflict with? Are we pursuing gentleness t towards other people? Um not the people that we like That's easy. But the people who bother us, annoy us, are we pursuing gentleness with the people who bother us. Isn't that the opposite of uh being aggressive? Yes. It is the opposite of uh aggressively pursuing my own um at uh uh my own uh agenda, my own needs, my own um what I want. Um Rather than gently considering the other person. Okay. Um just an interesting thing that that one is in the list of things that we're supposed to be pursuing, uh rather than pursuing money. Could be. Could very well be. Some sums it up. Uh yeah. Uh verse twenty seven by faith he left Egypt. Egypt not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured as seeing him who was unseen, seeing him who was unseen, looking forward to the Messiah of the Christ. In chapter two, the second time he left Egypt, a different Pharaoh was reluctantly letting the people of Israel go, but he changed his mind as soon as he let him go and went chasing after him with his whole army. In both cases Moses was in trouble The greatest pressure Moses faced was fear because of the wrath of the king. Fear is one of Satan's most effective and often used Weapons. We are afraid of being thought different or of losing our job or reputation or popularity. We are afraid of criticism often from people that we do not even respect But we're still afraid that they'll criticize us. Whoops. Moses was doubtless tempted to fear, but he did not. He left Egypt with full determination to follow a better way, not fearing the wrath of the king. He did more than simply leave. He turned his back on Egypt and all that it represented. He renounced it permanently. Moses forsook everything to follow The Lord. And he did it by faith, according to this passage. Fear did not work on Moses when God called him out of Egypt. He knew he had an invisible but powerful means of support as seeing him who is unseen God is unseen, but Moses saw him in faith, saw him. Moses believed with David, the Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the defense of my life Whom shall I dread? Psalm twenty seven. Uh when Pharaoh made things worse than the people of Israel, every time Moses made a demand, the people lost heart and turned against Moses. Chapter six, verse nine, chapter fourteen, verse eleven and twelve. Uh he Moses demanded that the people be released and Pharaoh uh turned around and and and and turned the screws on the people of Israel and made it more difficult. And of course the people blamed Moses for that Moses was afraid of neither the Pharaoh nor the people. He continued to say what God wanted him to say and do what God wanted him to do. Moses chose to focus on God rather than on the Pharaoh or the people. Yet how many times do we fall apart or back down in the face of much lesser threats than Moses faced When we are afraid of the world and when we are afraid of what people will say or do, we are exposing ourselves to God's displeasure and discipline for lack of faith. Faith rejects the world's pressure, whatever it may be. Uh by faith he kept the Passover so um he he but he did what God said to do, put blood on the doorpost. That's the silliest thing I've ever heard of in my life. How could that prevent an angel of death from killing anybody? But that's what God said to do and what God said to do was right and he did it and it did s prevent the angel of death from killing anybody that had blood on the doorpost. Um so that was the story of the Passover in Exodus chapter 12, lamb's blood sprinkled. The blood itself obviously had no power to stave off the blood of a lamb cannot prevent an angel from killing anyone unless that's what God has decreed. And so it was uh God had commanded was an act of faith and obedience, and the blood was symbolic, of course, of Christ's sacrifice, by which he conquered death for all who believe in him. Uh the people of Israel, including Moses, did not understand the full significance of this ceremony. It would only unfold over over centuries that this was um a crystal clear um a symbol of Christ's sacrifice on the cross. They didn't realize all that But that's what it was. Faith always accepts God's provision. When a believer accepts Jesus Christ by faith, he accepts God's provision for salvation. To the world, good works seem like a much better way to please God than faith. But the that's why all the f every other religion is workspace. But the world's way is not God's way. Faith accepts Christ's righteousness applied on our behalf. This is God's way and therefore the way of faith. Alright, we're almost done. When Moses and the people got to the Red Sea, Pharaoh and his army were not far behind. From all they could see, they were trapped. There was no escape. First the people lost heart and it complained sarcastically to Moses, is it because there were no graves in Egypt that you have taken us away to die in the wilderness? Grumble, grumble, grumble, back to Egypt Club But they took heart, and again when Moses told them, Do not fear, stand by and see the salvation of the Lord, which we will he will accomplish for you today. The Lord will fight for you for you while you keep silent. That's what Moses said to the people. And it took a lot of faith for Moses to say that. Moses He he absolutely believed that God would rescue them when it didn't seem like there was any way out. They were boxed in, the Red Sea behind them, the the Egyptian army in front of them. M Moses said this, don't be afraid, watch what God will do. Uh because God told them he would save them. They believed Moses' promise from God and they passed through the Red Sea. They did they did believe uh once once Moses told them, once they saw the Red Sea part, they went in there. Um they uh had the waters returned too soon, Israel would have drowned instead of the Egyptians. Uh the people had no guarantee except God's word that he would not change his mind or forget them. But his word was enough. For the faithful, God's word is always enough. Faith takes God at His word and is victorious. Presumption denies God's word and is destroyed. The Egyptians persistently hardened their hearts to the Lord and presumed to trust themselves, and they were drowned. The test of faith is trusting God when all we have are His promises. When the waters are piled up high around us and problems and dangers are about us to overwhelm us This is when faith is tested and when the Lord takes special pleasure in showing us His faithfulness, His love, and His power. When we have nothing but His promise to rely on His help is the nearest in his presence, the dearest to those who believe. At every juncture in our lives, we either fulfill the will of God and are filled with his Spirit, or we fulfill our own will and quench the Spirit. When we truly believe God, we will know that in everything He has our best interest at heart, and we will always decide For him. Sorry, I went a little bit over. Um I'm uh let me close this with prayer and