So um trials, challenges, difficulties, um All those kinds of things that uh James chapter 1 talks about. And uh those are the kinds of things that we're going to be digging into today. All right. In the context These things can include our sins. They could include encounters that we have with sinners outside of us. And sometimes these are just God taking us out to the gym, as it were, the spiritual gym, to help us put on some spiritual folk and and get you know get a little bit stronger so that we're able to endure and lift a little bit more spiritually, if you know what I if you're following my metaphor. If you look back in the book of Hebrews, one of the things that I think does a great disservice to us in our modern translations, in the book of Hebrews, is the chapter markings. It is, and this time going through it with Rob again is reinforced in my mind that chapters one to the end of chapter 12 should just be one chapter. one giant chapter because the context, the the thought just smears right across all of these chapters And even today, as we get to chapter twelve, there's a sense where it it feels like it's starting in a new section, but this is an argument, it's a thought that has Ties that go back clearly into chapter 10, easily into chapter 11, and follow the thoughts that the author's been building throughout the entire book. If you consider what the author has said throughout the book, he starts with and spends chapters talking about the superiority of Christ. And how Christ is superior to the angels and to Moses, and he is now the great high priest who has introduced a new priestly line That is now founded on better promises and gives us a better hope than God had and ushers in a new covenant. And The author then throughout that exhorts us to pay attention, to not to harden our hearts, to not be dull, to not uh To not be tempted, but to trust God, who's our mediator, and be in the process of growing in perfection. In a way that God has already perfected us, both going on at the same time, and draw near to God, because Christ now has opened the way To draw near to our Savior. And one of the things that we saw in chapter 10 and before is that we can now draw near with confidence to God All of that confidence lead led in chapter ten to an encouragement to endurance. That leads to faith. And from that faith, the author jumps to this historical explanation of faith. And if you remember, it starts back in the beginning. By faith we know that everything is created and on forward and it's like the the arrow of history Right, points at the beginning of time and Canaan Abel and Noah and uh Abraham and Moses and then last week just jumps forward. So that arrow just jumps forward. And what actually happens in chapter 12 is the arrow now points at us. And the author has an implied question in the command there that says, so where do you fit in with this great crowd of witnesses? What are you going to do now? And the command that's here is to run, is to run with endurance. And so just like the every one of these great cloud of witnesses that went before are people who had assurance that faith uh in in God. They knew that they would trust God for the things that they were hoping for. They knew that they had conviction for the things that they didn't see. They knew that they were looking forward to a commendation that came from God, and they believed that God is And that he's a rewarder of those who seek him. And the implication is, and how about you? Do you see God who is and is a rewarder of those who seek Him? And so that's where the author comes from and basically asks the question, so how are you going to live? So there's four four directives here, I think, in these verses that God gives us. for faithful lies. One, in verse one you see to run unhindered. And again, picking up in verse two is to run it with endurance And then in verses three and in the beginning of verse four is to run with focus and finally run with discipline based on the examples that we see. So let's look at the passage. Hebrews twelve. Starting at verse one. Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight And sin, which clings so closely. And let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him who endured from sinners such hostility against himself, so that you may not grow weary or faint-hearted. In your struggle against sin, you have not yet resisted to the point of shedding your blood. And have you forgotten the exhortation that addresses you as sons My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor be weary when reproved by him. For the Lord disciplines the ones he loves, and chastises every son whom he receives. It was it is for discipline that you have to endure. God is treating you as sons, for what son is there whom his father does not discipline? If you are left without discipline in which all have participated, then you are illegitimate children and not sons. Besides this We have had earthly fathers who disciplined us, and we respected them. Shall we not much more be subject to the Father of Spirits and live? For they disciplined us for a short time as it seemed best to them, but he disciplines us for our good, that we may share in his holiness. For the moment, all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant, but later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness. to those who have been trained by it. Therefore, lift your drooping hands and strengthen your weak knees. We're not going to do verse 12, but it's a conclusion of what we just talked about. Rob will pick that up next week. Heavenly Father, I ask to you, Lord, for uh wisdom. For clarity, for the right balance, to match what your word says, to in Impress upon myself and everyone who is here, dear Lord, a right understanding and a right application of your word. Dear Lord, we want to strive after that We know, Heavenly Father, that you are full of grace. We know, dear Lord, that you call us a holiness. And I pray, Heavenly Father, that you'd help us to slice that correctly. To understand, Heavenly Father, the boundaries and the mercies and the love that you show us, and at the same time, dear Lord, to hold firm to the discipline and the justice and the holiness of who you are, dear God. I pray, Heavenly Father, that we would remember that we always can draw near to you, that you are a God who has brought salvation to us in the person of your Son. And I thank you, Heavenly Father, that as a loving Father you set for us a high standard. And a calling. And I pray, Heavenly Father, that we would be, to the measure that you give us grace, worthy representatives of your name. Dear Lord, you know who we are and the things that we struggle with and the things that you want to speak to our hearts, dear God. So please please do that and let my words not be a distraction In your name we pray. Amen. So first, remember there's four sections here. One is to run unhindered So let's look at that. And I mentioned this kind of in the introduction, this cloud of witnesses that the author talks about here, they're the people, I believe they're the people that are described back in chapter 11. And some people are uh you know ask the question, well does that mean that all these ancient uh saints are looking down at us from heaven? I I prefer to think about it like this These guys ran the race ahead of us and they witnessed to us. Their lives were testimonies to us of what it looks to run with faith In fact the word there witnesses comes from the Greek word that we translate martyr from. And uh the uh These guys lived their lives as witnesses to those who are around them. They showed us how to run life full with faith. And what's interesting to me is none of these guys, as you look back at them, live perfect lives of faith. But God in his spirit said, look at this and this and this and these guys' lives. This is what it's like to live a life full of faith. They look past the things of this world. They looked to the hope that God had given them. And they persevered in faith to the end. They set a standard for us, and that's a high calling. And so based on this witness that we read about again and again through chapter eleven, the author then jumps in and says, Let us lay aside every weight and sin that's so easily entangled. And what's interesting for this is the preparation. It's the it's the idea of let's make sure you guys understand This is not a Sunday afternoon walk. This is not a screw a stroll through. This is a run that we're about to go on. And if you're going to go on a run, would you rather run with rocks in a backpack Or would you rather run unhindered? And the author's coming to us first of all in preparation and saying, let's let's just start this off right, we're going to run unhindered Um some of you guys are runners in the room, and uh would you rather run with weights attached to your ankles or free. And that's kind of what the author's saying. Let's free ourselves from these weights. There's a um when you look at runners in the Olympics or some of these things, they're they're closed. There's The lightest weight possible. And sometimes it might make us blush a little bit in what was going on there. But the purpose behind that is to run unhindered There's an interesting interesting thing they do with racehorses, if you're not familiar, to make the races more competitive, because every horse is a little bit different Some horses are handicapped and they actually add weight to the horse. They weigh the saddle, they weigh the jockey. And in order to balance out the race, to keep it a close race, some horses that are a little bit stronger, a little bit older, are given weight to their saddles to slow them down. And that's essentially a picture of what's going on here. We see that reflected in just everyday life. People pay a lot of money to get a bike that weighs less. Unless they have the e bike. Who cares about it then, right? Uh Yeah, weight is really important in any of these kinds of things where we're just going about the business of carrying ourselves. And uh the author right here is taking that as a picture into our spiritual lives. Remove from ourselves those things that hinder ourselves and get running. You know, Paul, when when he finished his life in Timothy chapter 4, he talks about finishing the race that was set before him. And the picture that he uses there is, I have kept the faith. Which fits right into the passage we're talking about, where chapter 10 talks about endurance, chapter 11 talks about faith. And again, what we see here in chapter 12 is the author brings us right back to the idea of running with endurance. And in order to do that, we need to disencumber ourselves. So what does that look like? We're not actually putting weights in our pockets. I think this is a spiritual truth. The weights that we can put into our lives are things like the love of this world, the lust of the eyes. The lust of the flesh, the boastful pride of life. They're the things that call attention to ourselves away from and distract us from running The race that was set before us. So that this could be for us And I want to be careful about that because I think in some ways this is different for each of us. This could be for us a call to help make our lives more lean. So that we have less things calling out to us and distracting us so that we have more time. But we each one of us have duty and responsibility that it would be wrong for us to give up And so there's wisdom that comes in understanding what's a proper amount of leanness that I'm allowed to run with. And that's important for us to consider and to think through as we talk about running hard. 1 Corinthians 9 talks about an athlete that prepares to run in verses 24 and 26. In Colossians 3. 2 it says, set your minds on things that are above and not on things that are below. And that's another aspect, I think, of disencumbering ourselves, removing the weight that we might have that uh slows us down and keeps us from running. There's two things that are talked about here in running unencumbered. The first are these things that may or may not be sin. It may not be that big a deal for some of these things that We just call it our little bit uh extra weight we might be carrying around spiritually. They're not necessarily wrong to have those things, but the second part is Because not only does the author say remove the weight, it says also remove the sin that easily entangles. Um, how many of y'all ever gone walking through the woods and had your socks tangled up in a vine with stickers on it? A friend of mine that used to come here to this church called them Wait a minute vines. Because you're walking along and bam it's wrapped around your sock and you've got to stop and disentangle yourself. And just think about what that does to your run. If you're going along ta-da-da-da-da-da, and the sin or that sticker bush vine grabs you around the ankle, you've got to stop. It's going to slow you down. And so what the author here is saying, get rid of those things. And the picture that he uses is that sin clings closely to us. And that jumps my mind back to what God said to Cain, where he said, sin is crouching at your door. And it would have you, but resist it. There's a a poem I sent out to the Hope Book Group, if you saw it, uh great. It's by John Bunyan. It's it's it's uh I think it was sixteen stanzas And it's again and again in some older English, so some of it might be a little tricky. The main point I think the author makes in that poem is synescki Sin is deceitful and it will come into your life thinking, I just want a penny, and then it wants a pound. I'm just going to be, I I I just it this one little cent is not going to be that big a deal. And then you give into it. And again and again, John John Bunyan says, don't let it in Don't trust it. Get it out of your lives. And that echoes to this thought that the author here in the book of Hebrews is speaking to. Don't let it in. One of the things that I love about that poem, if you got all the way through it, is the last stanza says, basically, but God freed us from sin. But God forgives us. And so sin might come in and might steal from us not just a penny but a pound might come into the door And throw chains on us and accuse us and say, you sinner, how could anybody do that? And God says, You're my son. You're my child. I've paid for those since yeah Sin is that uh is sneaky and will get into our lives. Uh Uh Dr. Tripp writes, the scary deception of sin is that at the point of sinning, sin doesn't look all that sinful. And that's the deception of it, right? It's a trap. It's an allure. And we think, oh, just once. Oh, just this once It's like trying to run with our shoes tied together. But Christ. But Christ made possible the setting of a side setting aside a sin that gives us escape And so we don't have to walk around going like, oh, this is scary, this is bad, this is terrible. It is scary, bad, and terrible. But sin no longer has control over us. That doesn't mean that resisting sin is like a cakewalk, it's easy. It requires effort. And so that's part of the reason why this passage is talking to us about setting aside these things that encumber us. Because it gets into us all. It gets into all of us. And we need to run the price Moses is our example. Back in chapter 11, Moses said he would rather be with the people of God than with the fleeting pleasures of sin. I believe that these two attributes describe for us a humble acknowledgement that we need God to run. We have to have our minds focused on things that are more important so that we can set aside the weights that we're trying to hold on to. We have a I've seen the a a sweet little four year old trying to run down the hallway with all the stuffed animals For all the Matchbox cars and they're all one design falling out and then they gotta stop and pick it back up again. Or the sulkiness that sin is is you know s you know the feeling when sin is dogging you And you know that you gotta go apologize and repent from what that thing was that you did. And you just can't run anymore. It saps your strength And so the author starts off by saying, not get out there and run. Prepare to run by getting rid of those things that slow you down. The second thing the author says is run with endurance. I found this humorous. I'm not a runner, by the way. I I guess I'm a spiritual runner, but uh I'm not a physical runner. I'd rather be on a bike any day, but I know some of you are like I could run all the time. The Greek word for I want to encourage you. The Greek word sure looks now I'm not a Greek scholar, but it sure looks like that word is pronounced agony I'm sure it's something like Agonidzi or something like that. But uh yeah. That I I laughed when I saw that. I went, what? Agony? That makes sense. Running is agony. But there's a picture there that's worthwhile as we chuckle about it, that's worthwhile thinking about. This is effort. This is pushing forward. When when the author says run with endurance, he's not saying I'm not gonna saunter down with that. I'm gonna run. I'm gonna now s you know if you saw me run, it's not much faster than a walk. But um some of you guys actually get out there and run, and the author is saying Not just to run, but to run with endurance. This is exertion, it's push That's why we need to get rid of these hindrances so that we can run. Remember these cloud witnesses and the things that they did. Right? Abraham. He walked away from his home when God called him to walk away from his home. And the things that the people that we talked about last week So for us, endurance means keep going. That implies what kind of race this is. This is not a hundred-yard dash. This is a r this is a marathon. This is like an Iron Man without the bike, without the swimming. This is weeks of running. Lifetime of running. God calls us to stand up and get going. Tot your shoes on tight, because it's time to run. That's what God calls us to here. That means we've got to pace ourselves This is not a strength. This is going to be a long endurance battle. I have a friend of mine who does Ironmans and he says the last couple of miles are grueling That's the time when you're like, I just want to give up. I don't think I can make my feet move anymore. And the author says, move. Keep going. Yes? It says at the end run the race that is set before us. I think that implies that God has a different race for each of us. He has set the race and we're not to run any That's a really important point. You're right about that. Um and it's easy for me to go, dang, that guy ran a marathon. I'll never be able to do that. I might as well sit back and rest Uh but that's not what this says. Like you said, and thank you. It says run the race that's set before you There is no other thing. But I'm wondering if if it's implied that the testimonies of Old Testament Say saints and their faith. When you look back at those testimonies, you inevitably see the clause and the sin sometimes it breaks breaks in. Yep. And and then yet sin is uh we're we're exhorted or admonished to It's almost as if you're when you look at the the Old Testament saints, you'll see these great signs of faith, but inevitably their their sin is somewhat part of their testimony unfortunately. And seems like it's a it's an opportunity to to say no, don't yes, follow their their faith but not their And I don't know that the author intended that type of linkage. What's there for us to hold on to, and what the author has intended throughout this, is that God's God's the one who gives grace to us when sin does entangle us. And to keep ourselves from being discouraged when those things happen. The the sweet thing, uh, if you want to call it that, the thing that gives me hope Is the stories in the Old Testament don't hide from me the rough thoughts and the problems that the Old Testament saints had. And then you come to a place like Hebrews 11 and they shine the light on the fact that Moses did what he did and don't shine a light on the fact that Moses Did what he shouldn't have done at the rock. And that to me is a double grace. One is God sees me through the righteousness of Christ And God's given me his spirit to be able to walk uh free from sin. And that's that's a Is that getting at what you're talking about? Yeah, yeah, to focus to focus on what um what the Lord is doing uh through faith, the faith response of his saints. And to uh let them be an example and God doesn't focus on the their sin because he's gracious and merciful. Yeah. I wonder if it's fair to compare that to how you know a mom loves her child despite their fault. Anyway. Back to this. Thank you for that, by the way, Kirk. Yeah, sorry for taking a detour. Uh it's a it wasn't a very far detour and it was worthwhile going. Um This run is hard, and I think that's part of the reason why the command from Hebrews ten twenty-four is to consider how to stir one another up to loving good deeds. We need one another to strengthen us. And to Ann's point, uh whose race are we on? I'm on my own race, right? This is a race that I'm running, and it's a race Who put me on this race? It's God who put me on this race. He designed this and mapped out the course And I firmly believe God in His tender sovereignty has picked for me the race that was appropriate for me and well designed for me. You know, you read in the book of Pra Psalms, things like, How long, O Lord And you see the sighing of the psalm uh of the psalmist going, how long? Because we go through things that are difficult. And God then calls us to run through those things that are difficult and to not let up. And the Israelites had times when they were like, how long, O Lord? And we've had those times as well. And God knows that. He knows who we are, and he loves us, and he's going to take care of us. And he has said, as it says in Hebrews 13, I will never leave you. Or forsake you. One of the things that I've seen in running, because I watch other people run, is something that's really encouraging is to not run by yourself. And God's there right beside us. He charted out the course. He knows who we are. He knows who we need. And he's running alongside of us, keeping pace. And helping us to know what is the right to do. And just want to ask this question. What did God say Is the kind of burden that he would give us? Life. DC and lawyer. How does that fit in with this disencumbering ourselves, setting aside sin, and running this racist set before us, and at the same time God gives us a light burden. I mean God's not the one who makes who gives us the waste in the sin. That's us compiling it on ourselves. Exactly. Exactly. God's the one who removed the burden of sin from us It doesn't mean necessarily that he's going to make this always an easy run, but as we come down through this, we're going to find out that God even has a purpose in giving us hard things to do. And that's God's mercy and God's love as He does that. So we're to set ourselves on this race that God has mapped up. And set out in front of us, knowing that it's our loving Heavenly Father that says this. Yes, dear. Every branch in me that does not bear fruit, he takes away I will say if you're talking about trees being proned, that is related to this passage If you're talking about somebody being removed and cast into the fire, I don't think that's talking that's in reference. Very weird part. Yeah, I can imagine, you know, if I was a tree and and the arborist comes along and lops that and that off, the tree's going, no, I spent all this time, that was my favorite branch. And you just took it away from me and and stuff like that. And then this time of year it's especially easy to see how a well-pruned tree comes back with more strength And more vigor than it ever had, and can put out way more fruit, better fruit also, than it ever put out before. And there are times when God says, that ministry, no That thing that you were doing? No. And just says, I want you to be here in this place. This is your race. Run your race. And so what does that mean? If we see somebody tearing past us in life, you know, if Henry and I run a race I'd be, whoo, he'd be way down the road from me, and I'd be back there going. There are times when it's easy for us to look at the runners that are around us and to get discouraged And we need to remember, we're setting ourselves the wrong standard at that time. Our standard is always God, and He's the one who's going to guide and direct our paths. So we can trust them for that. Yes. One of the biggest sin that Yeezy claims to uh call to is uh that was a big issue that you know Jews had. They uh they The biggest issue they had was challenged, which messes up our faith every time. And also legalism. Focus that and the author was focused on with the biggest problem he had was legalism. That was a The biggest sense he had was if you look at the uh word sense as uh single, not for and their biggest problem was legalism. Yeah, and it's interesting to think about doubt from a standpoint of a contrast to faith. And what the author is calling us here is to an endurance. that's full of faith and confidence. And uh I think that that fits in with what you're talking about there, Larry. Thank you for that. The uh And some of us struggle with legalism and some of us are going to struggle with too much permissiveness. And uh there can be all kinds of things that we allow ourselves to to follow to follow, I would say And so we need to be careful about those kinds of things. And what's the remedy for that? Read the word. Be well informed of what God's standard is. And as we understand God's standard, that's going to be an insulation to legalism or permissiveness. Because God's going to soak our minds with the truth and we'll start to become more and more informed and be able to discern what's right there. Yeah Yeah, absolutely. And so so God has for us, first of all, the command to set aside all the encumbrances that we might have. And secondly, to go through the agony of running and to get up and get going. And thirdly, we are called to run with focus. So not only can weights slow us down, but can you imagine the the slowness of not going in the right direction? You know, uh if you ever see one of these track meets, they have line stained on the ground. And if they're going a distance, sometimes these guys start way offset from each other. Why is that? Yeah, because if you're running on the outside track, you got a longer path to run. So they're going to give you a head start. It'll look like a head start at the beginning, but by the end you've run the same distance as the other people. They'll make you run around the outside of the track And then as soon as they let go of that, as soon as the the rules about staying in your lane are gone, they can immediately all pile up on one another on the inside of the track and run as close as they can in a straight line down the inside of the track. Can you imagine the distance they would take if they went like this? Zigzagging around the track No, nobody's gonna do that because you're A, you're taking turns, and B, uh you're not going in the right direction. And so the author here says not only to run disencumbered, not only to run with endurance, but the author calls us to say, run with our eyes fixed Looking, which is prep a participle, but I'm going to pull that out as one of our topics here today. Looking to Jesus. The author, and perfector is what ESV says, but I like to say the author I'm sorry, the founder and finisher. Because that word perfecter is a similar word to what Jesus said on the cross when he said it is finished. So Jesus is the start of our faith, and he's the completion of our faith. He is the one who we need to have our eyes fixed on as we run. There's two reasons for that. One is I want to make sure that in any place I go, I'm following God, I know I'm on the right path. Second of all, and this is what the author principally focuses our eyes on, is Jesus is the ultimate example of faith. And part of me hesitates to say Jesus is an example of faith because he's God, and there's a sense of he sees it all But there's also a sense in his humanity that Jesus walked perfectly by faith, trusting his heavenly father for everything that went on, even to the point where you see him at the Garden of Gethsemane saying God, let this cup pass from me, but I'm going to take your will instead. That's walking by faith. Enduring the cross is what it says. He said it says here in chapter in verse 2 Let's look to Jesus, the founder and perfector of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross, despising the shame. Yeah. We might be a call to a hard run. The run that we get called to may be a very difficult run. And with eyes of faith, we need to look past the difficulty that we're in the middle of and trust God to carry us through that run. Because that's what Jesus did. Yes. Does run pertain to individuals um gifts, spiritual gifts? Does that use the other thing? I think it probably does because uh the question is does run it pertain to our spiritual gifts? It probably does because You think about it, God's created for us a race, our own race. Picture it from the standpoint of uh there is a a map And God's got a map, and He's got a map for you, He's got a map for me. He says, Go get out there and run. And that run is going to be tied to my gifting. It's going to be tied to the situation that I'm in, the people that God brings into my life. Both the blessings and the trials. So absolutely it has to do with that. I think that's that's intuitive that you pulled that together. Thank you. You know, um It's very tempting when we're in the middle of hardship to fix our eyes on the trial. And let the trial get big in our minds. I don't want to run towards something that's big and scary. But if instead I see Jesus as big in the middle of that trial, now I'm not playing pretend about our trials and stuff like that But if I see that God is on my side in the midst of this trial, I start to put my trial in perspective And I know you guys, to a degree, have things that you're going through and have gone through that I would be like, ooh, that's really hard. That's really hard But what the author here is calling us to in the middle of that scary night is to have our eyes fixed on Jesus. Looking to Jesus rather than looking to the trial. Because where does our help come from? My hope comes from the Lord. My help's not going to come from this trial. I'm not going to ignore it. It's a reality. But I know that God's going to be with me through that entire trial. And I can trust him in the midst of that. And that's encouraging. Look to Jesus. Trials can discourage us. And the author here is warning us about becoming weary and faint-hearted. Rather than being weary and faint-hearted, take the medicine of looking to Jesus. There is no goal or aim that's going to be more satisfying than looking to Christ. That we have a picture of this in Peter. You know, Peter gets out of the boat, he takes a few steps And rather than keeping his eyes fixed on Jesus so he could walk across the water, he starts looking at what's going on around him and goes, whoa, save me! And he's going to drown And God pulls him right out. And the wind stops. That's who our God is. He knows our frame and he knows who we are and he's charted this out for us. In fact, if you remember back into Hebrews chapter 2, The author let us know that he is our perfect high priest because he knows what it's like. He knows what it's like to go through trials. And to go through the difficulties. He is our perfect high priest because he understands us. He's not only our example, but he's the security of our faith as well. He's our He is the one who made possible our faith. So we can fix on our eyes on Him, fixing our eyes on Him, we can have hearts full of joy. And we can do to our own people-sized strength exactly what Jesus did. Trust God as we go through our darkest nights. And the fourth thing that's here for us all is to room with discipline. Oh, there's a part of me that doesn't want to have to talk about this part. Because as the author says, when you first get into discipline, it doesn't seem like it's very much fun. It's painful at first. Please. And the author does his dance around it. He doesn't make it easy for us He again brings us back to the example of Jesus in verse 3. Consider him who endures from sinners such hostility against himself, so that you may not grow weary or faint-hearted. Have you ever been in those moments where somebody does something mean to you and it discourages you? Or there's times when somebody says something or sets you up and it's like, ah, I'm just going to give up And the author says, No, no, look at what Jesus endured. And he says, you haven't resisted yet to the point of shedding blood. I think what the author is saying here is not so much that we should look to bleed, but the principal picture that's here is Stop being a weakling. You're whimps. Sorry, that's what the author's saying. Look to Jesus. And he he stood. He stood. And have you ever had those moments where you you've been working all day and you're tired? And then you pick up and go a little further. That's what the author's saying. The author says, I think you still have more in you. I think you are not done yet And I know that because God still has you here. I remember, I only confess, I ran one in my life, one 5K I expect that would be the last five days. And we did a re there was a uh Fort Meade race, so it was mostly flat, right? He was around this and around that. And we were coming around the last quarter of the thing, and this dude caught up to me And he says, hey, I don't know why. He says, hey, if we start talking, I can barely breathe at this point, right? I think I just want to lay down, go find a dark tree somewhere, and pretend like this date never happened. And he wh I find out he's a believer. And we start sharing verses against one another. And I tell you my pace picked up And I finished the race running. I threw up the end. But I finished the race running with this guy. I it was I I was just like where did this strength come from? We're like, I'm gonna mountain up with eagles. I'm a run, not be weary. Yeah, let's go. He share first, and I share first, and he chair verse. And and I had strength I did not know I had. To finish that race. And I think in our struggle against sin, one of the great lies of sin Is you don't have strength for this one. You might as well give in today. And I say that's a lie. Yes. I once heard that um Resisting to the point of shedding blood was compared to the intensity of Jesus' prayer in the garden to the point of the sweat or also flooding. That was like an intense you know, that that we we need to struggle against him with that kind of intensity. Yeah. Yeah, I I think you're right. And I don't know if you guys watch some of these YouTube videos where these guys lift ridiculous amounts of weight. And they have to have mouth guards in because otherwise they break their teeth or they'd get nosebleeds and stuff like that. It's ridiculous what people do. But there's a point there of Guys, dig down deep. I don't there's two things I want us to hold on our minds and fix tightly in our minds at this point. One is, we are called to run to put in exer exertion to be out the business of laboring for Christ We are to do that found deeply in God's grace We can't lose either one of those things. Because if I'm standing over here going, I'm going to do this, I'm going to pull up my bootstraps, and I'm going to do this. I'm back to the land of legalism at that point. It's my achievement. I'm doing this. But if I'm over here going, God, I know you've called me something that's outside my strength. You better give me the strength to do this Wait and see what God does. I think there's an aspect there that the author's nudging us back to this great cloud of witnesses that did things that were outside of their That's what happens you dog in that race. That was one experience I had. You know, what God did, what God's word will do to strengthen us and empower us is a real thing. We need to trust God in the midst of our struggles. Yes. I just wanted to find a lot of things about all the discipline we want. Yeah. And and at the same time, you're right. Being prepared for the race is really important. At the same time, we gotta start somewhere. God doesn't say, oh, you just became a Christian. You don't have to run yet. God says run. And and again this point was already made. God says, run the race I've set out before you. You're not gonna run like, you know, you're not an Olympic athlete. God knows that. Your baby. That's your run, right? And but but as you take steps As you're faithful in the race that God gives you, you start to actually run, right You start to make you start to speed up. You start to get better. I track my rides, you know, on my bike. In the springtime I'm like my speed is like dirt. I'm like, oh, I'm so tired because I spent the winter not doing anything, hiding. Right? And then in the springtime I get out and I'm like, this is so hard. And then throughout the summer I can track my times and they do this as I'm faithful to be in the race. Time on my seat, right? My times get better. My pace gets faster. That's the truth about our lives. As we exert ourselves we get stronger. And that's not just a physical truth, it's a spiritual truth as well. And so discipline yourselves to spiritual uh behaviors, yes. Yeah, it kind of ties into the like casting off weights. Uh when people get saved out of lives of horrific sin, a lot of the time they have like very rapid spiritual growth because they just cast off all that weight. So they have a giant seed versus people who don't have really, really dramatic conversion stories, they might not make very quick progress. But I mean either way it's likely that they'll they won't will or won't have discipline. But It seems like a lot of the time people who have that giant speed boost are the ones who get the most frustrated when that that giant boost doesn't keep up and now they have to build discipline to actually continue progressing. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. And You know, even those people who get the giant speed boost, you know, they're rolling downhill for a couple of days. That's nice and fun. They're gonna have to go back uphill eventually. That's just uh truth of a biker, right You you know, enjoy it while you're going down. See um and pace yourself on the way up. Uh and and I think life is a lot about Find your pace on the uphill and keep running. And just keep running so that you can continue to maintain it. Uh if you run if you ever ran on a track team, I'm sorry, cross-country team, uh my sons did that, so I learned a little bit. What they do is they figure out what's your pace is that you can s that you can maintain and have almost nothing left in the tank when you get to the finish line. And so they spend all practice trying to figure out what your pace is and train you to run your pace And to stay at that. And you get some guys who take off on the line, your temptation will be to follow them and run their race. And the coach is going to drill into your head, no, run your race. You probably can't do ten ministries, even though that other person can. Do one well. There's a couple of things here in this section that goes from Ford down to the end. Discipline here seems to run through a couple of different threads. One is we're disciplined by God because of our sin. God takes us out to the witchhead, if you understand the metaphor. God also disciplines us to get stronger. And to deepen our faith. And so both of these things are happening here as we look through this. And the first, Jesus is the example of Somebody who's being disciplined to walk through this life, he sets an example for us, and we get to do the same thing. Look at that example and set an example for others. Be disciplined. And look to the example of Christ. And that example is a protection from growing weary or faint-hearted. The next thing that it says here is that God, just like God chooses for us a race that we run, God chooses for us discipline as well. And sometimes that discipline is we need to correct this sin. Because he's a loving heavenly father. And if he didn't correct our sin What this passage says is we're illegitimate children. And the point is, and it's a meaning parable, if you will, you don't discipline other people's children, do you? I mean if you're really close to them you might, right? My sister's kids I might. They needed it more than my kids did. I'm sure she's got good kids. Um but the reality is is I don't discipline somebody else's children. I discipline my children. This is my stewardship. I discipline them. And And if we've got loving fathers, right, when we look back at that discipline and what it built into our lives, we respect our parents and we delight in what they did And that's the point, God, who perfectly loves us. Disciplines with ultimate wisdom. No better wisdom. And so you set up a race for us That is going to be a challenging race that by his grace you can achieve. And through that, he's going to discipline you. And when you fall into temptation, he will also discipline you And bring and shape and mold you, as it says, to bring fruit of holiness into our lives, to make us look more like God. And so this ordaining of discipline that comes from our loving Heavenly Father is kind of like The light that you see from David after he had his affair his sin with Bathsheba, what resulted was difficult for him. And God may ordain for us difficulty based on the sin that we have in our lives. And that's for good. It's a right thing for him to do to bring about a measure of justice in this life. Not to pay back our sin because God already did that in Christ. But to make it sure that this world sees and that we see that God treats sin seriously. But also that God does this God does this to show the seriousness of sin and to instruct our hearts to correct us and to strengthen us. And the last thing I want to jump into, oh, I I did want to mention this, sorry, uh the reference in the verse there, I'm just going to jump back and do this in verse 4 5. Have you forgotten the exhortation that addresses you as sons, my son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord? That comes from Proverbs. Proverbs 3, verses 11 and 12. In case you don't have it written down. God is a loving father. And as a loving father, he disciplines us, you know, right? holy, wise, and loving manner. And he does it perfectly. And the last thing that this passage talks about, and I think I can go down here Is that God ordains our discipline like a personal trainer He's like a our loving Heavenly Father and he's like our personal trainer. And you know, uh personal trainers nowadays, you can spend a lot of money basically asking somebody to beat you up. And when you get to the gym and the personal trainer says go, you probably don't like that very much at first Or let's just say you go to physical therapy and they do the same thing, but for your good, right? To fix that thing that's wrong or to get you stronger. Both of those things happen And the author says, discipline is painful at a time, but it brings about a peaceful fruit of righteousness. There's a satisfied rest that comes from knowing I have run all of that distance. There's a growing in righteousness, and I believe the author is pointing at here, sanctification that grows in our lives as God ordains for us discipline and has us run. And to run this race. As we've already talked about People have I think we have it in our heads what it means to run a little bit, to get a little stronger, and run a little bit more and get a little stronger. Uh I remember as a kid the very first day I tried to do a push-up a pull-up Right? And it went like this. And then how'd it go? That was my first book ever. And, you know, I was like, well, I'll never do that. And I gave up for a little while. And my dad patiently came to me and he said, Doug Just do a little bit every day. And I was so shocked that after about a week or two I could do a half a pull-up. And guys, our lives are like that Where we can sometimes look at a thing that's in front of us and go, that thing is too big for us. And forget that God put that thing there And it's up to us to go do it, whether that means you're going to go be an evangelist, or whether you're going to be a public speaker, because those are scary things to people, or whatever it means that God has called you to do in your race. Run that race and trust God. When I get to this part of this, I like to think about if you ever seen the movie Rocky. You know, Robbie, he's this kind of scrappy guy from Philadelphia. He's got these little fight club things that he does, and he's collecting for the mafia. And then all of a sudden Apollo Creed is like, ah, the Italian stallion. I'm going to fight him, and he has a chance now to do great things. And Rocky at that point could have gone, that's too big for me. And he doesn't. What you see in the movie is while it's still dark and there's breath coming out of it because it's cold He gets up and he starts running. And he starts to make a little bit of progress. But that first time he goes out there and runs, he can barely get up the steps in that museum, wherever it is. And then this personal trainer, Nikki, comes along and he says, you've been wasting your potential, but I want to get you some training right now. And Mickey comes alongside and sets out a path and builds training into his life. So that by the I think it's like the the that climax of that training scene, right? Rocky runs up, he's like right. He gets up to the top, he runs up the stairs, he's like accomplished that thing, and that's what God set for us. He sets for us himself as our personal trainer and says, I need you to do push-ups, I need you to do pull-ups, I need you to run, I need you to work out, I need you to be in your word, I need you to be faithful in prayer, I need To go love people that you don't want to love And be patient with people that are being mean to you. And repent from your sins. And trust me, and walk by faith, and know that I am a God Who rewards those who seek me and those who draw near to me, and I will be faithful to the things that I promised. Believe me. And God wants to go, well that's a scary step, but God says I can take it. And I'm going to start on that first step forward. And it's not just a one-step deal. It's a multiple step. We can't just go like, hey, I took my first step Trying to go sit down. No, tomorrow I got to take the next step. And the day after that I got to take the next step because this is a run for the rest of our lives It's a marathon. It's not a sprint. It's not, I'm gonna run as fast as I can until I wear myself out today, and that was good enough. No. God says be about the business of trusting him and running at the pace that he set before you. Larry. And and we have to do it all with joy. The agony. That was Christ's example. For the joy set before him, he endured the cross. And where is Christ seated now? And where is Christ seated now? On the right hand. At the right hand of the Father, of God's throne, yes. And that's linked back to the fact that he endured the cross. He did exactly what God called him to. And that's precisely what God expects of us. And by his grace, that's what we'll do.