All right, so here we are starting the book of Hebrews. Very exciting. It's a great joy to be able to walk through this uh this this wonderful book with you. Um and it's great to be standing up here teaching again after three months of of doing some other things. Um and so I'm I'm really glad to be here and and glad to start into this. We have a so we're gonna be studying this book um for the next nine months. So it's a three quarter class and so in this quarter, thirteen weeks, we should get through the first four and a half chapters. Um the syllabus uh I posted on the Hope Book Group for our class. Yeah, so uh nine months we're gonna be studying the book of Hebrews. Uh this there is a syllabus and it's posted for this uh thirteen weeks and I've already laid out for the whole thirty nine weeks what we're gonna be studying. But you can see the thirteen weeks for this class uh in the files tab in hope book. Um I put two different outlines in the files tab on Hope Book. One is a simple one pager that I got for one of the commentaries. And another one is a much more extensive um expository outline maybe three or four pages. They're both in there if you want to take a look at those. Let's dive in. So first me, a little bit about me. I think I know most of you, but there may be a few who are new to me and who I am. So uh my name is Rob Thompson. Um there's a picture an old picture of me from Iraq in two thousand three. I was part of the invasion force in two thousand three in I Iraq and so I spent some time over there. Um there's another picture of me with my lovely bride who's sitting over here. Um but so those are both pictures of when I was in the military. So I was born in nineteen sixty five, my birthday's coming up in a few weeks and I'll be Fifty-nine. Um I just passed my half century mark of walking with the Lord, uh 1974 to 2024, so fifty years as of May Uh I joined the Navy in nineteen eighty-three. I got a uh a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering in nineteen eighty seven. I got a master's degree in applied physics and lasers and optics. I was a physics professor at the Naval Academy. I was also the associate chair of the physics department at the Naval Academy. Um I retired from the Navy on September first, two thousand seven. So So today marks seventeen years since I retired from the Navy. Um I joined Old Bible Church in September of twenty twenty one, so uh it's been three years now since my family and I came uh to join join you at Hope Bible Church and I was ordained as an elder a little over a year ago here at the church. Um so that's a little bit about me. Uh the schedule which you have in front of you uh walks through uh the book. We're going to do an introduction today and start with uh chapter one verse one next week. As you can see we get halfway through chapter five by the end of this course. And then there are two Two more quarters after that where we can get through all thirteen chapters. Um there are two weeks I know that I won't be here. Uh October 6th and October 27th. I'll be teaching the new members class, so I won't be here. And uh Doug Baldridge has graciously uh stepped up to teach those two classes. And uh Doug's uh an incredible teacher, a wonderful uh teacher of God's Word, and so I think you'll really enjoy uh his teaching. as well on those two weeks. And we finish up there, I think that's the Sunday of Thanksgiving, uh is the end of this particular quarter. So any questions about any of that? A little bit of background of how I uh spent my time studying to uh to teach this class. I uh in my personal library I have uh ten commentaries on the book of Hebrews. And so I use ten primarily ten commentaries. And so um I've got the IVP New Testament commentary series, the Hebrew Written by Steadman, I've got the New American commentary series with the Hebrews uh written by David Allen, I've got the Tyndall New Testament commentaries with the Hebrews written by Donald Guthrie, I've got the MacArthur New Testament commentary with the Hebrew written of course by John MacArthur. I've got the Crossway Classic commentaries with uh Hebrews written by John Owen in the sixteen hundreds. Uh John Owen is one of one of the uh great Puritan writers from the sixteen hundreds. I've got the Holman New Testament commentary with uh Hebrews and James written by Thomas Leah. I've got uh the Bible Speaks Today series with uh the w the one called The Message of Hebrews by Raymond Brown. I've got the Word Bible biblical commentary. Uh and it's a two volume set by William Lane. Um and I've got one called the Ex Exegetical Theological Commentary on the Hebrews by Doctor Robert Martin. I really like that one. Uh this is a brand new commentary uh published in twenty twenty. So most of the commentaries are a little bit older. Uh this one is published during the pandemic. Um and th th th that I really like him. Uh he's a real Expert on Hebrews. He he's been teaching the book of Hebrews in seminary for 40 years. And so he's really, really, really studied and studied and studied and studied the book of Hebrews. Seminary uh Reformed Theological Seminary. Um his name is Doctor Robert Martin. Doctor Robert Paul Martin. Um and so uh I've got a mix of old commentaries going back to the sixteen hundreds and brand new ones that were just published a few years ago. And I think it's good to do that because when you read a multiple commentary. So um I got a lot from from all of these uh various commentaries. So uh what we're gonna learn today. So uh that's good. Yeah. Thanks. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. So uh yeah, so here's what we're gonna do. So So I'm going to tell you what I'm going to tell you, then I'm going to tell you, then I'm going to tell you what I told you. So what we're going to learn today is we're going to do an introduction to Hebrews. We're gonna look at the human author of the book. We're gonna look at the original audience for the letter. We're gonna look We're going to look at the date. We're going to look at some fun facts about uh the book of Hebrews. We're going to look at an outline of the book. You have one of those in your hands right now. And we're going to look at themes of the book so that we're ready to dig in next week to verse one. So uh to start out, here's uh a few paragraphs from MacArthur's commentary uh in the introduction to Hebrews. And so this is what John MacArthur says about the book of Hebrews. He says, Jesus Christ is superior to and preeminent over everyone and everything. The first three verses provide a fitting introduction, but before we look at these, we need some background as a foundation for our study. Studying Hebrews is a thrilling adventure. Part of that adventure is due to the difficulty of the book. It is a book that has many, many deep truths that are difficult to grasp. And that demand diligent and faithful study. There are things here that are beyond understanding, apart from complete reliance on God's Spirit and sincere commitment to understand his word. My former Old Testament professor, Dr. Charles L. Feinberg, often said that you cannot understand the book of Hebrews unless you understand the book of Leviticus, because the book of Hebrews Is based upon the principles of the Levitical priesthood. But don't worry about your lack of understanding of Leviticus. By the time we get through Hebrews, you should have a pretty good grasp of Leviticus as well. That's John MacArthur. That's how John Mar John MacArthur introduces his commentary on the book of Hebrews. So I echoed that. Don't worry if you're not an expert in Leviticus. So, uh, sometimes Leviticus is where annual Bible reading plans go to die. Uh y you you know, you start in Genesis, everything's great, there's all these wonderful stories, you got Noah and the flood, you got Joseph and the co many colors and then you get to Leviticus and you're have all these descriptions of sacrifices and no no I can't can't keep going. So don't worry. Um we will learn a lot about Leviticus as we study Hebrew. Okay. Uh so who is the author? Who's the human author? Of course the Holy Spirit is the true author. We know that from Second Peter one, twenty and twenty one. It's uh no prophet um uh wrote according to his own understanding, but as he was led along by the Spirit. And so uh the the the the Holy Spirit is the inspiration for this letter. Uh but who was the human author, who was the the person that wrote it down. First of all, there's no name attached to the letter. Uh so it's technically anonymous. So we do have letters in the New Testament that have uh a greeting that shows exactly who it was from and who it's to. Uh no such uh luck here with the book of Hebrews. So uh technically It's synonymous. There's nothing in the book itself that identifies the author. However, considering the many personal references it contains, we can be pretty certain that the original readers knew who it was from. So think about this. If if you read a l if you uh if you receive a letter in the mail and you have no idea who's from, what are you gonna do with that letter? I mean you're gonna pay attention to what that letter says? Very unlikely. So uh Uh there's no way that this letter w the the writer of this letter was unknown to the original readers. They they had to know who it was from. Uh it would make no sense to have just a letter fall out of the sky from somebody you had no idea who it was from. Um so they knew. The original authors uh uh recipients knew, but there's uh we don't know now. Um there have been uh various authors uh proposed throughout history in the early church Um it was most often proposed uh to be written by Paul, Barnabas, Luke, or Clement of Rome, an early church father. Of these the most serious consideration in the early church again was given to Paul and Barnabas. For example, Tertullian, a man who lived the early church father who lived from A. D. 160 to 215, he suggested Barnabas. And he had two reasons why he suggested that Hebrews was written by Barnabas. First of all, in Acts 436, we have Barnabas uh clearly stated as being a Levite. His name was Joseph, a Levite, and then he took the name uh Barnabas, uh Barnabas, son of encouragement or exhortation. So uh his original name was Joseph, and he's identified in the scriptures as a Levite, and so he would have been well versed in preaching. priesthood and temple ritual as a Levite. And those are key themes of the book. And so that's Tertullian said, oh it makes sense. It would should be, maybe it was Barnabas. His name also, son of encouragement or son of uh exhortation, Bar his son, Nevis's encouragement or exhortation. Son of exhortation. Consistent with the author designated his letter, so in 1322 we see that the letter is designated as a word of exhortation. That's what the author says about his own letter. Um and so that fits with uh the name of Barnabas. Uh however, Tertullian's view did not receive much support outside of Tertullian And so most scholars continue all the way through to wrestle with is it Paul or is it not Paul? Those that's really what it's come down to, Paul or not Paul. Um and so the testimony of the early church uh outside of Tertullian was generally yes, it was Paul. Uh most of the early church fathers said that. Clement of Alexandria, for example, one fifty five to two twenty, said that Paul wrote the letter in Hebrew and that Luke translated into Greek. Umrigen said that the thoughts are Paul's but not the style and suggested that one of Paul's students wrote down. Why do they say that? Well, the the the Greek of Hebrew is very much different from the Greek of Paul's letters. And so when you read these commentaries, the people that know Greek the best We'll all say, well Paul definitely didn't write that, uh, because the Greek is so sophisticated, smooth, and polished as opposed to the letters of Paul. Uh in fact most translators of the Bible say that Hebrews is the most difficult book to translate into English because the Greek is so sophisticated. And so it doesn't look like Paul wrote that down himself. But these early church fathers said, well maybe Paul didn't write it himself, but maybe it was Paul's thoughts or he was dictating and somebody else was writing it in really smooth and polished Greek For Paul. And so that's where a lot of the church fathers landed, yeah. But I think all of the other pistols like Paul should start Yes. Right. It doesn't follow that pattern. That's true. And so that's a argument for it not being from Paul. Also the Greek style sophistication and Paulus argues for it. not being Paul. However, the theology really does sound like Paul. Um and that's why most of these church fathers say, well, you know, that theology really it really, really, really sounds like Paul Um so yeah, that's what Oregon said. He said the thoughts are Paul's, but perhaps not the style, so perhaps one of Paul's students wrote it down. So one of Paul's students who was a real expert in Greek heard Paul give this theology and then wrote it out. So that's a possibility. Yeah. So that was yes Yes there was. In the early church there was and and the what's the reason? The reason because they couldn't figure out who wrote it. And so how do we figure out which books to include in the in the Bible? Well it has to in the New Testament, it has to be written by an apostle or somebody who is closely affected. affiliated with an apostle. That's how we decide that's how they decided which books were and that's how the Holy Spirit revealed what the canon was. And so when you have controversy over who the author is, that automatically brings in controversy whether it should be in the canon. So yes, uh that's true. Uh however, uh all the early church fathers saw the theology and saw this is it. This this belongs in the canon, yeah. Has Apollos ever been elephant? Yep. Absolutely, yeah. But Apollos is one that was that's was especially the Western church going up to the fourth hundreds. Yeah. What would be the criticism again? Um, well, it doesn't say Apollos so there's nothing in there to indicate uh Apollos. Uh but yeah, he's been one of those that discussed as a possibility 'cause he was eloquent. Um but there's no positive indication that it was Apollos, just like there's no positive indication it was Paul or anyone else. Yeah. So yes. Apollos is definitely one that was considered As an author, yeah. So you say it was, you know, really uh had Greek complex Greek and things such as that. So when he was when he had skilled translating, like you know, Tertius translated uh Romans for Pauline when he wrote it, do they sort of change So that's a possibility, and so there are some indications that some of other Paul's letters were um actually written down by an amenuensis, uh whether it was direct dictation, he was written every word that Paul said or whether he was smoothing it out, we don't know for certain. But that's a possibility too, that some of other Paul's other letters, the Greek was written by somebody else. Uh yeah, that's a possibility too. Yeah, so there's some uncertainty. Um there has been uncertainty from the beginning, uh still uncertainty about who wrote this letter, who put pen to paper, but who is the real author? Holy Spirit. And at the end of the day, Oregon wrote this. Actually it was recorded by Eusebius, but Uh Eusebius says these are the words of origin. But who wrote the epistle, God only knows. That's that was the end of the conclusion by Oregon. Yes. Yes, absolutely, yeah. Yep. Uh so that's where that was the conclusion of Oregon. Uh after the time of Oregon, the mid two hundreds, the Eastern Church. So there was a split in the church, the Western Church and the Eastern Church. The Eastern Church accepted Paul's the author of Hebrews without serious challenge. So the Eastern Church from the two hundreds on has always accepted it. Paul wrote this. Um there's a Greek manuscript, the Uh it's designated Papyrus forty six. It's uh dated to about eighty two hundred, and it places Hebrews in Paul's letters right after Romans. Um so uh that's a little bit different from what we have in the There are many Greek manuscripts where Hebrews is after 2 Thessalonians, but before Paul's personal letters to Philemon and the pastorals for 2 Timothy and Titus. So where is Hebrews now? in our English Bible. It's after Philemon. So after first and second Timothy, Titus, Philemon, and then Hebrews. That's where we have it. But there's ancient Greek ma manuscripts which put it in different places. And usually those places uh were based on And um especially if they were really convinced that Paul's the author, they would put it right after the Romans. Um so there was I I I stumbled across an old article Um it's from the Harvard Theological Review from nineteen thirty six, uh a whole m mega article, many, many pages, uh about the placement of Hebrews in the canon. Uh wha what order it should be in. Um and there's three basic schools. One is right after Romans, one is right after Second Thessalonians, and one is where we have it in our our modern English Bibles today, after Philemon. The Western Church, so the Eastern Church said it's definitely Paul. starting in the mid two hundreds. The Western Church continued to argue about who the author was all the way up to the time of Jerome and Augustine. And that was all the way into the four hundred. So another two hundred years the Western Church argued about, well, who wrote this epistle who wrote this letter to the Hebrews. Augustine and Jerome both accepted Paul as the author. Um and so that kind of settled the question for the Western Church. All the way up to the sixteen hundreds, uh the sixteenth century, the fifteen hundreds, when both Martin Luther and John Calvin questioned Paul's authorship uh of Hebrews. and reignited the controversy all over again for the Reformation. Just to be contrary. But we're going to protest everything else. We're going to protest the author of Hebrews as well. Um so so yeah, so there's been controversy about who who wrote this uh over the years. So, uh so what do we conclude? Well, the endorsement of church fathers and reformation heroes may impress us. In the end, they represent nothing more than the studied opinions of eminent men. The decisive evidence, if we're going to name an author, has to come from the scripture itself. And that evidence is sparse and and conclusive. The fact is there is no piece of evidence which would allow us to say with any certainty who wrote the letter of Hebrews. Just not in there, not in the scripture itself. So in my opinion, it's once again just my opinion. Uh Oregon's uh conclusion is probably best, but who wrote the epistle, God only knows. Um and of course discovering who wrote Hebrews is not necessary either to understand it or to benefit. Um the real controversy at the very beginning was, is it in the canon? I think that's been conclusively answered. It's definitely in the canon, definitely inspired by the Holy Spirit, part of Holy Scripture, and since we know that It's not necessary to know who the human penman was, as John Owen put it, um, because it was written by the Holy Spirit. Alright. So that's a long and winding way to say I don't know. Really very complicated way to say. I don't know who wrote uh Hebrews. Um any questions about any of that? I guess the question was eminent men and scholars would even want to argue a little bit of things because Scott wanted us to know who the author was even. Scholars like to argue. Scholars scholars like to study, they like to argue, um that's all I can say. Now there is a modern move to say it was written by um Priscilla. Um and the use of the yeah, well the use of masculine pronouns in the um in the letter I think precludes that. Uh but there are modern scholars who say, well, they defin they they deliberately changed those pronouns to obscure the fact that it was written by a woman. I think not. But there's other there's modern scholars who are on that train. Um I don't think that's uh viable. Um so who was the so that's the author, we don't know So who was the original audience of this letter? So this is a letter, it came to some group of people. So the audience the Holy Spirit had in mind, of course, were those original recipients of the letter. Us all believers of all times. So w the audience is us as well as all the way back to an original the original readers of the letter. So unlike many New Testament letters, this one doesn't have a formal address, and so it doesn't identify not only the author, but it also doesn't identify who exactly the recipients are. There are no references There are no references to problems between Gentiles and Jews in the church as there are in so many other letters in the New Testament. Uh and that is an argument from silence, uh not the strongest kind of argument, but it is an argument that indicates that the congregation was probably Jewish. Uh since they there's no they don't bother to talk about any the problems or the differences or the issues, struggles between Jews and Gentiles, like so many other books of the New Testament do. So in view of the General message of the letter, which is a word of exhortation not to return to Judaism, it appears that the original readers must have been primarily Jews who profess Christ. So a congregation of Jewish believers. Now, just because somebody professes Christ. Christ, does that mean they're actually saved and actually a follower of Christ? No, yeah, that's pretty clear in scripture. Um many will say on that day, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name? And uh and Jesus says, I never knew. you. And so just because somebody professes Christ doesn't mean they're an actual believer. And so there's some passages in uh Hebrews which certainly appear to be aimed at unbelievers. But I think we can be fairly sure that every church since Pentecost has had unbelievers in it. And so this one probably did too. And so the letter uh the letter writer and the Holy Spirit who inspired him included material that would be useful to unbelievers in the letter, even though it's addressed to a congregation of those who have professed Christ. Okay. But if the readers were just Jewish Christians, where did they live? So there's no indication in the l in the letter about you know, was the were they where where were these uh group of uh Jewish believers it was written to. Uh some expositors favored Jerusalem, so I read that in number of commentaries. However, the writer of Hebrews admits in chapter twelve, verse four, that they had not yet resisted to the point of shedding blood. And that couldn't be said of the Christians in Jerusalem. We have a uh a record in Acts of persecution and and martyrdom of uh of saints in in Jerusalem uh that was certainly before uh this letter. Um so possible thematic links wa uh especially there was a couple of commentaries That talked about links, and we'll talk about these as we go along, in the themes of the Book of Colossians and Hebrews. Um and so it's possible uh that this group of Jewish believers was somewhere near. Colossae, uh in the province of Asia. It's a possibility. There's no direct indication in Hebrews. Um if there if they were from the province of Asia, their nearness to Ephesus would support a c extensive contact with Apollos and Timothy. Timothy, who were ministering there, uh, and the references in Hebrews to many of the themes that are also in Colossians, Sabbath observance, moon new moon festivals, food restrictions, worship of angels, those are all treated in both Colossians. and Hebrews. But there's no direct evidence. Arguments that the readers of Hebrews lived in Rome are uh throughout the different commentaries, uh based primarily on an extensive quote from a letter from Clement of Rome, uh that quotes quite extensively from Hebrews, and a reference in uh Chapter thirteen verse twenty four to those from Italy. Uh that latter reference is ambiguous enough that it could refer to any group of Italian Christians found living anywhere in the empire. For example, Priscilla and Aquila, uh are seen in Rome, they're seen in Corinth, and they're seen an e seen in Ephesus within the New Testament record. Um so there's Italian Christians who sh pop up all over the Empire. Um and so that doesn't it's the that reference To those from Italy doesn't necessarily pin down the recipients of letters of the letter to Rome. Although some commentators have postulated that. The quotations from Clement show that a copy of Hebrews certainly reached the him certain uh shortly after it was written. Um 'cause the letter that you're they're quoting from is early, it's before uh one hundred AD. Um but there was a slowness in the Western church to accept the epistle as genuine And that would argue against the Roman origin. If this was written to a group in Rome, you would think that the Roman church, the one from the West, would be the first ones to accept it if that was true. Um but they didn't. And so that argues again. So once again, that's a long way to say, I don't know. So I don't know where these so we don't know who wrote it And we don't know where these group of Jewish Christians lived. There's there's actually no indica yes, go ahead. Is it would it be safe to say also what we know about the audience? So what we know about the audience? Uh yeah, so we do know some things about the audience. Uh we're making some speculations that um they had th that there were Jewish believers because all these warnings are about not turning back to Judaism so that would not make no sense for a secular audience. And so uh there's these little clues that various commentators pick up that, well, i i it it just wouldn't make sense for a Gentile audience to to receive this particular letter. And so that's why m most commentators say, okay, it must have been but there's nothing in the in the letter that says that. Um yeah. So yeah, so much of this is speculation, as I pointed out, and so it's a very sophisticated way of saying I don't know. Don't know who the author is, don't know who these recipients were. Um but that doesn't affect the fact, that doesn't make it uh so that the letter can't be useful to us uh to study today. All right, the date. So the date of the book. Um wherever the readers lived, it's clear that they were largely second generation Christians. Why do we say that? Because there are some indications. First of all, in thirteen seven it says the first leaders had passed away. So most likely these are not the original hearers of Peter's sermon at Pentecost, or right at you know, right at thirty-three AD or whatever Uh there's been some time that's gone by, enough time for their original leaders to have passed away in this group. Uh they had professed Christ for some time, four twelve five five twelve, and they had once shown great evidence of sturdy faith. And so there has to be some time. This is not uh second generation Christians, uh what I mean by that is not that their parents were Christians, that uh they're not the original group that were uh uh uh originally evangelized by Peter and uh and by the original uh missionary journeys of Paul, for example, but there has been some time past. So a church is established and enough time has gone by for the original set of leaders to have passed See see what that see how that train of logic goes. Um but when the letter was written they had reached a state of discouragement So that's why they had to be exhorted and encouraged. And some had given up meeting with other believers, 1025 Um and so these are clues that some time has passed, that a church has been established somewhere, we don't know where, and time has passed uh for these things to have happened to the church of Jewish. believers. Uh many probably found based on the uh the exhortations they're given, they were probably finding opposition to their faith uh from their Jewish families and friends. Uh while they may also have faced sharpening hostility from Gentile authorities and citizens and we'll see uh why that may have been here in a second. What you just said in five years, you think this may have been written to a specific church and not very Most likely. Uh yeah, I think so. It seems to be a written to a a particular group. Now, uh some of Paul's letters he particularly tells them to circulate And so that may have been the case for this one too, although it doesn't say that in the letter. It doesn't say, hey, once you're done with this, circulate it around. At least one of Paul's letters does say that. Um and and it obviously did eventually get circled around. Because Clement of Rome wrote and quoted from it. Yeah. But how exactly that happened, we we don't know for sure. The author obviously writes the letter. And we'll see this as we go through, as if the Jerusalem temple is still standing. Uh he's he's writing in the present tense. Description of the ritual in chapter nine contains many usages of the Greek present tense, as if these sacrifices are still going on. um suggesting that events are still underway. Uh mention of sacrifices in chapter ten also imply that they were still being offered. And so the book of Hebrews must be dated before the destruction of the city of Jerusalem and its temple by the Romans in AD seventy. Uh so it seem it wouldn't seem to make sense for this to have been written after that and the author to have gone on as if the sacrifices were still happening in Jerusalem when they weren't after seventy AD, 'cause the city was raised to the ground and so was the temple. So that puts an upper cap on on the letter. Had to be before 70 AD, based on that circumstantial evidence from the letter. The persecution of Christians under under Emperor Nero commenced in AD sixty four. But these Christians, wherever they live, do not seem to have yet been seriously affected by that Roman persecution. Ah there are other letters in the New Testament this that refer to this severe persecution, uh the Epistles of Peter, for example, um, which are most likely written after that. Uh but this one, uh, it doesn't seem to i it doesn't it doesn't refer to uh the serious uh persecution by Roman authorities, at least directly, in Hebrews and so that has led most scholars to believe that it ha it it must not have been very long after sixty four A D. Um for this to have happened. So it has to be uh some time has to have passed for there to be a church established somewhere and the first generation of leaders to pass away, so it's not right away in thirty or forty or fifty, um, but it can't be after seventy So we're starting to get some bounds on when this letter must have been written. Um and so all of those conditions seem to point to a date for the letter somewhere in the mid to late sixties of the first century. And so The guess of many scholars is somewhere in the sixties. Um my guess is somewhere in the sixties as well. on that um circumstantial evidence. Any questions about that? This kind of record not even before sixty four eighty. So um it it could have been a little bit before that, but it has to be there has to be time after after um after the gospel is going out and churches are being established and then for time to pass for the first generation of leaders to pass away a as we see in uh in Romans chapter ten. Then so uh for all the for that to have occurred it can't have been very early. It must have been a little bit later. Um Paul's missionary journeys must have gone by. Um Paul was killed you know, sixty early sixty A D. in Rome. Um and so it seems to be it's gotta be a little bit later, but it can't be past seventy. And so if you're talking about later but not past seventy, sometime in the sixties. But once again that's a guess. I mean that really is a guess. And so if it was a little bit earlier than that, maybe. Maybe. Yes. I think so. Six sixties somewhere around there. Oh yeah, this was finished. So yeah, so the the a so the actual date I I don't I don't remember what the actual date of Paul's martyrdom is. Uh but if he wrote this, he probably wrote it very shortly before he was killed. I th I think that's what most people who think that Paul wrote it think that Paul wrote it right before he was killed. Yeah. Yeah. Not a sermon? Um it looks like it's written t Well, so it looks like it's written to a group of people and so I guess you could say that about a sermon as well. Um but there's no address. No, there's no address. There's no you know, there's no heading to a letter like we would see in other letters. Um yeah. So Yes, so so saying that it was a l a sermon addressed to them, that could be as well. Yeah. You could say it that way too. Yep. Yes. Somewhere around sixty four, sixty five after the persecution started. Yeah. So yeah, w Nero was the one that killed him, so yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So you mentioned in well The author says we haven't resist to get rid of the food of shedding your blood. And in other clues in the letter that the persecution was not super severe? So uh only uh evidence from absence. So there's no no direct encouragement to, you know, persevere under the sphere. Uh like some of the other letters like Peter's letters, um, directly address persevering under that kind of intense persecution. Um so there's no direct evidence. There's only once again he doesn't he doesn't re he doesn't really talk much about persevering under and he's got this that one verse that says you haven't yet resisted to the point. of uh shedding your blood. And so from that scant evidence is, okay, it must have been before the the the sixth the before it really ramped up the persecution under under Nero. But once Again, that's we're we're talking about speculation based on very small amounts of ev evidence. Uh yeah. Yes, so there's there's a number of different verses that seem to indicate that some time has passed. Um yeah. They they've seemed they've had a a s more sturdy face chapter ten talks about the the fact that they had a a more sturdy face before and now it's waned. They've given up uh meeting together. They used to meet toget together now they're giving up, their first generation of leaders has passed away. There there's a number of different indications that the church has been there for a while. Um and so that that's why most scholars say, well it can't be really early like the you know, people were listening to Peter's sermon and uh came to Christ and they were there from all over uh they were there from the for for the uh uh Passover from all over and then they went back and there so there could have been churches very early Uh but there are indications in the in the letter or the epistle um or the book that or the sermon uh that some time has passed since those events. How much time Once again, that's a little bit of informed speculation. Okay. Uh yes. So it was definitely written, but it could have been a written sermon. Um yeah, it wasn't yes, so this is not Peter standing up and and giving an oration, it's not that. It's definitely written. Uh, but it could have been a written sermon, as opposed to a letter, and uh because there's no there's no indication that it's a letter, there's no kind of in address, there's no salutation, that sort of thing. Um so but it's definitely it was definitely written to somebody and that's why most scholars call it a letter because of passages like thirteen twenty two that says, I have written to Um yeah. Good question. Good observation. Any other questions about any of these things? Kind of this background information. Daniel. Um yeah, I I'm not sure exactly when it was, but it was pretty early. Um especially in the Eastern Church. They they tacked on to the Hebrews. But it's not in the book. Right? It's not in it's not in the letter itself. It doesn't say to the Hebrews. It's a title that has been added. And I don't know exactly when it was added, but it's pretty early, I believe. Um Um yeah. Yeah, so yeah, so uh the many of the books call it um i some of some of the translations actually say Paul's letter to the Hebrews in the title. Yeah, the Epistle to the Hebrews. But just just be aware that that's not in the actual scripture. That's a title that somebody added uh later. Yeah. Any other questions or comments? Yes. So it could have taken some time. I don't think years. Uh it could have taken some matter of months uh for word to travel. Um but there was significant trade all around the Mediterranean within the Roman world. And so there were ships that were going around and carrying news. And so i it w it's not like it would have been posted on the internet and everybody would have known uh as it was happening like today, but it wouldn't have been years to find out um a a big event like that. that would have traveled um around the s the the synagogue network for example, um traveled with news that came on uh trading caravans and trading ships. say isn't it also likely that that the prosecution came from Euro that drunk soldiers in the area would have been t would have been told to act on the area or at least in nearby areas and not in that area. Yeah the so yeah so that would have um the decree would have gone out from Nero and it would have taken perhaps some number of months for it to get around the empire, same kind of side sort of thing. Uh but the extra biblical history says that decrees like that were unevenly applied across the empire. Uh some places it was likely more rigorously applied than others. So yeah. Any other questions? Comments? about this background information about our letter. Um okay, yes. Then he was making the statement, you guys have been you guys have been spared just for now. Although he's very bold in his face is a thing that he would identify himself, but also for purposes of being wise with a uh a serpent maybe he would want to conceal that was written by him and maybe it was being censored and all this other stuff. So having it anonymous would allow us to ask uh more easily. Yeah, perhaps. Yeah. There's a there's a number of different uh logic threads that you could follow. Potential uh um uh possibilities for who wrote this letter and how it how it was written and how it got to the recipients and who these recipients were. Uh but at the end of the day from the actual scripture we don't know for sure. Uh we don't know ex exactly who they who wrote it, exactly who the recipients were, or exactly when it was written. We just make these kind of educated guesses about all of that. Alright, some fun facts. About the book of Hebrews. So the author, not absolutely certain. Many attribute it to Paul. Time. Guesswork, that maybe somewhere in the mid-sixties. Position, fifty-eighth book in the Bible in our in our Modern English Bible. Nineteenth book of the New Testament. It's the fourteenth of twenty-one epistles or or written uh kind of letters. Uh Romans the Jude. There are eight books uh total after Hebrews. Uh the book has thirteen chapters. It has three hundred and three verses and it has six thousand nine hundred and thirteen words. So um that's what we're gonna study. Uh it shows the superiority of Christianity over the Judaics. system, Christ over the previous sec sacrifice, Christ over the law of Moses. Uh I want you to notice that there are nearly one hundred Old Testament references in the book of Hebrews. So in three hundred verses there's a hundred So about one Old Testament reference every three verses. So it really is a Um it's been described as the the best commentary on the Old Testament is the book of Hebrews. Um and every single quote is from the Septuagint, word for word from the Septuagint. Um and so that's not Not the case in every book in the New Testament. Uh in other books of the New Testament it appears that some of the quotes are for the Septuagint and some are not from the Septuagint. Um and so what was the Septuagint? So the Septuagint is an early Greek translation of the Hebrew Old Testament. So it's a translation from Hebrew into Greek by 70 scholars. That's why we call it the Septuagint. Sometime a few hundred years before Christ. And so it was in common use. among uh Jews in the Roman world. And why was that? Why why did they do that? Why did they translate the Old Testament, the Hebrew scriptures, from Hebrew into Greek? Greek was the common language, kind of like English is the common language today. It was a language of commerce and everybody knew it. And Hebrew was a dying language as a spoken language. And so there was alarm among the Pharisees and the scholars of the law that pretty soon nobody's going to be able to understand these scriptures. So we better translate it into the common language. And so they did. They translated it into Greek. And of course the New Testament is written in Greek. And so when we went to uh compare um Greek words and usages in the New Testament, it's often um beneficial to look at the Septuagint and see the Greek uh what what the early Hebrews thought of the Old Testament in Greek. Um, it's helpful. And the author of Hebrews obviously very heavily leaned on the Septuagint. Uh because there are translation choices. Whenever you're doing translation from one language to another, you have to make choices and there it's often um I don't know how How many of you have done have you ever done anybody ever done translation from one language into another? Uh when you do that, um you you run into phrases, especially idiomatic expressions, things like that, which there's no exact The you can't do it. There's just no s it's not possible to directly translate it. You have to make a choice. Um and so that's always the case when we're translating these biblical passages. And so the the origin of the ancient Hebrews that did the Septuagint, they made choices. choices and there that's not the only choice that you can make for those words and uh but we and so we can tell, um often most of the time we can tell, uh when the New Testament writers were using the Septuagint When they're quoting Old Testament passages. Because we have the Septuagint and we can look at the choices they made in translation. And in Hebrews, it's the Septuagint that the author of Hebrews used. Yes. So if any of the other New Testament writers have switched the things that they've had translation. Or or or seem to well seem to be doing their own Greek translation from Hebrew. Yeah, on the fly. From Hebrew. Yeah. So whoever whoever was writing the that particular book of the New Testament knew Hebrew and New Greek and wrote their translation of that Hebrew in in Greek. Um believers in Jerusalem to do that kind of thing as opposed to a believer that was maybe living further out from Jerusalem since they were thinking of our thing. Yeah, so that's a good point. And that's right. And so the the center of Hebrew was Jerusalem and so the Jerusalem church um would be much more likely to use Hebrew directly than somebody that was in one of the other provinces far away. Yeah, that's right. All right. Any questions about So uh we're gonna talk about themes here in a minute, but uh basically um everything in Hebrews talks about how Christ is better. Uh he's a better revelation, better expectation, better priesthood, better hope, better testament. We'll talk about these things As we go, but you'll see it just jump out at you from the pages of the of the scripture in Hebrews. Christ is just better than everything else, uh, everything preceding. Uh his person is better, his performance is better, uh, his sacrifice. Sacrifice is better, better, better, better, better. Um yeah. So um yeah, that's uh a few interesting facts about the book of Hebrews. So an outline. So you have this outline I think. I think it was passed out to you. Uh this is from one of the common a very simple one page outline. Um and we're going to be going all the way through this, um, but um just as a a simple outline of the book, you've got um a prologue We're gonna talk about that next week, uh verses one through four, kind of an introduction. Um and then diving into the to the main body of the uh uh of the letter uh the superiority of the son, um his the obligations of Jesus' priestly office and saving work, um and some details about that Um comparing Jesus to various others, his superiority to angels, his superiority to Moses, um, h his identification with the priesthood of Melchizedek, there's a section and we'll talk about that. Who was Melchizedek and why is um Jesus compared to this Melchizedek here in this letter. Uh the the new covenant, the fact that Jesus is a mediator and he's a mediator of a new covenant. We'll talk about that. Um and then there's some exhortations. We'll see a number of exhortations throughout the the Bible. Um to persevere, to avoid sin, um, to live by faith. uh to run with endurance, to pursue peace, uh exhortations to love and humble submission. And so we'll talk about there's six main exhortations that we'll talk about in the book. And so that's a pretty decent outline I think that uh this uh uh Dr. David Allen in his Hebrews commentary gave. Uh a good simple straightforward uh outline. I put another outline in there uh that's actually from this book and I think it's four pages long and expository and that's just the outline. Um and uh it's very thorough. Uh huh. Yeah. So you can take a look at that too. It's it's on the files tab on uh on Hope Book. Alright, themes. Let's take a look at the theme. So the overall theme is the superiority or preeminence of Christ. That's the theme of the book. Christ is better. Christ is superior. Christ is preeminence. Uh he's better than any Old Testament person. They uh there's some direct comparisons to particular Old Testament people uh with Christ as better. Uh he's better than any Old Testament institution. We have the institution of the sacrifice system But Christ is better than that. Uh he's better than any ritual. There are the all these rituals of the um the high priest going once a year into the Holy of Holies. Well Christ is better than that because now we have access to God all the time. Not just the high priest once a year. And we have that of course with the at the moment of the of Christ's death the the the curtain that separated us from the Holy of Holies torn from the top down. And that was God's very symbolically saying, hey, it's now open. The Holy of Holies is now open in Christ. Um and so he's better than any Old Testament ritual, he's better than only any Old Testament sacrifice. Uh and the the the Another key thing to consider, put yourself in the shoes of a first century Jew, to Jews that had always been a very dangerous thing to approach the living God. Uh, Exodus thirty three twenty, no man can see me and live. That's what the Jews were brought up in. You you cannot approach this holy God. He can't be approached. W there it takes th it takes a whole very specific set of uh ritual details for one man, the high priest, to go into God's presence in the Holy of Holies one time a year. So for the for the common Jew, not that's not me. I'm not I can't get close to to God. Uh there since there was no naturally no personal nearness to God, there had to be some basis for communion between God and Israel. And so God set up the Levitical priesthood and the the sacrifice system. To symbolize atonement for sin, in order that that barrier could be broken down and there might be access to God. But what man really needed was a perfect priest and a perfect sacrifice to open the way to God. God permanently, a sacrifice that did not deal just with one sin at a time, but one that took it all away once and for all And that, says the writer of Hebrews, is exactly what Jesus did. Jesus came as the mediator of a better covenant, in the words of the writer of Hebrews, because his sacrifice is one that It does not have to be repeated every hour, every month, or every year. Um Christ comes as the mediator of a better covenant because his sacrifice was once and for all removes every sin ever committed for his elect. Christ comes as the mediator of a better covenant because he is a priest who does not need to make any sacrifices for himself. Remember the high priest had to make a sacrifice for himself just before he could go into the Holy of Holies. Well, Christ doesn't need to make any sacrifice for himself. He's already perfect. So in this epistle, we see, we'll see these contrasts over and over and over again between Christ and than what came before. Everything is presented as better. A better hope, a better testament, a better promise, a better sacrifice, a better substance, a better country, a better resurrection, a better everything. Priced is superior. And that's over and over and over again what this author uh wrote in this letter to the Hebrews um is comparing Christ to what came before and showing that Christ is superior. And so why did that need to be done for the Jews? Well for a number of reasons. One is Um quite frankly, they had a superiority complex about who they were as Abraham's children and who they were based on this whole set of uh the law of Moses and the sacrifice system. And what is the author of Hebrews saying that Christ is better than all that. The thing that you thought was the best, well Christ is better than all that. And the reason why they needed to be exhorted and reminded of that is because they were getting Pressure. Pressure to return to Judaism. Um and the author of Hebrews is saying, No, no, no, no, no, why would you do that? Why would you return to the cheap imitation when the real thing is here? Um so uh as I mentioned a minute ago, there's um a number of exhortations in the book. So I took this from um MacArthur's um uh the the MacArthur Daily Bible, which I use as a study tool for my uh my daily uh scripture reading, um and he's got interspersed in with your daily Bible readings these little Nuggets. And so this is one of the nuggets from one of the day days of reading Hebrew Hebrews. MacArthur says this, beyond its value as a doctrinal treatise, this book is intensely practical in its application to everyday living The writer himself even refers to his letter as a word of exhortation, 1322. Exhortations designed to stir the readers into action are found throughout the text. Those exhortations are given in the form of six warnings. Number one, warning against drifting from the things we have heard in chapter two. Number two, warning against disbelieving the voice of the Number three, warning against degenerating from the elementary principles of Christ in chapter five and six. Number four, warning against despising the knowledge of the truth in chapter ten. Number five, warning against evangelical. Valuing the grace of God in Chapter 12. Number six, warning against departing from him who speaks, also in Chapter 12. So there's these warnings throughout. There's these exhortations, there's these descriptions of Christ as better than everything that has come before, and then there's some warnings, uh encouragement encouragements in the form of warnings uh found throughout the book. Any questions about any of that? Introduction. I hope you're excited to dig into chapter one, verse one next week. And so uh yes, Anne. Julie lived came back in their honeymoon. And the first morning my wife cooked a big breakfast that she was waiting and I was gonna say, Oh my this is so good, No, I really might Coffee. See that little the shelf over there? It's a coffee method, one of our wedding presents. So you should make a cup of coffee Oh no, she says. That's your job. What? He says, I she said yes, it's it There's a whole book about it. It's called He grew. Yeah, this this uh comment is kind of maybe disparages whoever the author author was even though we don't know who the first it is. But I don't know of other books of the Bible in which they'll confess that it that they don't know where the scripture is taken from. But in Hebrews more than once the writer says somewhere, somewhere in the Old Testament it says, Yeah, yeah, it's very interesting, um, and we'll identify where those come from as they come up Um but yes, the it it's a it's a certain style of writing. It's actually d in the Greek it's a it's a certain style of writing um to bring it up that way. And the assumption is that that they need to be familiar enough to know where that comes from without him telling them. That's kind of the subtle thing that he's doing there with with with put putting it that way. It's written somewhere yeah, I think it's deliberate, yeah. Yeah, I really do. Yeah. That's right. Yeah, that's right. Yeah. Yes. Sure. I just wanted to read that. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Any other questions or comments? Yes, Raymond. Oh yeah. is really solid and it it does explain things in the New Testament from uh the one hundred quotes from the Old Testament and three hundred verses. Um yeah. All right. Any uh any other questions or comments? Let me close this with a word of prayer.