Sweet. Well I say good morning again for the recording and um welcome everybody. Uh so today we're gonna be in Hebrews chapter seven. And uh when you look at this passage, the um sometimes you come to a passage of Hebrews and it's really dense with material. In fact a lot of times the book of Hebrews. When you come into a passage, it's really dense. And like this past Sunday, where it was hard for Rob to even get out of verse one. Um and and get on to the rest of what he was teaching. Today's passage passage that we're going to be looking at I feel like is a little bit uh a little bit less so. It's a I think a little bit more accessible. There's still a lot of richness and truth that's in this passage. But one of the things I don't want to do is we come to this passage as goes, Oh yeah, I got it, I got it, I got it, I got it, let's go. Uh or just look at the trivia that's and the facts and figures that are in this passage. But I want us to take a moment and think about The so what for me? We know that all scripture is profitable for us for teaching and correcting and training in righteousness. And so as we come to a passage like this that maybe we're a little familiar with, maybe with concepts that we're like, oh yeah, I know Jesus was. born in Judah from the tribe of Judah and stuff like that, that that we look at here and we ask ourselves the question, all right, so what? For us. Um this is kind of one of these passages and it's kind of neat that we were talking about tools this morning a little bit. This is one of these passages that I'd like to think about the metaphor of um you ever try to come to a job and you use the wrong tool? Or like you try to cut something with a dull knife. And And when you do it's miserable or impossible or laborious. Uh but if you've got the right tool, if you have that right tool or or your knife is or your chisel is sharp and you can the task is is effortless and it's satisfying. It can even be joyful to have that task um fitting. You I could even say perfect. You go, yeah! Yes, that was sweet. Let me do that again. I want to find something else. I've got the right hammer for the job, if you will. And uh that's kind of similar to what the Hebrew right the what the writer here in Hebrews asks, right? He starts off By asking the question in this section, if there was perfection in the Levitical priesthood, why would you look for another? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, um, you know what we need to hear from from this passage today. And you know my weakness and you know how much I need your help and how we need your help to see your word And it's truth for us and to love you more deeply. I pray, Heavenly Father, that uh as we look at this passage today, that we would see freshly the Plan that you have in place for us, your sovereign care over our lives, how history is in your control and we have nothing to fear or worry about, but to really see God afresh the deep love that you have for us. And so know again the breadth and height and depth of your love for us, dear Lord. Um because So often we look at it and we're like, oh yeah, God loves us. But the truth is God loves us. And so help us, dear Lord, to enjoy this truth, to relish in it, and to love you more. To to know, Heavenly Father, that uh the passion that you have for us, the care, the gentleness, the patience and mercy that you have for us. Amen. So we're gonna be studying today Hebrew seven. versus eleven and nineteen. But I'd like to back up and get a running start. And before I get any further, is this loud enough in the room for everybody? Okay, alright, cool. I'd like to back up and read it in its context. I'm going to take a little bit of bigger chunk to look at it. Let's back up to Hebrews chapter 6 Verse thirteen. And let's get a running start to the passage that we're looking at today. I'm gonna read from ESV. Hebrews six thirteen. For when God made a promise to Abraham, since he had no one greater to s greater by whom to swear, he swore by himself, saying, Surely I will bless you and multiply you. And thus Abraham, having patiently waited, obtained the promise. For people swear by something greater than themselves, and in all their disputes an oath is final for confirmation. So when God desired to show Show more convincingly to the heirs of the promise the unchangeable character of his purpose. He guaranteed it with an oath. We who have fled for refuge might have strong encouragement to hold fast to the hopes set before us. We have this as a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul, a hope that enters into the inner place behind the curtain where Jesus has gone As a forerunner on our behalf, having become a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek For this Melchizedek, king of Salem, priest of the most high God, met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings and blessed him. And to him Abraham apportioned a tenth part of everything. He is first, by translation of his name, king of righteousness. And then he is also King of Salem, that is, King of Peace. He is without father or mother or genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but resembling the Son of God, he continues A priest forever. See how great this man was, to whom Abraham the Patriarch gave a tenth of the spoils. And those descendants of Levi who received the priestly office have a commandment in the law to take tithes from the people, that is, from their brothers. Though these also are descended from Abraham. But this man, who does not have his descent from them, received tithes from Abraham and blessed him who had the promises. It is beyond dispute that the inferior is blessed by the superior. In a one case, tithes are received by mortal men, but in other case by one of whom it is testified that he lives. lives. One might even say that Levi himself, who receives tithes, paid tithes through Abraham, for he was still in the loins of his ancestor when Melchizedek meant him met him. Now If perfection had been attainable through the Levitical priesthood, for under it the people received the law, what further need would there have been for another priest to arise after the order of Melchizedek rather than one named after the order of Aaron. For when there is a change in the priesthood, there is necessarily a change in the law as well. For one will one of whom these things are spoken belong to another tribe, from which no one has ever served at the altar. For it is evident that our Lord was descended from Judah, and in connection with that tribe Moses said nothing about priests. This becomes even more evident when another priest arises in the likeness of Melchizedek, who has Become a priest, not on the basis of a legal requirement concerning bodily descent, but by the power of an indestructible life. Witness of him, you are a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. For on the one hand, a former commandment is set aside because of its weakness and uselessness For the law made nothing perfect, but on the other hand, a better hope is introduced through which we draw near to God And it was not without an oath. For those who formerly became priests were made such with an oath. But this one was made a priest with an oath by the one who said to him, The Lord has sworn and will not change his mind. You are a priest. Forever. This makes Jesus the guarantor of a better covenant. The former priests were many in number because they were prevented by death from continuing in office, but he holds his priesthood permanently. because he continues forever. Consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him. Since he always lives to make intercession for them. For it was indeed fitting that we should have such a high priest, holy, innocent, unstained, separated from sinners, and exalted above the heavens. Heavens. He has no need like those high priests to offer sacrifices daily, first for his own sins and then for those of the people Since he did this once for all when he offered up himself. For the law appoints men in their weakness as high priests. But the word of the oath, which came later than the law, appoints a son who has been made perfect. Forever. Now the point in what we're saying is this: we have such a high priest One who is seated at the right hand of the throne of the majesty in heaven, a minister in the holy places, in the true tent that the Lord set up, not man. For every high priest is appointed to offer gifts and sacrifices. Thus it is necessary for this priest also to have something to offer. Now if he were on earth he would not be a priest at all, since there are priests who offer gifts according to the law. They serve a copy and a shadow of the heavenly things. For when Moses was about to erect the tent, he was instructed by God saying, See that you make everything according to the pattern that was shown you on a mountain. But as it is, Christ has obtained a ministry that has much more excellent, that is as much more excellent as the old than the old as the covenant immediates is better, since it is enacted on better promises. For if the first covenant had been faultless, there would have been no occasion to look for a second. For he finds fault with them when he says, Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will establish a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah Not like the covenant that I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt, for they did not continue in my covenant And so I showed no concern for them, declares the Lord. For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel, after those days, declares the Lord I will put sorry. I will put my laws into their minds and write them on their hearts, and I will be their God And they shall be my people, and they shall not teach each one his neighbor and each one his brother, saying Know the Lord, for they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest. For I will be merciful to their iniquities, and I will remember their sins no more. In speaking of a new covenant, he makes the first one obsolete. And what is becoming obsolete and growing old is ready to vanish away. That's God's word. That was a lot to read. But here's a quick synopsis, right? Uh this this passage picks up with the writer of the book of Hebrews saying, We're leaving the elementary principles and we're going to press on. to maturity. We're gonna go ahead and dig in deep, essentially. And then immediately introduces Abraham and an oath. And the blessing of Melchizedek. And and then right off the bat he just lays it on us. Jesus is a priest in the order of Melchizedek. And he reminds us that Melchizedek is both priest of God most high, king of righteousness, king of priests, and king of peace And he resembles being a priest forever because he has no recorded stopper end, start or end. And he has no recorded genealogy. And finally, he points out to us that Melchizedek, who's representing this priesthood, is greater than Abraham. And all this is important to somebody listening who is an Israelite. Abraham is the patriarch. And so the writer to the book of the writer to the Hebrews is going back to this ground foundation because what he's about to do is he's about to kick out the pillars that hold up everything that they believe in or follow or cherish. And he's gonna ask, well what about the Levitical priesthood? We've got this other priesthood And he's then going to go on and say, and what about the covenant? We've got a new covenant. And so in the passage we just read There are things that are changed or obsolete. He makes, he shows to the people who are reading this or listening to it, the priesthood, the Levitical priesthood, has gone away and is obsolete and being revealed. replaced, which then necessitates that the law that the law is also being changed. And oh by the way, that covenant that Moses made at Mount Sinai Is obsolete as well. This is why he says we're going to go on to some mature things. We're not talking about baptisms anymore. We're talking about the things that you've known as a people that define you, Israel. As a nation, God has replaced. All these things, the covenant, the priesthood, and the law, came together and were enacted at Mount Sinai and you can read about that in Exodus nine Exodus nineteen, we don't have time for that today. You know, we're removed from this by time and geography and and th and and lots of other stuff. And so let's make sure that we understand this. The law to the Israelite is like their constitution. Imagine somebody coming in and saying, Oh, by the way, the cost constitution has been superseded. I know the don't don't go thinking politics, come back to the class, okay? But that's what's happened. And you know, we've had ours for about two hundred years. They at this time of this writing had had their constitution for fourteen hundred years. And in all that time, they'd been following the same constitution. To one degree or another, right? Um but essentially it's what defines them as a people. And the priesthood were they're they're noble, they're there was a spiritual leaders, both nationally and spiritually. They were the leaders. If you want to know about a skin infection, you went to the priest, right? And stuff like that. And on and on. So to change the priesthood is a big deal. And Paul and the book of Acts You know, when you read these things, you see the resistance in the Judaizers to letting go of things like circumcision and the law and all that was had that they've known and loved as a people for centuries. And so that's the that's the problem that Paul's writing to the Galatians about. And so the Writer of this book is gonna spend a lot of time talking about the priesthood and Christ being this high priest. And it starts in chapter two. And to one degree or another he continues to talk about the priesthood all the way until chapter ten, which is a large portion of this letter. And he seems like he knows his audience. is patiently and persistently bringing them along and anticipating their objections, and that's what this section is about that we're looking at in verses 11 to 19. And he basically starts off with going back to the back to what David wrote in Psalm 110. And the interesting thing is, David wrote Psalm 110 Sometime around a thousand BC. That's the time frame when David was around. And so David, inspired by the Holy Spirit, pronounces Essentially, that God has set up or has stood up a priest in the order of Melchizedek. And so 400 years after the law, after Mount Sinai. 400-ish, right? God inspires David to reveal to the people of Israel there's a new priest coming. And he's not gonna be a Levite. And it's like it went off their heads. It didn't sink in. It didn't ho they didn't hold on to it or something. I don't know. I can't get into their heads from that perspective. But look back i if you can real quick, well I'll read it. Psalm hundred and ten says, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. The Lord sends forth from Zion your mighty scepter, rule in the midst of your enemies. Your people will offer themselves freely on the day of your power in holy garments from the womb of the morning. The dew of your youth will be yours. The Lord has sworn and will not change his mind, you are a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. And that verse, verse four, is what the author here keeps coming back to. You are a priest forever. But the thing that's interesting is in Psalm 110, nobody disputes that this is a messianic psalm, that this is about Messiah. In fact, when Jesus challenged the Pharisees and scribes, He says, Well, whose son is this? And they all knew it was the Messiah. Everybody knew there was no question. The Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand, that's Messiah, look at that. And he asked them a question about David and Jesus. But the author here is saying, yes, we acknowledge this as king, but this also says he's priest. King, priest. He rules and he is priest. And he is priest forever. So the author of Hebrews here is recognizing that there's a change in the priesthood, and he does that in chapter 6, verse 20, and that's part of the reason. Why we read the whole context. Because that's the time when he says, look at Jesus as a priest in this Melchizedekian order. And then based on that, he asks the question of the people who might be trying to defend the Levitical priesthood. And he says, look, guys, if perfection were attainable Through the Levitical priesthood, why would you need another priest to arise after the order of Melchizedek? rather than one named after the order of Aaron It's like saying you're trying to drive a nail with a hammer Why would you need another tool? Or another way of saying it, the Levitical priesthood is not able to do the job. They're like trying to drive that. with a piece of string. You can't push a rope. That's what he's saying. This is a this is in the land of impossibility You can't can't get there. So the author then, just in case there's any wiggle room and argument that might be getting pushed back, he's like, alright, let's look at all the all the facts here First of all, if there's a change in the priesthood, there's gotta be a change in the law as well. Gotta be, because the law was given to Moses and the priesthood were set up as part of the same package. It's a package deal. And we're going to take more time to talk about some of that as we get on further into the book of Hebrews, some of that we teased about. The covenant was also there. Rob will talk about that when he gets to chapter eight. But he also then goes on to say, and look by the way, Messiah is not a Levite. Psalm 110 lets us know Messiah is not a Levite, essentially. Actually, because he's gonna be a descendant of David. Everybody knows this. And he says, look, Messiah is not a Levite, and this tribe has never served at the altar. And we can go back, let's let's refresh our history real quick, and we can talk about kings and kings offering at the altar There was one king that offered at the altar. It was Saul, and as soon as he did that, God cut him off as being king. And oh by the way, he wasn't from the tribe of Judah. He was tribe from the tribe of Benjamin. So still at that point, no one from the tribe of Judah has ever offered. offered at the altar. There was one other king who came really close. Uzziah. Uzziah got all big about himself and he said, I'm going to go into the temple And I'm gonna offer incense. And the priests were like, oh king, please don't do this. And he's like, No, I'm doing it. I'm the king. And God struck him with leprosy To stop him from having somebody who is descended from David or in the tribe of Judah from ever offering at the altar. Because God knew what he was going to write here in the book of Hebrews. So that he could say, there's no one, no one has ever In the tribe of Judah offered at the altar. And if you're not if you're not familiar with that passage, that's in 2 Corinthians 26. Take a look at Okay, Chronicles, my bad, not Corinthians. 2 Chronicles 26, verses 16 to 25. It's a sad story. He got leprosy. Thirdly, and in case you haven't gotten it yet, our Lord, Jesus Messiah, is descended from Judah. And Moses says nothing about this tribe being priests. And just in case, you know, we just celebrated Christmas, we can go back to the genealogies that are in the book of Matthew or Luke. And remind ourselves of the testimony that we have that Jesus was a descent descendant of Judah. That's why they had to go to Bethlehem. And that's where he was born. Um But the testimony of Scripture, the oath and the proclamation of God is that there is another priest. In the order of Melchizedek. And this priest, as the scripture says here, is not appointed because of any legal requirement, is what it says. No legal requirement. And what that's getting back to is that concept of this is not part of the law. So the law set up the Levitical priesthood so that if your dad was a priest, then You got to be a priest. That was the qualification. And there were some children of priests who did not do just such a good job They get Eli's kids. And God had to kind of like do a little reboot on the Levitical priesthood. Well, we'll start with these guys in the Levitical line. But that was always a descendant of Aaron. Always a descendant of Aaron. Because that's what the law said. Up until God inspired David to say, you are a priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek. And Christ is appointed as priest. according to the order of Melchizedek by the power of an indestructible life. And it's an interesting question. The commentaries all say, look, that's because Jesus never dies. Not anymore. And that's an interesting question. Jesus did die and it it begs the question about this indestructible life, and that's Part of the reason why I asked the question last Sunday, which was when did Jesus begin in the office of priest? And and Rob's answer, and I agree with his answer, was um When he rose. Because when Jesus rose, when Jesus died and rose He had the sacrifice. And at that time, he carried the sacrifice, which we'll talk more about in another chapter of the Book of Hebrews, and made sacrifice on the behalf of those who are his elect. I think that the power of an indestructible life does speak to the fact that Jesus will never die again. And the indestructible life of God, because in the context, it's tied to the declaration. that God is the one who declared that Christ would be would be this priest. You are a priest, according to the order of Melchizedek. Done? Yes, sir. Oh, and thanks, Kirk. And anybody can do that. You I give you permission to interrupt me and ask me questions anytime you want to. Go ahead, Kirk. Just the um thinking about the uh representation. in the distinction between prophet and then prophet is a man who represents or speaks the word of God uh to the people. So it's it's from heaven to earth. So is it true that priest is just the opposite, that uh a priest uh represents people to to God? therefore intercedes for them before before government. Absolutely. The um the the question then and I think though that there may be some overlap between those offices as well. Um and and it's very clear that the The office of priest is one of a representing the people to God and the intercession. And in fact you see that here in the book of Hebrews that Christ lives to make intercession on our behalf. There's an offering to make propitiation as well, and to make right, and Christ made that offering Um so I'm glad you asked that question. In fact, in the book of Hebrews, under any time If you look at do a word search on priest or priesthood and then you look at the stuff that's related to that, you will see the things that Christ is doing in that role as priest. And it starts back in chapter 2, verse 17, and it says that he as priest is merciful and faithful. It says, and it goes on to say, that he can make propitiation for the sins of the people. And then it says he is able to come to the aid of those who are tempted, which is also, I think, then part of the role of a priest. And you see in the law that priests not only offered sacrifice, but they cared for the flock. They cared for the people as well. In chapter three you see that he is a faithful that he is faithful and he models faithfulness for us. Which I think is also then part of that priestly role that Christ has. And you see in chapter four that he can sympathize with our weaknesses because of his humanity. And and because of him, Christ, And the sacrifice that he made, we can draw near to the throne of grace and receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. And that's all in that same package. So he can deal gently with the ignorant and misguided. Did somebody have a question? So there was a point in time when this transition took place that motivated your question last week of Jesus' office as prophet, among other rules. teacher but it's also this prophet changed to the priest in his resurrection. Yeah the thing that motivated me that that that question is because it talks about him having an indestructible life. And living forever. And when I read that and then I ask the qu and then I see the obvious thing that Jesus died on a cross. And he was buried for three days before he rose. Um, well, that doesn't feel like an indestructible life for me. Which makes me then ask the question, and it says he's a priest forever Um, so I've got two options then to think about. When did the priesthood of Christ begin? Did the priesthood of Christ begin after his resurrection, which seems to fit with all the bits and pieces? Or is the priesthood of Christ seems Something that was preordained and existed in him through all time because Christ existed in eternity past. Because it seems like to me those are one of the two options. But one of the things that the author here Again, led by the Holy Spirit, seems to imply is that at any time in the economy of God there is one priesthood. The author here says, Why do I need a Levitical priesthood if I've got a Melchizedekian priesthood? It's one or the other. And if that's the case, and I may be reading too much into it, but if that is the case then that means that for a brief time we had a Melchizedekian priest back in the time of Abraham. And then for four hundred years at least, maybe for fourteen hundred years, we had Levitical priests. And then when Christ rose from the dead, until now and forever, we have a Levi and a Melchizedekian priest who continues forever. Yes sir. I find that it's interesting that uh uh under the Levitical priesthood that it's bound by the law and hereditary heredity. And it's bound by that. and uh it has nothing to do with God itself. Uh it's it's bound by the flesh and the flesh cannot overcome uh the the situation it's in. And uh I find that is interesting that that same Levitical uh priesthood is used in every other religion. Basically, you have the law and you have the flesh. Yeah. Th there's there's a lot of different priests that are out there. In fact, when you look here in the book of Hebrews at this passage, it talks about fleshly inheritance and that's that same word sarks that we use for things like you're talking about the flesh. But I I'm um I uh the I want us as we critici as we as I'm tempted to criticize the law and the priesthood To remember that uh in the book of Romans, Paul says, hey, the pre- the law is holy The problem is my sin. And I don't my sin doesn't make the law bad. And it doesn't make the priesthood bad. My sin is is my sin. You know. But but God's the one who rec you know um reconciles and rescues me so that I can now die to the law and by faith I can be reconciled to God and draw near. to him. So anyway, yeah, sorry. Yes. So um it seems to me that the wise men knew from the time he was a very young child that he was both a king and a and a priest because their Yeah, uh yeah, I I hear what you're saying. And I can't de you know, I can't bear down too hard on the well when Christ is priest. and stuff like that, because four hundred years after the law, God declared you are a priest according to the order of Melchizedek. In in that present tense verb, is that God recognizing the truthfulness of that that's going to happen in the future Or is that Christ being deputized as but then I've got this problem that he is priest and he doesn't have anything to offer yet. And um and now I've got a overlap a Levitical priesthood and the But you'll find out any turn in the end. Yes, yes indeed. Yes. Uh you know One thing that this brings in mind for me is that, you know, my understanding is right, the people in the Old Testament who followed the Lord were, in a sense, looking forward by faith to the Messiah and that he would make atonement for them. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. Um That's a really good question. Um there's there's a a bit of mystery to that and I like to just go Deuteronomy twenty nine twenty nine and run away from it. Um and uh and if you don't know what that verse says look it up and enjoy it. Um I uh yeah it could be. So anyway, let's pull back on to s some of the things that we can No. Um and and we'll we'll tease and hypothesize and then we have to at some point we have to go, wow, that's transcendent and and press on to the things that are more clear. Um sorry. Yes, I've I've generated hands. Go ahead. So Hebrews 727 says that since he did this once for all things offered offered up himself. So it seems like Jesus didn't happen at peace. Yeah, yeah, and and when you go on further it says that he then carried his blood to heaven to offer on the true altar. Um and so Hebrews twenty seven Yeah. Yeah, it is finished as the same Yeah, yeah, i right, exactly. That w that work is done. And so yeah, you can have enough stuff. So you start in the first as well with that new increase before. But I know what you mean by the inner possible light, so It may be something that uh we can't put a hard and fast draw a hard and fast line on. Uh one of the things that we what do we know? We know he is priest now. And and he is interceding on our behalf. Half at the right hand of God. Praise God. And we know that when he went to heaven, he offered sacrifices that propitiated his elect at that time. And so those kinds of things and and how How and when and stuff like that, I I agree. Uh those are all good things to think about and I'm not gonna argue. I'm gonna go like, yeah, that's a good point. Um yes um the one point that comes to mind that might in some way resolve the issue of indestructible life and Christ dying is the declaration that he will not let his always once be corruption. So he he was de and he was in the grave that Um price that was Yeah, could be. Yeah, could be. I just want to say scripture also that he didn't he didn't come to do away with the law, he fulfilled the law. Absolutely. And so that's also what the previous is supposed to be doing as well with any land. So we can do something. Yeah, and and you know, it's interesting to ask the question, okay, because thanks for bringing that up. The priests were there to fulfill the law, but what we just read in in this is that the priests Couldn't. You know, I was going down through the list of things that Jesus did, right? He makes propitiation for the sins of the people. He did that in a way the priest could never have done Because of him we can draw near to the throne of grace. The law sets up a barrier between God and man and prevents people from drawing near. And that's part of the big question, right? The big that that we haven't really even gotten to, and I want to jump on this right now. What what does the author here mean When he says perfection, he says and and what does he mean by the Levitical priesthood unable to attain perfection? And it gets to that idea that you just brought up, Debbie. How is the former commandment then weak and useless? What made what made God ordain a new priesthood? And and why didn't he just stay with the Levites? And it's this idea that the the Levitical priesthood was set up as as the Hebrew author is going to say in the future as a shadow, and as Paul writes to the Galatians, as a thing to teach us. And to show what it is that's going on. It's an illustration, people, you are separated from God The garden and your sins created this division. And the closest place you can meet with God right now is at the tabernacle. And you can't even go in unless you're a priest, and then the priest only goes in there if he first offers blood for himself And if you go in the daily priesthood, there's a barrier there that keeps them out from the presence of God. And they were still afraid because they had to tie a road around it for the case. Yeah. And so what's being illustrated in the law and in the Levitical priesthood is you cannot be made perfect. And therefore you have no hope and you cannot draw near to God. And a priest then, which we're gonna get to later, had to offer daily sacrifices. Unlike what Christ did. They couldn't achieve perfection. And the law and the priesthood were an illustration of that. They Taught us what a sacrifice meant. They taught us what the principles of God were. They showed us the holiness of God And illustrated for us our depravity. So that when Christ came and he lived according to the law, People could go, oh. When Christ offered himself on a cross, people could go, oh, I get that. And when the s when the symbols from the law came true in the person of Christ, people were like, I get it now, the elect. But isn't that just amazing to think that now, you know, I'll be later now, us. If we if we have Christ in us, we have the one who fulfilled the law in us. That allows us And approach the throne of God. To me, that is so uh it's I'm in awe. It's awesome and it's wonderful and it's it's such a blessing when we pray for each other as a for failing we can approach the throne of grace for each other and we should. And Debbie, thank you. Thank you for saying that. That's the punchline of this passage. That's where this passage goes. There's a lot of details There's a lot of stuff in here, but this passage goes to, in verse 19, look at it. There's two things that this passage is driving to. Because of Christ, as our Melchizedekian priest, we have a hope. And we can draw near to God. We have a hope, and we can draw near to God. That's perfection. In fact, that word Perfection in verse eleven is the same word to telesi in its root. Complete. Satisfied. You can't get that. In fact, this This guy Dielitch writes about that concept. Moral and religious perfection or perfecting is the establishment of complete, unclouded, and enduring communion with God. and the full establishment of a state of peace with him, which founded on true and ever-valid remission of sins, has for its consummation Eternal glory. That's the perfection that Hebrews is talking about that the Levitical priesthood can't do. It can't bring about that. And so the law doesn't give us righteousness and does not give us a hope and does not draw us near to God. But when Christ died on the cross the curtain was torn in two. showing us that now we can draw near to God because of the once for all perfect sacrifice that the priest offered. Thank you very much. Um and so there's a need for a priest. God, according to his sovereign plan, appoints Jesus and the priest offers himself. Galatians 2 says, I have been crucified with Christ And it is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. I don't nullify the grace of God. For if righteousness were for the law through the law, then Christ died for no purpose. You don't get righteousness through the law Christ died and he had to for righteousness. And so this priest, Jesus, brings about perfection and introduces a better hope. Hebrews 6 talks about this. It says We have this as a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul, a hope that enters into the inner place behind the curtain where Jesus has gone as a forerunner on our behalf, having become a priest. Forever after the order of Melchizedek. And Paul talks about this. He says, Therefore, since we have been justified by faith We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through him we have also obtained access Saying draw near, right? By faith, into this grace in which we stand and we rejoice in the hope. of the glory of God. That's Romans 5. And this concept of perfection is Really important to the book of Hebrews. And it also kind of parallels right alongside of the concept of the high priest Um and so again if you do a word search on this concept of perfection or perfect, those kinds of words you'll see it sprinkled throughout. It starts in chapter two. What? That's when God starts speaking. It's also interesting uh uh no I'm not gonna go there. Um Ephesians two, continuing this idea of finally being able to draw near to God. Ephesians 2 says, But now in Christ Jesus, you who once were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. For he himself is our peace, and the world is the first time. Who has made us both one and has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility by abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances that he might create in himself one new man in place of the two, so so making peace and might reconcile us both to God and in one body through the cross, thereby killing the hostility, and he came and preached peace to you who were far off, and peace to those who were near For who through him we both have access in one spirit to the Father. Access to the Father, so we can draw near and enjoy being with God, our loving Heavenly Father. Uh this ministry mission of Jesus was to open this way to God, to create perfection, to in himself make a new priesthood. So that we can know our God. I was reading this list before, right? He can deal gently with the ignorant and misguided He can offer sacrifices. He became the source of our salvation. He brings a better hope that lets us draw near to God, and he's able to save forever those who draw near to God. through him. And he lives to make intercession and he's a the mediator of a better covenant. The stuff that Jesus does as the great high priest and does with excellence and perfection. Yes. This just blows out of the water. The Catholic churches need for confessional and go to a priest to confess your sins and he'll take it to God. And we can go to God to This is why Jesus in John fourteen said, No one comes to the Father except through me. That's right. I I wish the family should read their Bible. And notice they even not allowed to read the Bible. Not just Catholics, but um anyone who says there's multiple ways to the Father misunderstands that God's purpose is through one mediator And no other. Get your hand up. Yeah. I'm just I'm only saying that every time I remind you about continuing the interesting Um I was just reading Revelation twelve um and talking about the end time and you know the that um Satan um excuse Um I just to think about that, you know, is that day how you're individually And one day at Satan right there in front of God's day, but look at her, you know, she goes to this church, filling the lake, and she looked at this intercepting. Yeah, the same accusation that we read about Satan doing with Job. Uh is accusations that are going on constantly. And our intercessor looks at the Father, at the right hand of the Father, and goes Uh that one? My blood covers that one. That one's mine. You gave that one to me. And th the reality is is when Satan stands up there and accusing uh accusing us, it's because of things that we rightly get accused of. We we give lots of lots of place for accusation. And Christ up there is going, Father, remember my blood. You you you don't see that sin because you see my righteousness. That one was justified. That one's mine. And wow, the tenderness of our God and the love of our God is mind-boggling. You know, the writer of um that book, Gentle and Lowly, if you haven't read the book, he spends most of that book in the book of Hebrews. Many of the passages that he pulls from pulls from the book of Hebrews, because in the book of Hebrews. Hebrews, we see stress again and again the concept of God did this so that we can draw near. In fact, if you want to do another word study, go through the book of Hebrews and look up all the times God says Draw in the air. Or those concepts. Yes. Interesting that uh all religions put their faith in the law and practice of it instead of putting it in to the perfect light. Yeah. You're you're right and you're you're onto something there. The um the common I think it's fair to say, the common view of man is that I can be good enough. And miss out on and and what that does is very similar to um the idea of I can make God in my own image. And God's not you know, it misses out on the supreme glory and holiness of who God is. And it comes and it falls short. Yeah, you're right. And I think it is a common thing for people to think, oh, I I can make that right. I can pay that back. I can do that. And um thanks, yeah. Uh this is the big point here for us to own and to have. And it's it's it's good that you brought this up to say, oh, you know, those there's there's those groups There are groups out there that miss this point. There are those people that miss this point. But I think that there's a tendency for us to miss the point as well. To forget the tenderness of God. to forget the heart that God has for us to draw near to Him. Uh if you struggle in your prayer life, you've forgotten the tenderness that God has towards you. I think that's safe to say. There may be other reasons that are going on, but I want to encourage us to if we if we're missing this To beg God to open our hearts to his tenderness, to seek him, to be about the business of God, please help me to seek. See your passion for me and the goodness that you have planned for my life and the things that you have already done on my behalf So that I can be in the business of drawing near to you and enjoying your presence and who you are. So that, just like Paul said, I can truly start to fathom the depths of love that you have for me, that you would send your son to die on me behalf. That you would take away my sin, that you would call me justified, that you would put your laws in my heart So that nobody would have to say to me, No the Lord. That the covenant that you stood up, you put that aside and you created this other covenant over here so that I can be part of your family and know you. And I and if you're you're thinking about this and you're like Uh my relationship to God is more of a duty relationship. It's more of I gotta read this thing, I gotta memorize that thing, I gotta do this thing, and I gotta go to church and I gotta sing those songs and God I Uh thank you. Oh I gotta have a quiet time. God, thank you so much for this day and for the rain. Amen. And but miss out the Lord, I hunger for you like a deer pants for water. Like being men and women whose heart hungers for the Lord and loves him. Him more than anything else. And I want us to see what rich, joyful treasure God has for us. I don't want to and hear this please I don't want to set another duty in front of you. That's why I said if your heart is cold today, beg God to melt it. If you've been focused on your duty, beg God to help you see His grace and mercy And to really understand this, I just want to be a little child sitting at my heavenly father's feet and enjoy God for who He is. That's I think that's the big takeaway for us in this passage. It's really cool to know that Jesus was from the tribe of Judah, to know that he wasn't a Levite. To know that God set up this covenant and tore the law down and replaced him with the priest in the Melchizedekian order. And when did Jesus become high priest? That's cool stuff, right? It's fun to talk about, and it's really rich to dig deep into theology. Praise God that you guys want to do that with me. But let's and not button and in the time in the process at the same time let's not lose sight of God's heart and tenderness towards us And let's be people who want to be more and more like our Jesus. For this reason I bow my knees before the Father, from whom every family in heaven and on earth is named. That according to the riches of his glory, he may grant you to be strengthened with power through his spirit in your inner being. So that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith, that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may have strength to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and depth and to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge that you may be filled with all the fullness of God. Now to him who is able to do far more abundantly. Then all we ask or think according to the power at work within us, to him be the glory in the Church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever, amen. Do you guys see Paul Paul here recognizes that we need strength to comprehend the transcendent love of God. So if what I said made you go, oh man, that's not me. Please be encouraged. Paul says you need strength for this. Your nature fights. against knowing God's tenderness towards you. Your nature, my nature, our natures make us want to be like, yeah You know, I got the tools for this. I'm gonna go out and solve this problem. And God says, no, that was Levitical priesthood. This is only solved in my son, and he is the only source of you being able to draw near to me. So trust him. Trust him and draw near to him depending on him. Depending on his strength and his grace. Hebrews says that Jesus Can come to the aid and can sympathize with our weaknesses. And because uh when we draw near to him, he gives us grace. And we receive mercy to find grace to help in time of need, and this is what I was looking for. He can deal gently with the ignorant and misguided. Yeah, a question. I think that we just can look at our two by teachers of gratitude. Uh Roman six, four thus Thanks be to God. We stand in the teaching which have to be said to be one slave. We can look at the the fact that God wrote the law in our hearts and now we now serve and obey God. I think I think we can look at that as gratitude and not necessarily as merely driving the duty to gratitude. I I'm glad you brought that up because to be truly balanced and to strike accurately based on what Scripture has to say, um obedience and duty is is very important for us. God doesn't say grace and mercy live antinomian lives. He doesn't say that. I also think that it's very easy And it's very easy for us, as was already mentioned, us people, people in general, to be very focused on duty and making myself right to God. It's kind of a natural inclination that says I can do this thing. You know, oh, scripture says I fall short. Okay, cool, so I'm going to discipline myself And that's important to do. But if I'm coming to that from a perspective of I'm going to discipline myself, I'm going to solve this problem, I'm going to get close to God I I think we're gonna be having a hard time with that. But you're right. There's there's gratefulness and it you know, um there's a satisfaction and a pleasing of God when we walk faithfully. And that's that's important to not let that go. One of the things that I really want us to to also see here In addition to that, is God wanting us and many of us um being tender, frail, humble, Sheep that just need a shepherd to say, Here's the clean water. You know, over here. Don't don't go that way. This is and and and trust me, I've got you. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for the the riches of your love for us. Thank you for the the counsel of your word. And dear Lord, I I pray that anything I may have misspoke or things that I was in and any shadow of uh inaccuracy that you would remedy that, that you would rightly impact your word in our lives You know each and every one of our hearts. You know the things that we need from you. You know the things that we are called to And I pray, Heavenly Father, that your word and its truth would rightly impact our lives. Your spirit needs to be at work in our lives Not me and not my words. So use your word, Heavenly Father, to to your glory and to your benefit. I pray, dear Lord, that we would walk more and more More in your love and grace and mercy. Amen.