Uh this is actually part twenty seven, even though it's the first uh first Sunday of a quarter, so this is the third quarter of our study of the book of Hebrews. So uh part twenty seven is what we'll be doing. today and you'll notice that we're doing we're doing only one verse. And so might uh ask how can we have an hour long class on just one verse? Um but um in Some of the commentaries, John Owen's commentary, for example, he has ten pages just on verse four, uh, in his commentary. Uh, this is our schedule and so we will be finishing the book of Hebrews during this quarter, uh, during these thirteen lessons going from uh studying essentially chapter eleven, chapter twelve, and chapter thirteen. Uh I will be missing from this class three different Sundays. So uh March twenty third is my niece's wedding. I'll be out of town for my niece's wedding. Uh and then twice I'll be I'm scheduled to teach the new member class this quarter. And so during those three Sundays when I'm absent Doug has graciously agreed to teach once again. So this is our schedule. If you have any questions about that, let me know. This schedule is actually posted on Hope Book. So we have a group on Hope Book that you should be able to access if you're registered for the class. So if you're registered for the class you have access to the Hope Book. And so if you're here and you haven't registered and you're interested in seeing the files and the uh I post the slides for the for the class on there as well uh and I send messages from time to time. Uh if you want to receive those you need to be registered for the class. Okay, um so this is what we're gonna learn today. So I'm gonna uh tell you what I'm gonna tell you, then I'm gonna tell you what it then I'm gonna tell you what I told you. Um so this is telling you what I'm to tell you. Um so we're gonna talk about able and we're gonna talk about how he's worshiping in faith. And we're gonna talk uh we're gonna break that down into the true sacrifice that he made The fact that he is credited with true righteousness because of his obedience in faith, and the fact that he is a true witness Um because of his obedience and his faith. But first let's take a look back. Um so I'm gonna take a look back at what we did last week, and so if there's anybody in the class that uh that is joining us for the first time. This is just going to be a quick review of what we did last time, not the entire book of Hebrews. So last time we did the first three verses. Of chapter 11 about it's a kind of a definition of faith. Now, faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen, famous uh verse in the Bible. Uh and so the author uses kind of an old Hebrew poet's literary. Literary device he writes the uh he expresses the definition of faith in two parallel um sentences, two be parallel phrases that are uh similar in meaning but not exactly the same. Um and so faith is a living hope. Uh it's so real that it gives absolute assurance. That's the the teaching here. And of course we're about to go through all these Old Testament saints and the the promises given to the Old Testament Saints were so real to them Because they believed God and they were willing to base their lives on those promises. So true faith is an absolute certainty, often of things that the world considers impossible Uh so if we follow a God whose audible voice we have never heard, and believe in a Christ whose face we have never seen We do so because our faith has a reality, a substance, an assurance that is unsinkable. And that's the the really the point that the author's making here at the beginning of uh the book the eleventh chapter of Hebrews as he leads into this this list, this catalog of the faith of these Old Testament saints. And so it provides a firm ground to stand on. Uh it's a it's the present essence of future reality. Uh so this conviction of things not seen, the second phrase is the same truth but carries it a bit further. There's an outward manifestation of this inward uh assurance. And so one of the examples we'll talk about extensively for a whole week is Noah. He believed God and he acted on God's instructions. He had both assurance and conviction, which is true faith. His outward building of the ark bore out his inward belief that the rain was coming. God said the rain was coming, so he believed that the rain was coming. But he didn't just believe it on the inside. He took outward action. He built the ark um to God's plan um a s and he and he had faith faith that God's plan for this ark would actually work, that the boat would actually float and that it would actually save him from the flood. Even though there had never been a flood. So there was no experience of a flood before. He had faith that what God said would come true. and that the ark would save him the the way God had said it would. And so um he had faith. Uh for 120 years he preached faith, hoped faith, and built in faith. And so then we get to the part about for biat the men of old gained approval. And we went through a little bit of a divergence into modern philosophy. I talked about Francis Schaefer. If you haven't read Read Francis Schaefer, I would strongly recommend reading Francis Schaefer, especially uh his uh most famous three books, uh The God Who Was There, Escape from Reason and He Is There and He Is Not Silent, those three books. Uh at least out of his the twenty And so we talked about the the rise of modern uh philosophy in the sixteenth in the seventeenth and eighteenth century you had uh rationalism um which said that it was only what you could s see with your senses was real. There's nothing the supernatural is is not there. There's no such thing as supernatural. That's rationalism. Um and that led to um absurdity and and despair and and so then in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries you had starting with Kierkegaard uh people brought tried to bring the philosophers tried to bring uh supernatural back but they put it in a different order of reality. It's different from the the way that you the reality that you have from things that you see with your senses, observe with your senses, and the two never can interact. So there's a a lower story that's the um that's the natural and there's an upper story that's the supernatural but those two things never interact. And that led to the theory uh the the the philosophies of relativism and extent existentialism. Which also led to despair and hopelessness. Um and so we talked about the fact that God is the only rational answer, the only sure answer, and with this certainty comes assurance and confidence and hope that you can't get anywhere else. All these other philosophies uh i uh at some point or another drive off into the ditch because they don't uh they don't treat the world, they don't observe the world and they don't interact with the world as it really is, as God has really created it. Um and so and and by living um their lives uh in faith in God, they gained approval from God, the the men of old, uh which we're gonna get into this whole catalogue of men of old starting today. Uh so by faith we understand the worlds were prepared by the word of God and so um although Though many in the original audience, remember he's uh this letter is going to a group of uh Hebrew Christians, uh a church, some of whom are Christians, some of whom maybe are not, uh in the original audience. Um they did have a certain faith in God. Um they believed, for instance, that he was the creator. Even if they hadn't come to faith in Christ, the the the the Jews believed that God was the creator. And they believed that even though they weren't there. It wasn't based on their senses. They knew and accepted that truth by faith, not by sight. Their own scriptures taught it and they believed it. And so we've come to today, we talked about this uh last week a little bit, um, that we've come to this realm of uh scientism in the in the modern world where uh science uh is supposed to be limited to the observable and measurable and repeatable and of course the creation of the universe is not observable, measurable and repeatable. And And so um efforts by scientists to try to describe something that is not observable, measurable, and repeatable, it doesn't fit. It doesn't fit the scientific method. Um and so by faith we understand these things that the world was created by God and by his word and out of nothing. So uh the Christian as a Christian as Christians we in That all truth is God's truth. Some of it is discoverable by our senses, but a great deal more is not. It's apprehended by faith, and we should make no apology for that. And so we finished with a quote from 1 Corinthians 2:9 and 10. Faith comprehends things that uh which the mind of man, no matter how brilliant, cannot fathom things which eye has not seen, ear has not heard, and which have not entered the heart of man, all that God has prepared for those who love him. And then verse 10 tells us, for to us God has revealed them. So how do we know these things? We know them because God has revealed them to us in His Word. Uh for to God for for to us God has revealed them through the Spirit, for the Spirit searches all things, even the depths of God, first Corinthians. two nine and ten. Okay. Any yes, Anne. Right. So scientists say that that evolution is science is it? Yeah, so so they they have to that's another good example of unless you have a time machine you can't go back in the past and uh measure, observe and repeat th this uh theory of evolution. And so it's a different kind kind of science. It's not what we call operational science, it's what we call historical or forensic science. It's a whole nother branch of science, really. Um you know it's it's CSI investigation kind of thing. Um and so it's a different kind of science. Um it's not operational science. It's historical science. It's really history with um a little bit of science sprinkled in. And it makes cla it tends to make claims, people that do this kind of science tend to make claims that are far beyond what the actual evidence will support. Yes. And they they are trying act yes they are trying a friend who's an astrobiologist and Purdue just gave him a lab to try to have amino acid spontaneous. Yeah the try try to repeat the Miliuri example experiment. So the Miller experiment in the nineteen fifties was to try to create life from non life from amino acids into uh proteins and um it did it it was very contrived kind of experiment. Uh uh They w for example, w if they could get amino acid they immediately took it out of the environment because otherwise the environment would kill the amino acid they just made. Um so a very contrived environment and it doesn't really work because it doesn't make It doesn't make the kind of proteins that you need. We we need all left handed proteins and it makes a mix of them. It just doesn't work. For a number of different reasons it it it won't work. Um, but people are still trying. Because and why are they still trying? believe in God. That's right. They they need they need to have an origin story that doesn't include God. And so they'll go to any lengths to try to have an origin story that does not include God. Yeah. So that's where we are with Mars Yes. Yes. Yeah, that's a good quote uh for apologetics in this area as secondary. Peter chapter three. Um it's it it's the whole thing continue as they always have to they're destroyed. Yeah. destroyed by fire. Um i it uh i he's he's he's saying that um that fools say that things have always gone on the way they um the way they are now. Uh it's a it's a good It's a good reputation to uniformitarianism uh thinking. Yeah. Okay. Any other yes. The word apology are you saying that you can't be sorry for the meeting state or shouldn't try and make it. So yeah, good question. So Uh yeah, so we do do we still can't it's a good idea to do apologetics, uh, to make an a a defense of the faith. Uh this apology is we shouldn't apologize for the fact that uh that we believe in the supernatural. Uh and sometimes Christians are shy about that, saying, y you know, because you can be scorned and ridiculed, especially in the academic world. Uh I was a physicist, um, I was a physics professor at a university and if you talk about the supernatural in the academics you get a lot of scorn and um it can there can be a lot of pressure that you actually that some of it you just put on yourself to not mention anything that has to do with the supernatural but uh or apologize for believing in the supernatural but that's we shouldn't do that. Um okay. Any other quite good question? Any other questions? Alright, let's roll into Hebrews eleven four. So uh we're gonna need to have two scriptures out. So we're gonna read Hebrews eleven four, but we're also gonna read Genesis chapter four, uh where this this story's from first uh told, first revealed by God. Uh so we'll start with this. Hebrews uh four uh uh eleven four. Um By faith, Abel offered to God a better sacrifice than Cain, through which he obtained the testimony that he was righteous. God testifying about his gifts. And through faith, though he is dead, he still speaks. Uh so that's the Hebrews passage. Now you'll need to have your finger in two different places, uh Hebrews and also Genesis four. Split screen if you've got it on the device. Um so uh Hebrews chapter four. So um Hebrews chapter uh one is the creation account. Hebrews chapter two two is the account of the Garden of Eden. Um uh Genesis, I'm sorry. Yeah. Rewind. Genesis chapter one is the account of creation. Genesis chapter two is the account of the Garden of Eden. Genesis chapter three Is the account of the fall and the punishment for the fall and the expulsion from the garden. Genesis chapter four is the account of Cain and Abel. the f first two sons of Adam and Eve. So the first generation after the fall, these two brothers, and one of them kills the other. So sin comes into the world and right away you've got a brother murdering a brother right away in the first generation. Um so sin uh is the the uh results of sin didn't just didn't gradually ramp up. Just leapt right to brother killing brother right away in the first generation. So uh Genesis chapter 4, starting in verse 2, and Abel was a keeper of flocks But Cain was a tiller of the ground. So it came about in the course of time that Cain brought an offering to the Lord of the fruit of the ground. Abel, on his part, also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of their fat portions. And the Lord had regard for Abel and his offering, but for Cain and for his offering he had no regard So Cain became very angry, and his countenance fell. Then the Lord said to Cain, Why are you angry, and why has your countenance fallen? If you do well, will not your countenance be lifted up? And if you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door, and its desire is for you, but you must master it. Cain told Abel his brother, and it came about when they were in the field that Cain rose up against Abel his brother. brother and killed him. Let me just stop there and make a little comment about verse eight. Cain told Abel his brother, what in the world is that? mean and what is it talking about? So uh Cain told Abel his brother, or Cain spoke to Abel his brother This is the Masoretic text. This is NASB Masoretic text. All the other versions that are not based on the Masoretic text, so the Septuagint the Samaritan Pentateuch and the Vulgate. All three of those that don't rely on the on the Masoretic text say what Cain said to Abel. It says, let's go out in the field Together. All three of those ancient texts say Cain talked to his brother and said, let's go out in the field together. Masoretic text doesn't have that, and that's why NHB doesn't have it. He probably said, Let's go out in the field together. 'Cause this looks really weird. It Cain told his brother Abel, told him what? Um yeah. So I think probably he said, Let's go out in the field together as the other other ancient texts say. Uh and it came about that they were in the field that Cain rose up against Abel his brother and killed him. Verse 9. Then the Lord said to Cain, Where is Abel your brother? Now, is God asking Abel for information that God does not have? No, so this is very similar to um the questions that God just asked Adam and Eve. Eve when they were in the garden. Where are you, uh Adam? Like he didn't know. Uh have you eaten from the tree that I told you? Like he didn't know. So w in in In chapter three, when God's talking to Adam, he's giving him opportunities to confess. He's not asking for information. He's giving him opportunities to confess. And he's doing the same thing with Cain here. God knows exactly what happened. He's giving Cain an opportunity to confess. Where's your brother, where's Abel your brother? That's an opp God knows exactly what happens. He knows exactly what happened to Abel. Knows that Cain killed him. He's giving Cain an opportunity to confess. Does Cain take that opportunity? No, he does not. And he said, I don't know. Am I my brother's keeper? So he mouths off to God. He's got his brother and so now he's just gonna mouth off to God rather than confess or or repent. Um and so God answers, he said, What have you done? The voice of your brother's blood is crying to me from the ground Now you are cursed from the ground, which has opened its mouth to receive your brother's blood from your hand. When you cultivate the ground, it will no longer yield its strength to you. You will be a vagrant and a wanderer on the earth. is a pretty big deal for a farmer. Right? Cain's a farmer and now nothing will grow out of the ground for him. Um yeah. Okay, so if you're a farmer you can't set up a So uh and then he goes on to whine about his punishment and says everybody will kill me if you see me and um so what in the world is k i uh I then I didn't put this scripture on, you can read it, but what in the world is Cain talking about all these other people? Adam and Eve and there's Cain and Abel. Who's he talking about here? Correct. That's right. And it's v very specifically says and they had other sons and daughters. Right? Yeah, and so they had nine hundred years to have other sons and daughters. Uh and if uh Um if you look at uh a source like Josephus, Josephus um wrote Antiquities of the Jews in ninety-three AD And he writes a whole bunch of uh Jewish oral traditions in those antiquities of the Jews. And one of the things he puts in there is that uh everybody knows that Adam and Eve had thirty-three sons and twenty-three daughters. That's in antiquities of the Jews. It's not recorded in Scripture, but it is a Jewish world tradition that Adam and Eve had thirty-three sons and twenty-three daughters. So there were other people around, and that's uh and it's obvious that there are other people around because that's the first thing that comes to Cain's mind uh when he's whining about his punishment. The the other people are just gonna kill me. Um what other people? Well, all these other sons and daughters that Adam and Eve had, and their sons and daughters. Yeah. eighteen seventy a lot of historical records that he had access to he did not. So could very well be assumed. Could be. So Uh we don't know for sure because it's not in the scripture that he had thirty-three sons and twenty-three daughters, but in the scripture says he had other sons and daughters. So multiple sons and multiple other daughters other than uh Cain, Abel, and Seth. Okay. Um and so one of the things that we need to understand as we're going through the early chapters of Genesis is there are many hundreds of thousands, probably millions of people by the time we get to the flood, um the vast majority of them not descended from Cain and not descended from Seth. Remember that when you're reading everything that has to do with the history of the world, that the vast majority of people in the world at the time of the flood were not descended from Cain and Not descended from Seth. Right? There there's not just two lines of people. People try to simplify into two lines of people, and there were not two lines of people, there were many, many, many, many, many, many lines of people. Not Cain and not Seth. Yes. Yeah. Okay. So let's get back to our text here. So I'll just give you uh a couple of paragraphs from John Owen. commentary written in the sixteen hundreds about verse four. He says, from the proposition of the nature of faith in general, which was verse one to three, and a declaration of its efficacy with respect unto things believed, the apostles proceeds to give instances of its power and efficacy in particular persons, whose example and believing he proposeth unto the Hebrews for their encouragement. And he begins with Abel, suitably on all accounts unto his design. For one, he was the first whose faith is express expressly recorded and commended in the scripture, and so meet to be mentioned in the first place. 2. He was the first that expressed his faith in duties of worship, or made public solemn profession thereof, the duty which he calls the Hebrews unto 3. He was the first that suffered in the cause of Christ or for a testimony given unto faith in him. 4. He suffered the utmost of what any among them could fear, even death itself, by the shedding of his blood, which they had not yet undergone, and they had not yet resisted unto blood. Wherefore on all accounts, this was the meatest instance to begin withal, wherein his whole cause and argument and all the parts of it is confirmed. So that's in archaic English, um uh introduction to uh this verse four and and a little bit more modern English. Uh John MacArthur uh writing in nineteen eighty three, uh he introduces this section of script by saying dead men do tell tales. They are not silent, but still speak to those who will listen. From many thousands of years ago, Abel speaks to twentieth century man and also to twenty first century men. He lived in a far distant age. In a far different culture with far less light from God than we have. But what he has to tell us is more relevant than anything we are likely to read in our current newspapers or magazines. The obvious theme of Hebrews 11 is faith, and it is about faith. Faith that Abel speaks to us. He is the first in a long line of faithful persons who can teach us about the life of faith. He and the others mentioned in chapter eleven illustrate a pure kind of faith that sharply isolates it from works. It is this distinction. That the Jewish readers especially needed to see. They had to be shown that from the very beginning faith has been the only thing that God will accept to save fallen man. Thus John MacArthur in his introduction to his commentary about verse 4. So let's take a look at this verse, the different parts of it. There's basically three parts to it. I'll read it again. By faith Abel offered to God a better sacrifice. And came. Through which he obtained the testimony that he was righteous. God testifying about his gifts, and through faith, though he is dead, he still speaks. Three things, a true sacrifice, true righteousness, and true witness. So because he believed, he offered a better sacrifice. Because he offered a better sacrifice, he obtained righteousness. Because he obtained righteousness, he is for all the ages a living witness that righteousness is by faith and faith alone. So that's what we're going to learn from Abel. So these two brothers, we don't know the age difference. We but we know Abel was born after Cain. So Cain was burnt for burnt for born first and then Abel. We don't know how many years between 'em. Um and we don't know how many of the other younger brothers and sisters were born by the time this incident occurred. Um Abel was a keeper of flocks, while Cain was a tiller of the ground. So one was a shepherd and the other was a farmer. Um according to Genesis one twenty-six and twenty-seven, what could people eat? Fruits and vegetables, so no not meat. People were not allowed to eat meat. So why was Cane keeping flocks. Okay, so one one thing could be sacrifice. What else? Clothing. Clothing. Gold for clothing. Uh milk. Uh there's uh there's there's There's all sorts of things that people could get from animals other than killing them and eating them. Right? They could pull carts, um yes. Uh Genesis chapter. So after the flood, um God references Genesis chapter one. He says to Noah and his sons Just like I gave you plants to eat all the way back there in Genesis chapter one, I now give you animals to eat. So the first time they're allowed to eat animals is uh Genesis chapter nine after the flood. So um Cain and Abel before the flood were not allowed to eat animals. But Cain was a keeper of animals. Abel was a keeper of animals, um and there were many reasons why he might have kept animals, one of which was to be a sacrifice, also wool for clothes and and that sort of thing. So um but they weren't allowed to eat them, is is the point. Um so they had to eat things that were made that were raised by Farmer Kane. Um up until now not not you per se, but I think our teachers have been taught that uh the covering of sin can only come by blood, so that's why Abel's uh uh sacrifice was uh greater than uh Cain offered vegetables. But really what we're seeing in here, it's not the the whether it was a blood sacrifice or not, it's really it was done by faith. So possibly King was going if I wrote legalistic methods and it's not necessarily the content of the offering. So we'll talk about that. Okay. Um Yeah, so hold just hold it for for a second. We'll we'll we'll get back to it. It's a great question. And it's a question that divides scholars. Um uh the commentaries that I read are split uh on that. Uh I have my own thoughts and we'll we'll get to those uh as when we get to that point. But hold hold that thought great question. So one was a farmer, one was a shepherd. Both were conceived after the fall, were born outside of Eden. So they were both born in sin. They were born with a sin nature. Uh they lived and functioned as all people since their time have lived and functioned. They had the same natures and capacities and limitations that every person has had um since the fall. And so in all the you see essentials of human nature, they were like us. They're not like Adam and Eve born before the the fall, they're born after the fall, just like us. Okay. Um So the early part of the verse takes us back to Genesis 4, 3 to 5, which we just read. So it came about in the course of time that Cain brought an offering to the Lord of the fruit of the ground. Abel on his part brought the first things of his flock and of their fat portions. And the Lord had regard for Abel. Abel at his offering, but for Cain and his offering he had no regard, so Cain became angry. His countenance fell. First we surmise that Cain and Abel seemed to have had a place to worship. They went somewhere to worship Um because they brought offerings, they brought them somewhere. Uh some sort of an altar must have been used on which to make sacrifices. We don't know anything about that though. There there's nothing in the thing uh in the scriptures that It talks about them building the altar. Um we get Noah building an arc altar when he comes off the ark. We don't get a scripture definition of Cain and Abel building an altar, but they went somewhere to do this sacrifice. No no mention here of erecting an altar, but it seems consistent with God's grace that from the beginning he would have provided for some means of worship. But it's a l can be frustrating the fact that you know how did they know we're supposed to sir uh do a sacrifice? Well obviously God told them something it's not recorded in scripture. Um perhaps the altar here was a forerunner of the mercy seat, a place where man Could come for forgiveness and atonement. Uh very early in man's history, God promised the future deliverer. Genesis 3:15, he promised the future deliverer. And it seems, although we're not given any details in scripture, it seems that He provided a temporary means of worship and sacrifice right away, just like he provided this promise of a savior, he provided some means of worship through sacrifice. Um later on under the Mosaic Covenant with the Levitical system we get all these details about uh a sacrificial system, but there must have been something that they were told. There's no way that they just did that randomly walked out into a field and sacrificed. Yeah. And virtually later in the law God says it's the first war to fail. He does somehow got got to miss you mentioned. Yeah, I think there i it's an assumption, but I think it's a sound assumption. Uh that from the details we get of the Levitical system you gotta bring uh one without blemish, you know, uh th the the first fruits um that he told them something about sacrificing. It's a I think it's a reasonable assumption that he told them first it doesn't say that the best of your flock. It doesn't. It doesn't say that he brought the best of his crops. It just says he brought his crops. Yeah. Perhaps an interesting distinction. Yes, go ahead. And we can surmise that they were certainly present when you did that to understand the the the cost of their sin and the blood sacrifice. Yes. Yes, so there are there's little suggestions that they may have known that they were supposed to bring animals. Um I think. So we we'll get to some more of that as we go here. Yes, Doug? Is it also possible that And it's certainly that because of the space table just kind of size that you should be pushed with fast approach. Could be. It could be. Um it could be. Yeah, so we have to speculate because it doesn't say specifically i in the scripture. Um so you have to make s you have to make your best educated guess in in this regard, yes. again we the speculation we only have like one instance of a particular sacrifice worship but we we have to make the assumption that it was an ongoing thing and maybe Cain's offering of fruit and grain was an ongoing thing and it's just that this particular instance was not acceptable. We don't know. We don't know. Uh there I I'll later on I'll get to some uh some other scriptures that I think give us a little bit of insight. But in the end it's not the scripture has not been clear about that. Okay. Um so uh back to Genesis again. So it came about in the course of time that Cain brought an offering to the Lord f uh the fruit of the ground. So it doesn't say the best of his fruit of the ground, interestingly enough. It goes out of its way to say that Abel bought um the first things and the fat portions, kind of the the best of his stuff. It doesn't specifically say that Cain brought the best of his stuff. Although, once again, that's an argument from absence It's uh it's a speculation. Uh there seems to also have been a time for worship. The Hebrew phrase that's that's uh translated in the course of time. I'm not gonna try to pronounce that. Uh i it goes from uh right to left, of course, and the The leftmost part of that is Yom. You can see there the Yom in there. Means literally at the end of days, that is at the end of a certain period of time. So in the course of time, at the end of a certain period of time, they brought their offerings, and this is very strong indication that there was a per a specific time for offering. The way that Hebrew phrase is in Genesis four. three. Uh so it does really seem that there was a specific time for sacrifice. Now how did they know? God must have told them, doesn't say in the scripture. Um okay, uh so it may be that God had designated a special time for sacrificing. That seems to be what the Hebrew is indicating there. Uh God is a God of order and we know that in later centuries he did prescribe definite times and ways of worshiping. So I don't think it's a stretch to say that probably they had times and ways of worshiping under this uh prior dispensation. Uh the fact that Cain and Abel came to sacrifice at the same time uh not randomly one one time and and one another time also suggests that God had specified a particular time. Uh once again, making speculation based on the evidence. It also seems that God had designated a way to worship. Cain and Abel would know nothing about the need for worship or sacrifice, much less the way, had they not been told by God. So he had to tell them something about this worship. Frustratingly enough we don't know exactly what he said to them, but he told 'em something, that there was a sp most likely there was a special time, that they that they had a special place, um most likely also a special way. Um so it's especially significant that the first recorded act of worship was sacrifice, a sin offering. The supreme act of worship and all of God's covenants with his people. When Ma God makes a covenant with his people they're is a sacrifice. Um we see that with a a string of covenants uh that God made. Um so not surprising that you have a a sacrifice then uh because of the way God has dealt with his people throughout history. When we do have specifics we see a sacrifice, in particular an animal sacrifice and uh when it's detailed in many of the covenants. And those of us who are reading in the Bible, reading the plan Leviticus? Yeah. Yes indeed. Yeah. Uh over and over again the The kidney and the fat around the kidney and fat for the yeah. Yes indeed. Uh and of course the heart of the new covenant is Jesus perfect once for all sacrifice of his blood. So there's a pattern throughout Scripture of uh sacrifice. Uh so it seems very likely that Cain enable it it seems unlikely that King Abel accidentally stumbled into sacrifice as a way of worshiping God. That seems to stretch credibility that th this was somehow d an accident. Uh the fact that God accepted only the one sacrificial offering also seems to indicate that he had a established a pattern or requirements for worship. Now the the other possibility is it was it was just the heart in which it was given. So there's the two the two possibilities are um it w God was looking at the heart and it didn't matter what the actual sacrifice was. That's one view. The other view is it's not th the the the problem with Cain's heart led to him also giving the wrong sacrifice. Those are the two views. Yeah, so um So yeah, so was he disobedient in the fact that his heart was wrong and that's the only disobedience he made, and otherwise if he had had a good heart and given the grain offering, everything would have been great, or was part of his disobedience giving the grain offering? So that's the that's the argument and the and the commentators are split. Yeah. Is it also possible that deserves speaking to be uh um able Well, the man he lived right, you know, he did what are the content or not seen that. In first John, he tells us some whether what for what reason is. First John chapter three, verse eleven and twelve, yeah. So Yes, i it does say that. And so uh and the way it says it is very suggestive. Um it's it says that Cain killed his brother Abel, and why did he kill him? He killed him because Cain's deeds were evil and Abel's were righteous. And so before the murder, one of the motivations for the murder was that Cain's deeds were evil. So something before the murder was an evil deed, not just an attitude of the heart, but an evil deed by Cain. And so that's why m the commentators that say, hey, it wasn't just an evil heart, it was evil deeds, as evidenced by giving the wrong sacrifice, um, that were uh was wrong with with Cain. It was wrong with the things that Cain did, not just the attitude of his heart. Because of first John three, eleven and twelve. All right. Um and so it goes on and on. The commentary make these arguments back and forth. Is it w was it just the attitude of his heart? Was it but was it or was it also uh manifested the attitude of his heart also manifested in giving the wrong sacrifice? That's the issue. Uh Yeah. Yeah, so if you look at the Hebrew structure of that verse. I have got a man Yahweh. That's what the Hebrew says. Translators have filled in with the help of Well that's not in the Hebrew. It says, I have got a man, Yahweh. That's what it says. Um when when Cain was born. And so from that, uh many Hebrew scholars um infer that that Eve thought the promise of Genesis 315 was fulfilled in Cain. That this was the Redeemer Um and of course that turned out to be not the case at all. She she misjudged her first son. Um prize. Perhaps. Perhaps he did. Um perhaps he did. Yes. Well Paul yes and others, you know, he's shown where you're the whole cell because I think if you in the future might say in the early centuries we can have all the details we like. You have to remember God told us what he wants us to know. I think that's right. Um without the shedding of blood that is not the goodness. You have the tracking really possible. Obviously, involved in And then you have God's clothing adamant Eve with animals things that involves the death and shadow of life. The new whole should not have been I put down farmers on the thing. I got a farmer's table. Why do you talk to them? That's because that's nothing on the farmer's area. Yeah, I I think that's right. I think as Scripture unfolds and we get more details. It's always a blood sacrifice. Now, there were grain offerings, but in terms of sin Uh atonement for sin that was always a blood sacrifice and and everything that we have a a detail about. Yes, it is pointing to the Messiah, that's right. Yeah. Yeah. Yep. Indeed. So I think the commentators who think that that i he probably knew that he was supposed to give an animal. So how would he have gotten an animal? He would have to trade with his brother, right? He would have to make a deal with his brother, trade some of his grain for one of his animals for a sacrifice. Uh and maybe he didn't want to do that, maybe he was too proud to do that. Um I don't know. All speculation. But I think um it's likely from the rest of what we know from scripture that God required a blood sacrifice and Cain didn't want to bring a blood sacrifice for whatever reason. Uh all right, and that was part of his disobedience. Not just that his he he offered the right offering with the wrong heart. That's the other view. He offered the right offering but it was with the wrong heart. Um I I th tend to think that That's not quite right. Okay. So uh uh the next point is there's nothing intrinsically wrong with a grain or fruit offering. Um the the Mosaic covenant included such offerings, but in the Levitical system the blood offerings were always first. Because only the blood offering dealt with sin. Um Yeah. So uh here's where the life of faith begins with the sacrifice for sin. It begins with believing God that we are sinners, thus earning the death penalty and needing his forgiveness, needing to be covered by a blood sacrifice. That's really the testimony, I think, of the the whole council of of Scripture. And I think that probably started here. Even though we don't get the details here. Um okay. Uh when Abel uh when Abel did what God said, he revealed his obedience and acknowledged his own sinfulness. Cain, on the other hand, was disobedient and did not acknowledge his sin. Abel offered to God a better sacrifice than Cain. Cain, because God had prescribed, I think, a blood sacrifice. Somehow Abel and Cain as well uh knew what God wanted. The difference between the two was that Abel gave God uh gave what God wanted, whereas Cain gave what he himself wanted to give. Cain believed in God and knew what he wanted, or he would not have brought a sacrifice. W why did he bring a sacrifice? Because he knew he was supposed to bring a sacrifice. Uh he acknowledged the Supreme Being and even that he owed him some sort of worship. Cain recognized God but he did not obey God. He believed in God But he did not believe God. He thought he could w approach God in whatever way he wanted and expected him to be impressed and satisfied. And so this uh first John three, eleven and twelve is what um uh Henry brought up a minute ago. So uh this is the the passage about um Cain and the fact that his deeds were evil. Not just his heart. It's interesting that the focus is on his deeds there. Um and of course it's From the heart that the deeds come, but the focus and that scripture is what he actually did, not in the attitude of his heart. But that's in Revelation or judged according to our deeds. Deeds, yeah. Yes. Yep. And we see that in first John three, eleven and twelve, uh specifically applied to to Abel, uh to Cain, yeah. We're talking about faith here in this chapter on the faith. Yes. Faith uh uh uh always leads to obedience. True faith. True saving faith leads to obedience. And and and Jesus talked about this in his the earthly ministry over and over again. Uh why do you call me Lord and not do what I say? Right? He's saying that That's a contradiction. You can't call me Lord, you can't have actual true saving faith in me and not do what I say. Why do you call me Lord, Lord, and not do what I say? Right. Yeah. If you love me, you will obey me. my commandments. That that's what Jesus taught in his earthly ministry. Um okay. So uh so in doing this, Cain became the father of all false religion. There's another passage about Cain in Jude verse eleven. um that puts forward Cain as the pattern for um false worship um and disobedience to God by by false worship. Um so, um Cain and Abel. Um back to Genesis chapter four, and the Lord had regard for Abel and for his offering, but for Cain and for his offering he had no regard So it was both Abel and the offering and both Cain and the offering that God had no regard for. So false religion is trying to come to God by any other way than the way God has prescribed. So God has said there's um this is the way that you can be reconciled to a holy God Acts 4. 12, for example, there is no other name under heaven that has been given among men by which we must be saved. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but by me. False religions says there is another way or another name. And the scripture over and over again says no. There's only the way that God has prescribed. And if you deviate from the way that God has prescribed, then that leads to death. Proverbs fourteen twelve, for example, there is a way which seems right to a man, but its end is the way of death. And so Cain's way, I'm sure, seemed right to him at the time. But it's the way that led to death. Kane failed to acknowledge his sin and refuse to obey God by bringing the sacrifice God required, he did not mind worshiping God as long as it was on his own terms. He brought the sacrifice. He was willing to go through the motions of doing a sacrifice, but he wouldn't do it right. He wouldn't do it God's way. And God rejected Cain and his offering. By his own decision, Cain turned away from God and God's way to himself in his own way. And think about the the way Genesis four puts it. He he offered Also very stubbornly refused to repent. Um God gave him an opportunity. where's Abel, your brother, that was an opportunity for him to have remorse and repent and turn away from his evil deed. God was giving him a a chance. And he was really stubbornly against that and and he he was very flippant um with God. Am I my brother's keeper? I don't know where he is. Am I my brother's keeper? Um that's that's a a really irreverent way to address God when you think about it. think about the the attitude that that um that that shows that that Cain had towards the God. Yeah. I don't know. Yeah. Slat out lie. Yeah. Indeed. Yep. That's that's that is very much so. Um yes. He didn't you know, so he God was already God saw his heart already and he did not take any you know That's right. So so like a good loving father, God warned Cain. Um when Cain brought the wrong sacrifice, he knew that God had disregarded had no regard for him and his sacrifice and he was mad about it and God gives him a warning that hey sin is crouching at your door here um if you do well once your countenance be lifted up so he God tries to help him. He reaches out to him before he kills his brother. And then he gives them an opportunity to repent after he kills his brother. And Cain just stubbornly disregards. So Cain had a hard heart. evil heart. Um and that evil heart um manifested itself in these wicked deeds. Um yeah. Okay, so by his own decision he turns away from God. He knew what God required. He chose to do what he wanted instead. And that was a pattern with Cain we see here. So uh but through the uh th uh this this faith that uh um Abel had to give the right sacrifice Christ through which and and the verse goes on to say, through which he obtained the testimony that he was righteous. The only thing that obtained righteousness for Abel was obedience and faith. He did what God told him to do. Faith is the only thing that changes a person's relationship to God. It is not how good we are, but whether or not we trust in him that counts with God. And the evidence of true faith in God is obedience to his word. That's a uh a repeated theme in the scriptures that we um that true faith always manifests itself in obedience to God's word. Of course Abel was sinful. He was born with a sin nature just like Cain. It is possible, maybe even likely, that Abel was a better person than Cain. I think I'm a good person. Maybe he was more honest, dependable, and likable than Cain. Maybe. But it was not The difference was that one was obedient in faith and the other was disobedient in unbelief. Abel had the kind of faith that allows God to move on our behalf and make us righteous. True faith is always obedient, and it is always a gift from God, Ephesians 2. 89. Where does faith come from? from. We're saved by grace through faith, and that not of yourself. It is a gift of God, lest any man should boast. Um so where did Abel's faith come from? Came from God. Lest any man should boast. Uh so that's an important thing to keep in mind as we go through this uh this verse as well. Yes. Two kingdoms of God. Kingdom of Satan. Oh yes. I mean sh th we have that. Of course we have this uh spiritual battle that's been going on since the garden. Um although we do uh i and there's some spiritual representation that you have between Cain and Seth. Just keep in mind that the actual reality is the vast majority of people were not descended from either Cain or Seth. In in the reality of actual descent. Uh f as a as a spiritual metaphor, I think it works just fine. Just remember that there's millions of people that are not descended from either Seth or K uh is one who was chosen before the Yes. Absolutely. That's absolutely the case. And so when we get to uh Romans chapter eight and we see that um that God has people that he has foreknown, predestined, uh elected, and Abel was one of those. And Cain was not. Yeah. Yes. So now regards to the fact Yeah, so um they lacked faith and they they and their lack of faith was evident by their disobedience. So God had commanded that they bring certain fire and they brought strange fire instead. And we see this in in other ways that are shocking to us sometimes. Like the guy that tried to steady the ark and dropped dead. God hadn't said don't touch the ark. And so here's this guy and you know we think all he's trying to do is just steady the ark, you know, it looks like it's gonna fall, so he's gonna steady it. But that was disobedience. And And God punished it really severely. Um yes. Why wasn't he carrying the arts? Yeah, so yeah, he should have had charge of how can we carry that it didn't have the health carrel. it with the poles, right? That's the yeah, th so the larger context is they they had lost track of this thing completely. I mean the the Philistines had it for for cried out loud. And um and they were supposed to be carrying it around on poles and it was on a cart being sent from the Philistines and yeah. And so he reaches up and touches it when he's not supposed to touch it and he should have known that he wasn't supposed to touch it. Um and he died, dropped just dropped it right there. Yeah. Um and and we have some cases of in the New Testament like that. Somebody that uh you know, you have this uh the the couple in the New Testament that brings their Ananias and Sapphire, they bring their their gift to the Lord and they lied about the fact that it was the whole amount and they just dropped dead. Um so severe punishment for um lack of faith has manifests itself in disobedience in several cases in the in the scriptures, yes. Because all those laws, you know, that goes through I'm reading in all of the things and numbers, it always ends with because I am the only. The Lord your God. I'm holy. And on all of these things Right. Yeah. Uh because we have faith in who He is and the fact that it's God who commanded it. It's this God, this God of the Bible, the Holy One of Israel, the Almighty Creator of the universe. He commanded it, and so we do it. Um And if you don't do it, there are often consequences and and the consequences are varied. Sometimes they're immediate and severe, like people dropping dead, and other times it's longer. It's uh an exile, for example. So uh I mean just think about the punishment for Cain. Uh God could have just struck him dead, right? And in other cases he struck people dead. In this case he didn't strike 'em dead, he exiled 'em instead. He whined about that. But God could have s just struck him dead. Well that was taking away his life already. It was a severe punishment. It was a severe punishment. He was a farmer and and God said, From now on your crops are not gonna grow for you. No matter where you go, no matter what you do, crops are not gonna grow for you. That's a severe punishment for a farmer. But he didn't strike him dead. Could've struck him dead. Could have struck Adam and Eve dead. But he didn't. Okay. Uh let's see. Let's continue on here. Uh The text does not say but God's testimony that Abel's sacrifice was acceptable and that he counted Abel as righteous could have been his causing the offering to be consumed. We don't know, of course it doesn't say. There's th there's five other places in the Bible where God was pleased with an with the sacrifice and he caused fire to fall from him and then burned it up. Leviticus nine twenty-four, Judges six, twenty-one, first Kings eighteen thirty-eight, first Chronicles twenty-one, twenty-six, and second chronicles seven one. All instances where God was pleased with the sacrifice. with the sacrifice and therefore had fire fall from heaven and burnt it up. Maybe he did that here. Doesn't say. In any case it's clear from Genesis that God made his approval and disapproval of the sacrifices known to Cain and Abel, they knew. Cain's countenance fell because he knew that God disapproved of him and his sacrifice. Right? They they weren't guessing. They he he somehow didn't say how. God made it known that he he had regard for Abel as a sacrifice, and he did no regard for Cain and his sacrifice. He did not leave them in doubt as to their standing before him. They knew. God considered Abel righteous, not because he was righteous in himself, but because he trusted God and obeyed him. He stood righteous before God because he had faith in God. It was through his faith that he offered the right sacrifice, and because of that faith, he was considered righteous. righteous by God. Abel was the same sinner as he was before he made the sacrifice. He did not even receive the Holy Spirit as do believers today. But he had God's approval and God's righteousness credited to his account. That's what the scripture is telling us here. God testifying about these gifts. So it was God's testimony that Abel gave the right sacrifice and that he was righteous. And then through faith, though he is dead, he still speaks, and that's talking about Abel, of course. When the Lord confronted Cain after Abel's murder God said, What have you done? The voice of your brother's blood is crying to me from the ground. Interesting thing to say to Cain. This blood is crying to me. So Abel's first quote speaking after death was the God's God asking for his murder to be avenged. And we see something similar to this in Revelation chapter six. We have the souls of those who were martyred from the altar saying, How long do we have to wait before you avenge us, O Lord? Uh Abel's blood seems to be A very similar thing to that. His blood spoke to the Lord for vengeance and justice. Abel's voice also spoke to his brother in a certain way. Notice how when God deals out the punishment, he he he frames it in terms of his brother's blood. And now you are cursed from the ground which has opened its mouth to receive your brother's blood. So the curse of the ground is because The ground has your brother's blood in it now. And when you cultivate the ground it shall no longer yield its strength to you, you shall be a vagrant and a wanderer on the earth. So every bit of soil on which Cain placed his feet would remind him of his wicked deed. God caused the earth to reject Cain, the farmer, as Cain had rejected God and his brother. So it's an appropriate Appropriate punishment. It's not as severe as it could have been, instant death, but it's a very appropriate punishment for the man and his crime. Abel, though dead, continued to speak to his brother in that way. Of course it's not um the primary meaning of the last phrase of Hebrews eleven four is uh has to do with Abel speaking to later generations of believers and potential believers. Uh in particular Uh the author of Hebrews, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, is talking to first century Jewish people, and of course the the testimony of Abel would speak to them And of course, the Holy Spirit had it recorded in Scripture, so it continues to speak to us all the way down through all of church history, all the way to today. He still speaks. He says three things. One, man comes to God. by faith alone not works. Two, man must accept and obey God's revelation above his own reason and self-will. And three, sin disobe which is disobedience to God, is severely punished. That's what we learn from looking at this incident uh with Abel. So this is Abel's timeless three-point sermon to the world, which he has been preaching for thousands of years to those with ears to hear. Alright, any questions? Comments? About Cain and Abel. That's how one verse of the Bible can take an hour. the the discipline that God gives those who he loves and he sees things in our lives thankfully he doesn't spread us dead and speech bad and it's it's out of love. committed to in a covenant relationship. So any acts of unrighteousness is faithful to put some circumstances into our lives and gives us a conscience, gives us a whole Holy Spirit that we might repent and be be restored. So pain is just an unfortunate story of there doesn't seem to be any redemption. Yeah. Yeah, and uh but it's obvious that God cares about him and the way he deals with him both before he kills his brother with the warning and after he kills his brother with uh seeking him out to give him an opportunity. opportunity to repent. Um um yeah. Yeah. But yet it would have done no good 'cause he wasn't one of the things. Yeah. Yeah. And so there's the mystery there of w why does God bother? With people he knows will not accept him. But he does. And I think that's because of his holy character that he does. Yeah. Yes. This is a measure of pain. What if God, although choosing to show his wrath and making his power known for with great patience, the objects like his wrath, including pain, prepared for destruction? What if he did the Yeah. Right. And so uh we don't know what purpose is Cain's what what of God's purposes Cain served after that? So even wicked people serve God's purposes. And so the the warning of Cain the mark of Cain, um, w was a that was a warning to others that saw him, um, that that disobedience is can be severely punished. Um, you know If he had just been killed, uh then other people succeeding generations for as long as Cain lived wouldn't have f had eyes on and observed him living through this this miserable curse. Um and God could have had a purpose for that. To to to to bring good out of the evil that Cain did, yeah. I just couldn't say I still think it's amazing that so seeing a second chance as a as a loving father and he didn't do it as the angels. It just never got a second chance. Yeah, so yeah, we don't get a whole lot of details about the fall of Satan and the angels, but That's right. They don't there's no there's no plan of redemption for the angels. There is for us, but there is not for the angels. That's a good point. Okay. Uh we've run out of time. Let me uh close this with a word of prayer