So um we're going to be looking today at uh passage continuing in passages through Hebrews chapter two. But just as a way of starting off and thinking about it, if you are to write a job announcement for the savior. What necessary qualifications would you put into that? Merci. Oh thank you. Yeah, excellent. That's a good answer. I I really appreciate the answer for a couple of reasons. I in my mind it was a rhetorical question, but I like the answer because it was on the mark. Anyone else want to throw out an answer? Let's change it from rhetorical to What would you put in the no, it's fine. That's we're in a classroom and we're people and we get to enjoy one another. What else would you put on that job description? Diane? Forgiving. Forgiving. Forgiving? Compassionate understanding. Compassionate and understanding. You're good at this. I need it. What else would you put on the job announcement for perfect savior? Savior of the world, yes. Um need to already be right with God and then not where we are. Need to be right with God, yeah. Uh another way of saying that would may be holy, perfect, yes. What else? Sanctification. Yes. Yeah, that's related to holiness, but sanctification, that's good. What else? Yes. Capable of suspending the prophecy so we can have confidence in Absolutely. Absolutely. Terribly. important point. Yes, absolutely capable of fulfilling the promises, uh prophecies. Um you might also put on there Experience, eternal experience with the Trinity. Uh maybe you would put creator of the world And holds the world together with the power of your hand. Or word. Power of your word. In the passage that we're looking at, there are two qualifications. As you look at this entirety of this passage, there are two qualifications. qualifications that this passage focuses in on. Must be a man and must die. Those are the two qualifications that are in this passage To be the perfect Savior of the world. Could you tell us what this passage is? Yes, sure. Absolutely. We're in Hebrews chapter two. We'll begin looking at verses verses ten to eighteen principally, but we'll be starting at verse nine. And so you could think about this passage even as a job resume. Christ publishing his resume, his CV, that would be posting the job of perfect savior and we're granted the privilege of reading through this resume and taking a look at what Christ published in his resume or what the Holy Spirit published about Christ That qualifies him as perfect savior. And so let's take a look at what it says. We're going to actually read through this, and as we read through it, we're going to see four, if you will, job titles to continue the Metaphor. Job titles that Jesus has had and as a result of who he is and what he has done has and possesses these job titles. Jesus is the captain of our salvation, first of all. And secondly, Jesus is our brother. And thirdly, Jesus is victorious. And lastly and finally, Jesus is the High priest. And that's what's going to follow in the outline. Let's remember real quick the um the flow of thought that we've seen as we've gone through the book of Hebrews, because that sets us up for where we are right now. Hebrews in chapter one starts it off by reminding us that in the last days God spoke to us by his son, who's the heir of all things and made all things and just and is just Like God and holds the universe together and made purification for sins and sat down at the right hand of God. And those things would be qualifications by themselves, but we're focusing here in chapter two on some other things. We also learned as we proceeded through the chapter one that God, Jesus, is superior to angels because he is God's Son And because angels worship him, and angels are servants and messengers of the sun. And remember what it starts off with that Christ in these last days has spoken to us. So there's a message in chapter two starts off by saying we must pay closer attention to the word spoken. It's continuing that thought that started off with, and the reasons that are given is be right off the bat is because, hey, it's given by the sun Who's greater than the angels, and also it's endorsed by the Father, and it is a message given to us, people. And Rob talked about that last week. And so let's read ch Hebrews chapter 9. I'm sorry, chapter two. And and just for context, we'll start in at uh at verse nine. And just so everybody's not surprised, we're going to read on into verse one of chapter three. Hebrews 2 verse 9. But we see him who for a little while was made lower than the angels, namely Jesus crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone. For it was fitting that He, for whom and by whom all things exist, in bringing many sons to glory, should make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering. For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all have one source. That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers, saying, I will tell of your name to my brothers. In the midst of the congregation, I will sing your praise, and again I will put my trust in him, and again. Behold, I and the children God has given me. Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook the same things that through death he might destroy the one who has power of death, that is, the devil, and deliver all those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery. For surely it is not angels that he helps, but he helps the offspring of Abraham. Therefore, he had to be made life his brothers in every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people For because he himself has suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted. Therefore, holy brothers, you who share in the heavenly calling Consider Jesus the apostle and high priest of our confession. Heavenly Father, uh this is a challenging passage. Um need your help, uh uh to make sure that the truths that are here are lifted high and appropriately displayed and looked at and enjoyed. I pray, Heavenly Father, that you'd help me to speak clearly that the concept And truths that your spirit wanted us to know and own and have would become ours so that we would see and know you better, that we would love you more And that you would be glorified. Please let your glory and your truth come out today because your word is amazing. And you are amazing. Amen. So here in this passage we see that If you start at verse 9, Jesus became man and tasted death. Tasted death for everyone, which is the same as saying he died. And Jesus brought many sons to glory through suffering, and Jesus identified With sanctified mankind. And Jesus is victorious, and he's a high priest. And all of these things are summarized in what Hebrews 3, verse 1 says Jesus is the apostle and high priest of our confession. And there's a command there. There's a command there. In fact, if you've considered this passage, there are no imperatives in this passage, but it's sandwich. Between the imperative that you have in chapter 1, verse 2, I'm sorry, chapter 2, verse 1, and the imperative that you have in chapter 3, verse 1, which essentially says, pay attention And consider Jesus. And so we're drawn then into this chat into this passage that's full of indicatives, that's just basically bragging about our Savior and who he is. So we have the opportunity. Here today to look into who our Savior is and adore Him more deeply. So we're looking at these four, if you will, titles of Jesus that He had to bring. Glory to who he is. And all of these are related to who he is in our saving gospel giving Messiah, which leans back to where the book of Hebrews starts off, where it says there is a message given to us by By the sun. And it is a message that we need to pay attention to. So everything in this starts off and flows from what was set up in verse 9. of this chapter. And in verse nine, there's two key principles, and I'd like to write them up here so that we remember 'em. Two key principles. Uh Jesus is a man. And Jesus suffered and died. And as you as we go through these things, we can start to think of them as dependencies upon one another. In fact, there's one Right here, Jesus is a man. I'm sorry, Jesus suffered and died is dependent on Jesus being a man. Jesus can't be the high priest unless Jesus is a man Jesus can't and we can go down the list of these things. And we'll see him as we go through this. He's made like us. Saman. He is our brother. Partly because he is a man. He made propitiation for sins by suffering And that suffering and propitiation makes him a high priest as well. Those two become the center point around all these other attributes branched off from. And you can start, even if you want to, to draw a picture and put these things around this where they depend off of the fact that Jesus suffered or they depend on the fact that Jesus was a man. You can create a tree and branching and things like that, and it's fascinating to see. So Jesus as a man means he is like us. He has flesh and blood. We both have one source, meaning Adam. And that allows him to be high priest. And since he's high priest, he can be faithful and make propitiation. And he can be merciful to us as well. And because Jesus suffered and died, he He is crowned with glory. He is perfect as author of salvation. He brings many sons to glory. He destroys the power of death and the devil. He frees those who through fear of death were enslaved. As a man, he is tempted. He also, as the suffering Savior, sanctifies. And because he sanctifies, he's not ashamed to call us protection. brothers. And because of that he helps the sons of Abraham, which also goes back to the idea of being of one source. And because of that he can come to the aid of those who are tempted. So if we start at verse 10. What we see in verse 10 is Jesus is the captain of our salvation. In fact, uh there's a lot of different words there. in different translations for um what it says. Some say founders, some say origin, some say uh but I I like the idea of Jesus being the captain of our salvation. He's the one who provided for it and commands it and makes it available to us. And as this captain of salvation, he brings many sons to glory. He tasted death for everyone, as it says in verse 9. And these are the sons in verse 9 that are brought to glory. And and we know this. Because he suffered, he tasted death, which is an idiom for dying. By the way, um there's a interesting uh stack of pronouns that are here in verse ten that can make some some of the verse a little bit confusing. It says, For it was fitting that he, for whom and by whom all things exist, and bring him in his sons to glory should make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering. Um let's just stop for a a a quick second and ask the question, who's that he that's there? Um And we gotta recognize that the he is tied to the phrases, for whom and by whom all things exist. And that's gotta be God. And bringing many sons to glory, it's God who did that too. So that he, that pronoun is God of some sort or another And I submit to us that the two candidates that persons that may fit that ca that qualification are either the son or the father But what comes from the next phrase locks it up as the he in that ch in that verse, as being God the Father. Because it says it was fitting that he dot dot dot should make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering. Now we gotta go back and ask ourselves the question Who's this founder of salvation? I must say for us it's Jesus. Yes, it's Jesus. And so it doesn't make sense that Jesus at the beginning is the one who's making himself. It makes far more sense that God the Father is the one who's making Jesus perfect through suffering. So what we have then, if we think about this, it's says, for it was fitting that God the Father, for whom and by whom all things exist, and bringing many sons to glory, should make Jesus the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering. Now we got one more issue here that we probably oughta kinda ask ourselves if and and I don't know if you guys see it, but I scratch my head when I see the scriptures saying that Jesus could be made perfect. Yeah, thanks. You guys are with me. I appreciate that. How is it that Jesus could be made perfect when he's God already? But sometimes I think the word perfect doesn't mean what we think. It means complete or complete The Father was able to make the son do what the Son was put on this earth to do. And that's a good that's a good start. So how is it how is it that suffering could complete Jesus in this verse? I saw a hand over here. Being made perfect could be. Let's I I I don't know if I a hundred percent agree with it. There might be a slight yes. But that's a possibility and in fact I think that you read if you read commentaries you'll find the ones that agree with you on that too, by the way. Yes? Fulfillment of the Father's will. Fulfillment of the Father's will is dancing around it. Maybe we can even be more specific, yes? Fulfilling prophecy. Fulfilling prophecy, yes. Those two things are together. Yes. Well speaking in when you think of the Passover lamb, like the Passover lamb was already selected and it was right for the purpose, but then there were things that people would do to kind of make it ready for sacrifice. Ooh. Like what like when they laid hands on like the lamb, they had the prayers, like there's just there's a process by which they prepare it to be sacrificed, and it's not that the lamb has changed in some substantive way. But that process was to prepare it for sacrifice. If that's the case, what did what happened to Jesus to make him perfect as the captain of our salvation? Yes? So in Strongs it also says to bring it to bring to an end. Okay. So the suffering and sacrifice of Jesus brought to an end our salvation and finished the work of making that Sacrifice. Yes. And in fact I would go on to say, hold on a second, I would go on to say that Jesus was prepared to be the captain of our salvation through suffering. Which gets us back to what these two qualifications are. He is a man. He could suffer and die. As man, he could suffer and die. Before he suffered and died, he had not paid for our sins. He had not satisfied the wrath of God. And so therefore he was not yet perfect as the captain of our salvation. So when it's talking about made perfect, it's not saying God became more perfect. But what it's saying is in the job title, in the role of captain of our salvation, Jesus became perfect when he died because now he qualifies for that role. Yes. He wasn't redeemer until he completed the redemption process. That may be another way of thinking about it. Yes. Yeah. Until Christ suffered and died. In fact, what did he say to his disciples in the upper room I gotta go from you. I got to. And it's better that I do. Yes. Yes? I think because the in his incarnation, he gave us his his um attributes so Yeah and that's an interesting question. That's an interesting thought. As as man would Jesus grow in perfection? And there are some instances where we see Jesus as a baby growing up in some Like that, and growing in wisdom and stature. But at the same time, we don't want to assert that Jesus needed to become more right with God because he lived a perfect life and he satisfied. satisfied that in the living of his perfect life in his humanity. And that's also important to hold on to as you're trying to think things through about God and what's going on between Christ as God and the and Christ as man. And we're s and we're sneaking peeks into what's going on with that. Yes? And don't forget John nineteen thirty. It is finished. Which is related to the same word. Yes. Yes. If you did a word search, you'd find the same perfect, made perfect, that is set at the cross when Jesus died. I think the root word is the same. Yes. So There's a little phrase that starts this first off. In the ESV it says, it was fitting. Some of your translations would say it becomes him. Right? Why does this mean this is not my normal English? I don't run around going I am fitting to go and provide something or other. But but God and the trans God wrote it and the translators thought this was the right way of saying this In other words, think about it like this. It was suitable to do this. If and it was appropriate. If you were in a situation where you had a close friend in need and you could help them out. You'd take care of them. It would be fitting for you to take care of your friend's need. Because you'd care for them. They're your friend. You don't want to leave them hanging. And this same word is used in Genesis where Abrah Abram is appealing to God on behalf of Sodom. And he says, it wouldn't be right for you to kill the guilty with the innocent, would it? And that's another way of thinking. That's not fitting for God to do. But here in this case, it is fitting For God to just be cut to make his son become captain of salvation And to be made perfect through suffering. It's right for that. It shows God's love, it shows God's righteousness, his grace, and glory. Jesus had To die. And Luke 24, 26, Jesus said on the road to Emmaus I think that's the right place. Um, he was talking to the guys and he says, Was it not necessary that the Christ should suffer these things and enter into his glory? Was it not fitting that God should do this? He he needed to do it. It was right. And God always does what's right. And so the thing that follows next, now after Captain of Our Salvation, the thing The thing that follows next and the glory of God and his titles is he's not ashamed to call us brothers. So the title I just like to say He's our brother. And that's showed here in verses eleven to thirteen, for he who sanctifies And those who are sanctified, that's Jesus and us, by the way, if you're in Christ, all have one source. That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers, saying I will tell of your name to my brothers in the midst of the congregation. I will sing your praise, and again I will put my trust in him, and again, behold, I am the children God has given me. Just want to let you know that the author again is reaching back into the Old Testament and quoting for us First of all from Psalm twenty two and second of all from Isaiah eight in these passages that are being referenced. And one of the things that's going on here that we've got to ask ourselves the question, because there's so many of these words and ideas and concepts that are expressed to us in ways that I just I don't feel natural English to me He says, for he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all have one source. Yes. Jesus Christ did not call his disciples or his one brother himself. um on the other side of the course. It wasn't until after his resurrection he called the shepherd and called the Satan, but it was until after his resurrection he told Mary they don't tell my brothers. So it was until after the resurrection I I I think you I I've got a couple of references for you to double check on with that. Don't just double check because I think in the upper room he said I call you brothers. I think he said that there, but I don't have the reference right now And I think too there was another point where Jesus said where where the somebody said to Jesus, Hey, your mom and your brothers are here and he goes, Who are my mother and brothers? Those who do my will. And so I I think it I think there's some implication that he may have called them brothers sooner. I like the idea of what you're saying Um but I that may be the case and I don't want to spend more time on that, but I just wanted to throw a little bit towards that. Um it'd be worthwhile doing some uh research on that. Um But I I did wanna I did wanna come and focus our mind here on this concept and we're gonna come right back to that. On all have one source. Yes? I think you must be using the ESB. Oh yes I am. Thank you. We still have the the NASB which says for both he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified are all from one Father. Well that's what the authors and the translators thought that that what that meant. Yes. Yeah. Cool. Anybody else have another translation? So something different? Mine has father's italics. Yeah, and in italics, which is an interesting, because when you go back to the Greek It doesn't say father. It doesn't. It just says all out of or all from one. Period. Which is interesting. And it leaves us with a little bit of a puzzle. And there's some interest controversy because in one sense we're talking a lot about Jesus being a man. So isn't it natural for us to go, oh good, Jesus, Mary, you can go from Mary all the way back to Adam and I'm sure somewhere I get back to Adam too. Because We're all from Adam and Noah and therefore we're all from one source. That may make sense if we just consider that. However, if you looked at the rest of the stuff that's in this section. It starts off with he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified. Oh wait, I think the Holy Spirit might be focusing this down a little bit more. And that's important And that's important. And it gets back to kind of the thing Larry was talking about. And I'm excited you brought it up in in the place that you did because too many thoughts at the same time. Um Because Jesus if you look down a little bit further, I'm just gonna start laying some things out. In verse sixteen, it doesn't say that he helps the offspring of Adam. It says he helps the offspring of Abraham. And I think the Holy Spirit didn't make a mistake when he said Abraham not Adam. That's important because the covenant comes through Abraham. So that's important to hold on to. The second thing that's important to hold on to as we think about this is let's look at the if if we're kind of listening on the fence about this, the Holy Spirit gave us examples. He gave us Psalm 22 and He gave us Isaiah 8. And goes, He's not ashamed to call them brothers, therefore he says Let's turn to Psalm 22. Yes, turn your pages in your Bible to Psalm 22. It's towards the middle of your Bible. Or if you got a digital thing, it's just scroll click. Like me. Psalm twenty two, and these two references are actually quoted from verse Verses 22 and 25. In verse 22 it says, I will tell your of your name to my brothers in the midst of the congregation, I will praise you. Let's just read through. For you who fear the Lord, praise him. All you offspring of Jacob, glorify him, and stand in awe of him, all you offspring of Israel. For he has not despised or abhorred the affliction of the afflicted, and he has not hidden his face from him, but has heard when he cried to him. For I'm sorry, from you comes my praise. My vows I will perform before those who fear him. The afflicted shall eat and be satisfied. Those who seek him shall praise the Lord May your hearts live forever. If you're familiar with Psalm 22, Psalm 22 is what Jesus quotes when he dies on the cross. And it recounts many things that went on during the crucifixion before crucifixion was even invented. And it's one of those things that sometimes people are even like, uh David could have written this. I'm sure somebody wrote this in Roman times and claimed David wrote it. is so amazingly accurate about what crucifixion is and the effects on the human body. One of the things that's interesting, and Larry, I'm getting back to your point a little bit too, by the way. One of the things that's interesting, and I don't know How much money to put on this is that this part here, starting at verse 22, is after, follows after the recounting of Jesus Christ. death on a cross. And so it is after, in Psalm 22, the Holy Spirit had David write about his death on the cross, that then he says, I will tell of your name to my brothers. In other words, let's let's worry out the pronouns. Jesus is going to tell of God's name to his brothers. Those whom he sanctified. Sure. Uh yeah. Verse twenty two. The pronouns I will tell of your name to my brothers. Okay? So I'm going to assert that the I there is Jesus. He's the one Psalm twenty-two is about and has been talking throughout Psalm twenty-two. And he says, I will tell of your name to my brothers, which I believe is Jesus is going to tell his father. Let's just think about what does it mean that Jesus would tell of his name? Did that answer your question? Okay, cool. What does it mean that Jesus would tell of his father's name to his brothers, yes? He was talking about it speaks of uh the Lord on the cross and what he will suffer. Yes. Okay. Yes. Yeah. Thanks for asking. Appreciate that. Yes. Yes. Absolutely. Absolutely. In fact, uh well how much do I want Let's make you jump around. Um, I don't. Um John 1, 12 to 13. But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name He gave the right to become children of God who are born not of blood, nor of the flesh, nor of the will of man. Alright? I I read that verse ahead of the time. I'm looking for John seventeen Uh oh I don't have it here. I've got it someplace else. Let's run over to John seventeen because I didn't put in my notes Um that's what I wanted to read. I love hearing the pages crinkle around and makes me know when people have arrived. John seventeen, if you look at verse six, I have manifested your name to the people whom you gave me out of the world Yours they were, and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word. Jesus, in the high in his high priestly prayer, that's what we call this, right? Is discussed. declaring that he has revealed the father t to those who the father has given to him. Pretty cool. In that then the book of Hebrews comes back and ties that back to what David wrote in Psalm 22, I have revealed your name to my brethren. And here in Hebrews, it kind of like puts its arm around it, gathers these things together, and says, Look at who Jesus is. He is Not ashamed to call them brothers. Us. Those who are sanctified. Let's run back over to Hebrews and remember where we were. Hebrews chapter 2, verse 11. For he who sanctifies and those who are Are sanctified all have one source, which we've asserted, then gets back to the source of God or salvation. The translators say the Father. He is the source of our life. Because as it says back in verse ten, it was fitting that the Father, in bringing many sons to glory, would make the Son perfect through his death. Let's keep going, right? He who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all have one source, which is the Father who's orchestrating and directing. the Son and causing us to be sanctified. And as sanctified believers in Christ, he is not ashamed to call us brothers. Because as I read just ahead of time in John chapter one, those who have believed in God have come to know God and God has brought them into his family. This gets into adoption. It gets into our being brought in. Ephesians 1:5 talks about this. Romans 8. 14 talks about this. 1 John 3. 2 says, Beloved, we are God's children now. And what we are, and what we will be, has not yet appeared, but we know that when he appears, we shall be like. him because we shall see him as he is. So there's a we are we are people now that Christ is not ashamed to call brothers, but the real brotherhood, the real what it's going to be, where it's at, this family realization is gonna happen in glorification. That's gonna be fantastic. If you're at the concert last night there was this song where he talks about, uh, lay me down, but you gotta know when you lay me down I'm gonna open my eyes. I'm gonna open my eyes. And it's just a powerful, powerful song to assert and to remember that death is not the end When he appears we will be like him. So we're seeing now that God is not ashamed to call us brothers. He identifies with us. Can you think about how sweet that is for just one quick hot second? Jesus identifies with us. It seems sloppy and disrespectful to say, bro. But but there's an aspect of that uh a a warmth, a unity, a togetherness that I want to hold on to when I think about the concept of bro Not a disrespectful sloppiness, but a real when I think about my brother, we just I not everybody's got the same family, right? But when I hang out with my brother, we Kinda we're already on the same foundation. We're together in a lot of ways. It's almost like we think about the same thing each one of us is thinking about. We enjoy one another's company And I treasure thinking that that's what my relationship with Christ is like. And sometimes I don't enjoy that richly enough. I think of God high and lifted up. I think of my Savior and I'm not worthy because I'm a sinner. But the reality is is God came down to be a man To be the captain of my salvation, to draw me near, to extend to me grace beyond an imagining To show me love that's so deep I can't even I can't I can't even You ever try to put your arms around Redwood? I can't even The love of God is so amazingly He would call me brother. And not only that, it says He's not ashamed to call me brother. Christ sat with sinners. He's known as the friend of sinners, but I would submit to us that he was not friend for every sinner. There were some people he hung out with and he ate with and he was not ashamed to call them brothers. But there were others that he would say, you brood of vipers, that doesn't sound like brother to me. And so there's a line of Distinction that's being drawn here when he says, He who sanctifies and those who are sanctified have one source, and he is not ashamed to call them brothers. You know, the the gospels let us know that there will be people who are going to be ashamed at God's word And he will be ashamed of them. But praise God for his grace. Cause there are times when we stumble and we're ashamed about the things that we do and say, and God is quick To forgive and quick to remember what he has done on our behalf. He is the captain of our salvation. Bled and died for us. Yes, I mean I'm thinking of this and you're making a point about him not being machine. I'm thinking why would he even be an ashamed place and then I read here where it says he who sanctified his uncle and he who sanctified or happened. So Are you saying then that when he talks about not being a shame, there are two reasons why one is because of the relationship happening with shame and one proper and also because of their I think that God gives us a Clue about this when he says in Genesis, just before the flood, I'm sorry that I made man. There are wicked I think that that's that's God saying, I I'm ashamed. I'm ashamed. And I I don't know if you've ever done this before where you Or your child does something that's not respective of what your family values are. And it brings shame on your name and brings shame on themselves and who they are. And the fact is is that as sinners, as sinners, we're like showing up at the wedding feast without the wedding clothes on. And God's gonna the the master of ceremonies is gonna say, uh, who let you in here? Didn't didn't you get wedding clothes? And there's no answer. And yeah, God's gonna be ashamed. Of those who are not his. But praise God that He grants freely wedding clothes. And those who are clothed. In his Son, who've washed their sins clean, who've been imputed with the righteousness of Christ. There is no shame anymore Your sins have been put as far as the East is from the West. God doesn't look on them anymore And so when he looks at you, believer, sanctified, past tense, by the way. Sanctified, justified, made right, declared right in God's eyes. Eyes he goes, No, I'm not ashamed of him. He looks just like and smells just like my perfect son. Come on into the wedding feast. Come on in. I prepared for you Glories and wonder because I'm not ashamed. And Jesus even says, That one I'm not ashamed to call my brother Take this place at the table. Let's have a feast. Guys, look to heaven and enjoy it. Enjoy it. That's why we sang, My Jesus, I love thee. In mansions of glory. I saw some hands up. Yes? So sanctify uh mean meaning that's his purpose. That's his that's his uh that's his that's his being for his purpose is to sanctify Yeah, I think that's a accurate way of saying that. And I gotta say that I didn't look into the Greek verb tenses on those two words. Uh but in the ESV it says He who sanctifies, and and I would take that as what Jesus is continuing to do because every day new believers are being sanctified. He who sanctifies and those who are sanctified And I think there's a completeness in that sanctification. Being set apart and made holy for God happens boom at salvation. There is a growing sanctification that we go through. through throughout life and I don't think this is talking about that. Because I believe at the moment of our salvation Jesus is not ashamed to call us brothers. Not when when you get your life really cleaned up, Jesus is now ready to call you brother. Otherwise the thief on a cross would have had a whole lot of not brotherness. Sorry. There's Ann over here too. Yes. I also think if you follow back the train of wars, it ties back to the perfection of him being the captain of our salvation because essentially, you know, there there's there's a confidence in the sanctification also being perfect that there's no reason to be a change. Yeah. That's a good point. Thanks. That's a good point. I should add that to my notes. Hopefully I remember. Yeah, and that word is that completed word too. Yeah. It's ridiculously wonderful that we can be adopted into the family of God. Ohana. Yeah, all right, I'll press on. Um now, verses fourteen and fifteen, uh again this passage has is in my humble opinion, loaded with head scratchers. Because verses fourteen and fifteen says, Since the children share in flesh and blood, he likewise partook of the same things that through death he might destroy Destroy the one who has the power of death, that is, the devil, and deliver all those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery. That's not one of my five points in my gospel presentation. Uh just just saying, but I just want to say that if we go back to the concept that we have, not only is Jesus, the captain of our salvation. Not only is Jesus our brother, but Jesus is victorious. That's what this is talking about here. He shares in flesh and blood, and remember what we have here. Since he shares in flesh and blood He's a man. And since that's true, Annie partakes the same thing. You know, we the reality is, hey, look We got flesh and blood, so Jesus has it too. It's another way of asserting Jesus is a man. That through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death. In other words, he was made human so he could die. Really? So he could die. Let's just recognize for a minute God doesn't die. Okay. I don't need to go there anymore. Um any design Destroyed the one who has the power of death, that is the devil. Why is the devil have the power of death? And how is it that s the devil is destroyed? I submit to us that his power is removed. But we need to ask ourselves, how is this power of death given to Satan? Or what's what's the uh what's his angle? Daniel The wages of sin is death. Okay, that's really good. The wages of sin is death. Where does death start in the Bible? At the fall, right? Yes, well we we talk a little bit about what the works of Satan are and then we start to see how this works together, right? Because God said, Hey, if you eat from this tree, you surely will die. And they ate from the tree. And what happens to us then is we We all become sinners. I'm sorry, your mom was a sinner. Um and your children I'm sorry to say this, and by the way, you and me Are sinners. And as sinners, when we sin, the accuser stands before God and says They sinned again. You have to put them to death. Using God's justice against himself. Saying, God, I got ya. That one you love, you gotta put him to death. Let's go. Today? That's what Satan does. He opposes the things of God. And so in that Satan has the power of death over sinners. Now we ask the question, how did Jesus destroy that power? And I just get giddy inside thinking about this. How did Christ snatch away or destroy that power from Satan? Conquered death. The resurrection? He conquered death. Yeah, you're saying it and you're thinking it along with me. When Jesus died on the cross, became the captain of our salvation, bringing many sons to glory, sanctifying us. When Satan goes, ha He sinned. God says, No, he's in my son. Hallelujah. And Satan has no teeth. He's been destroyed The power of saying that one must be put to death. God says, no That one is justified. His sins have been removed. He's covered by my grace. And I'm not ashamed to call him my brother. Oh, praise God. Why don't you I don't I don't want to get too far, of course, but does Satan still hold the power of God over people that God is not? That's a good question. In fact, let's look at the next verse. Really good segue, by the way. And because not only did he take that power away But he delivered lost my train. Those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery. So there's actually two things that are going on right now. Uh I don't know. That yes. To answer your question, people who are not in Christ are still under that power of Satan. Absolutely. Satan Satan still intrinsically has that power, just not over God's chosen. Yes. Yeah. It does. Hey Henry. I I just have to ask the death that it's talking about here in your opinion, that's not just about physical death. That's not at all uh yeah, thank you for that answer, whoever said it. Not at all about physical death. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, thanks for that. Um This is talking about eternal lake of fire death, separated from the presence of God. Eternal darkness, gnashing of teeth, and wailing That's the death that's being talked about here. That Satan has that power. That's worse. For eternity. And sa and so verse fifteen then says and And deliver all those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery. Did you know that before God called you and regenerated you, you were a slave, not just a slave to sin, a slave to faith. fear. Because God put in our consciences an awareness of what is right and true And a reminder that we have failed. And the only people who have a clean conscience and don't have this fear Are people who have seared their conscience or people who are in Christ? Or people who think they're in Christ and they aren't. First John talks about that a lot. Yes, Henry. So there's a vast majority of the people that have this key of debt established that this death app is not really it's not so much physical death app as fear of separation. So there's there's a a host of people that are afraid of physical death because they realize that they might they might have to face God's judgment. Are you saying that there are some who don't fear God's judgment? I'm saying, yes, there are some who have seared their conscience. And that would mean that would mean that these then are not subject to the the power of the devil over them who don't have that fear. Is that what you're saying? What I'm saying is they're not enslaved that's the second part, not the first part. They're not enslaved to that fear of death. Okay. But Satan still has power to put them to death. Okay? You know, um scripture talks a bunch about God freeing us, but Hosea 13 Verse 14 God says, I shall ransom them from the power of Sheol, I shall redeem them from death O death, where are your plagues? O Sheol, where is your sting? And that same passage is quoted in Coloss uh in Corinthians. Christ removed that sting, the power of death. as was said is put to death when Christ bore our penalty on a cross. I need to press on. Because that's an a that that's amazing, but there's even something And I need to at least touch on this. The last thing here in God's titles is high priest. Good thing is, is Rob's going to teach a lot about this because the book of Hebrews talks a lot about the high priest, and so I don't have to go opening up the whole thing about what I'm saying. a high priest is, but I will say that it's interesting that this is the very first time that the concept or the words high priest is introduced in the book of Hebrews. Christ being explained to us As the one who is the captain of our salvation, is for the first time now referred to as high priest. And I believe the reason why that is, is because as captain of our salvation He makes propitiation for our sins, which is a role and responsibility the high priest would do on the Day of Atonement and when they offered sacrifices for the sins of the people. And so here's Jesus Starting to be displayed to us as we work our way through the book of Hebrews as the high priest. And again, in order to be high priest, he has to be a man. But being high priest. High priest, he makes propitiation for our sins by sacrificing his own blood on the cross. And and just to let you know, the high priest is gonna come up in chapter three, chapter four, chapter five. Chapter six, chapter seven, chapter eight, chapter nine, and chapter ten. So by the time we get to chapter ten, we will be deep in high priestness. Um but it's important to know that as high priest, he is compassionate. And fulfills his duty as high priest. And that's why it says here in this verse, he is merciful and faithful. When God, he, when he was in the garden, he said, God, would you let This cup, perhaps, for me. But not my will. He was being a faithful high priest. If there was some other way for us to have a Captain of salvation, God would have answered that prayer different. Jesus had to die. Jesus had to be a man. Or he would not be a man. be qualified to be high priest and he could not make propitiation for the people. Let's just make sure we understand what propitiation means. It's a fancy word that we don't use a lot. It means to satisfy God's wrath. When we look into the wonder of salvation and all that it is, it's like looking into a beautiful crystal and you can turn it and look at it this way and that way and this way and gaze into the depths of it. Propitiation is just one aspect. of that. Just one. There's so many others and we've hinted at them a little bit today. We've talked about adoption. We've talked about our brotherhood with Christ. We've talked about our sanctification. And now we get to talk a little bit, a little bit about Propitiation. Because as sinners, God has wrath for us. Romans talks about us being enemies with God. Enemies. And and Christ set aside, became a man to draw us back to himself. To satisfy, not not just to let me let me be more careful. N to make it possible for us to come back. Because if God stands up there going oh dang sorry. If God stands up there going, No, it doesn't matter how much repentance you have, or how much suffering you have, or how many other good things you do, God's still saying no. Christ had to satisfy the wrath of God against the sins not only that we committed, but the sins that we inherited in our sin nature that we could not otherwise escape from. Excuse me. And by the way, as As it starts off, he's not helping angels. And that's one of these themes that starts back up at verse five and comes all the way down here to the end of eighteen. He's not helping angels. He's helping the sons of Abraham. That's why Jesus was made a man and not made an angel, so that he could suffer as a man. So that he could be one of us, have our blood and our flesh. You know, we're gonna sa we're gonna celebrate Lord's Supper today, which is a reminder that Jesus was truly man And he suffered on that cross and died. Yes. I was just going to point out that the um public offspring they also kind of answers the question from earlier that it's not the offspring of Adam. It's not every human ever. specifically the offspring of the promise and of of the covenant of the Holden. Yeah, fantastic. And so he helps there's actually the word there in the ESV is different in verse sixteen than it is in in verse eighteen. In verse sixteen, the Greek word there, that word helps, that he talks about there, is like taking somebody who's dead and grabbing them and picking them up. It's taking a hold of somebody. The verse 18 helps is coming alongside and put your arm around somebody. It's a different kind of help. And in ESV it's translated the same. Blame our language. You all speak English, okay? But that's the those two concepts are very different. It's not angels that he think about it like this it's not angels that he brings back to life from the dead because of their sins and trespasses. But it's the offspring of Abraham that he brings back to life. It's the same word when they were carrying out that dead body on a stretcher, and Jesus says Stop! And he takes a hold and raises that child up. It's the same concept, the same word. And so just in case you missed it, verse 17 says Therefore he had to be made like his brothers in every respect. You know, there have been heresies in the past that said Jesus was the Spirit Jesus wasn't a complete man, he was kind of a man, Jesus wasn't a complete God, and all these kind of things and ideas and concepts. But one of the things that Hebrews here does not let us get away with is saying Jesus in some way or some fashion was not a man. He has flesh and blood, and as it says here, in every way he was like us. And says he was tempted. And we're going to deal with this more in chapter four. I'll just leave it there as a a little bit of a tease for when Rob gets back to that. Because there's wonder and mystery into God being tempted. But he was tempted and therefore he is able to help us when we are tempted. He can come alongside us. Put his arm around us and say, It's gonna be okay. You're gonna get through this. Don't give up. There's a help that God does. And that help, I think, not only is Him showing us us living through temptation and provide and getting through it, but giving us a spirit as well, which is hinted at here ever so slightly. This is almost like Uh if you ever been laid off, when you've been laid off, you know what it's like. And so you can give real comfort and you can give real help to somebody else who has been laid off. If you haven't been laid off, you're like, oh dude, that's really sad. I'll pray for you. I mean I I'm trying to e exaggerate that a little bit, right? But but Jesus knows what it is to be tempted, and that word there, tempted, could be thought of as either neutral pi it could be mean tested. Jesus was tested all the way to the end. And he never gave in to sin. And what people like to point out is when when you survive the temptation all the way to the end, you've gone to the depths of it. You know, if your temptation is I'm trying to diet right now and and I'm like, Oh cookie, dang, I'm tempted Hi, hi, hi, hi, hi Right, you didn't really deal with that temptation very much. Right? But if you deal with that all that it's a silly example to make a point. Jesus endured temptation to the end. All of it. And he never gave in. And so Christ can help us. He helps us by setting the standard and showing us that it can be done and that there's nothing that's beyond our ability. And he gives us his Holy Spirit. He is a merciful, compassionate, faithful high priest. So I do need to wrap up. Rob's gonna jump into this next week. But I don't really like this chapter transition from two to three. I think that chapter three verse one is kind of a link between between what we've been looking at and where it's going. And so this imperative looks both directions. And so we need to consider this, you who share in a heavenly calling. So the author has said, hey guys, y'all sanctified? This command applies to you. Consider Jesus the apostle and high priest of our confession who is faithful to him. And then we're going to go on from there next week. But if you had to interview Jesus, that kind of might have been what the resume would say and maybe what the ra interview process would look like, and you'd be forced to say, yes, sir, you've got the job You are the perfect Savior. You are the one who can bring many sons to glory. You are the one who has conquered death and took away the power of Satan and removed the slavery from those who are afraid of death. You are the one who has made it so that you don't need to be ashamed to call us brothers. You are the captain of our salvation. You have the job, when can you start? And Jesus says, Oh dude, didn't you know? Didn't you know? John, just um going forward and thinking about how to understand and appreciate the content of Hebrews especially as it gets into high priests. Would you say that both Jews and Gentiles are on equal standing in terms of being able to to understand it or with people from a Jewish background who actually have have lived under the the law that they have a a more keen appreciation of whereas we as Gentiles we kind of have to in some ways learn a second language in order to to give them That's an interesting question because there's not many high priests right now in Israel. Um and there is a but but I appreciate what you're saying, Kirk. There is an aspect that a book written to the Hebrews might have a a firsthand more appreciation for that. I ask Rob that question next week. Let's close in prayer. Have a look at it