Okay, so uh part two of our 39-part series in studying the book of Hebrews. So last time we did an introduction, today we're gonna dive into the actual text of the book of Hebrews. Hebrews. So um this quarter of course thirteen weeks in this quarter taking us up through Thanksgiving. Um and today we'll we'll start really the theme, we'll show the theme of the whole book of Hebrews, which is the preeminence of Christ. And we'll look at the first four verses of chapter one. So this is what we're going to learn today. So as I said last time, I'll tell you what I'm going to tell you, then I'm going to tell you, then I'm going to tell you what I told you. And so uh we're gonna talk about the preeminence of Christ. We're gonna talk about the fact that God has spoken. He's spoken in the Old Testament and the New Testament, and we'll talk about the contrast that come out here in this book of Hebrews. between the two of these revelations. We're going to talk about the fact that it's progressive revelation, that God reveals things over time. Through his word, a little bit at a time throughout history. We're going to talk about the identity and dignity of Jesus Christ. We're going to talk about his airship and his creatorship. We're going to talk about his radiation. And his being. We're going to talk about his administration of all things. We're going to talk about Christ's work of redemption and Christ's exaltation. So there's a lot in these four verses. Uh it's really power packed, the first four verses of this book of Hebrews. But first, let's do a little review of what we went through last time. The uh we did an introduction We talked about the author, uh the human author. Of course the Holy Spirit is the author of all scripture, but uh each one of the books has a human author of human uh penman if you will and uh the there's no name of course attached to the letter and so technically it's anonymous Um we are we can be fairly certain from uh the context from reading the letter that the people that it was originally addressed to knew who it was Um if we just think about i if you received a letter in the in the mail and you had no absolutely no idea who it was from uh y you would ha you wouldn't have any tendency to um to pay much attention to what it said if you had no idea who it was from. So the original readers most likely knew who it was, but we don't There have been several people that were proposed as authors throughout the the early church and the church history. Mostly Eventually it settled on the Apostle Paul, but we still don't know for sure. And of course it's not necessary to know exactly who the author is, uh, to understand or benefit from this. book of scripture. We talked about the early audience. Um it um it doesn't have a formal address so we don't know who it was to. Some of the uh letters in the New Testament say who they're to. This one doesn't. Uh there's no references to Gentiles and so and there's no references to the uh the issues between Jews and Gentiles. And so from that evidence, uh, we conclude that it was probably addressed to a Jewish audience Um an early Jewish congregation. The date, we don't know what the date is either. So we don't know who the author is, we don't know who the recipients are, we don't know what the date is. But we can make some guesses. The author certainly talks about the sacrificial system in the temple as if the temple is still there. And we know that from history that the temple was destroyed in seventy A. D. So we say most likely this letter was written before seventy A. D. However the The persecution under Nero started in sixty-four AD, and there doesn't seem to be an indication that these particular uh this particular group of believers was being severely persecuted by the government. Um and of course all this is uh argument from absence. There there's nothing about persecution under Nero, so therefore we guess, perhaps, that It was before um the persecution of Nero or before it became widespread or before it got to the particular region where these Jews live. So we kinda guess that it's somewhere in the the mid sixties. And of course, if it was the Apostle Paul who wrote it, w the from again from history we have indications or best guess that Paul was executed somewhere around sixty-four or sixty-five AD. And so that starts to narrow down the the possible potential dates for when this letter was written. The themes. So the theme is the superiority, the preeminence of Christ. And we'll see comparisons of Christ to various other Old Testament people, Old Testament institutions, Old Testament rituals, Old Testament sacrifices, and it's always the Christ is better, superior, preeminent to all these things that we've seen previously in Scripture, or especially uh in the context of the original letter that these Hebrew believers had seen and known and grown up with and understood from their understanding of the Old Testament scriptures. And the writer of Hebrews is saying, well, Christ is better than all of that. And so that's the real theme of the letter. And so that brings us to uh the first few verses. So if you'll open up your Bibles or take out your devices Let's turn together to Hebrews chapter 1. And today we're going to look at those first four verses. So let's read them together. God after he spoke and I'm reading from the NASB, I'm sorry. God after he spoke long ago to the fathers and the prophets in many portions and in many ways in these last days has spoken to us in his son. whom he appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the world. And he is the radiance of his glory and the exact representation of his nature, and upholds all things by the word of his power. When he had made purification of sins He sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on High, having become as much better than the angels, as he has inherited a more excellent name than they. So this is the word of the Lord. And what a powerful passage of scripture this is. Let me read to you just a little um couple of uh paragraphs here from one of the commentaries. This one is by a man named Dr. Robert Martin. Uh this is the the newest of the commentaries that I have used to to study for this uh this class. Uh this one was written in 2020. Um so Dr. Martin says this, the author enters directly into The great theme of the letter. He does not first speak to any other concern, not even to giving of his name. Since the first thing that confronts us with no preliminaries is the crucial declaration that God has spoken to us in His Son. This is the foundational fact addressed in the letter. upon which all else is built, and to which every doctrine and admonition ultimately refers. Everything that follows presupposes that God now has made a unique, complete, and final revelation of himself and his will by means of the person and work of his Son Jesus Christ. And this revelation stands both as the fulfillment of and in contrast to the diverse and partial revelations that God had made before. Especially under the old covenant. Thus Dr. Robert Martin, uh who spent forty years uh teaching the book of Hebrews in seminary. Um so uh with that introduction, let's Let's let's uh take a look. Let's um uh let's dive in and really study what the the scriptures is teaching us here. So God after he spoke long ago to the fathers and the prophets and many portions in many ways, in these last days has spoken to Us in his son. Consider the first the dramatic assertion that God has spoken. And so here we have the Almighty Creator of the universe And he speaks. And he speaks to us. This is a an amazing powerful thing. So don't pass over that. Just that one fact there. God has spoken. And He's not just spoken by the light of nature and the works of creation and providence as it's put in the Westminster Confession. So the Westminster Confession starts out about God's revelation this way. It says the light of nature, that God has spoken in the light of nature and the works of creation. And Providence, what do we call that? We call that general revelation. General revelation. So he has spoken that way, spoken, the heavens declare the glory of God. Um so um so he has spoken that way, but that's not what we're talking about here. That's general revelation. So that's a wonderful thing in and of itself But but this is something more. Um so beyond the general revelation, in a display of his magnificent grace, he has revealed himself verbally In special revelation. God has spoken by divinely chosen persons. The Christian faith itself rests on two foundational presuppositions. Neither of which the Bible seeks to prove. And that's the nature of foundational presuppositions in any religion or philosophy. The foundational presuppositions will not and cannot be proved. They are merely stated as facts. And those two things in the Christian faith are number one, God is Genesis 1-1, in the beginning God, there's no effort to prove God's existence. It's just stated as fact Um so and this as I said, this is the nature of fundamental presuppositions. And so uh and just let me just stop here and and s and unpack this a little bit. Um if there was something that could prove God's existence, that thing would be more foundational, more fundamental. more important and higher than God. That's how that's how proofs work. You you prove a a lesser with a more with a greater, more foundational truth. And so is there possibly any Greater foundational truth than God. There is not. And so that's why it's a foundational presupposition and not something that can be proven. And that's why the Bible makes no effort to prove God's existence. The second one is similar. The second presupposition So God is, and he is not silent. Hebrews 1-1 is the God spoke. There's no effort to prove that God spoke. It's just stated as a fact. that God spoke. It's a foundational presupposition. Uh if so for example, if we say that science proves the Bible is true, what are we saying about science in the Bible? We're saying that science is better, more reliable, and if science says that the Bible is true, well then then it can be true. No, that's backwards. That's completely backwards. Science is not more reliable than the revelation of Scripture. The revelation of Scripture is more reliable than science and so forth. Therefore, science could never prove the Bible because it's not as Reliable. It's not something upon which you it's not a foundation, a sturdy foundation upon which you could prove something like scripture. Scripture is more reliable and foundational than science. Um and so therefore that's why it's a it's a it's a foundational presupposition and that's why the Bible never makes any effort to prove those things. They just are. And uh when you do uh uh when you do apologetics, if you do presuppositional apologetics, the way you actually go about proving the existence of God and the fact that he's revealed himself is without that foundational fact, you you n you nothing you cannot make sense of anything in the universe. You can't prove anything, um y you can't have anything in the universe without God and his word. Everything crumbles uh without that foundation. Um okay, so uh continuing along here. The author What he does here is he summarizes all of the Old Testament verbal revelation, starting with a Greek, a certain tense, an aorist participle, la laisas. Literally having spoken. Translated here as after he spoke. Having spoken, or after he spoke. And so this is the historical redemptive antecedent to what he's ab about to talk about, which is the consummation of all revelation in his son. So the redemptive and historical antecedent to all of what he's the wonderful things he's about to talk about is God had Having spoken all these things in the Old Testament La Le Sas. Now notice how God spoke in many portions and in many ways. Uh there's a play on word in the Greek, polumeros, many portions. Polutropos, many ways. Polumeros, polluterpas, polymeros, polluterpas. It's a play on words. And it's just one of many examples of the sophisticated nature of the Greek in the book of Hebrews. I'm not a Greek scholar. But those who are our Greek scholars uniformly say this is the most magnificent polished Greek in all of the New Testament, the book of Hebrews, and the most difficult to translate. Uh but this is just one of many examples of these little Greek word plays that pop up all throughout this book of Hebrews. So many portions refers to the many different books of the Old Testament Uh in many ways to the various means such as visions, parables, types and symbols we see in the Old Testament, different literary styles we see in the Old Testament. There's poetry, there's law, there's prophecy, there's doctrine, there's There's warnings, there's encouragements. Many ways in many portions God has has spoken, having spoken this Old Testament revelation. uh that the all these Hebrew Christians would have been familiar with. But all of that is God speaking. Uh in many ways. in many portions. Peluchopas. Pelumeras and Peluchopas. Many ways. Many portions. Many portions. Many ways. The author next summarizes all of the New Testament revelation. through Christ and his apostles using the phrase Elalai San, Alale Sen. God has spoken. So God had spoken the Old Testament and has spoken The New Testament. That's what the author is saying here. And it's in his son. So he's and he so he summarizes the whole Old Testament in a little phrase And then he summarizes the whole New Testament in a little phrase as well. So notice what the author is implying here. So he's implying that God did not say everything at once. So he had spoken, and now he has spoken And so there is at least in and for these purposes here, uh two great epochs of God speaking. One which concluded long ago, the other which has occurred in these last days. And we'll circle back to in these last days in a little while So, in other words, as beautiful and important and authoritative as it is, the Old Testament is incomplete. It was delivered over the course of some fifteen centuries. By something like thirty writers, uh, depending on a few factors, how many people wrote Psalms and um how many people wrote multiple books. Moses wrote five, Samuel wrote two. Jeremiah wrote two, Solomon wrote two, various people wrote multiple books. But somewhere around 30 authors over fifteen centuries. And what was God doing? God was building Truth upon truth in what is called progressive revelation. So he was progressively revealing himself. He revealed himself to in some ways and to some extent to Noah, for example. He revealed himself to Abraham He revealed himself in the law through Moses. Progressive revelation throughout Scripture. Then he revealed himself more in the prophets. And he also, all along the way, was revealing um the future perfect revelation in Christ There were prophecies about Christ in the Old Testament. So progressive revelation. In the Old Testament, God was pleased for that time To dispense his gracious truth to the Jews, to the Hebrew people, to the Jewish people by his prophets in many different ways. And he was developing his revelation progressively from lesser degree to greater degrees of life. Light, uh shedding more and more light on his great plan of redemption and what it would look like. The revelation did not build from error to truth, notice, but from incomplete truth or kind of veiled truth to more complete and open truth. And it remained incomplete until the New Testament was finished. Any questions so far about any of the everybody's very quiet. Yes. Uh would you agree that um that you know the the statement that God is spoken is so important that if God had not spoken, there would be no ways to know God. Yes. Absolutely. Agree with that. So there are glimpses of God and His power in creation, but there's no way to know Him personally from the general revelation. In order to know him personally, in order to have a personal relationship, to know really know God Yes, he had to speak and reveal himself. That was absolutely necessary for us to know him. Yeah. That's a very good point. Very important point. Uh Lawrence. uh declare against Lord. Is the scripture saying that we should part of what they created as evidence of his existence? So um the way the the the way the uh scripture actually puts it is kind of in a negative Romans chapter 1, so that they're without excuse. So nobody has an excuse to say, well, there's no evidence that there's a God. Uh well yes there is. The creation the created order, including the cr the the way that man is, uh, is included in that. The way that we are, the fact that we uh long to worship, uh the fact that we have a mind. The fact that we are we create things like symphonies and uh and and things like that. Um that should That that leaves us without an excuse when if we say that there is no God. However, none of that enables us to know him personally. Knowing that there is a God that the the God of the Bible exists is different from knowing him. Knowing that he is is different from knowing him And so it was necessary for us to know him, for him to reveal himself. Yeah. In the in the verbal uh special revelation of scripture. Pastor um and the reason why God has been because uh man is incapable of reaching beyond a natural world. Uh mankind makes all attempts to try to reach God and can't get out of that natural box. Dead in our sins and trespasses. So we're spiritually dead. Um and so it takes an act of God, the regeneration of the Holy Spirit, to take us from spiritually dead to spiritually alive so we can understand spiritual things. That's true. Yes, that that is true. That there are many false religions that try to do what only the true one and true God can do. Yeah. That's a good point. Any others? Yes. Is it true that there is a period of time when the revelation and the the written revelation and propositions of God were not written? It was verb. Yeah, so that's a good point. So uh when did Moses write down the first five books of the Bible? Um he wrote down the first five books of the Bible after the Exodus. So um so after y we had this whole line of patriarchs, um, from Adam through Abraham, through Jacob and Joseph and the all those born in in captivity, um, all the way to Moses leading the people out of of Egypt. And then we have the written uh Pentateuch, the the first five. Now, there is um disagreement about whether that was strictly verbal before that or whether there were written family documents, if you will. written by people like Adam and Noah and Abraham, for example. There may have been a collection of family documents that Moses put together, especially for the say the first eleven books of uh eleven chapters of Genesis. Um, that especially and those would have had to survive on the ark. They w those would have had to been brought on the ark as scrolls or something like that. Um So th it could be that there were actually some written documents that were passed out of Moses. But the point is that the Pentateuch as we know it, the the book of Genesis and Exodus and the the five books of the Pentateuch Moses wrote those down centuries and centuries and centuries after many of the events in Genesis for example happened. Yeah, that's that's a good point. Yes. Yeah. Yeah, in in the question So in the Greek that's nantas tantheon Nantastan Theon that verse. And so the article is there, Tan, knowing the God. Nantasantheon, knowing the God They didn't honor him as God, not a God or some general so the God of the Bible has revealed himself is what it's saying. But so so the God of the B that the that the Bible God of the Bible exists and not some general divinity is what Romans one is saying. That's it it is really saying that. That that that they know that the God of the bi everybody in the whole world knows that the God of the Bible exists. That's what Romans 1 and that verse in particular is saying. Yes. Yes, that they suppress the the truth and unrighteousness Uh but th the in fact they know that the God of the Bible exists, though that they're ex without excuse. And so that's a very it it's a subtlety that doesn't really come out in the English translations as well as it does in the original Greek. Nantas tanteon, knowing the God. Most of the English translations say knowing God, but in the Greek it's very explicit, knowing the God. And so what what is that what is Paul saying there? Knowing the God of the Bible, they suppress the truth and they don't worship him as God, they don't acknowledge him as God, they don't they suppress the truth in unrighteousness, and so Romans one is really saying that every Everybody from the the record of creation, from the um the uh the general revelation knows the God of the Bible exists. But knowing he exists and knowing him are two different things. And so that's that's what uh that's the point I think that's that's coming here in Hebrews is in order to know him You have to have special revelation. To know that he exists only requires special revelation. To know him requires special revelation. Everybody see the distinction there? Yeah, so that's really what the Bible is saying in those two passages. So uh uh I'm sorry Larry, I I cut you off there. Go ahead and continue with your question. Uh I would just uh just a comment that uh they say that every person that Yep. Yep, that's right. Uh but they still need the gospel. Um they they need the gospel and so uh that's why we talk about unreached people groups um they're not unreached by special revelate uh by general revelation. They're not unreached by that They know the God of the Bible exists. But they don't know him and they can't know him unless somebody preaches. Um how will they know unless somebody preaches and how will they How will they preach unless somebody is sent? Um and so yeah, they need the gospel. We need the gospel. We need special revelation in order to know him. Uh good discussion, excellent, yes. Revelation uh ultimately you're talking about the Holy Spirit revealing the truth. So y uh through the Bible. So this the special revelation is God's revelation of himself and his plan of redemption in the sixty-six book Books of the Scripture, the Old and New Testament. And it's progressive revelation. Um he revealed himself progressively, starting with Adam, uh, his plan of redemption progressively, starting with Genesis 3:15. The seed of the woman would cry. the serpent. Um that's the beginning, that's the proto evangelion. Um the beginning of the gospels there in the book of Genesis in chapter three. Um and he progresses so but that's a pretty veiled reference We can look back, having seen the whole progress, whole revelation, and say, aha, yes, he was talking about Christ there in Genesis chapter three. But that's a pretty veiled reference if you don't know the rest. If you don't know any of the rest of the revelation, and all you have is Genesis three fifteen, that's a pretty veiled reference to Christ. Um and that's the way the New Testament Revelation really works. Okay. Any others? Yes, Doug. Um the ways that you talked about least made me think of something in the way I thought of it before and and I'm kind of bringing it up just to maybe send it check what I'm thinking about, and that is that while we go, God spoke in various ways, and in some ways you could also say that reflects in how Jesus spoke as well, from the standpoint of when God spoke it was word that was written on tablets, but it was written, you know, the prophets did but Jesus spoke to the people who saw him do signs and to encourage him speak. Yes, absolutely. So there was actually progressive revelation in the New Testament as well. And so just think about the disciples. Did they understand everything Jesus was talking about from the beginning? No, they it really took them a long time time i including after he died they still didn't get it. Uh he he came back to life and you know and and so Jesus was explaining things a after his resurrection that they still didn't understand after he'd been teaching them for three years. And so yeah, there was prog uh uh obviously progressive revelation continued in Christ's minist earth. Ministry. Um yes. How would you uh classify or uh make distinction between like progressive revelation as far as the inspired word? putting in in there. So uh we we have uh justification, sanctification and glorification kind of the three parts of our uh our salvation. Justification is a one time event. We're we're justified uh before a holy God by uh f grace through faith when we accept Christ as our Lord and Savior and y you'll never be more justified than you were the day you were justified until the day you you die. Uh but then there is sanctification so w we become progressively conformed to the likeness of Christ. So that's uh that's a little different than progressive revelation in that um each believer uh has a journey and and some journeys are shorter and longer so I use this example before the thief on the cross his sanctification process was really short a couple of hours right he he he was saved and then a couple of hours later he died His sanctification process was really short. Uh my grandmother was saved when she was thirteen and she died when she was a hundred and four. And so her sanctification process was ninety-one years. Uh she walked with the Lord for ninety-one years. Uh Um and so some are shorter than others and that process continues throughout our entire life. Um that process, yes. I was meaning more in terms of you know, like in the early centuries of the church, there were many uh uh meetings where they were trying to flesh out the doctrine what the word actually meant there was many heresies yes and so I've just heard it the same term, progressive revelation being used to the church. So I I think that the the New Testament period, so the time between um Christ towards the end of the first century, um, that there was still progressive actually progressive revelation, like what we're talking about with the Old Testament to New Testament, that was still going on with um the things that the apostle Paul was teaching to the early church and the things that the Jerusalem Council in uh uh Acts fifteen did. Um and all the way up through what John was teaching in in Revelation or was revealed to John in Revelation, uh, that there was still progressive revelation going on. But I I I believe that that ended with the closing of the canon. So the the revelation is complete. Now um we're gonna talk about the fact that the revelation is complete in Christ, that He's the final revelation. But the way the scripture works is there the final revelation about Christ, in and through Christ and about Christ is the book of Revelation. And that book of Revelation carries us all the way through to the end times. Um and so there's uh there's a description of what happens all the way to the end of history. Uh in the revelation that we have, the special revelation that we have. Uh but I I don't believe that we're the for example, the the work that the early church did in the uh the second century and the third century and the fourth century to understand what the scripture was teaching. I don't th I don't um I would not classify that as progressive revelation. I I would uh classify that more as hermeneutics and trying to understand what the the finished final revelation is. And we still to this day do that. We still try to have a uh a a better understanding of of what this revelation is. But the revelation is not progressing. The revelation Revelation itself is not progressing any longer. A any any others? Good discussion. Very good questions. Uh this is this is the part I like the best. Um Okay. Uh so continuing along, 'cause we do We do need to finish. Oh yes, uh the Tower of Babel. Um you said that maybe Moses had some writing for this but I think it happened after It did and then do you think that That brought in because then there's two different languages and they didn't have to necessarily read the ones that possibly put their promotion. Um did that bring in a lot of the um the faults um Religions and stuff is that Perhaps, perhaps. So uh think about what you had at the Tower of Babel. You had one language and so whatever that language was was the language that Adam spoke and Seth spoke and Enoch spoke and Methuselah spoke and Noah spoke and so that was the language they all spoke and so If there was something written down, if, um, or even if it was an oral tradition, it had to be in some language, right? And so that's the one it had to be And so um the fact that then the first five books of the Pentateuch are in fact written down in Hebrew Uh w what does that lead one to suspect that the original language was Hebrew? That's that's what I deduce from the facts in the scripture. Now does the scripture come out and say the original language was Hebrew? When Adam was spook speaking to the Lord in the garden, it was in Hebrew. Uh but I think that's the conclusion that when would draw, would deduce from the available facts there. That the original language was Hebrew. And that so if there were written documents, and certainly also if there were oral um uh oral there was an oral handing down of the of the uh the stories that we have in the first eleven books of uh eleven chapters of Genesis, but those were in Hebrew uh from the beginning, I I believe. Yeah. Um just to the first example of what you were saying is this there was this document. Um the people who made the arc I think is suggest something rude out in the Oh, answers in Genesis we can tell you. And inside the art there was one room which was called Noah's Library and it was full of scrolls. Yeah. Yeah. So uh you would ass Uh you know, if if Noah if Noah was told he was supposed to take everything on the ark, y you would think if he had scrolls he would have taken scrolls. But that's th these are things that are not specifically s explicitly in scripture that we can deduce as a educated guess. On that theory and that their conclusion. Yep. Okay, good questions, good discussion. Uh let's roll on here. Uh God's resol revelation then going from the Old Testament to the New Testament is progressive revelation. Uh it progressed from promise in the Old Testament to fulfillment in the New Testament. Jesus said, Do not think that I came to abolish the law or the prophets. But to fulfill. So he didn't come to abolish the Old Testament to fulfill it. That's Matthew five seventeen. In fact, the Old Testament itself clearly indicates that the men of faith who wrote it were trusting in the promise they had not yet understood. A promise that was yet to be fulfilled. For example, we'll see when we get to Hebrews chapter eleven, we have all this these records of the Old Testament saints. And in verse thirty nine it says, And all these, having gained approval through their faith, did not receive what was promised. In what respect did they not receive See what was promised, they didn't understand. They didn't um they didn't have the whole revelation. They didn't know exactly who and what Christ was going to be. They had faith in what Christ was going to be, but they didn't know what Christ was going to be. Peter says a similar thing in 1 Peter chapter 1. Peter tells us that the Old Testament prophets did not understand all that they wrote. And this is the way Peter puts it. As to this salvation The prophets who prophesied of the grace that would come to you, speaking to his audience there in the first century, made careful search and inquiries, seeking to know what person or time the Spirit of Christ within them was indicating as he predicted the suffering. It was revealed to them that they were not serving themselves but you in these things which now have been announced to you through those who preach the gospel to you. So the Old Testament prophets did not understand. the gospel. But they had little glimpses of it. They were it was revealed to them by the Holy Spirit and they wrote it down But they did not fully understand what they were writing down from the Holy Spirit. A very interesting thing to think about. But they had faith nonetheless in God's promise of a savior. They didn't know exactly what that savior, who and what that savior was going to look like, but they nonetheless had faith. Without seeing they had faith. Um so God's full perfection Perfect revelation awaited the coming of his son. God who used to speak in many different ways through many different people has finally spoken in one way Through one person, his son Jesus Christ. Many ways to one way. Many persons to one person is how the revelation progresses. And so we see that the whole New Testament is centered around Christ. Christ. The Gospels tell his story. The epistles comment on the story of Christ. The Revelation tells about the culmination. of the story of Christ. It's all about Christ, the New Testament. So from the beginning to the end of the New Testament is about Christ explicitly As opposed to the Old Testament, which is also about Christ, but in a veiled way. So the whole Bible is about Christ. The New Testament is very explicitly about Christ The Old Testament is Christ kind of hidden or veiled and progressively revealed until the time of his Coming. So no Old Testament prophet had been given God's whole truth. The Old Testament was given to many men In bits and pieces and fragments. Um, one prophet was told where he was going to be born, another prophet was told about the events around his birth, um, another prophet was told about his suffering. offerings, bits and pieces in different prophecies. Jesus not only brought the full and final revelation, but He is God's full and final revelation. He didn't just bring it He is it. He is the rev revelation. It's his person that is the full and final revelation. that the whole Old Testament was pointing forward to, all the way back to Genesis chapter three, pointing forward to Christ, and here he is. Um and and this is a marvelous thing. This is what the the writer of Hebrews is trying to explain to these early uh Jewish Christians who had g gotten kind of discouraged and were down. And the writer's saying, Hey look, here he is. There there's Christ right in front of you. Not like it was in the Old Testament. He's here. Okay, so the phrase last days, let's circle back to this phrase last days. it means various things and people argue about what this last days mean. But remember who this letter was originally written to. Uh to the Jews, that was a very familiar uh Jews of that day, that was a familiar uh phrase and had a distinctive meaning. Uh whenever a Jew saw or heard these words, he immediately immediately had a m messianic thoughts. That means the Messiah That's what they they would have thought. Uh Jeremiah thirty three, Micah five, Zechariah nine always always talks about the Messiah coming in the last days. And so when when the writer the author of this book writing to these first century Jews says the last days, their ears has to perk off and say, Oh, he's talking about the Messiah. Um and since this letter was written uh first of all to Jews, uh we should interpret the phrase in that context. So the Jews were told in the last days that this Messiah would be coming. And so when the writer says in the last days he has spoken to us in his son, what is he saying? There's the Messiah. That's what he's saying to these first century Jews. The woman that dwell, though a Samaritan, told Jesus, I know that the Messiah is coming He was called Christ. When that one comes, he will declare all things to us. John four twenty-five. So she knew that when the Messiah arrived, he would unfold the full and final revelation of God, as he did. And so when he identified himself to her as the Messiah, he who is speaking to you I I who am speaking to you is is he. Um, she believed, because she was ready to believe. This is what she believed beforehand that, hey, if it's the th when these last days come, there's gonna be a Messiah and he said, I'm I'm I'm it She immediately believed. So Jesus came in these last days, but unfortunately Messiah's own people rejected him. And so the fulfillment of all the promises from the Old Testament that are attached to the last days have not been fully realized Why? Because they rejected the Messiah when he came. And so we are in the last days, but for all of the Old Testament prophecies about Israel, those last days they're they're going on and on because they rejected him. And so many of those promises are uh we see fulfilled in the book of Revelation. Um and so we have last days, last days, and last days, and last days going on and on and on and on. Because of the Jewish people's rejection of their Messiah, who who came in the last days and is coming again when it'll still be the last days for the purposes of those prophecies about Israel. Uh everybody see that. Any questions about any of this? Yes. Yeah, that is a fair statement. Fair statement. And um yeah, that is a fair statement. And the the many things in the in the um in the Old Testament about the Messiah have uh for for many centuries been very confusing to many Jewish scholars. Be and in fact it led me a whole school of Jewish scholars to believe that there's two messiahs because there's a suffering servant and there's a triumphant conquering king. Well there's got that's gotta be two people. That can't be the same person. A suffering servant and a triumphant king, that's that can't be. Um now we know from the whole uh revelation of Scripture that it's one Messiah in two comings, that he came the first time, rejected by his people, um, and fulfilled all of the passages about the suffering servant And he's coming again and it will fulfill all the passages about the triumphant king. Um but that's can very can has been very confusing over the centuries to those who have rejected Christ as Messiah. It just doesn't look like one person. Now, w did it catch God by surprise that the Jews rejected him No, this did not catch God by surprise. Uh I just want to make that clear. And so God all the way back through the Old Testament when he was uh When he was putting all of those when he was giving all those progressive revelation little bits and pieces about Christ, about both of his comings in the Old Testament, God knew that the the Jewish people were going to reject their Messiah. Um in fact Jesus knew that the parable of the tenants which we'll we'll get to, uh, knew that they were gonna reject and kill the Son. He he put that right into a parable as he was teaching that during his his earthly ministry. Uh so not a surprise to God that that was his his plan and purpose all along. For his own purposes and his own glory. Okay. Uh so let's move on all the way to uh into verse three now in these last two and the end of two and the beginning of three, in these last days God has spoken to us in his Son, whom He appointed heir of all things, through whom also He made the world And he is the radiance of his glory and the exact representation of his nature and upholds all things by the word of his power. So now the author is describing Jesus. He spoke into his son, but who is this son that we should listen to him and believe what he says? So the author answers that kind of rhetorical question, who this son is. He relies on a fundamental principle of communication. That the urgency and importance of a message is directly related to the dignity of the messenger sent with that message. On this principle, the writer asserts that God's revelation in his son is of critical importance because the Son possesses infinitely more dignity than all of God's previous messengers. So he'll make that point throughout the letter, how much better Jesus is than all these other messengers. He sent before. And eventually we'll uh in a few minutes we'll go to the parable of the tenants as well. Uh in order to make this case, the author mentions really five things about the identity and dignity of the sun. His airship, his creatorship, his radiance, his being, and his administration. So we'll go quickly through these. The first thing about Jesus mentioned here is his airship, uh whom he appointed heir of all things. The fact that He's the heir of God. Uh if Jesus is the Son of God, then he is heir of all that God possesses. So that's the um the human picture that God is painting by identifying Christ as his son. Uh um that he's the heir of everything that God owns. Everything that exists will find its true meaning only when it comes under Christ's final control. So the Psalms talk about this, that uh that Jesus is the heir of God And heir to all that God possesses, for example, Psalm two. But as for me, I've installed my king upon Zion, my holy mountain. I will surely tell of the decree of the Lord He said to me, You are my son, today I have begotten you. Ask of me, and I will surely give the nations as your inheritance, so heir, inheritance, and the very ends of the earth as your possession This is the Christ as heir of all that is God's. You shall break them with a rod of iron, you shall shatter them like earthenware. Psalm two sixty-nine. Also Psalm eighty-nine, I also shall make him my firstborn, the highest of the kings of the earth. That's Christ as heir, heir to all that is God's. God's destined kingdom. Will in the last days be given finally and eternally to Jesus Christ. This is what we studied in Revelation. He comes and he reigns on earth for a thousand years uh is the culmination of all this of him being God's heir. But this is what the the author of Hebrews is trying to tell uh these early Jewish Christians. And so, of course, amazingly, although Christ has heard all God's possessions, and though He offers to share His inheritance with anyone who will trust Him, some still reject him. Many rejected God as he revealed himself in the Old Testament. The Jewish people over and over again rejected God Now God has perfectly revealed Himself in the New Testament by His Son, and people continue to reject Him. So that has been a that's a theme all the way through the special revelation is God offering himself and being rejected. Um and the final um the final culmination of of God offering himself is offering himself in his son, offering hi his son offering himself on the cross. offering his to share his inheritance as the heir of all things and still being rejected. So uh back to the parable of the tenant. So we remember this parable that there's a vine grower And he rents out his field, and uh he sends messengers uh to get his share of the crops. And they kill the messengers. One after another, the these wicked tenets kill the messengers. And finally, but afterward he sent his son to them, saying, They will respect my son But when the vine growers saw the sun, they said among themselves, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him and seize his inheritance. They took him and threw him out of the vineyard and killed him And so this is Jesus speaking during his earthly ministry, and what is he telling the these Jewish people that they're gonna re they've rejected the prophets in the past and they're going to reject and kill him And that's what he's really saying here in this uh parable of the tenants. Uh and what is the uh the the vine dresser? The vine the the the the owner of the vineyard is of course God. Um and his reaction is uh swift vengeance against those who uh killed his son. So the willfully will to willfully reject Christ brings on the righteous judgment. judgment and punishment of a vengeful God. That's the the conclusion of that parable of the tenants. Um and so Jesus flat out warned them what was going to happen if they rejected him. And he also Told them that they were going to reject him. So, um the second a attribute of Christ mentioned here is his creatorship, through whom also he made the world. So J uh Christ is also the Creator. All things came into being by him, and apart from him nothing came into being that has come into being. John chapter one verse three. So one of the greatest proofs of Jesus' divinity is his ability to create. The power to create belongs to God alone. This is creation ex milo creating something out of nothing. Um and Jesus demonstrated his divinity uh by doing things that were creative, uh like, you know, feeding five thousand people from uh loaves and fishes and turning water into wine, those sort of things, uh, commanding the weather Um those are acts that only the Creator could do, and Jesus did them. So he created everything material and everything spiritual. Though man has stained his work with sin, Christ originally made it good. So at the end of the uh the creation account in Genesis one tw uh twenty seven it says uh it was everything was very good. Uh and the very creation itself longs to be restored to what it was at the beginning. We see that in Romans eight twenty two, the creation groans because it's been subjected to frustration because of sin. The common Greek word for world is cosmos. But that's not what's used here. It's Ionas, which does not mean just the material world, but the ages. It's often translated ages. So created not just the material world, but all the ages Everything that's happened since then. Created by him. Jesus created time, space, matter, and energy. Christ created the whole universe and everything that makes it function. And we'll get to that in a minute the functioning of the universe. So we see Christ's radiance, the brightness of the glory of God. Uh A pogas a pogasma radiance is to send forth light and it re represents Jesus as the manifestation of God. He expresses God to us. Just as the rays of the sun light and warm the earth, so Jesus is the glory of the sun. light of God shining into the hearts of men. That's the word picture that's being painted by the author of Hebrews here. We would never be able to see Or enjoy God's light if we did not have Jesus to look at. And Jesus expressed this himself one day standing before the temple, Jesus said, I am the light of the world. He who follows me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. John eight twelve. So this is the radiance of Christ that the Hebrews uh the writer of Hebrews is talking about. So Jesus is the radiance of God's glory and he can transmit that life that light into our lives, so that we can radiate the glory of God into this dark world in which we live. Into this dark world God sent his glorious light In the person of Christ. And without Christ there is only darkness. So that's what the author is saying here. Fourth, the author discusses his being The Son is the exact representation of His, the Father's, nature. Jesus Christ is the express image of God. Christ not only was God manifest, he was God in substance as well. Um this Greek word translated here exact representation. Uh it's a Greek term that was used for the impression made by a stamp or seal. A die or a stamp or seal. And so the design on the die is reproduced on the wax. And so that's the word picture. Jesus Christ is the reproduction of God. He is the perfect personal imprint or stamp stamp of God in time and space. Colossians 1 has another one of these kind of word pictures about who Christ is. It gives a similar illustration of this same truth. Colossians 1 15 says he is the image of the invisible God. And the Greek word there, um, uh from which we get the English word icon, icon Image means a precise copy, an exact reproduction, as in a fine sculpture or portrait. That's what the scripture is teaching about Christ. To call Christ the icone of God means he is And Colossus 2 goes on to say, For in him all the fullness of deity dwells in bodily form. So this is the consistency teaching of Scripture and the author of Hebrews is kind of summarizing this by saying that he is the exact representation of his nature. Fifth and finally, the writer mentions is administration. So the Son upholds all things by the word of his power. So not only did he create all things, all things were created through him, but he's currently upholding all things, is what the writer of Hebrews is saying. So he not only made all all things, will someday inherit all things, but he holds them all together in the meantime. Everything in the universe is sustained right now by Jesus Christ. It was created by him. He will inherit all things. But right now everything in the universe is sustained, upheld by the word of his power. So think about that. We're breathing right now by the word of his power. The reason why we don't all float off into outer space is by the word of his power Um, you know, a little thing like an earthquake, sometimes a big thing, disrupts normal conditions for a little while. But imagine if Christ relinquished his sustaining power over the laws of the universe, uh we would wink out of existence, every atom would fly apart, um we would float off the planet. Um so If he suspended the law of gravity only for a brief moment, we would all perish in unimaginable ways. Uh without gravity the atmosphere wouldn't be held to the earth so we wouldn't have anything to breathe. So if the physical laws vary, even a tiny fraction, we would have an unbelievable mess. We could not exist. And all that is upheld by the word of his power. That's what the author of Hebrews is telling us here. The whole universe hangs in the arms of Jesus. His unsearchable wisdom and boundless power are manifested in governing the universe. So when we consider this power, this awesome power that Christ has, it brings to mind a spiritual. Spiritual truth. In Philippians 1 6 we read, For I am confident of this very thing that he who began a work in you will perfect it until the day of Christ Jesus. When Christ begins a work in our hearts, he sustains it all the way through If he can uphold every single atom in the universe, then he can hold us. He can hold the work in us, the salvation in us. He can hold that. He's the power to do that. And so we can think about Jude, um, and I think Pastor Mike used this as a as a benediction not long ago. The ending of Jude, uh we can imagine Jude's excitement when he says, Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling And to make you stand in the presence of his glory, blameless with great joy, to the only God our Saviour, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, dominion, and authority before all time, and now and forever. Amen. That's how Jude ends his letter about how um God is able, able to keep you from stumbling, make you stand in his presence. That's what the author of Hebrews is talking about with Christ's power. who Christ is, uh able to uphold all things. Um and so remember he's he's talking to a group of Jewish believers who are probably starting to become discouraged. And so he starts the letter off with this to encourage them. So when your life is given to Jesus Christ, he holds it and sustains it and one day we'll take it into God's very presence. A life just as the universe that is not sustained by Christ is chaos. But a life that is sustained by Christ will be sustained all the way through to the glorious presence of God. uh in eternity. That's what we're we're learning here. Alright, uh very quickly the end of the passage. When he had made purification of sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high, having become as much better than the angels as he has inherited a more excellent name than they. And so we've heard about this Christ and who he is, the Son. And now we get a little glimpse of what he did. What he did. He made purifications for sins. When you read about the Son's work of redemption uh by his sacrifice on the cross, when he had made purification of sins. So Romans 6. 23 says the wages of sin is death. Jesus Christ went to the cross, died our deserved death. For us, and thereby took the penalty of our sin on himself. If we will accept his death and believe that he died for us, he will free us from the penalty of sin and purify us from the stain of sin. And so that's what the Hebrew, the writer of Hebrews is is bringing to mind here, that Christ had made purification for our sins. He's talking about the substitutionary atonement on the cross. So it It was a wondrous work when Christ created the world. Yes it was. It was a wondrous work that he sustains the world. Yes it is. But it's an even greater thing for us, the work that he did in purging men. of sin. Jesus dealt with the sin problem once for all. It had to be done. That was the only way that we could communicate with God or enter into fellowship with God uh w with him unless sin was dealt with. There's no way to do that. on our own. It had to be done by an act of God by sending Christ to deal with sin. So Christ went to the cross and bore the penalty of sin for for all who would accept his sacrifice, believe in him, and receive him. So sin was purged or wiped out. And that's what the author is saying here when he had made purification of sins. And now the aut then the author says He brings the audience up to the current situation. So uh what's the current situation? Where is Christ now as the author of speaking here in the first century? He sat down at the right hand of the Majesty. That's where Christ is as the author is speaking, that's where he is. is now as the author speaks to us in our day as well. He sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on High. The phrase Majesty on High, of course, is a description of God. The right hand is the power side. Jesus took his place at the right hand of God. Another marvelous thing not to be missed, we don't have much time, but I don't want you to miss this. That Jesus, the perfect high priest, sat down This is a great contrast to the priestly procedure in the Old Covenant. There were no seats in the tabernacle or in the temple sanctuary. The priest had no place to sit because God knew it would never be appropriate for him to sit. Their responsibility was to sacrifice over and over again. So the priest offered daily sacrifices and never sat down. But Jesus offered one sacrifice And said what? On the cross. It is finished. He then went and sat down with the Father because it was done What could not be accomplished under the old covenant was accomplished once for all time by Jesus. He said it's finished And he sat down. This is a marvelous thing here, not to be missed in this scripture, that Christ has sat down at the right hand of the majesty On high. Uh so we're coming to the end of our time. We're gonna talk a lot more about angels. Uh it just finishes up this thought here. Um and next week we're gonna talk a lot about comparing Christ to angels, but uh but here as a continuation of his exaltation we get this comparison of Christ to others who are in heaven. So he goes to sit down at the right hand And it there's an initial comparison, which we're going to get into a lot more next week, about him having become better than the angels, and he inherited a better name. Christ is the heir, and the angels are not the heir. Christ is better than angels because he has a better title, a more excellent name than they do. And so we'll I'll conclude with that. So here we have a the the this initial portrait painted of Jesus. We have seen the preeminent Christ in all his offices. We have seen him as prophet, the final spokesman for God. We have seen him as priest, atoning and interceding. We have seen him as king sitting down on the throne at the right hand of God. This is our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Yes. But one other thing I've noticed is that Stephen was telling me what did he see? Yes, he just was standing up. Yep. Yes he did. So you know what he thought of Stephen. Yeah. Yep. Yeah. Yeah, so that's uh that's a good point. Uh yes, Angela. Yes. Well just a line is that there's a kind of people Um I don't know. Um it'll be it would be interesting to s to see what the Septuagint says for that passage in the Old Testament. I'm not sure. But uh but that word uh apogamos Um it may be. It may be what was used in the Septuagint for the Shekinah Gory, I'm not sure. Yeah. Any others? You know what uh statement what was so awesome and amazing is that not only was it Lord a Lord, he He was a sacrifice. You give a sacrifice. So this is sovereignty God. You know. Yep. Our our king came down off his throne and died for us. That's a an amazing, amazing thing. Yep. Yes. Any others? Um so um I I don't know for sure, but um it was um I think the word picture is Is Christ was standing up to receive Stephen into heaven. I I think that's the the picture we're supposed to get from that that story of of Stephen's being stoned, he's he's uh persevered to the end, and he's going to be received. received in heaven and there's Christ standing up to receive him in heaven. I I think that's what it what it means. Yeah. Yeah. change the power and as well as people. And of course we look back in Genesis after Adam and Eve were spoken of God and you see that even then still made a way for them to come back. Yeah, a absolutely. So uh God very well could have just wiped him out. and started over, uh but he had mercy and compassion on them. That's that's a good point. Yes. Any others? Richard Hollywood or the media portrays an alien coming from out of space. or the earth or whatever. But in their natural mind they do that, not realizing, like it said in Colossians, that all things exist. That means he's here. He's here, but not revealing himself. Yeah. Okay, Doug. Uh you know, it's not fair to do this one Sunday. I know. I know. There's a there's so much richness in the current comments that people are saying is that uh The wonder and majesty it's just worthwhile fasting it for a while. And it's just it makes me want to say. Yeah, it's really well. So uh with that let me uh let me close us with prayer.