Uh part thirty six today out of thirty nine parts. Uh for those of you that have been uh been with me for all three quarters, we're um uh rounding third and heading for home. Uh And today we're going to be finishing off chapter twelve. We're going to do uh verses eighteen to twenty-nine in chapter twelve of Hebrews, and that will leave only chapter thirteen thirteen for our last three weeks. So what we're going to learn today, we're going to talk about Mount Sinai and Mount Zion We're going to talk about the the fear of the law, that's Mount Sinai, and we're going to talk about the grace of the gospel, that's Mount Zion. And then we're going to talk a little bit about responding to the gospel and uh what that means. uh for us. But first let's take a look back. We'll take a look at the the last part, uh the middle section of uh chapter twelve that we did last time. Uh we talked about this uh so the beginning of chapter twelve had the analogy of running a race, and there's still a little bit of the race running analogy in the middle section as well. And then talking about hands that are feeble and knees that are feeble. And this is a admonition to watch out for um those that have these uh weak hands or feeble knees so that we can help them. Uh make straight paths for your feet, we're told in this passage. It refers to staying in your lane in the race and the paths we talked about are uh that Greek word talks about the path of uh carts or chariots that put a kind of a rut in the ground for others to follow along afterwards. That's uh that's the word picture there. Uh the Limreaches Lamb is probably referring to those that are in the church but not saved. Um there's a s there's a parallel in First Kings eighteen where um the the the people are gathered And there's Elijah and there's the prophets of Baal. And Elijah asked this question out to the assembled people of Israel, how long will you hesitate between two opinions? If the Lord is God, follow him, but if Baal follow him, and of course this is the story where they they both set up an altar and whoever calls down fire from heaven, that's the real God. Uh but but interestingly enough the setup is there's the all these people of Israel Israel that are wavering between these two opinions. Is it Baal, is it God? Is it Baal? Is it God? And Elijah's telling them you gotta decide. You can't keep wavering like that. And and interestingly enough, it's the same Greek word in the uh Septuagint about hesitating as as it's translated lame here. So it's it's it's uh essentially the danger of wavering between two opinions. Um And then we're taught to uh pursue peace and sanctification. And of course uh only those who are saved and have the Holy Spirit are able to truly pursue peace and sanctification. It's impossible for somebody who's unregenerate. Um and And this is really a picture of what Jesus taught about the Great Commandment, the Greatest Commandment and the Second One. Pursuing peace is loving people, and pursuing sanctification of righteousness is how we demonstrate our love for God as we live out our lives. Okay, and then we talked about the fact that we're supposed to watch out for, see to it oversee uh each other helping each other to grow in holiness and Christlikeness and then if we see opportunities with people that are unsaved either in the church or out of the church the church that we need to be not uh not judgmental but sensitive to opportunities so that we can see to it that no one comes short of the grace of God. In other words, that somebody's that somebody falls short of salvation. Uh and then we get this warning about the root of bitterness which closes off this section with uh this root of bitterness and uh example of Esau from the Old Testament, um, that we need to watch out for uh people within the church Um not just uh people that apostasize and kinda drift away, but people that apostasize and then cause bitterness and and uh s kind of hang around the church as apost uh people that have apostatized. Uh and the example The Bible of that that flows from that is Esau, who was who's listed here in this passage is immoral and godless. And um that he um he's contrasted with his brother Jacob and various places in the in the scripture and we see that uh Jacob has all these character flaws, but yet he actually believes God. He re he's uh repentant under s under salvation, but Esau is not. Esau uh seems to um he's he's sorry that he lost the birthright essentially. But this passage of scripture makes it clear that he found no place for repentance, that Esau did not repent, uh unto salvation. Okay. Any questions about what we did last week? Yes, Grace. Last week's uh three minutes did not seem like a time for it. Um so specifically for team through seventeen. I've seen uh people who deny college and deny that God is fully sovereign over salvation. Use versus uh I think I've seen them use fifteen through seventeen. I know that I've seen them use versus like 1517 where it's referring to rejecting the blessing uh uh failing to obtain the grace of God, you cannot just say the Calvinism can't be true. So how would you affect that? Yeah, so um I would say that Um that we also see in Scripture that God says, Jacob I loved and Esau I hated, and it's referring to a time before they were actually born. So we have have God um sovereignly choosing Jacob, uh, completely apart from anything that Jacob has done. He chose them from the womb essentially. Um and so it can't be the Armenian notion that he's somehow good or or or or that one of them's good and one of them's bad. Uh now of course the um the Armenian counter argument is God looks for in time and sees that Jacob will be good and sees that Esau will be bad and therefore that's what it's it's based on uh God's foreknowledge. But if if that's the case then there's still no free will, um, because it's something that's actually ordained from the womb that's already set in stone and can't be different. Uh, because God has already said from the womb Jacob I loved and Esau I hated so I don't see how you can get around it, although they try very diffic very hard to do that. Yeah. There there are many kind of passages like that that that can be uh can be looked at from a different lens, interpretive lens But I think that when you look at the whole council of scripture, you see the sovereignty of God coming out over and over again. And the Arminian notion of free will, that particular notion of free will, I don't think fits. Uh now the Armenians have a a notion called prevenient grace, which they say that God applies like a a little dollop of grace to somebody before they're saved, that's that they can come to saving faith. They call that prevenient grace. Um yeah. But I I would say that yeah, I would say that I the scripture indicates that God Jacob I loved, Esau I hated, and it's referring to actually before they're born. Okay. Any other questions from last week? Okay. So if you open your Bible to Hebrews chapter twelve and starting with verse eighteen We're gonna do the rest of the chapter, Hebrews 8 12, 18 to 29. So uh open your Bibles or turn your devices and we'll start with verse 18. For you have not come to a mountain that can be touched, and to a blazing fire, and to darkness and gloom and whirlwind, and to the blast of a trumpet, and the sound of words, which sound was such that those who heard begged that no further word be spoken. And so terrible was the sight that Moses said, I am full of fear and trembling. But you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to myriads of angels, to the General Assembly And to church and church of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect, and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant. And to the sprinkled blood which speaks better than the blood of Abel. See to it that you do not refuse him who is speaking. For if those did not escape when they refused him who warned them on earth, Much less will we escape who turn away from him who warns from heaven. And his voice shook the earth then, but now he has promised, saying, Yet once more I will shake not only the earth, but also the heaven This expression yet once more denotes the removing of those things which can be shaken, as of created things, so that those things which cannot be shaken may remain Therefore, since we receive a kingdom which cannot be shaken, let us show gratitude, by which we may offer to God an acceptable service with reverence and awe. For our God is a consuming Fire. This is the word of the Lord. So let me give you a few paragraphs from John MacArthur to kick us off here. So uh this is a little uh a little bit of the second Of uh MacArthur's commentary on this part of scripture, he says, This passage gives a warning of something far more fear-inspiring than what any human persecution can inflict. God's judgment. He will either be judged by the law or by grace, by his own works or by Christ's work, by the provisions of Sinai or by the provisions of Zion. God has two sets of books. One set I recorded the names of those who have rejected God, and the other the names of those who have accepted him through his son Jesus Christ, Revelation 2012. The same done in the book of life, sometimes called the Lamb's Book of Life, Revelation. Revelation 13. 8. Those whose names are in this book will be judged by what Christ has done on their behalf. Because they have trusted him in faith, they will be measured and judged by his righteousness instead of their own. Those who have not trusted in him will be measured and judged by their own righteousness, which is of no more value before God than a filthy garment. Isaiah 64, 6. The fear of those on the verge of accepting Christ should not be of persecution. They might receive for believing him, but the judgment they will inevitably receive for rejecting him. Their fear should not be of coming to Mount Zion, but of turning back to Mount Sinai. The contrast is vivid. Thus, John MacArthur on this section of scripture. Okay, so let's take a look, verse by verse, starting with 18 and 19. For you have not come to a Mountain that can be touched into a blazing fire, into darkness and gloom and whirlwind, and to the blast of a trumpet, and the sound of words, which sound was such that those who heard begged that no further word be spoken to them. So this is talking about the events at Mount Mount Sinai and the mountain, what happened at that mountain when Moses went up to get the Ten Commandments. And so the first century Jewish audience would have been very familiar with what He's saying here in this letter. The old covenant was associated with Mount Sinai because that is where God spoke to Moses when that covenant Was instituted. And of course it was a covenant of law. It was also a covenant of judgment and fear. Uh it said, do this or do that or you will be judged. In some cases it said, do not do this or you will die. over and over again in uh in the law of Moses The new covenant brings us to quite a different place from that of the old. To the mountain of the old covenant, you have not come. Notice it says here. As God was preparing to establish the old covenant, the people were forbidden so much as to set foot on the mountain under penalty of death Can be touched does not refer to permission but to possibility. That is, Sinai was a physical mountain. And therefore it was able to be touched. The person could actually walk up that mountain. They were told not to, but it was physically possible for them to go on there, and of course Moses actually did walk on it. Um so it was a mountain that could be touched, that mountain. Um the the mountain of Sinai. The earthly mountain symbolized the earthiness of the old covenant. Um and a covenant of law. Everybody see that so far? This description of the old covenant um symbol of Mount Sinai and kind of some word pictures for these first century Jews to fix in their mind about what their ancestors faced when when they were s they were actually around this real mountain that's really there And things that actually happen in in real history. Um these events are recorded in Exodus chapter nineteen. Uh it describes the requirements and restrictions that God gave in preparation for giving the law. So before Moses went up to get the law, In uh Exodus nineteen there's this description of things that the people are supposed to do and things that they're not allowed to do. All the people, not just Moses, the people were to consecrate themselves by washing their clothes. Verse ten. And by abstaining from sexual relations, verse fifteen. And were forbidden permission to touch even the edge of the mountain, verse twelve. So this is all the people are told this uh something uh is about to happen. uh something holy is about to happen and the people needed to be prepared with these very specific instructions that God gave to all the people in Exodus chapter nineteen through Moses. Uh God was so serious about those restrictions that He i that Moses had gone up to the mountain and God told Moses to go back down the mountain and run him again about all these things I just told you, the preparations you need to make and not to come to the edge of this mountain. So in verse twenty and twenty one, Moses goes back down And reminds the people of the warnings that he had just given. He was about to demonstrate his awesome holiness, and no defiled sinner could come near and witness his holiness and live. So God's uh then God demonstrated his power through all these physical means, thunder and lightning and thick clouds and a loud trumpet sound and fire and smoke and violent trembling of the earth. All these are laid out in uh Exodus nineteen, verses sixteen to eighteen. So there were all these physical manifestations that God made for the people to see, for all the people to see. Um and so what was the purpose of all this? The purpose of all this was to show the people that this holy God was unapproachable by a sinful people, by any sinful person. Uh that that God that God's holiness made him so set apart and so separate that people could not approach him. Sinners could not not approaching. Um thunder and lightning and clouds and noise and shaking the earth and the warning about not even touching the mountain. All these things were were signs and symbols and f physical uh manifestations of this fact that you can't go near a holy god. You can't do it or you'll die. Sinful man can't come near him and die And so the author of Hebrews is reminding all these Jewish believers and perhaps in the congregation some Jews who are not quite believers yet Uh that this is this is the the Sinai covenant. This is the old covenant. God was unapproachable. So understandably the people were terrified in the Exodus nineteen and Exodus twenty setting. They begged that no further word be spoken to them. Stop, enough. We're overwhelmed. We're terrified already. Don't say anything more They begged that no further word be spoken to them. They're begging Moses, don't say anything more. It's too much. It's too much. Moses assured them that the only reason they had to be t terrified is if they disobeyed. That's all. If you disobey, there's terrible consequences. So Moses said it this way in Exodus 20, verse 20, do not be afraid For God has come in order to test you, and in order that the fear of Him may remain with you, so that you may not sin. Notice that that the fear of God is supposed to make it so they don't sin. There's supposed to be fear of the consequences of disobedience. That's the way Mo the the Holy Spirit has Moses put it there. So if they had the proper fear of God by honoring his holiness and obeying his law Then they would have no reason to fear his wrath. God intended that his people have a reverential fear of him. But what's the problem? The problem is they can't obey. They can't obey the law. The God of Sinai is truly a God to be feared, a God of judgment and of punishment. Sinai represented the old covenant, was a mountain of fear and judgment Letter of Hebrews is pointing out to his readers that if they go back to Judaism, now he's warned them a number of times about going back to Judaism, and this is another warning Not to go back to Judaism because this is what it's like. Uh that if they go back to Judaism they would be going back to a covenant of law, fear, judgment, and death Do you really want to go back to that? That's what he's saying. So think about this as a sermon and he's made all these points about going back to Judaism and he's making another one with with a really strong mental picture about the the what would await you. if you turn back to the covenant of Sinai instead of going forward to the covenant of Zion. Uh Paul in 2 Corinthians chapter 3 put it this way, uh he described the old covenant as the ministry of death in letters engraved on stone. The ministry of death in letters engraved on stone. That's how Paul described the old covenant. And and this is what the the author of Hebrews is trying to bring to mind to those who are wavering. to those who might be tempted to go back to Judaism, this is what they're going back to, he's saying. All right, uh going on to verse twenty and twenty one. For they could not bear the command, if even a beast touches the mountain, it will be stoned. And so terrible was the sight that Moses said, I am full of fear and trembling. So the law is a great mirror. When we look into it, we see ourselves as we really are, woefully short of God's standard of righteousness. So if you ask a person just a a you know, a an ordinary unbeliever, somebody your neighbor, coworker, when you die do you think you're going to heaven? Wha what do they usually say? I hope so and why? Because I'm a good person. So, um what what's the antidote to the I'm a good person uh fallacy? You're a very bad mirror. It's the look in the look in the mirror of the law. To look at what the the actual standard is of good. So what's the actual standard of good? It's perfectly keeping all of the law. That's the mirror that we're supposed to look in to see if we're a good person. And so if you truly look into that mirror, perfect uh keeping of all the law in both thought and deed. Then what do we see in that mirror? You see a dirty sinner in that mirror. You don't see a good person. I I I I'm I hope I'm going to heaven because I think I'm a good person. If you look into God's true mirror w which is the law. And see that we fall woefully short. Every one of us falls woefully short. Uh there's not a single commandment that we have kept perfectly or can keep perfectly in either thought or deed. Not one of 'em Go through the list. Go through the Ten Commandments and think through your own life and see if there's one that you've kept perfectly in both thought and deed for your entire life. And of course the answer for all of us is No, we we haven't. We haven't kept a single one of the Ten Commandments perfectly in thought and deed for our entire lives. Uh the law overwhelms us. No sinner can endure Sinai. Every sinner who stands at the foot of Sinai is paralyzed with fear. That is why the people could not bear the command, and Moses said, I am full of fear and trembling. Even Moses, to whom God had spoken through the burning bush, and through whom he had challenged the most powerful man on earth, the Pharaoh. Moses stood there before the most powerful man in the world and said, God says, let my people go. And even Moses could not stand fearless at Sinai before the law. So the author paints this word picture to warn the Jews not to go. back to that covenant. So if they're worried that hey if I if I step out in faith and and and and follow Christ I might be persecuted. What he's saying here is, well look at what it's like what it was like. Even for the people that first received that old covenant at the foot of that mountain. Fear and trembling. Uh sin and death. So uh and of course the Apostle Paul for many years had been a student of the law, knew the Old Testament as few knew it. In his time, probably as few have known it ever, he was a Old Testament scholar Uh but prior to his encounter with the risen Christ on the Damascus Road, he had never really confronted the law of Moses. He had studied it, memorized it, probably taught it, but he had never confronted it. He had never looked squarely into it to see his own sinfulness. And seeing Christ there, he he also saw the law and himself reflected in the mirror of the law. Um and in Romans 7 Paul describes it this way. He says, when the commandment came, sin became alive and I died. And this commandment, which was to result in life, proved to result in death for me. For sin, taking opportunity through the commandment, deceived me and through it killed me. So once he knew what this actual standard was, which he had been studying all his life, and was able to examine his own life in the mirror of this law once he'd encountered Christ, this is what the law did to him. It killed him. Though he'd been active in Judaism and a lifelong scholar of the Old Testament, he had never really stood at the foot of Sinai. He had eyes but had not seen, and ears but had not heard, Jeremiah 521. But in Christ his eyes and ears were opened, and he saw what the consequences were for him, that the law was deaf to him. Um, the law that he thought he knew was death to him. Um eg described very uh in visceral terms in Romans chapter seven. Uh everybody see that. What what the what the uh the author, this preacher to these first century Jews is trying to bring to mind to this congregation of first century Hebrews. And of course it's uh recorded here in scripture for all time for us to read too so we can understand this sh stark contrast between uh the old covenant and the new covenant. This word picture that he paints it goes back to all these familiar Old Testament passages to show that the the old covenant um was never going to be enough. It was always pointing forward to something else. It was it was really to point out the problem And then the new covenant brings the actual solution uh to that problem. And that's what he's he's at this point he's he's pounding on the on the podium as he as he preaches here um to to bring this point home. Okay. And then uh we get the contrast. So we've got uh the the the Sinai um the problem in Sinai and then we get the solution. Starting in verse 22. But you have come, so you have not come to that old mountain, Mount Sinai, but you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to myriads of angels, to the general assembly, and the and church of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God the judge of all And to the spirits of the righteous made perfect, and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood, which speaks better than the blood of Abel. So these are the things that you have come to. You haven't come to that Mount Sinai. the the covenant of law and the covenant of death, ultimately of death, this is what you have come to. So the bad news first, the problem, and now the good news comes out. Next. The mountain of the new covenant is Mount Zion, representing the heavenly Jerusalem. So this is the opposite of Sinai. It's not touchable, so it's not a mountain that you can actually walk. So that was a mountain that you theoretically could walk on, but you couldn't actually approach it. This is a mountain that you can't actually walk on, but you can't approach it Sinai symbolizes law and Zion symbolizes grace. No one can be saved by the law, but anyone can be saved by grace. The law confronts us with commandments, judgment, and condemnation. Grace presents us with forgiveness, atonement, and salvation. It's such a Black and white, light and dark, stark contrast between these two that the author of Hebrews is trying to bring out here to these first century Jews So uh ever since uh David placed the ark on Mount Zion, this mountain had been considered the special earthly dwelling place of God, for for the Lord has chosen Zion, he has desired it for his habitation. Uh this is my resting place for the Lord. Forever here I will dwell for I have desired it. Psalm 132. Um and so there there was a physical manifestation at one point, but the the point that he's really making here is uh heaven, uh is a is a uh contrast with heaven. So Zion became synonymous with Jerusalem and Jerusalem was therefore the city of God and the place of sacrifices. So Sinai was forbidding and terrifying, but Zion is inviting and gracious. It's contrast, contrast, contrast all the way. Sinai is closed to all because no one is able to please God on Sinai's terms, which is perfect. Perfect fulfillment of the law. So Sinai closed the law, Zion is opened all, because Christ met the terms and will stand in the place of anyone who will come to God through him. Zion symbolizes the approachable God. So we get this severe picture of a God who is absolutely unapproachable at Sinai. But Zion gives this approachable God. And so there are there's more than one picture of this contrast between an unapproachable God and an approachable God in the book of Hebrews. um the fact that God tore the temple veil from top to bottom and opened the Holy of Holies. And so we have this whole system of sacrifices where um as you get closer to where the Ark of the Covenant is fewer and fewer people are are allowed in. So in the temple you had the court of the Gentiles that was all the way in the outside. Gentiles couldn't go any further than that. The the Israelites could go in a little bit further, but then you had the holy place and only the priests could go there. And then you had the Holy Holies and only the high priest could go in there only once a year. And then so so what did God do when Christ was on the cross and said it is finished? What happened then? That that veil for the Holy of Holies was torn from top to bottom to show show that God is now approachable in the new covenant. So we've got all these we many pictures of how God is now appro uh a previously unapproachable God is now approachable in Christ Jesus and this is another one of the word pictures that uh the author of Hebrews is painting. So in Christ, because Christ has met the terms uh God's terms of perfect righteousness. That in Christ and so Christ can stand in the place of anyone who will come to God through him. And therefore he's now approachable. Yes. What are you saying now in my Drawing air, that's it. That's exactly right. So this theme of drawing near, um, i i i it's just think about all the things that God went through at Sinai to make sure that the people could not draw near. It was obvious they could not draw near to that covenant of Sinai. Don't even go to the edge of the mountain. If even an animal goes across the edge of the uh the mountain you got to stone it Um so unapproachable, but now what is it, draw near. Now draw near to me. How do you draw near to me? You draw near to me in Christ. And that's symbolized here by Mount Zion. Okay. Uh Sinai was covered in clouds and darkness. The the mountain became dark, uh thunder clouds, dark thunderclouds, thunder and lightning The whole mountain top is dark. Zion is the city of light. Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God has shown forth Psalm 52. Sinai stands for judgment and death. Death Zion for forgiveness and life. For there the Lord commanded the blessing life forever. Psalm one hundred thirty three three, talking about Zion. Contrast, all these contrasts between Sinai. and Zion to show the contrast between the old covenant and the new covenant. The unapproachable God, the approachable God. The dark mountain covered in dark clouds and thunder and lightning and the light shining from uh the top of Mount Zion. The Jews to whom these verses are addressed are here, these uh obviously it's uh addressing believers, for they are told, You have come to Mount Zion. So anybody who has come to Mount Zion as a believer, they were already in the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem. And as Christians, we are already citizens of heaven where we now spiritually dwell, Philippians three twenty. We're already citizens of heaven. Uh only sojourners here on earth. Any questions, comments, thoughts? Yes, Greg. It's amazing how you're quoting these um Old Testament verses and just showing that the the New Testament, the New Covenant is hidden there's in the Old Testament. It is, it is, and and not just on the couple of verses that actually say New Covenant But all all throughout. Uh the Psalms in particular talk about Mount Zion and um and really it's a ve kind of a veiled reference to the New Covenant. That's a good point. Questions or yes, Greg, uh Doug's. Sorry. Uh I I am thrilled that it says that to the spirit spirits of the righteous made perfect. Mm-hmm. Because, you know, I go around a lot feeling looking at my sin and knowing that I have a lot to repent from. And God here in His Word, I think this is referring to believers is saying that we're made right to be perfect. Yeah, I think uh I'm gonna get to this in a minute. No it's all right. It's alright. Um but i it's a i there's a completeness to this list of what we see, what we're gonna see see in heaven. And uh uh spoiler alert, um he uh uh I I think to to the spirits of the righteous made perfect are the Old Testament saints who had been looking forward to this perfection that comes. with the cross and now they're made perfect. As contrast to the church, which is listed separately here in in this list of things. So I think that the s the spirits of the righteous man Perfect is probably referring to the Old Testament Saints, but Okay. Uh an any other questions or or comments here? Yes. Alison. Yes. passage I immediately thought I was looking at one about what in describing the hell there's a RPG that prices are there. Yes. Yeah. Yes. Yeah. And uh of course the Apostle Paul got a little glimpse of that, um, taken up into the the seventh heaven. So he got a glimpse of what it was like. Um John gets some glimpses of what it's like, but yes, there there's a a a festival atmosphere there. Any other questions, comments? Well, I um gave a lot uh Israel uh at Mount Sinai in the desert uh rather than Egypt or Canaan. I mean they were laid there. There was no distraction, nowhere to go, nowhere to hide. Yeah, I think that's a big part of it. I think the he he had taken care of separating them from the Egyptians, that was done. The entrance into the promised land was ahead, and so he he I I think that's no distractions. Right? They the the Egyptians were behind them, the Red Sea, all that, so there was the Egyptians weren't chasing them anymore. They weren't to the promised land where they had to worry about You know, how they're gonna divide up the land and all that kind of stuff. So here they are in the desert with no distractions. I need to give you this covenant. I I think that's why it's there in that place at that time. Ken Mar Ken High laid out there is your is just you just said. Covenant in chapter nineteen, the covenant with God, they were to be a holy nation, a kingdom of priests. Yep. That was their mission. Uh of course they didn't realize it, but uh the mission was to Be blessed to be a part. Right. To be enlightened nations. Yes. They really didn't deserve it. Yeah, and so uh i If you think about the the the place that God put his people, it was kind of in the crossroads of all the trade routes going between Egypt and everywhere else. And so um the for From a big story standpoint, the focus was come and see. Everybody from the other nations were to come and see this people of God. And their God, most particularly their God. The New Testament is go and tell. Old Testament come and see. Come and see this people of God in this one place, this one fixed place, and their God. Uh that's the the New Testament. The Old Testament is come and see. The old the New Testament is go and tell. Go to the ends of the earth. Uh go and make disciples of all nations. Um and so God had it uh uh uh in his Perfect wisdom, uh this is the um the way that he revealed himself and was different in the Old Testament than in the New Testament. I'm the one your dog would brought you out of the speech and something like that. Yep. Yeah. We said similar at that. I think it's very well as well by the version of the time body acceptable. So I think the phone reads by perhaps. So long with the units sign on that spot that just would be the show m show them we break the gravity that we break that break so therefore should upload the dots. Yeah that's a good Good point. Um if any if if anybody ever asks you how the Ten Commandments start, make sure you make sure you quote that first. I am the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt from the house of slavery. That's how the Ten Commandments starts. It starts with God. proclaiming who he is. And then it goes into the ten things, but that's how the Ten Commandments starts, with God declaring himself and also pointing out to the people that he's about to give these Ten Commandments to. Now, he there's a number of times where God starts out a declaration with telling the people, I am the God who brought you up out of Egypt. Uh he says that a number of times, but one of the places he does it is the introduction to the Ten Commandments in Exodus twenty. Good point. Okay. Uh any other comments or questions? Alright. Um so we have um uh the Jews um uh so they're told that uh they have come to this mountain. Th those who are believers ha have come to this mountain um and are um citizens of heaven, the New Jerusalem. In coming to Mount Zion, becoming Christian, we come to seven other blessings that are listed in these verses. So there's a sequence of seven things that we come to when we've come to Mount Zion. So one is the heavenly Jerusalem, the heaven itself. Two is the General Assembly Three is the church of the firstborn. Four is God the judge of all. Five is the spirits of righteous men made perfect. Six is Jesus the mediator. And seven the sprinkled blood. It all has this you've come to bang bang bang bang these seven things. The city of living God to heavenly Jerusalem is heaven itself. Uh coming to Christ is coming to heaven. Uh the only way to come to heaven Mm, that's the only way. Christ is the only way. I am the way, the truth and life. No one comes to the Father but by me. So i i i it's only in Christ that we can come to the heavenly Jerusalem. Uh the general assembly, that Greek word, uh panageris uh means a gathering for a public festival. So a a fest festival gathering, a a gathering, a fest festivity. That's that's embedded in that word for the that's translated General Assembly here. Uh probably refers to the marriage of angels. with a possible translation being something like you have come to an innumerable company of angels in festival gathering. That's the word picture there. This explosion of celebration of the angels is one of the things that we'll come to when we come to Mount Zion. Zion to the heavenly Jerusalem. When we come to Jesus Christ at Mount Zion, we come to a great gathering of celebrating angels whom we join in praising God. And we see that in Daniel chapter 7. There's this myriads of angels that are uh worshiping and praising God and we see it repeated of course in Revelation five eleven. Um so that's one of the things that we're coming to when we come to heaven is this great worshiping, um uh uh gathering multitude myriad of of angels. The church of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven is the body of Christ. Church of the firstborn enrolled in heaven, the first Firstborn are those who receive the inheritance. As believers, we are heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, who is the firstborn among many brethren, Romans eight, seventeen, and twenty-nine. And so that's what this is talking about here, the church. That we should not rejoice in the great works that God may do through us, but that our names are recorded in heaven, Luke 10, 20. Our names are enrolled in heaven in the Lamb's Book of Life, Revelation 21, 27. The spirits of righteous men may Perfect are probably the Old Testament saints, because we've just learned about the church itself, and so now we get the Old Testament Saints, those who could only look forward to forgiveness, peace, and deliverance When we come to heaven, we rejoin Abel, Abraham, Moses, David, and all the others in one great household of God. See Matthew 8. 11. So it's giving us a complete picture of what we see in heaven. We see the angels in celebration. and worship of Christ. We see uh the whole church, the body of Christ. We see the Old Testament saints, um, and so we come to all these things. And supremely, of course, we come to Jesus Christ himself in the fullness of his beauty and glory as the mediator of a new covenant. And then we also come to the sprinkled blood better than the blood of Abel. It's not talking about Abel's actual blood. It's talking about sprinkling blood, so it's it's referring to Abel's sprinkled blood. Remember, uh just a uh Chapter before we've learned about Abel's sacrifice was better. It was a better sacrifice. Well the sprinkled blood of Christ, of course, is better than Abel's sprinkled blood. Abel's was a better sacrifice than Christ is better. Christ's Christ's sprinkled bread is better. That's what uh we're seeing here. Uh verse twenty-five. See to it that you do not refuse him who is speaking. For if those who did not escape when they refused him who warned them on earth, So we've got the full description of Mount Sinai, we've got the full description of Mount Zion And then we get a little warning at the end. The preacher turns to the stern warning, see to it that you do not refuse him who is speaking. So the one who spoke at Sinai is the same one who is speaking. speaking from Zion. So there's one only one hymn, speaking in both places, and we're we're to see to it that we do not refuse him. Um for if those did not escape that refused him who warned them on earth at Sinai, much less will we escape who uh we who who turn away from him who warns from heaven. Um so after Sinai there was a new covenant, but there's not another one after Zion. Um there's no um there's there's gonna be no um um new new covenant or super new covenant or extra your new covenant. This is this is it. It's the only way to heaven. And so we're supposed to uh see to it that we don't refuse him. So after giving this contrast between Mount Sinai and Mount Zion, The writer warns his audience not to ignore him who is speaking. Remember how he started this whole uh Letter of Hebrews. God, after he spoke long ago to the fathers and the prophets, in many portions and in many ways, in these last days has spoken to us in his Son. That's Hebrews 1, 1 and 2. That's how we s started this nine months ago. In our study of the book of Hebrews, with Hebrews chapter one saying that This contrast, he spoke a long ago through the prophets, but now he's spoken through his son, Jesus Christ. That's Sinai, and that's uh that's the old covenant and this is the new covenant. So if Member H Held accountable for heeding God when he warned them on earth at Mount Sinai through Moses, how much more will they be held accountable now that he warns from heaven at Mount Zion through his son? This is what the the author of Hebrews is saying. This is he's getting to a point in his sermon where he's given he's given them um the the problem and he's given them the solution And now he's warning them about ignoring the solution. Don't ignore God's one and only way of salvation. Don't ignore what God has has said here through his son. Yes. I I may have missed this. Did you say the difference between what those words were that Abel's blood might have spoken and what Jesus' blood speaks? Yeah, so um th the the the contrast I think we're we're coming to so I think you have to keep in mind what he s had s previously said in the chapter before, um about Abel, that Abel's sacrifice was better. And so Um now he's I think assuming that it's not s uh a month ago that that we studied chapter eleven, but it's y he's just read it, right? He's in his sermon and it was just a few minutes ago where he said that Abel's sacrifice was better, but now we're coming to the sprinkled blood of Jesus, which is better than that sprinkled blood of Abel. I think that's what he's saying. And and he's assuming that he's just They've just read what he said about Abel's sacrifice being better and now he's saying Christ's sacrifice, his sprinkled blood is better. Yeah. Yes, you got contest cursed and it's blessed in Christ's case. Yes, yeah, you had that as well. Um That's right. So y you do have I think there's uh maybe a devil in Tonder y you have both the the blood of Christ, which brings salvation. You have the blood of Abel himself who um who bring brought condemnation to Cain. But also uh if you notice in your translation The the the Greek words for the blood are not actually in the scripture. You you see it's italic in your if you look at your uh your version of the Bible, you see that the blood of Abel uh th the the the words the blood are not in there. It just says Abel. That the Greek in the Greek it just says Abel. The sprinkled blood better than Abel Well sprinkled blood. Yes, yes, it is. It is. But it's most obvious then. So they yeah, the the translators have put the second the blood in there. Um I think there's a little bit of a double in tundra there, but they it works both ways because it works both ways. Okay. Uh the the blood is could be two things. It could be the the blood that Abel sprinkled, which was the blood of bulls, which is obviously not doesn't forgive s doesn't uh atone for sins, like Christ's blood does. And also you have a contract between the sprinkled blood of Christ, which brings salvation, and the the blood of Abel himself that was spread out on the ground that brought condemnation to Cain. So both of those things work as an illustration there. Okay. Uh any other questions or comments about when I was reading this I'm looking at you talking about the flood in verse twenty four and I' I'm looking at Luke in James. And it brings to Jesus, the mediator, who most friendly that speaks better things than Abel. Yes. Right. Speaks better than Abel. Yeah, because that's exactly. That's that's a more much more literal translation of what the Greek says. The the Breek the Greek doesn't say the blood of Abel, it just says Abel. Got it. If we consider that word better, that's the Yeah, so the preeminence of Christ over everything else. as good as Christ. Christ is better. He's preeminent. And in this case, uh he's better than Abel. Yes, Abel made a better sacrifice than Cain But Christ's sacrifice is better than Abel. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Um good, good. Any any other questions or comments? All right, verse number twenty six and twenty seven. And his voice shook the earth then. But now he has promised saying, Yet once more I will shake not only the earth but also the heaven. This expression yet once more denotes the removing of those things which can be shaken, as of created things, so that those things which cannot be shaken may remain At Sinai, God ship the earth. From Zion, he is also going to shake the very heavens, the entire universe. The writer here is quoting from the prophet Haggai Uh and Haggai two six says, Once more in a little while I am going to shake the heavens and the earth, the sea also in the dry land. That's Haggai two six. Also there's a reference in Isaiah thirteen. Uh we also get a description of these events. of course in Revelation six, twelve to fourteen, of all the things that God does to to shake the earth um um uh uh during the the Great Tribulation. Um so this is a warning uh about what's to come. Uh commenting on uh on this passage from Haggai in verse twenty seven here, uh the author explains that the expression yet once more from the book of Haggai, denotes the removing of those things which can be shaken, as of created things, in order that those things which cannot be shaken may remain. So he's making a commentary on this prophecy from the Old Testament. Everything physical, those things Things which can be shaken will be destroyed. Only the eternal things which cannot be shaken will remain. We also see a description of this in Second Peter chapter three, uh about what's gonna happen uh at the second coming. So uh does everybody see that before before I move on? What he's referring to. Okay. Uh verse number 28 and 29. Therefore, since we received The kingdom which cannot be shaken, let us show gratitude by which we may offer to God an acceptable service with reverence and awe. For our God is a consuming fire. So uh we have some things that are unshakable and will remain. That's what the author of Hebrews is telling us here. God has prepared a new heaven and a new earth which will include the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God made ready as a bride adorned for her husband. That's from Revelation chapter twenty-one. Um and so he's saying there's gonna be Some things that are shaken and some things that are unshakable and will not be shaken. Yes. Uh some people give me interpretation that uh the whole earth connected to Earth. uh birth in uh uh the whole set of uh the earth that now exists. So yes, the earth that now exists will be destroyed. Destroyed by fire. We see that in 2 Peter chapter. All the elements will be burned up. So that means every molecule, every atom, every quark, and the whole universe is going to be burned up. So this universe uh that's shakeable things. That's that's what the author of Hebrews is talking about, shakeable things here. Everything physical, he's gonna shake. And we see in 2 Peter chapter 3 that it's all gonna be burned up with fire. The elements, all the way down to the elements. elements will be burned up with fire. Yeah. So that's mankind is concentrating to save the earth what it's disposed of Well, it it's going to be disposed of, uh put it put it that way. Um yeah no ma no I don't know what happens with with uh climate change between now and the second coming, it it's going to be burned up. Um w we know that for sure. From the only one that can possibly know those things and the only one that could possibly bring those things about, that's what he said he will do. But there are unshakable things. Um and that's God and that's heaven and that's the the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God. This is the case Kingdom we receive, that's what the the author of Hebrews is saying here. It is a kingdom which cannot be shaken. It is eternal and unchangeable. We will never be taken from it, and it will never be taken from us. Unshakable. Um Uh for this amazing blessing in Christ we should show gratitude, the author says, by which we may offer to God an acceptable service with reverence and all. So what's our what's to be our motivation for service to God? Gratitude. Love. But here it says gratitude, because God has done this for us. He's made this unshakable kingdom. Which we receive in Christ, we should show gratitude by offering acceptable service with reverence and awe. The right response is a life of holy service and worship offered to our awesome and glorious God. That's the right response to what God has done for us. Yes. Shakeable is physical as well as physical, like a physical earth. So yes. The the the new heavens and the new earth is a physical heavens and earth will have physical bodies. Um but that new physical heaven and earth comes down from heaven from God And God is a spiritual being, not he's not made of matter, energy, he's not in bound by time and space. He was here before there was any such thing as time, space, matter, and energy, so he's not of those things. And so when he destroys all those things There's still God. There's still heaven. And and a new heaven and new earth comes down from God. And it's a physical thing, and we'll have physical bodies in the new heaven and the new earth. But first the current heavens and the current uh earth, in other words, the whole universe, uh, is shaken by this analogy. And in Second Peter three, th there's more the uh um kind of a more detailed description that all the elements will melt in fire. Uh yeah. Okay. Any other questions or Comments about that? Yeah, so uh so that is the um This is the motivation for worship. And so, you know, w we're about to go into corporate worship and when we break out into song in corporate worship, this is uh one of the expressions of gratitude that we're making. Uh that It's a it's a life of service, but also a life of worship. And uh when we see descriptions of what it's like in heaven in the book of Revelation, w what is it? It's the the angels worshiping God, it's the uh the twenty four elders bowing down and worshiping the Lamb who's on the the throne, the Lamb who's was slain but lives forever. Uh yes, this is the motivation for for worship and bursting out in song, yes. Well primary problem of our age also you know you focus on the things that see rather than things to each. And it's also saying First Corinthians seven, you know, why, you know, warning uh any good of this world really that you don't have those things and everybody has them or dealings with it, the present form of this world is happening. No. It is, it is. That all these things are temporary. But what we'll have in heaven is permanent, yes. Doug. This feels to me like two parallel statements. And tell me If you if I'm out of M left field or not. Let's Yeah, let's be grateful and let's offer to God worship. Those two commandments follow with because we got a kingdom that can't be sh- Shanghai and because our God is a consuming fire. And I think those are two responses to almost the same thing that's going on. Two ways of thinking about that. Showing gratitude or or being consumed by God Uh the the be grateful because we have a kingdom that can't be shaken and and shakenness is kinda like a fear about what God's gonna do, right? Right. Worship because God's a consuming fire. And it feels to me like those two commands uh are pointing at parallel things that are going on that God's going to do. Therefore potentially maybe are also it it it is, and and it does flow, it does uh comport nicely with second Peter three, um that uh that the um this idea of shaking shaking things is kind of a um uh a kind of a a less precise metaphor for what 2 Peter 3 says, everything's gonna be every element's gonna melt in fire. Um well the the the author Of Hebrews, interestingly enough, after talking about the shaking, says, For our God is a consuming fire. So that's uh that may give a little clue about what the actual um um the the the nature of the shaking uh is gonna be a consuming fire, uh is what it's really gonna be. Um but it it does kind of close it off with this real stern warning. Um It's uh that that closing verse is pr perhaps the s the harshest warning in the the whole book of Hebrews. Our God is a consuming fire, God's judgment is a fi fierce and consuming fire and and this sin soaked world is gonna be completely burned up by that consuming fire, uh, at the end. Um Okay. And what do you see all of that? Any questions, comments, breaking out in song. All right. done a little bit early then. Uh let me if if there are any further questions, let me uh Kirk, yes. Yeah, I do um it breaks the line in first game chapter three about the possible works of us, particularly pastors. Undergo that same metaphor will respond. Yes. And then there's there's things that will last. Yeah, that's right. We we ourselves only five people survive that. We're also told to store up for ourselves treasure in heaven uh where moth and rust do not destroy, thieves do not break in and steal. Yeah, so there's there's a number of teachings like that, uh that the things of this old world are passing away Um yes. So the the warning you need for my point second one. Since we have these promises defend ourselves to your board. Yep. That's a good one. Alright, any others? I have both of us first. Okay. I always thought this would be a good one for my team, so uh I like people to play. First John two seventeen your role. passing away along with this guy whoever does the little body flies for us. Yep. There you go. Another excellent contrast like the ones that we're seeing here in these verses. All right. Uh Let's close in prayer. Do you hear me