So today, we're in Hebrews 3, and we're continuing where Rob left off last time. So we're returning to the warning section that we find in chapter 3 of Hebrews. And we're going to be focusing today on verses 15 to 19. The passage, the whole paragraph, if you will, uh unit of teaching starts in verse seven of chapter three And goes to chapter 4, verse 13. So this again is one of these places where chapter and verse markings might be less helpful. However, God here is teaching today. If you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts. And the Holy Spirit is going to repeat this four times in this chat in this section. When God's repeating something It's an opportunity for us to stop and pay attention. And in fact, this is a serious passage of Scripture. This warning is a deadly serious warning It's sobering. It should grab our attention. Do not harden your hearts And in fact, not only is it quoted here four times, the Holy Spirit also inspired David to write down this same warning. Looking back on the history of his predecessors as they were wandering in the wilderness And so today we want to look at these things and try to grab them and hold them into our hearts. Rob, wisely, I think, gave us four Sundays to prepare and and study and consider this passage. Last Sunday today and then two more Sundays in chapter four And this is one of these passages I think that sometimes we pick and choose little bits and pieces, which is not bad to focus in on God's Word. But it ends with the word of God is sharper than a two-edged sword. And I think one of the reasons to hold on to for that is there's an aspect of this that God is looking into our hearts. And he is judging the hardness of our hearts. And he's considering inside who we are And that's important for us to remember because there are sins that we commit on the outside that people can see and they're evident to everyone, but there are also sins that happen on the inside that God only sees. Such as when he talked to the people on the uh Mount, uh the Sermon on the Mount, he said, if you have contempt or if you have adultery in your hearts, you have already sinned. Beware and pay attention. Let's look at the passage, chapter 3. Hebrews chapter 3, starting at verse 15. And the author The Holy Spirit repeats the warning right at the start of this passage. As it is said today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion. For who are those who heard and yet rebelled? Was it not all those who left Egypt by Moses? And with whom was he provoked for forty years? Was it not with those who sinned, whose bodies fell in the wilderness? And to whom did he swear that they were? Would not enter his rest, but to those who were disobedient. So we see that they were unable to enter because of unbelief. And the next chapter starts off, therefore While the promise of entering his rest still stands, let us fear lest any of you should seem to have failed to reach it. So this is a serious warning. It's a powerful warning. And as Rob talked about last week, the one of the main focuses here is on a congregation. That is mixed with wheat and tares. That is the primary focus. There are people who have tasted and seen, but they don't know that the Lord is good That would be the primary focus. But I think there's a secondary focus there. Because all those who are in Christ All of us who are in Christ, if you look back just a few verses, can be tempted by the deceitfulness of sin. We can have moments of hardness. We can have days where We doubt God's goodness. When something troubling happens to us or life throws us something, and every now and then there are those things that really touch that secret place in our hearts. Whatever it is for you, and we can go, this is too hard. God, did you bring me to this place just to crush me? When that day happens, you're being just like Israel. Do not harden your hearts. And so this passage is focused on and quoting from Psalm 95, and so I want to jump back and take a look at Psalm 95 and its context to help us to understand what's being talked about here in Hebrews chapter 3. So let's jump back to Psalm 95. five. And we're going to spend an extended period of time here. This is what we started off. This is what we sang at the start. And if you got here late and you didn't have a chance to sing with us, I think there may still be copies. If you want to grab a copy of the psalm we sang at the start of our our get together here, it's it's back there next to Carol and Bill. Um it says here in Psalm ninety five, Oh come let us sing to the Lord. Let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation. Let us come into his presence with thanksgiving. Let us make a joyful noise to him with songs of praise. For the Lord is a great God And a great king above all gods, and his hand are the depths of the earth, the heights of the mountains are his also, the sea is his, for he made it, and his hands formed the dry land Oh come, let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord, our Maker. For he is our God, and we are the people of his pasture, and the sheep of his hand. Today, if you hear his voice Do not harden your hearts, as at Meribah, as on the day of Masa in the wilderness, when your fathers put me to the test and put me to the proof, though they had seen my work For forty years I loathed that generation and said, There are people who go astray in their heart. And they have not known my ways, therefore I swore in my wrath, they shall not enter my rest. That's not the way we sing praise songs nowadays. That's that's a powerful message. And and it's it almost feels dichotomous, right? We go as we look at Psalm ninety five, oh So come let us worship and bow down. Let us make a joyful noise to the Lord. Right? And a lot of the references, a lot of songs and psalms Sing this psalm and stop at verse six. Because of the dichotomy That we go through. And in fact, there's a clear delineation in this psalm. If you wanted to outline it, you'd have this first section that goes from 1 to 7a that's a Call to worship. It's a resounding three-part call to worship. And then the remainder is this strong warning. To not have hard hearts when we hear God's voice. And so David writes this to warn his generation And he's echoing in many respects what Moses did back in the book of Deuteronomy when he warned his generation Hey guys, and let's just remember, right? Israel, they they were redeemed from the land of slavery, Egypt. They crossed the Red Sea. They they went all the way through the land. They run out of water and and they they rebel and that's as massac and Meribah. And they they try God over and over and over again. They finally get to the promised land, and they're like, God And God says, No, I've had enough. This generation will die in the wilderness. Turn around and you will spend forty years in the wilderness Your subsequent generation. Your subsequent generation will be the one who comes into the land. And what's interesting is just before they go into the land, there's another Meribah. There's another moment where they test God. They run out of water again. And Moses, writing the book of Deuteronomy, he says, Don't Forget these things. And David in his generation is saying, Don't forget these things. And the writer of Hebrews is inspired by the Holy Spirit again to say, Don't forget these things. So we have in this one of these amazing warnings that God gives to people in general. Look back at the psalm. Because it's powerful to see. It starts off with three commands to come in verse 1 and in verse 2 and in verse 6. Come And in the verse 1 it says, Come let us sing. We're commanded here to sing to Yahweh, to even make a joyful noise. Some of us make joyful noises all the time. But there's a don't hold backness here. Because God is the rock of our salvation And there's a hint of where the psalmist is going when he says rock of our salvation. Because he's going to talk about when God brought water from the rock And in fact, rock of sa God being our rock is a symbol that's used throughout Scripture of who He is. But here specifically is leaning in towards God being that rock. And in fact Paul teases on this too in 1 Corinthians 10 4, he says, and all drank from the same spiritual drink, for they all drank from the spiritual rock that followed them And the rock was Christ. And so this is the direction that we're going to see, and it and it proclaims here, it states in Emphatically, he is worthy of our praise, and we see who he is and the amazing worth of his praise by what he has done. By the fact that he is our savior. And and think about this, I don't know if you follow sports, but if there was a walk off home run in the World Series or something like that We sit around and we'd talk about that, right? If if you know, I don't know how many times I've talked to people about how beautiful the trees are this year Right? So in many respects that's just looking at the things, the mundane things that are going on here and going, that's worthy of praise. But we're talking about God. Oh, come let us sing. Yes. I find it interesting the word rat. Uh mean when it talked about the word rat concerning God's creation. But I can't help but think that when God looked at He said, looked at himself and said, I am so good. So I think when God uh said rest, I look at I I I I couldn't speak to get the word from my mind. Oh yes. I love where you're going. And you're jumping ahead of me a little bit, but it's really sweet to think about and to take that concept and bring Bring it around to this because when you think about God being satisfied in himself, that also reflects to us about us being satisfied in him. About seeing his glory, right? And coming and making a joyful noise. And so David here is commanding his congregation And I'm going to tell you this applies to us as a congregation as well, to be about the business of loud, joyful praise. Because not because you sing good, not because we're all going to be blessed by what you do, but because God's going to be blessed by your enjoyment of who He is The rock of our salvation. But I gotta press on or else we won't get back to Hebrews. Because I've only touched on verse one in chapter uh Ninety five. So let's go. Let's go. And some ground rules here. Anybody can continue to interrupt me, but I'm gonna roll. Please put your hand up, interrupt me whenever you want to. It's fair game. That's what this is. I'm not Yeah. Look, the second command here is to come into his presence with thanksgiving. The good news is is it's almost November. So we can obey this in a couple of weeks. People in the recording can't see me roll my eyes, so I have to narrate what I just did. Yes, Answer? always wonder if the warning against unbelief the beginning part is the prescriptive rather than a part of things. 'Cause right all of their unbelief is manifested in uh they'll be like from them, right? Yeah. So Do you think that's part of this poem is that if you're focused on like giving it protects your heart from hardness and a thing? That's an aspect of it. And I like the way you're thinking about this. I you I gotta preach faster. 'Cause the cool thing is is God's answering my prayer and He's carrying your heart along. And that's sweet to see, okay? But what you think about here is and you're right, the beginning of this Psalm Is a preparation for where it goes. There is, as you read through these commands to come and worship God for all of his glory and all that he's done, there's an expectation that we would have tender hearts. hearts and respond to that. And it is a guard against grumbling, it is a guard against complaining to see God for who he is. But our proper response to considering who God is uh also works to get because there's a there's a warning aspect to it but there's a I can't help but say aspect of it too. When our hearts are fueled by this I can't help myself. Get out of my way. I got to sing. I got to pray. And I got to tell you about who God is And God's more important than, and bigger than, and more awesome than. And in my mind at that point I'm not going to stand at the edge of the promised land and go, God, you led me here to kill me. I'm going to be like Caleb that said, No, I know they're giants, but God's bigger. Let's go. Tighten up your sandals. Not only that, not only that, but we're gonna want to obey what's talked about in Hebrews chapter three We are going to want to encourage one another daily, daily to not have hard hearts. If you remind me, we'll come back, we'll look at that again. Rob taught that last week. Come into his presence with thanksgiving. And by the way, the reason here given There's no God like our God. God's great. Come into his presence with thanksgiving, for the Lord is a great God and a great king above all gods. Speaking to nations that are thinking their God's the best. And notice the translator put all their gods in lowercase words. I kind of like that in the ESV. There is no God beside our God. And he rules above all. All kings are below him. They are finite. He is infinite. Try to imagine infinity. infinity. Cause if you can, I got a bigger number. If you imagine something big I can think of something bigger. It's it can be a game we can play for a long time, but I got other things to say. You think about I just watched a a video about this guy who climbed Mount Everest And he's so far above the clouds when he's on Mount Everest that they're like down there. God says, My dominion goes from the tops of the mountains. To the depths of the depth. He rules over all. Any mountain you can imagine is really big. Compare that to a dustbag. And you still haven't gotten close to the difference between the creator And the created. It falls way short. Way short. The heavens declare the glory of God You see it, he made it. Everything, even the slugs on your sidewalk. God made it for his glory. Slovs shouldn't step on it. No, because they smell bad when you step on them. But look, slugs leave a rainbow behind themselves on the sidewalk And what are you gonna use salt for? Some people have done that, but not everybody, I can tell. Alright, so let's press on. Psalm forty seven says He is the most high, most high. Come into his presence with thanksgiving. And finally it says, come worship and bow down. Now if you have knees that can do it, I recommend that you to spend some time putting yourself in a position of remembering God's authority God's greatness and putting a holy fear inside your heart to remember that God is to be worshipped. And we are to come into His presence with thanksgiving. But in adoration, to draw near to him with thanksgiving, to sing with joyful songs But he is our God. And we should come before him with fear and with loyalty. And with fealty and with love and adoration and reverence and obedience He's the one who saved us. He protects us. He provides for us. He made us. And he is our shepherd. And we're the sheep of his pasture. And it reminds me of Psalm 23: The Lord is my shepherd. So I don't have any needs, wants. I don't have any wants, it says. Jesus said, I'm the good shepherd. And the next thing he says, very important. I know my own and my own know me. Remember that thought. As we talk about, don't have hard hearts. Those who are gods will hear his voice. They know him. Isaiah 40, verse 10 says, He will tend his flock like a shepherd. He will gather the lambs in his arms, he will carry them in his bosom, and gently lead those that are with young. Isaiah fifty three says, We're like sheep, and we turn to our own way. But in that same passage, God declares, I have brought you a savior. Who I will crush, who will bear your stripes, and your iniquities, who will make you clean. He is our Savior. And the rock of our salvation. Praise God. So our our proper response to all of this is to bring As we see this, is to bring to this worship and adoration and praise from the depths of our hearts Not with like no incline your heart To sing God's praises, not just on Sunday, when some guy's waving his arms up there, but on the way home. Tonight, all day, all the time, be in the business of remembering who God is and having tender hearts. To remember his glory. If you were given five thousand dollars, yeah, thank you, yes please. But even better if If you were given five thousand dollars fr by your favorite celebrity, everybody's like, ooh, yeah, Taylor Swift. But but but truth If you were given that in some kind of cash money by your favorite celebrity, how would you react to that? God's giving you salvation There's nothing better. He adopted you. What? He owns all the sheep And the cattle. Get out. Don't let your heart Be hard. Don't grow cold at these truths that you've learned since you were little. Renew your mind. And so the next passage, this next section says, Today, if you hear his voice. This is not a rhetorical question. How do we hear the voice of God? Yes? By reading his word. By reading his word. Good first answer. How else do we hear the word of God? Yes. Read his word but we need to think diligently. That's also really good because that takes reading God's word and it the and it makes it away from being a task to inclining my heart into God's word. That's good. How else do we Hear God's word, yes? I'm sorry, Jessica? When somebody else shares God's word with us, we hear it, yes? Holy Spirit? The Holy Spirit revealing it to our hearts, yes? Yes, when we sing it, when we read the Psalms, what else? When we look at God's creation, the heavens declare the glory of God, yes Absolutely. All of these things are God, the voice of God, speaking to us. I would say also When God answers your prayer, when God provides for you blessings that you take for granted, He is speaking to you. Today, if you hear God speaking to you, do not harden your heart. And so if you were if you're like, well uh okay, I don't think my heart's hard David, inspired by the Spirit of God, gives us an example of what it looks like to have a hard heart. And we've teased this a little bit. He says, look at the look at the Israelites. God destroyed Egypt with plagues. He redeemed his people and brought them out of slavery and the final plague he gave them Passover And he opened the Red Sea and drowned Pharaoh's armies right after them. And when they're marching out through the wilderness, they get a little bit thirsty. And Exodus seventeen They accuse God of bringing them out of Egypt to kill them. They say, it'd be better if you'd left us there, Moses. They've already got manna. They've already done this once. That's a hard heart. Look at the blessings of God And accuse God of malice. Yes. Do you agree that uh the voice of God is in a very very different way? also is that there are so many other horses, there's this cacophony of horses, that you have to be able to distinguish which one is God's voices and which one which one is not. How do you suggest that people make that distinction so that they don't they don't to come to see it? Absolutely, that's a good question. I would say that the very first thing that you need to do to make sure the voice Voice that you're listening to as God's voice is test it with Scripture. Test it with Scripture. Yeah. And I want to answer that to his question sometimes. circumstances the things around they speak so much louder than God voice in distraction. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. We might be in a position of thinking this thing in the world Is really what I need. Think about it like this. Have you ever had that moment where you wake up in the morning and you've already set aside this time This is the time that you plan to get up and spend time with the Lord. And you're like, son is nice. I'm just going to stay here. I need this more. And that's that's listening to another voice. Now there are days where we need rest. I'm not talking about that. Right? I don't want to lay unnecessary burdens on us. But I've also had those days when I chose to fight against that and I got up and I was in God's Word, and I was far more refreshed Than had I laid in bed. That's an example I made off the cuff. There's probably a better example to make up if I had thought about it. Henry, I'm sorry. Um They the Israelites saw the wonders of God And what Hebrews says is they went astray in their hearts. What should have been obvious to them And let's remember the patience of God, which should have been obvious to them after the plagues and the Red Sea and the manna And the water from the rock and all the other things that happened before they got to the promised land is God's good. We've been seeing this all through our traveling, there's a pillar of fire at nighttime telling us where to go. In the daytime I got a pillar of cloud up there, and in fact I got a cloud that's keeping me cool in the daytime In the wilderness. Huh. Looks like God's taking care of us. Some people got it. Caleb got it. Um We'll come back to that. Look at the tail end of this psalm. This brings God's wrath. There's there's something special about there's something special that angers God when you impugn his glory. There's something special about a lack of faith that Christ, when he walked this earth, spoke against. And the faith of the centurion he marveled at. God loves to see in us a faithful response to his word and his instruction. And This idea, this concept of doubting God, of assigning to him malicious intent Scripture calls sin. It's unbelief, as the book of Hebrews says It's believing the lie rather than the truth. And this psalm lets us know this is disobedience because the expectation that God has for us is to come before Him. was singing, magnifying his greatness and his glory. But when you think about the testimony of Scripture, is that ever since Genesis 3 Mankind has impugned God's righteousness and said, Oh, God was going to keep that fruit from me because He's just trying to hold good things back. And then say, you know what? Instead of spreading out and taking dominion of this world, we're going to build a tower so we can claunt together. And you know what? Instead of this Savior that you sent us, we have no king but Caesar. And on and on it has gone throughout time. And even today, People would rather assign the weather to Mother Nature. Absolutely. And it's just a taste of the kinds of things that people Who are sinners and hard-hearted and sheep that go astray do. Shame on them And beware for us. God assigns culpability here and gives an expectation of a humble Joyful response because the fool says there is no God. He's made it evident who he is and what he's about. So let's look back at at Hebrews. At verse fifteen, we got that warning again today. I just want us to see and understand that this is uh not tomorrow. This isn't I did this back in the day. This isn't anything but now. Today. Today, if you hear his voice, you see his wonder and glory. Do not harden your heart. As in the rebellion. I just want us to see and remember that Hardness of heart is rebellion. And before we get too far into this, I'm going to interrupt myself and just bounce us back up here to verse 12. It says, take care, brothers, lest there be in you, lest there be in any of you an evil, unbelieving heart Leading you to fall away from the living God. But exhort one another every day as long as it is called today, that none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. For we have come to share in Christ if indeed we hold our original confidence to the end, as it is written. I'm sorry, as it is said, today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion. For who were those who heard and yet rebelled? Was it not all those who left Egypt led by Moses? And with whom was he provoked for Forty years? Was it not with those who sinned, whose bodies fell in the wilderness? And to whom did he swear that they would not enter his rest? But to those who are disobedient? So we see that they were unable to enter because of unbelief. I'm just gonna stop us real quick. I've following that along and I get to that last word, unbelief, and I go That doesn't follow. Because the last thing that we just jumped off from was disobedience. Right? Verse 18. And to whom did he swear they would not enter his rest but those who were disobedient? So I'm figuring it's going to say, so we see they were unable to enter because of disobedience. The Holy Spirit didn't have them write that The Holy Spirit is showing us that disobedience and unbelief is the same thing. When we don't believe who God is and we believe the lie We sin because we accuse God wrongly. Romans chapter 1 talks about this. People would rather believe the lie than the truth. Doug, was was the specific disobedience that they were they were bucking at Moses' leadership or trying to I think of the specific command that they were held to account for that they were not doing. You shall have no other gods before me. You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain. Let's let's answer that question by looking back at Numbers chapter 14. We're going to go there eventually. Let's just go there now Numbers fourteen. This is partly to answer Kirk's question about what did they do that was wrong. This was also partly to help us understand and to see what's going on and to contribute to what it is it's talking about. the writer of Hebrews is referencing this event. Then all the congregation raised a loud cry and the people wept that night. This is by the way after the spies have returned and said, we were like grasshoppers. There are giants there. And all the people of Israel grumbled against Moses and Aaron. The whole congregation said to them, Would that we had died in the land of Egypt, or that we had died in Why is the Lord bringing us into this land to fall by the sword? Our wives and our little ones will become a prey. Would it not be better for us to go back to Egypt? And they said to one another, let us choose a leader and go back to Egypt. That's pretty wrong. They basically said, Hey God thanks God for delivering me, but no thanks. I want to go back to slavery. I would prefer to I would prefer God, to make bricks without straw than to have your blessing that you have prepared for me. Oh, and by the way, God, your arm is too short To provide. We are going to be killed here, and we're going to lose everything that we value. Our wives and our children. There is no value in their mind for God at this point in time. Not only that, who set Moses as their leader? It was God They're rebelling against God's institution of this person who they who God put in charge And say, you know what? Civil war time, let's go. We're done. Every man to his tent. Um wow. You know, I look at that and I get scared because lightning's about to strike. That's the metaphor, right, that people say. I'm shocked that they would be that bold in the face of the. . of God whose pillar of cloud is right there in the center of their camp. But when we go through times of discouragement, or when somebody complains and we ride on that same bandwagon We're being just like the Israelites. When when we're tired when when we grumble and complain against God, And forget all of his benefits who were walking around with a hard heart. And let me just say this Because this is important. There's people in a room that have tender hearts. There's two warnings here. And Rob talked about this last time. The warning is for the congregation. There's two warnings. One is for the deceived in the room or reading this passage that think they're saved and they're not. And that warning is shining a light on the fact that You don't love God with all your heart and mind and strength. You don't. You love your stuff and you love the blessings that God gives you. And when things are good, you love God. When things are bad, ah I want to go back to Egypt. That's not loving God, and that's disobeying the first part of the Ten Commandments. Sure. But I'm not done. Because let's go on. Moses and Aaron they fall on their faces because they know what's about to happen. So they go, oh a plague's about to roll out. And it does, by the way. And they pray for the people of Israel. And Joshua and Caleb join along with them. And you know, Joshua and Caleb they were among the spies and they say to the congregation The land which we pass through to spy out is an exceedingly good land. If the Lord delights in us, he will bring us into this land and give it to us a land that flows with milk and honey. Please remember back in Hebrews, I think it's chapter uh this chapter, I think it's verse 13 that says, Every day exhort one another. That's what Caleb and Joshua are doing. When your brothers and sisters have hard hearts, we have a responsibility to come alongside of them and go Dude, that's not right. In whatever best winsome way, bring God's word and say Guy you know, I love you, but your heart seems to me your heart seems to me to be hard right now. And I'm concerned for you. And and I want you to maybe pull back from that a little bit. I know this is a hard moment you're in right now. Peop people treat one another with great tenderness because we go through hard stuff. Hard stuff. And it's okay sometimes to go, God, I'm so So but but come alongside and encourage and remind people about the goodness of God. And when they agree to yes, I know God is good, then cry with them But there's a reason why we should not forsake the assembly. So anyway, but the congregation They're on a roll, they're not gonna listen, their hearts are hard, their necks are stiff, they're like, no, we're gonna kill you anyway. And so God speaks In verse eleven. And the Lord said to Moses, How long will this people despise me? And how long will they not believe in me in spite of all the signs that I have done among them God believed they should have looked at what happened. And that was enough. And he says, I will strike them with pestilence and disinherit And Moses pleads on their behalf. Skip down a little bit to verse 20. God hears Moses' prayer, and he says, I have Pardoned according to your word, but truly, as I live and as all the earth shall be filled with the glory of the Lord, none of the men who have seen my glory and my signs that I did in Egypt in the wilderness and yet have put me to the test these ten times and have not obeyed my voice Shall see the land that I swore to give to their fathers, and none of those who despise me shall see it. But my servant Caleb, because he And look at this, because he has a different spirit and has followed me fully. That is belief. Belief leads us to follow God fully. If you go into a restaurant, you put an order in You believe that that waiter is gonna not mess your food up. They're gonna bring that food out to you, and they're gonna place it down, and it's gonna be hot and delicious. And you've never met that person before. But you know God who made the universe and you should expect Him to do good things for you. In fact, you should believe that He will set a table for you In the presence of your enemies. You should believe that you will die and you will yet see God You should believe that he has so ordered today to make it so that you will not be tempted beyond what you can bear. We're in a time to go into the blessings of who God is. We can try. Steve. Is there a difference between unbelief and confusion? Yeah, God knows. And I think it was an example that was given last week that talks about, you know, Zachariah said, How I know that I'm gonna have a son? And God struck him mute. Mary says, How will I know that I'm going to have a son? And he says, Well, the Holy Spirit's going to come on you and this is going to be God's son. God knows your heart. And remember what I started off. off with is this is a sin that God sees inside of us. That's why uh if why don't we just go back to Hebrews, run back to Hebrews. Oh, but this time we're going to tease forward to what Rob's going to teach. Look at Hebrews chapter four. For the Word of God is sharp, is living and active, sharper than any two edged sword piercing to the division of soul and spirit of joints and marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intention of the heart, and no creature is hidden from his sight But all are naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give an account. God knows your heart. He knows when you're being confused. He knows when you're being stupid. being hard hearted, he knows, and I just want to remind you, who are chosen and elect of God, when he sees the hardness of your heart He looks at Christ's righteousness. Christ never had a hard heart Towards his Heavenly Father. When the blood of Christ is imputed to us, the righteousness of Christ is imputed to us including his constant tender-heartedness. What does that mean for us who are believers? That means that we have God who's going to treat us with grace. And our response to that, when the Holy Spirit goes, Dude, our response to that is, uh humble, God, you're right, I'm sorry. That was stupid. I shouldn't have done that. Can we get back to where we were? Your loving Heavenly Father would be like, oh dude, can we're gonna kill the fat of cat for you. Don't worry about it. Can I say God is good? Really. And I think sometimes we forget just how good God is. I should probably teach some of my notes. Um This is just for us guys, brethren, sister and people here. Look, chapter one says, Hebrews, sorry, Hebrews chapter one says In these last days, God has spoken to us by his son. If you hear his voice, don't harden your heart. God has spoken. You know, we've been going through this book and we've been saying God's greater than angel Jesus is greater than angels. Last time Rob was telling us Jesus is greater than men. Moses, that was two times ago, right? And the people of Israel rejected Moses. They wanted a different leader. I'm going to say to you, rejecting Christ is worse than rejecting Moses. There is an aspect of our lives that is a daily commitment, a daily looking to our hearts. The the writer to Hebrews says Let us fear lest the Holy Spirit should stir in our hearts A desire to walk closer and closer with God. And there should be a introspection in our lives. What I mean by this is If I go, for instance, 35 years ago, I prayed to receive Christ, I'm good. And I go about living a life in this world Not with a care of who God is. I'm not being obedient to lest us fear lest. There's an aspect for us to consider as believers These warnings that are in the book of Hebrews to sharpen ourselves. Not that I'm trying to earn my salvation, not that I'm trying to get good with God and to make sure my life insurance is paid up as it were, but I want to be in a position of constantly drawing near to my Savior and enjoying my God And loving him with all my heart, soul, mind and strength, so that my conscience is not accusing me. Yes. draw your hands of God and keep it going to be extended your hands to be generally that's four by the time. That not that speaker is before and you're drawing something. How will yourself inside of the way to shall get to the right? Yes. So today if you hear his voice, don't harden your hearts. You say you have faith, show me by your word. works. That includes a humble, hungering, and thirsting after your Savior. And that's between you and God. That's That's where that's I can't look at your quiet time. I can't look at the reality of who you are. I don't have a heart o meter. That I can stick in you and go, save, not saved, right? I don't have that. But I would say there is an aspect of here that we should go, ooh, saved or not saved. But the reality here in this passage is we should come to this passage and we should say, How is my devotion? Ha can I love God more? Is my relationship with my When's the li uh I don't want to ask that question. The Psalms say things like your word is sweet to me. Your word is more precious to me than. Oh God, I thirst after you like deer that pants for water. If that's not true of you, there's a tint of hardness in your heart. No, I'm going to say it differently. There may be a tint of hardness in your heart. You might need a better night's sleep. You might need to get a cookie or something like that. But consider your heart If your regular appetite for God is, oh, I've got to do this Bible reading again, repent, draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Listen to God and Obey. See God's glory and let it make you sing. Or draw you to tears. Pray for the Spirit to Tenderize your heart, God will answer that prayer in ways that will blow your mind away. Revel in the rock of our salvation. And shout for joy, yes, people of Scandinavian descent, you can shout for joy. If you know what I mean. Look at the dominion of God and be thankful. Who cares who gets elected? God's in charge? Who cares? Well we care, but you know what I mean? God's appointed a day. He will bring about justice. If they tax me too hard, okay, I'll give Caesar or whoever. I'll give George Washington his right. Look at the dominion of God and be thankful. Be practicing knowing God's voice. Give yourself time to be still. And know that he is God. Read His Word Let your soul be revived at the law of the Lord. Become wise with the testimony of God. Let your heart rejoice at the precepts of God. God's commandments can enlighten your eyes. There is no end to the clean fear of the Lord. God is good. It says, more to be desired are they than gold, even much finer. Sweeter also than honey and the drippings of the honeycomb. Moreover, by them is your servant warned. In keeping them there is great reward. Who can discern his errors? Declare me innocent from hidden faults. Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me, then I shall be blameless and innocent. Innocent of great transgression. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock And my Redeemer. Please, please, please. If you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts. Let's close in prayer.