Okay, so here we are in part fifteen, the second part of this quarter, and the second part of our discussion of this tragedy of rejecting full revelation. So we're in chapter six, um Chapter six of course is a uh uh a difficult chapter, a chapter that's been much discussed and um and much debated among followers of Christ. What does it mean? Does Hebrews chapter six teach Teach that salvation can be lost. And so uh we're gonna look at that today. We're gonna we're gonna look at the perilous position of the unbelievers in this uh church. They had heard and tasted of the word in the spirit and rejected the gospel. We're going to look at an illustration in here, an illustration about rain. We're going to see the fact that God never forgets his own. We're going to see that true faith is characterized by love for God and others, and that unbelievers are urged to imitate true believers here in this part of Hebrews chapter six. But first we're going to take a look back at what we did last time. Last time we did the last few verses of chapter five and the first few verses of chapter six. So Um last week it starts with concerning him, and of course that's looking back to what we did the week before last, uh, which is referring to Melchizedek. And so this whole section of scripture from five eleven through six twenty is really an interlude before the author gets back to Melchizedek in chapter 7. So we're going to come back to Melchizedek, but we have this little interlude here we're going to talk about this warning that comes out. And so he talks about the his hearers being immature and having a dullness of hearing. And when a person is spiritually dull, he is difficult to teach. And so his whole point here is w I can't I gotta make this little interlude here in this warning because I'm going to be talking about this Melchizedek priesthood and it's difficult and you're dull of hearing. Um and so this part of the passage uh probably primarily addressed to unbelievers. But the same principle of course would apply to believers. Um when we have when we don't trust or act on any part of God's word, um, it becomes we can become hardened to it and less likely to benefit from that particular part of Scripture. And that could apply even to a teacher of God's Word. So he's the point he's making is they've been exposed to a great deal of God's truth. Um they had the truth in a certain factual uh superficial way, but the truth hadn't penetrated their hearts. And so that made them unqualified to teach. Not only that, but they needed to go back to the ABCs of their own faith, the elementary principles. The oracles of God referenced Tier, of course, to the Jews being addressed would have been not the New Testament, but the Old Testament. So remember where we are, we're in the 60s AD. And so the New Testament canon is being developed, but it's not complete yet. And so when referring to the Word of God or the Scriptures or the Oracles of God, what is being referred to is the Old Testament. And so if you're a spiritual infant, you're not accustomed to these deeper truths that he's about to go into with Melchizedek that are from the word of righteousness, uh out of the word of righteousness. Um and the mature believer has discernment about these things, but an immature believer that's an immature person that's um that's dull of hearing can have this kind of discernment that he's talking about here. Only a mature believer would have this discernment of good and evil. Uh and then flowing into the same thought train flows into chapter six Um this idea of leaving, we talked about that. Um the the flavor of that Greek word is kind of a total separation. It's used in many contexts in the in the New Testament, but it's always uh the flavor of it is a complete separation. Um as Larry pointed out to me, it's often used about forgiveness and the idea that forgiveness, uh in forgiveness when when our s when our sins are forgiven it's as far as the east is from the West. Um and so there's this this idea of a complete separation with this word leaving. Um and so leaving and going on to maturity are two parts of the same idea. Um the maturity discussed here is that of leaving the ABCs of the old covenant and coming to the full revelation and blessing of the new covenant. Um and so the elementary teachings about Christ, the Messiah, were the Teachings in the Old Testament that were kind of uh the shadows and types that we saw in the Old Testament um about symbols and ceremonies that were pointing forward to the Messiah who came and brought the new covenant. So um the issue here is is not that of growing in spiritual maturity as a Christian, but as coming to the first stage of spiritual maturity and becoming a Christian. Um so the leaving is putting away entirely that old covenant because the new covenant has come. And that's what the Holy Spirit is asking the Hebrews to do here is to abandon the shadows and tithes. of the old covenant and press on to the new covenant. So the foundation here then is the old covenant Um and we went through the six features of that old covenant, repentance from dead works, faith toward God, instruction about washings, laying out of hands, resurrection of the dead, and eternal judgment. And those are all things that were present in the Old Testament. And they were told to put those aside because there was something new. So we talked about this idea that uh there was washings in the Old Testament and there was many of these washings. Each family had a a basin at their uh entrance to their home for the ceremonial washings. There were ser ceremonial washings described for um the priesthood. There was also laying on of hands in the Old Testament. Um the Levitical sacrifices in uh Leviticus one and Levit Leviticus three when a when uh person brought a sacrifice, the person was to put to lay their hands on the sacrifice to show that um to symbolize his identification with the sacrifice, the animal that was about to be sacrificed. And so that's what this is talking about all through here. Uh Um there is of course an understanding of resurrection in the old covenant, but in the new covenant we get uh much clearer um discussion and understanding of the resurrection. In fact, Christ at one time says, I am the resurrection and the life. Um and we we learn in the New Testament about the eternal judgment of uh the great white throne judgment, for example, for unbelievers, the uh judgment of works uh the judgment seat of Christ for the works of believers. Um we learn those details only in the New Testament, not in the Old Testament. Um and so believers will stand before the Lord to have our works judged, but we ourselves are not judged Unbelievers face the great white throne judgment. And so the point here is that the unbelieving Jews should not let go should let go completely of the immature elementary shadows and symbols of the old covenant and take hold of the the new covenant. That's the point. And then he wraps up that thought by saying, This we will do if God permits. And so there's two ways to think about that um we will do um if God permits. Uh the uh one is um an editorial reference to the writer himself saying I will go on to teach you uh what you need to know if God permits me and the other is you will go on to maturity if God permits. Uh either could be correct. They both they're not mutually exclusive in fact. Uh both service and salvation um must be energized by the Holy Spirit, so if God permits, to be effective. And so the real point is the need for divine empowerment. Um the need for God's power in order to do both salvation and service. Okay, any questions about anything that we went through last time before we get into the real Hard passage here this week. Controversial. Brothers in Christ yelling and screaming at one another. No nothing nothing left over from last week. Okay. Um so let's uh let's go on to Hebrews six four to twelve. Um so if you'll bring if you'll open your Bibles or tune your devices to Hebrews chapter six. Starting in verse 4. We're going to go through verse 12. So this is the word of the Lord. For in the case of those who have once been enlightened, and have tasted of the heavenly gift, and have been made partakers of the Holy Spirit And have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the age to come, and then have fallen away. It is impossible to renew them again to repentance, since they again crucify to themselves the Son of God and put him to open shame. For ground that drinks the rain, which often falls on it, and brings forth vegetation, useful to those excuse me useful to those who for whose sake it is also tilled, receives a blessing from God. But if it yields thorns and thistles, it is worthless and close to being cursed, and it ends up being burned. But, beloved, we are convinced of better things concerning you. and things that accompany salvation, though we are speaking in this way. For God is not unjust so as to forget your work, and the love which you have shown toward his name in having ministered and in still ministering to the saints. And we desire that each one of you show the same diligence so as to realize the full assurance of hope until the end, so that you will not be sluggish, but imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the promise promises. So that's the word of the Lord, a difficult passage. So uh I'm going to give you a couple of paragraphs here from a couple of the commentaries just to get it started. So this one is Dr. Robert Martin. That's this commentary here, which I very much like. And it is a very modern one, pr published in twenty twenty. And uh Dr. Martin says this. He's the guy that taught Hebrews in seminary for forty years and then decided to write uh based on his forty years of study of Hebrews. Uh and he says this not to be missed, however, is that all claims to unbiased exegesis of this text are illusions. It contains numerous elements that are subject to widely differing interpretations. For example, the meaning of once, enlightened, and tasted. It is disingenuous to claim that such terms have only one meaning. regardless of the context. Each interpreter, including this one, so he's talking about himself, also brings a theological system to the table and uses it as a grid through which he views this text. To think otherwise is silly. This is the only method possible. Ideally, that theological system has been formulated by consulting what Paul calls the whole council of God, Acts 20, 27. And hopefully it is open to modification as new light is received. So what is he saying here? He's saying that Scripture interprets Scripture. When uh when you do hermeneutics, when you do interpretation of Scripture, what does it mean? We consult other scriptures so that we understand that the whole thing holds together. It has to hold together. God's word is a single um story about him and his redemption, his plan of redemption, so it has to all fit. And so that's what every good interpreter of scripture does. However, there are different systems of interpretation. So there are people that see this whole um the whole council of God as saying different things, especially as it applies to this text. And so I'm going to teach it from a certain system of theology um that has been informed by by my fifty years of studying scripture and standing on the shoulders of hundreds of years of study of scripture before that. But I want you to understand that there are good godly believers who disagree about this particular passage of scripture. Um and that's okay. It really is okay. We can disagree. Alright. So let's uh let me give you one more. This is also from Dr. Martin. So he's gone on uh this is a paragraph a little further down uh where he's gone on to explain how he interprets it and he said and so the the whole idea is is who are the people being described here? Are they believers or are they not? Who are the subjects described? Writers speak either of genuine Christians Or of professing Christians who in time will prove themselves to be either true or false believers. Our study of this question will divide along these lines. Theologically, the greatest problem with the Arminian Wesleyan interpretation is that it runs contrary to the Bible's witness concerning the security and perseverance of true believers, and especially, for example, to the teaching of such passages as John C. 6, 37 to 40, John 10, 27 to 29, Romans 5, 1 to 11, Romans 8, 1, Romans 8, 28. He goes on and on and on and this is just and he then he points out this is not an exhaustive list of relevant passages, but texts like these are part of the grid through which our interpretation of the warning passages in Hebrews must emerge. And so what is he saying here? He's saying that the there are two main ways of digesting all the these passages of scripture. One is the Arminian Wesleyan interpretation, which um which really focuses on the fact that um that it's my decision um that salvation is my decision and so if it's my decision then I can decide to accept Christ and I can also then subsequently since it's my decision to accept him I can also reject him. My decision. Uh the other is the Augustinian Reformed um interpretation which says, because of all these passages that he lists here, that my salvation is a decision of God And since God has decided and says that He won't change His mind in many places, that I can't lose my salvation because it was never my decision to be saved in the first place. Uh, those are the two main theological grids through which to look at this passage. And the author of this commentary comes from the Augustinian Reformed. view of it and so that's how he teaches it. But he starts it off by saying that of course everyone has a grid through which they look at these things and he he is straightforward and transparent about what his grid is. And his grid is the same as my grid, and so that's how I'm gonna teach it as well. So, uh let's take a look at these verses then. So starting with verse 4. Verse 4 to 6, it's all one sentence, both in English and in Greek. For in the case of those who have once been enlightened and have tasted of the heavenly gift, and have been made partakers of the Holy Spirit, and have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the age to come, and then have fallen away, it is impossible to renew. So, uh let's take a look at what uh the the context is here. Uh God can see the heart of all people perfectly. But the writer of Hebrews, like us, cannot see perfectly into the hearts of those around us. The writer of Hebrews is alarmed at the present slothfulness of some who profess to believe in Christ in the congregation he is addressing. He therefore warns all who profess faith in Christ about the danger of total irreversible apostasy. There are two possible responses to this warning. One, some will receive this warning, repent of their sloth, and apply themselves to persevering in faith in Christ. Thus they will both vindicate their profession of faith, and receive the promised inheritance. Others, number two, will reject his warning, continue in sloth until the deceitfulness of sin produces in them a hardened heart of unbelief, resulting in their damnation. Thus they will show that their previous profession of faith was false. So so it it's impossible for us to see into somebody's heart that professes to be a Christian but doesn't look like there um there's any sanctification, there's no um there's doesn't s appear to be any fruit. Um can we see into that person's heart and know for certain whether that person is truly a believer or not a believer. No, we cannot. And so the warning goes out to all of them. Some of whom will take the warning to heart and thereby show that they are in fact uh true believers. And others will ignore the warning, continue on this path of sloth, and show that they are not true believers. But the warning goes to everybody. Um so th there's a there's a group of believers out there that that aren't doing uh don't seem to be doing what a bel a true believer would do. Some of them may be unbelievers and some of them may be believers. That's uh but the the the author doesn't know but the but God does who those people are. Uh the unbelieving Jews were in great danger because of their spiritual immaturity and slugginess of turning back. to Judaism. So that's really the theme of the whole book is warning about turning back to Judaism, um one of the main themes of the book, and of never being able to repent and come to Christ. They would be lost forever because they had rejected at the most one There is no other salvation message they could hear, no evidence of the truth of the gospel they had not seen. These particular Jews had probably even heard the apostles preach and had seen them perform signs and wonders and miracles We saw that in Hebrews 2 4. They had been privileged to behold virtually all the manifestations of his saving word and power that God could give. Any who were so informed, so witnessed to, so blessed with every opportunity to know God's gospel, and who then turned their backs on. on it for Judaism or anything else are external eternally lost. So think about who these people are. So we're talking about the sixty AD time frame. So about thirty years after the crucifixion. So any of them that were My age would have been, say, in their twenties, for the crucifixion, and so could have been there Remember that the the crucifixion takes took place on um Passover weekend and so the diaspora of Jews all came from all over the empire. So wherever this church is, we don't know where it was Most likely the Jews from that region, like every other region, were in Jerusalem for the Passover. And so it is extremely likely that some of them were in the crowd that said, crucify him, crucifi witness the uh the resurrection. And and therefore they were around for things like The miracles that Jesus did, the miracles that Paul and Peter and John did, the miracles that the other apostles did. Most likely some in the in the room were direct eyewitnesses of miracles that attested to the apostles. Apostles' teachings and direct eyewitnesses of the crucifixion. So um they had seen all that could be that God could show to confirm the truth of the gospel. Including most likely some had seen the crucifixion itself and some had seen all the miracles. Um that's the situation that these Jews in this church in um where was these these Hebrew uh uh professed believers in the sixties AD that this writer is writing to. So that's the advantages that they had. Okay. Um so who are those Those who have once been enlightened. So that's the phrase used here. So taking into account the whole counsel of God, these must be those who have acquired such a knowledge of the truth that they understand who Jesus is. And what his claims are, they profess consent to these truths and a saving interest in them. Perhaps they even display changes in behavior which persuade some of those around them that they are born again. Yet their present slothfulness in spiritual things is alarming to this author. The truth of the gospel, in fact, may have taken no root in their hearts. Uh and Jesus talked about that in the parable. of the sower. And so under the influence of trials or other considerations they may revise their verdict about Christ and the gospel, returning like a dog to his vomit, to their old way of life and religion. That's the concern that the author has as he's writing these words. So who are these? Um had they regarded their own case with a lot so that everybody gets the warning Some of them are actually not believers. But some of them may be believers who are just slothful believers. Um had they regarded their own case with alarm and turned their feet again into the path of truth and righteousness, persevered in their attachment to Christ and gone to Christian maturity, they would have shown themselves to be true believers. So depending on how they reacted to this um this warning. And so this is the same all the way through um all churches, all the way up to today, we have people in the church that uh Um seem to be lukewarm. Every church I've been in for fifty years. Some of them may be lukewarm true believers that are stuck in a rut. Some of them may be those who have professed Christ that r are not saved, that that haven't really made a true um commitment of faith in faith. faith in to faith in Christ. Um how do we know which is which? Um we can't tell. However, w one of the things I think that this uh text is implying is when a true believer who is uh truly regenerate but stuck in a spiritual rut hears a warning like this, it's effective and gets them shakes them out of their s their slothfulness and out of their rut and gets them moving in their sanctification again. So a true believer takes this warning to heart and um and buckles down uh Um taps into the power of the Holy Spirit and gets their sanctification back on track. A someone who's not a believer sweffs off this warning and continues um in uh in their sluggishness unless This warning causes them to repent unto salvation. So there's kind of three possibilities there. There's the possibility that someone said True believer but stuck in a rut. This warning shakes them, they get back on track. The possibility that they're not a true believer um and their heart is hardened by by not uh not true truly repenting and they go on to damnation. Or they're not a true believer in this warning wakes them up to the point where they actually do repent unto salvation. So th three possibilities really. Yes. Um as as I read it it uh it's at best and passive warning, it's not yet directing, it's not yet an imperative of do this, if you are in this situation, then turn from it by giving a a direct imperative. So it's a it's a picture that I guess people either grasp or they don't grasp. Yeah, i it's um it is, and and a lot of the warnings are like that Uh the parables, Jesus talked about teaching in parables so that those that with eyes to see could see, but those that were blind couldn't see So sometimes warnings in scripture are given in that way. Although there is a pretty stark warning here in that um then having fallen away is impossible for him to be renewed to repentance. That's that's a pretty stark uh reality that he's addressing there. Um but yeah but you're right. There is a certain veiled w way of making warnings in many cases in Scripture, this one and and many others. And including the the way Jesus taught in parables and then directly, overtly explained to his disciples that the reason for that was that some had eyes to see and others were blind and he's taught in parables because of that, because of the fact that some were blind. Yeah. Yes. Sorry. Go ahead, Diane. I think that's their whole guy and teach as well. And then all in some way in the older age. Yeah, so uh once again I would say that there are two possibilities there. So um uh true Christians are capable of terrible sins. I it's possible. Uh somebody like David is described as a man after God's own heart. He commits m adultery and murder. Those are pretty big sins. Um and if we saw a pastor today commit adultery and murder. What will we do with that pastor? What would we think about that pastor? Would would would would we ever allow that guy to preach again And yet David was restored. And David was uh God retained him as king of Israel. He didn't he didn't s you know, lightning f didn't fall down from heaven and kill him, and he wasn't put out of his position as as as the king over God's people after a horrific sin. And so true followers of Christ are capable of terrible sins and still be true followers of Christ. So if we think about somebody like Steve Lawson, Steve Lawson is who I it sounds like you're you're referring to. Steve Lawson wrote books for many years, he preached for many years. Uh he was a tr terrific preacher that affected many people. Um um and then he fell. He you know, he had some sin that's I mean it's hasn't been very There hasn't been very many public details about it was, but it was something with a young woman that w went on for years. Um what do we think about do do we s do we uh conclude from that that Steve Lawson is is not a believer. Or do we assume that Steve Lawson is a believer but has fallen into a terrible sin. Um so and uh we none of us can see Steve Lawson's heart. Um however there were fifty years of the fruits of repentance and the uh uh and what seemed from uh uh the public eye, from what we can perceive, as uh works of righteousness that he did. And so just from my observation which is incomplete and um and and not like God's observation, I would say that Steve Lawson is most likely a believer Who fell into a terrible sin. Um yeah, right. Um like a lot of times in an evangelism experience when someone is coming back, well, so and so whatever It doesn't make the gospel or the Bible any less true. It may not make the teaching any less truthful and it should be always evaluated against Scripture. So it doesn't mean just start throwing out books and Burning them, is there any less truthful just because the messenger was uh uh flawed 'cause we're we all are. Yeah. perfect pastor that's sinless, you're not gonna listen to any pastors. Um however, there are we see cases where there's these these terrible public sins that a pastor has committed. Um and so you know there are so there are different categories I think. And uh there was a pastor in Montgomery County The guy that wrote uh Kiss Dating Goodbye or something like that. Josh Harrison. Josh Harrison. So he's completely apostatized and says he's no longer a Christian That's different. That's different from Steve Lawson. Steve Lawson hasn't said, I I don't believe the scriptures and I'm no longer a Christian. Joshua Harris said I'm no longer a Christian. Um I think that guy was never a Christian. Um yeah, good. You you mentioned three possibilities. One one of them was the proof of trouble you were that that does. uh come alive again, you know, enlightened again. But uh what about someone that's a true believer and continues in injection? I mean I I wonder if that's what Apostle Paul was referring to Yeah, so I w I would I think that the Apostle Paul is talking about people who were not saved at all I I in that passage and also um the the people that are when we get to it have fallen away, it's impossible for them to repent that those people are people that were not saved at all Um and it's developed a hardened heart over time such that they're never going to be saved. Uh yes. So I think another leader to look at is Andy Stanley. Because he doesn't have a major overarching sins that's you know cutting them away from the church, but his teaching for churches to unhitch from the Bible so as to make it easier for people to be Christians. And it seems that this speaks directed to something like that. Y yes. Andy Stanley's a difficult uh a more difficult one, I think, um, to to discern. Um and so so A Andy Stanley is of course the son of Charles Stanley, a very famous pastor and he's also a pastor of a huge uh church, North Point Church in Georgia. Um and he is He has said some things that give me pause. Like we need to unhitch from the Old Testament. Uh pastors need to unhitch and not not teach the Old Testament. He said that, and I listened to him. I listened to the video and because I somebody told me he said that and I said that can't be and I so I listened to the video and he said it. And he's he's also gone very strong into uh the LBGTQ He's got people on staff who are openly homosexual in a homosexual marriage on his staff. And he leads retreats uh to uh to to help the other members of the church to accept people. Who were in homosexual marriages and homosexual lifestyle. So he openly teaches that that's okay. And that's one of the reasons why he says we need to unhitch from that Old Testament thing. Um although the New Testament Uh New Testament is very consistent with the Old Testament teaching and when it comes to homosexuality. Anyway, so Andy Stanley teaches things that are uh that are not in accordance with scripture. So he's he's teaching bad theology, I think. So well how do you know when somebody's a false teacher Somebody's a false teacher when they teach false things. Um so how uh however there there are things like um so If if somebody disagrees with me on the interpretation of Hebrews 6, 4 to 6, do I call them a false teacher? I do not. I do not call them a false teacher. However, if someone ts tells me that they need to we need to unhitch from the old testament and not teach what's in there, that's a different kettle of fish. Um and so I think i if not already Andy Stanley is is perilously close to being putting himself into that category of a false teacher. Um very unfortunate. Now, can I see his heart? No. Am I the one who will judge him? No. The Lord will judge him. Um yeah. Yeah. But you see, we see those sort of things and so uh it it takes some discernment to see who is teaching truth, who is teaching falsehood, and sometimes uh falsehood can be wrapped up in language that sounds like sounds biblical uh and it's not and sometimes it does Take some discernment to weed through that. Yes, Bill. Agreed. And so yeah, that's another w one that's very difficult. Uh that one's different I th it's similar in some ways to um Steve Lawson, uh but see but a little bit different in that there was It it seemed to be mu h much more of his personal li uh life was um was really aberrant. From what I know. Now I don't know m much of the details about Steve Lawson. Maybe Steve Lawson was very similar to to Robbie Zach. I don't know. Um but yeah that's a um uh that's another one that's uh somebody that wrote books and and And um uh I went to a conference where he was the main speaker at my previous church. It was great. I I got a chance to sit down and talk to him for a while. He seemed like a great guy But he was hiding those secrets i in his heart. Um so i i it's very difficult to know for sure what's in the heart of another person. Um you have to watch what they say and you have to watch what they do. And in some cases there's a real sharp difference in what people say and what they do. Um so yeah I don't I don't know how to characterize Robbie Zacharias. That's a that's a Really tough one. I I would I would like to offer that I think um an expanding a problem is not worse than the other two because um whether you believe or not I guess we can't judge that. However he is leading a host of people to the way of the truth. I remember correctly Yeah. Yeah, there's uh there's very harsh warnings. That one by Jesus, uh the one Paul now many of us should be teachers 'cause the w teachers will be held to a higher standard. Um yeah. Yeah, there's it's bad. It's bad to lead people astray. To be a um a teacher pastor and to lead people astray is Jesus said it'd be better to have a millstone tied around your neck and thrown into the sea. Um it's bad. Yeah. Yes. And we stay down here and we'll answer whatever. So any of those false processes I don't read of any of them pretending. One thing we talked about the short care for Cavalo Captain and the key was a Jeremiah. Um not that I know of. Um I mean it's possible that it happened, but I don't think there's any record and scripture of that happening. Yeah. Okay. Yes. I I just had a question, uh clarifying if this basement uh fallen away, is that the the same as what the thing into a particular thing or is it I think I usually thought about that with a blocking lucky temporal or if it had some or something. Yeah so we'll get there. We haven't quite got to verse six yet Uh we're still we're still on verse four. Uh uh but it's um I think it's falling away from a previous profession So it's a person that has professed Christ, but it's a false profession, falling away from even that profession. Um, yeah. I think that's what it's talking about. So, uh we g we gotta continue. Go ahead. This seems like this is directed at the person who has fallen away, but if we if we have a friend who we're looking at them are like, wow, um you you have fallen away. You know, it's not Robbie Zacharias or somebody famous. It's just somebody at church or somebody that we know claims to be a believer and isn't living like Yep. So yeah, so what's the responsibility? So we'll get there to verse nine and ten uh to talk about what the true believers are supposed to be to do. Uh one thing is to give an example. The other is Um to talk to that person uh very frankly about their sanctification. I've noticed that you've been here in church for a while, you've been a believer for a while. How's your spiritual growth? How are your um how how are the means of grace in your life going? Your your scripture reading and your prayer life, uh your service to other b uh believers within the church, how how is that going Asking those kind of questions are um those are diagnostic. If the person that hears that says, I I'm not doing well, can you help me Uh you know, how how what's your secret? I I can't uh I can't seem to um uh to get a uh routine going to read scripture and pray. Can you help me? That that's a true believer who's uh that's struggling. I if If the person s either lies to you and makes something up or or or doesn't want to talk about it, then that's an indication that that person may not be saved at all. And so what do you do? Wha what what does a person that's not saved need? Needs the gospel. So you gotta present the gospel. Um so y you need to have a relationship with somebody in order to be able to help them in this way. So you gotta get to know 'em, you gotta ask the hard questions. Um, how you doing? How's your spiritual life doing? I can remember um my father who was my primary disciple discipler um all my life. He just passed away in August. Um but he would ask me all the time How how are you how are you doing? How is your spiritual life? How is how are are you right with God? He asked me those questions all the time, and I expected him to ask me those questions all the time And I I talked to him on the phone all the time. When I was in college, when I was in the Navy, um when I moved here, um he he we had that kind of relationship. Um that he would he would ask me those questions and I wanted him to ask me those questions. You should definitely have somebody in your life who's like that, uh who's asking you those those questions. Um and you should be that person to somebody else. So So um the the the illustration is uh Paul and Barnabas and Timothy should have everybody should have a a Paul in their life that's uh speaking truth from a position of uh of uh uh greater knowledge and advancement in the scriptures. and everybody should have a Timothy in their life that's somebody that that's not as far along that you're speaking to and everybody should have a Barnabas that's about the same um as you that can ask you also questions along the way. Um and so the real picture for uh for believers is uh to to be watching out for your brothers and sisters. Um to to if you see somebody that appears to be struggling Reach out to that person, ask them tough questions. How are you doing spiritually? How are you right with God? How are your means of grace, your scripture and and Bible reading, your service. Um I notice you've been here at the church for a while but you're not serving in any ministries. Is that an offensive question to ask? Maybe. But if you've gotten to know the person and and you're asking in the right way uh um then that's a question you can ask. Yeah. Yep. That's right. That's right. But don't don't um don't don't let the possibility that somebody may be offended keep you from reaching out to your brothers and sisters with a helping hand. Because that's uh it's worse to just let the person go off a cliff, um if they if they need help. Um yeah. So, uh good question. Uh let me roll roll back along. So uh over the People that are being inscribed here are the ones described as by the parable of the sower by Christ, uh that fell on the rocky places. So uh the initially the seed goes on the rocky places, it shoots up but it has no roots, so it withers away when the sun comes out. Uh that's the people who he's talking about here. Um they're further described as uh having tasted of the heavenly gift. The Greek word here, geomai, have tasted, means to try the flavor of the gift in view. And so the real question is the degree of tasting. Is it a little on the tip of the tongue to get a taste or wolfing down the whole meal to get a taste? So depending on whether you're from the uh Wesleyan Arminian school of looking at scripture or you're from the Augustinian Reform i it's either a little taste or it's taste means you got the whole thing. Um so given the emphasis of the author of Hebrews already has given to elementary principles that have not yet been digested thoroughly, preference should be given to the idea of a partial experience of the heavenly gift. Of course that's my interpretation of how to read scripture through my whole grid That's how I see it, yeah. Well you say that's my are you also thinking of scripture. Yes, that's how uh we interpret scripture, all of your elders me and the other elders, um and all the reformed theologians, um and all the actually going all the way back to Augustine, that's how Augustine interprets scriptures in the four hundreds. Um but there's a whole other tradition, the Arminian Wesleyan tradition, um that sees it otherwise. Um okay, so um they have not s not so consumed and digested the truth that it becomes saving nourishment to their souls. For a while they like its taste, but other considerations eventually cause them to spit it out of their mouths. This has been the case with many in every generation due to persecution or unwillingness to pay the cost of discipleship or love of the world. many, many reasons. Um we we may be partakers of the uh yes. Yeah, Joel, go ahead. Um so I I think that it's uh it's there's kind of a um a further elucidation of that in the um in verse five. So when we get to verse if we ever get to verse five, um ver verse four has the general principles, um enlightened and tasted of the heavenly uh gift and then verse five has a uh kind of expounding on that uh taste of the good word of god and powers of the age to come And so powers of the age to come, I think, uh think about who these are. These are uh these are Jews who who have the Old Testament, and so what did the Old Testament say is the age to come That's the age of Messiah. So these Hebrew Hebrews are in the Old Testament the age to come. The age to come is the age that they're in right now And that's the age of uh the uh the powers of the age to come or all the workings of the Holy Spirit. the the heavenly gift of all the signs and miracles and wonders that they had observed. That's what I think it's it's talking about. Okay. Um so um we may be partakers of the Holy Spirit in one of two ways, by his personal indwelling or by Spiritual working. Concerning the first way, the world cannot receive him because it does not see him or know him, but you know him because he abides with you and will be in you. So that's Jesus talking to his disciples about the Holy Spirit. So the Holy Spirit hadn't come yet, the indwelling of the Holy Spirit wasn't a thing until um until um the Pentecost. But but Jesus is saying that's what's going to happen. He abides with you right now, and he will be in you is what Jesus is saying to the disciples. And so that is only for believers. Concerning the second ways, gift may be enjoyed and used by those who are unconverted. The Holy Ghost is present with many as unto powerful operations, with whom he is not present as to gracious inhabitation. Or many are made partakers of him in his spiritual gifts, who are never made partakers of him in his gifts. is saving graces, John Owens. So John Owen, um the um the great Puritan teacher who wrote his two million word uh commentary on Hebrews. Uh this is just volume five of the seven volume set. Um and so that was that was just a quote from him Uh that's sh he's so this one's from twenty twenty and this one's from sixteen hundreds. Um so uh that's what he said, and I think he's right about that. And some examples are Judas and Demas in the New Testament and the false prophet Balaam in the Old Testament. Old Testament. So Balaam was a false prophet, but the Holy Spirit used him uh in Numbers chapter twenty-two um to uh to get God's message across through this false prophet. And we know he's a false prophet. There's three references to him in the New Testament, making sure we understand that Balaam was a false prophet And yet the Holy Spirit through Balaam gave these prophecies to Balak. And so there's examples of the Holy Spirit being in and through unbelievers, including false prophets, interestingly enough. Okay. And so one more commentary I'll quote. This is William Lindsay. uh a Scottish uh theologian from the eighteen hundreds. Uh these gifts were a manifest token of the presence of God, and those who either possessed them or witnessed them in others enjoyed the most palpable evidence of the truth of Christianity. Thus laid under the strongest obligations to be faithful, obedient, and persevering. And if they afterwards abandoned the truth or became remiss in the discharge of their duties they has plainly incurred very aggravated guilt and exposed themselves to the righteous displeasure of God. Under the tomb Holy Ghost, may here be included whatever the Spirit did to display the truth to the minds of those of whom the Apostle is speaking. Whatever evidence he afforded them, either in their own experience or in the miracles performed by others of the truth of the gospel, whatever striving he may have made in their hearts to induce them to forsake sin. So what he's talking about here in reference to this passage is that these were in sixty AD they had seen all of these workings of the Holy Spirit in miracles and signs and wonders. They were the generation that saw them personally, not just read about them in the New Testament like we do. This was the generation that got to see those signs and wonders and miracles, confirming the God. gospel message. Yeah. So in that way we have to be as parallel to the text that we're going to talk about. Israel and provided it be quote. Absolutely. And that's a r y yeah, that's absolutely correct. And that's that's really the The whole if you think about this is remember this is a letter that they would have been all hearing in one sitting or a sermon that they're hearing all at once. And so they've already been hammered with this idea that this generation in the wilderness got to see the Passover with their own eyes. To walk through the Red Sea and see the walls of water on either side with their own eyes. They got to see water coming out of a rock and manna coming from heaven. And They didn't believe and so that was it. They were they were not allowed into the into the promised land. Yes, so the parallels are are definitely there. In this by the same author, in the same letter, in the same sermon. Yeah. It's the same. Good observation. Um so now we're all the way to verse five. So we finished verse four. We finished verse four. Uh we've only got uh like nine more verses to go. Uh the phrasing in verse five. So remember, what is the word of God to these first century Jews. The Old Testament. The the canon of the New Testament is not even done yet. So the Word of God is talking about the Old Testament. And two, as the living word of a living God, which retains the same powers when first uttered The unbelieving Jews among the congregation had tasted this, yet they had not ingested and digested it. The phrase powers of the age to come, the Greek word uh dunamis Uh powers likely refers to the signs, wonders, and miracles noted in Hebrews 2. 4. See also Matthew 7, 22, and 23, and 1 Corinthians 12. And so they had seen The Old Testament described the age to come, this messianic age where the Messiah was uh the advent of Messiah and all these signs and wonders, and they had seen that They had seen that, they had tasted of that. Um from the Old Testament view, they were living in the age to come, the age of the Messiah's Advent. But if we take the have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the age to come as referring to their knowledge of the gospel and its confirming signs, do we not introduce a redundancy into the text? Is this not also what the writer meant by the language he chose in Hebrews 6. 4? The answer is that there is repetition, but it is deliberate. Hebrews six five, the words tasted the good word of God and the powers of the age to come express more specifically what the writer meant at Hebrews six four. I tasted the heavenly gift and have become partakers of the Holy Spirit. The clauses in Hebrews six four therefore are not coordinate with those in 6. 4 uh but a sensive. That is, in Hebrews 6. 5 the writer uses more specific language to express the same truths as Hebrews 6. 4. He's expressing the same truths in a different way, in a kind of a more expanded way. in 6. 5. That's Dr. Martin again. So the picture the author draws is that in spite of their knowledge of the gospel and its miraculous confirmations, they had cast the gospel from them. They had fallen away in that sense. This is a simple figurative description of the apostasy of once professing yet false believers. It is also important to note that the author does not what the author does not say about them. So what does he not say about these false believers? And this is John Owen again. Here is no express mention of any covenant of grace or mercy in them or towards them, nor of any duty of faith or obedience which they had performed. Nothing of justification. Sanctification or adoption is expressly assigned unto them. So what Owen is pointing out there is that this description here doesn't have any of the marks that we would expect uh to talk about a person that's truly saved. That's uh Owen's point there. Uh this is a strong contrast to what we will see in verses nine and ten discussing true believers who also may be slaughtered sometimes but have Saving faith. They could not return because they had crucified to themselves the Son of God and put him to open shame. To themselves, here means that as far as they were concerned, the Son of God deserved to be crucified. Obviously, Jesus is not It's to themselves as far as they're concerned, within themselves. Regardless of what they may still have been pro professing openly and publicly, they now took their stand with the crucifiers. Especially if they returned to Judah Judaism, they would would then be tacitly approving of what the Jews did to him. To them, the charges against Jesus of being an imposter and deceiver were true and he got exactly what was coming to him. For all intents and purposes they were crying with the mob, crucifying. And some of them may have actually been in that mob in the first place. would work for the older members of the congregation to have been there. Uh and now they were falling away into that same thing. Um and so there's a you can make a diagram of the sentence. Um Uh that puts it this way, for it is impossible again to be renewed to repentance those who once were enlightened, having tasted the heavenly gift and become partakers of the Holy Spirit, um even having tasted the Word of God and the powers of the age to come, and fell away. since they crucify again for themselves the Son of God and put him to an open shame. That's just a different way of diagramming the sentence that lays out the elements of it. Uh that's also Dr. Martin again. Um so all the way up to verse yes, sorry. Clarify then um I have a a friend um who I think falls into the Joshua Paris group that you were talking to people who growing up openly professed to be a Christian and now used to be an atheist. Right. Do that verse then say that she's not able to become a Christian then at this point because of she knew everything and was claiming to be a Christian and openly I I would say um that it's impossible for us to know that for certain. It's impossible for you to know that for certain. So I would say that it's worth uh preaching the gospel to that person. I would not give up on that person. Um I I I you know this i it's it's not clear how How much to generalize this particular situation? So uh there are a lot of things that seem to be particular to first century Hebrews. Now, of course, at least some of it is applicable to others and churches down through the years. But how much uh and how closely we can match it to the situation of a a real person that we know today, I think is is not clear. It's not clear to me. And so I would not give up on a person like that. Um that's that would That would be my my advice. Yes. So what convinced me a little bit is that create re new screen type? Is then some of the versions that's not in other speed stuff? Restore again to repentance. That phrase is listening in like the original, but in your verse six, um Four. If they fall away. Verse six and then falling away. It is impossible to renew them again to repentance. What what what is missing? Okay, maybe in my version it's just in verse four. To restore again to repentance. Um yeah, so it it di well so in the NHB that's in verse six. Are you saying that in another verse it's in the different Another version, it's in a different verse? Okay. Which which ver version is that? ESV. ESV. Um, I don't know. Yeah. Okay. So it says the sentence is long except Yeah. Um and one of the ways that uh Dr. Martin diagrams is is for it is impossible to renew to repentance those who want. He puts that at the beginning Um to diagram the sentence that way. Um so I guess it can be diagrammed different ways. Um yeah. Uh I had a comment about uh shared person. Um The scripture said that we should pray for people that God may perhaps grant repentance. And we need to remember that it's God who grants repentance and anyone who can repent will be saved. Right. And so it's worth sharing because like you said, we don't know who God has granted to repent. But there comes a time when like Esau was not able to repent. God did not grant him. Right. Yeah, a and and evidently there was a group of people here that um i i i if they had for so long hardened their hearts uh being uh false professors that a at a certain point God had decided that that it was in would be impossible for them to repent. It's a it is. Yeah. So uh I agree. I agree that we should always err on the side of of um assuming that it's possible. Uh that it's assuming that there's still a a hope for the person. Um yes. I don't want to wanna continue down the rabbit trail, but I think it's important. One of the things maybe in the polls case is if you have a friend, if they're absolutely close to God They're gonna separate from you and they're not gonna be your friend. But if they're either A, they're gonna be violently hostile and that's casting your pearls before swine, or they're your friend and they're just kind of lukewarm and then they're entertaining you, to me that's a an opportunity. They're still your friend and they're willing to listen to you because I think that something's in the heart that says something tells me that this Christian, there's something about this person that I need to connect with. It's it's the Lord working. So I think our hope is that person will separate from you if they're violently rejecting the documents. opportunities that the Holy Spirit gives, I think. Yeah, Richard. But to truly the the way they worship it are not as believers. So you know, you have those who are who are who are false and they know they're false but they can act as believers. Yeah. Yeah, that's a hardened heart, I think, right there. Yeah. Alright, so uh m moving along, we've got verses seven and eight is a Um an illustration. So the writer supports his warning against apostasy by an illustration drawn from agriculture. Similar, not exactly the same, but similar to what Jesus did with the parable of the sower. The rain which comes on the land is symbolic of the abundance and nourishing word of the gospel which brings forth growth. Some of the growth is beautiful and good and productive. It is that which is planted, rooted, and nourished in God. But some of the growth is false, spurious, unproductive, thorns and thistles. It has been nourished by the same rain, the same gospel, but it's become thorny, destructive, and worthless. It has rejected the life offered it and become good only for burning. So that's his illustration of the point that he's just been made, the warning that he's just And then in nine and ten uh there's a severe warning, and then there's a loving and tender appeal that comes right after it in verses nine and ten. Uh the writer was hoping earnestly that the unbelievers uh he so forcefully had been warning would not fall away, that they would not apostasize. And then he addresses the believers that so remember it's a whole congregation, there's many believers there. There's some that are professing Christians that may or may not be real believers. But there are also true believers there. And he he addresses them and and how we know he addresses them is because he says beloved Um the unbelievers are never addressed by beloved. That term would never refer to an unbeliever. So he's now referring to true believers. He then mentions things that accompany salvation. There was nothing that accompanied salvation. In the previous section, that he was talking about the uh unbelievers. But now he's talking about things that accompany sal salvation. Um so um both of these things, the use of Beloved and the discussion of s of salvation conditions, indicate the writer's change. Change of emphasis here. The previous topics, intellectual enlightenment about God's word, tasting God's gifts in the Spirit, accompany revelation, not salvation. They are meant of course to help lead to salvation, but they do not do so apart from faith. So um then he at the end of that sentence, though we are speaking in this way, no doubt is meant to be an encouragement to fellow believers who after reading the previous section may have been wondering as do many Christians today, if this warning applied to them. Um so um if you move to the last part of uh Verse nine towards the beginning and paraphrase something like Beloved fellow Christians, though we have been speaking about these awesome and fearful warnings to unbelievers, we know that Far better things apply to you. You have the accompaniments of salvation, not of unbelief. These warnings to apostates and potential apostates are put in this letter to you because these people are in your midst Because you need to know there are people out there and you need to reach out and help them. God knows who are really His and who are faithful He knows. He can see perfectly into everyone's heart. He will not forget his own or their work for him Uh that's what the this writer is now pivoting to, comforting the true believers who may have been uh alarmed by the warnings that are going to the uh to the unbelievers. Uh our names are securely in his book of life. Salvation will not be lost and our rewards will not be forgotten. Many Christians today, as throughout history, experienced times of doubt and even anguish at the supposed prospect of losing their salvation. When they read or hear a message of judgment, they are shaken and insecure. They do not know what it is to rest in the finished work of Christ and in their positional standing in him before God. That's the case for many. Not all, of course, uh but many are alarmed, concerned um when they read something like this. God always knows his faithful. He always knows his own. We should not fear the final judgment. If we are in Christ, we can never be condemned, Romans 8. 1. We should Should not worry about missing the rapture. If we belong to Christ, he will be sure to take us with him. So that's why these verses are in here in the middle of this warning. Um love for the service uh to the brethren is an evidence of salvation. That's very clear here. It's also clear in other places in the scripture, John 13, for example. But an even more significant evidence is love shown toward his name. God knows when our service is truly for his glory by whether or not it is done out of love for his name. And so you can f fool people, but you can't fool God in this respect. What is the motivation for the things that we do in the church? sees the motivation. Is it for the love of his name? As important as loving fellow Christians is, loving God is more important. In fact, without loving God first, we are not able to love each other as we should. The Jewish Christians being commended here ministered to the saints. First of all, out of their love for God's name. So, um the key to true Christian service is love for the Lord Our responsibility, our calling is to love and serve fellow Christians And also unbelievers, first of all because of love for God. So we have a couple minutes. Um I'm sorry, losing my voice. Uh in verse eleven and twelve the the writer pivots again to talk Talking about unbelievers, those who had m made some sort of profession of faith but were in danger of falling back into Judaism and of losing forever their opportunity of salvation. So the hope that is extended to them is for them to become imitators of the true believers. They have just been described in verse 9 and 10 by becoming true believers themselves. So they are to show the same diligence As has just been described in verse 9 and 10, the diligence of the true believers. And the result would be full assurance of hope, just like the true believers. The enemy of diligence is the sluggish attitude of the heart that they have just been. So before it's too late, uh those on the edge of salvation need to imitate true believers and become themselves true believers. And that faith is evidenced by love and labor. for the Lord, uh as just described. Alright. Uh any questions? Any questions about any of that? Yeah, Larry. Yeah. It it's always wise to stick with scripture. Always wise. It is all required to ask some questions. Yep. Yep. All right. Well, let me close with a word of prayer