Alright, so here we are in uh part sixteen. So uh we're gonna be doing the the latter part of chapter six today. Um this is kind of an interlude between the first mention of the this person Melchizedek and getting back to Melchizedek again, which is what we'll do starting next week. And you'll notice at the very end, the last verse of what we studied today, it's several Back to Melchizedek again. So we're going to talk today about the securities of God's promise. So when God promises something How is it that we're sure uh that that promise will come true, that God will keep his promises? And so the author of Hebrews is uh reminding his audience of the reasons why we can trust God. uh we can take him at his word. So uh we're gonna look at God's person and his character as reasons we can trust, his promises. We're gonna look at the purposes that he had for his people under the old covenant. We're gonna look at his oath. He makes an oath here in this passage. We're gonna look at hope as an anchor to the soul. And we're gonna circle back at the very end to our high priest, which leads us into chapter seven, which goes really back into depth of the priesthood of Melchizedek and why that's such a good picture of Christ. Okay. Uh but first we want to take a look back at what we did last week. So Uh last week we were uh in the earlier part of chapter six, the the writer of Hebrews is alarmed over what he sees uh among this congregation, the slothfulness of some who profess Christ in the congregation. And so therefore he warns all who profess Christ about the dangers of uh apostasy. Um and so there the uh the the author of Hebrews himself can't look into the hearts of the people. So he gives this warning out and And the warning will be received by some and and rejected by others, and we talked about that last week. And and somebody who rejects this warning is somebody whose profession of faith was most likely false to begin with. Professor of Christ, but not r uh they haven't truly come to saving faith. And he's concerned about that. He's trying to shake them out of that. So uh he he describes them in a certain way, those who have once been enlightened, uh so they have some knowledge. They have some understanding of who Jesus is and what his claims are, and they profess to consent to these truths. Um but these are the ones that Christ described in his parable of the sower in Matthew chapter thirteen as the the Sea that fell on the rocky place. And so these the elementary principles, of course, are the Old Testament principles about who the Messiah would be. Partakers in the Holy Spirit. We talked about this, especially I gave this quote from John Owen that the Holy Ghost is present of many as unto the power powerful operations with whom he is not present as to gracious inhabitation. Many are made partakers of him and his spiritual gifts who are never made partakers of him and his saving graces. And there are examples in both the Old Testament and the New Testament. In the New Testament, Judas, of course, uh was not saved, but he was he was one of the two by two that were sent out. Um and powerful things were done by the Holy Spirit in and around Judas, but he was never saved. Uh and the same thing in the Old Testament with the prophet Balaam, he was a false prophet. The New Testament makes it very crystal clear he was a false prophet and not saved, but the Holy Spirit still worked through this false prophet. Okay. Uh the good word of God of course is what the Old Testament says about salvation. Um and So the Old Testament Jews, uh the unbelieving Jews in the congregation had tasted this, but they hadn't uh acted on it. They hadn't truly um taken to heart what the Old Testament said and um put faith in Christ. And because of that, they um they'd cast the gospel away. They had in that sense fallen away. Um and they couldn't return because, uh as the author of Hebrews puts it, um, to themselves, as far as they were concerned, they were putting uh him to open shame, Christ uh in open shame. And so we talked about the fact that these particular Hebrews in 60, mid-60s AD, uh some of those in the congregation that were old enough, say in their fifties, would have have been old enough to have been adults at the crucifixion. And so remember the the the um the background of the crucifixion it was during Passover week And so you had the all the Jews from all over the Roman Empire came to Jerusalem for Passover week. And so wherever this congregation was, most likely some from that congregation had been there for Passover Week for the crucifixion and quite possibly could have been among the crowd saying, Crucify him, crucify him. And so here they were rejecting him and in a sense saying, Crucify him. crucify him all over again. Um and so then there's a illustration um that we talked about last week of uh rain uh from agriculture and the same gospel is proclaimed out to to everyone and some it's pr productive and some it's it's unproductive. Then there's a little brief aside in verses 9 and 10 where he very uh clearly addresses the true believers in the congregation. He calls them beloved. And that's how we know for certain. And then it also he follows that up by saying things that accompany salvation. So uh it's really clear that those two verses are are very directly addressing the true believers in the congregation. And he's trying to give um a little bit of a pep talk in the midst of this kind of stern warning that's that's kind of scattershot out to the whole congregation. He he has this one little aside to the true believers in the congregation saying, even though I'm speaking in this way to this whole congregation, just know that you true believers are um uh that God is not unjust. He won't forget his his true followers. Uh God can see right into the heart and so there's no there's no danger here for true believers in uh in this warning. So Um that's that's kind of this little aside for a couple of verses. And then he describes what these true believers do. They have love, they s they serve the brothers, and they serve the brothers uh because it's kind of an outpouring of their love shown toward his name, toward God Himself. Uh and then verse eleven and twelve it goes uh back really to uh addressing or talking about unbelievers, those who are in danger imminent danger of falling back into Judaism, which he's been addressing all along in the letter. Um and so th this this hope that's extended to them though is to be imitators of those who are true believers. So verses So that's what we did last time. Any questions about the first time? out where we were last time. Yes. Yeah we just had a little bit of question. Yes. Yeah, so what they had seen, so they had seen the working of the Holy Spirit, and they had seen it very directly. So remember the time period we're talking about here. in the sixties, we have all the sign gifts. So uh we believe that the sign gifts have ceased now. We don't see people going out doing miraculous healings and and all the miraculous signs that Paul and Peter and James and John did All the apostles did miraculous signs and those things were to verify that what they were teaching was truly the word of God and was the true gospel. And now that that's the Canada scriptures finished, we have the New Testament. Those signs gifts have ceased and so we don't see those things today. But these guys did see all those things. They were of the generation that got to see The all the miraculous signs and wonders that the Holy Spirit did through the apostles to confirm these scriptures that were being written during their lifetime. And so that I think that's what Hebrews 24 is to. talking about, that's what this is talking about as well. And so having seen those things and remember the comparisons that he's previously been making to the wilderness generation. So the wilderness generation saw all those signs and wond signs and wonders uh of a sim similar magnitude in the all the all the plagues on Egypt, they saw those, especially the Passover, they saw that. They themselves walked between the walls of water of the Red Sea as it parted. They saw water come out of a rock. They saw man will fall from heaven. That wilderness generation that these Hebrews in first century being compared to had seen all of those signs and wonders of the Holy Spirit and yet they disbelieved. And so they Therefore they were severely punished forty years in whoever's not allowed to go into the promised land. And that's the comparison the author of Hebrews has been making all the way up to here, and so I think it it fits into the same mold as this warning about the the wilderness generation. It's all the works of the Holy Spirit. And so these Hebrews in this at the time of this letter was written also had seen of a similar magnitude all the signs and wonders that the apostles did. the the Holy Spirit did through the apostles, and yet this the the author is saying, and yet you're you're falling away, you're turning back to Judaism, uh, and he's warning them and he he had already compared them to that wilderness generation. I think this is the same in the same vein of warning. Yeah. Good question. Alright, let's move on then to the rest of chapter 6. If you'll open your Bibles or tune your devices to Hebrews chapter 6 We'll be starting at verse 13. So Hebrews chapter 6, 13 to the end of the chapter. Okay, so remember uh in the middle of uh chapter five, uh it was talking about Melchizedek, the priesthood of Melchizedek, and this little uh diversion from uh verse 11 of chapter five to the end of chapter six. is um a a warning that's interposed here um as a parentheses before he goes back to Melchizedek. So you'll see Melchizedek as the last word of chapter six. Alright, uh it's beginning in Verse thirteen, for when God made the promise to Abraham, since he could swear by no one greater, he swore by himself, saying, I will surely bless you, and I will surely multiply you And so, having patiently waited, he obtained the promise. For men swear by one greater than themselves, and with them an oath given as confirmation is an end of every dispute. In the same way, God, desiring even more to show to the heirs of the promise the unchangeableness of his purpose, interposed with an oath. So that by two unchangeable things in which it is impossible for God to lie, we who have taken refuge would have strong encouragement to take hold of the hope set before us. This hope we have as an anchor. of the soul, a hope both sure and steadfast, and one which enters within the veil Where Jesus has entered as a forerunner for us, having become a high priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek. So this is the word of the Lord. I'll give you a few paragraphs. From the commentary by uh Dr. Martin in his section on this uh this scripture. And he introduces it this way: He says, Before moving to the example of Abraham's persevering faith, note that faith, hope, and Love, as we saw in uh 1 Corinthians 13 and 1 Thessalonians 1, are linked here with the suitably pragmatic companion terms perseverance, diligence, and work. The faith of Which the writer speaks is a persevering faith. The hope of which he speaks is a hope which presses on with the business at hand. The love of which he speaks is a working love. Undoubtedly, the unique and prominent place that Abraham Abraham held in the history of God's covenant dealings with Israel, and the reverence with which the Hebrews looked upon him led to our writers citing his case in order to illustrate his point, as Paul does in Romans 4. The promise of blessing, land, and descendants was originally given to Abraham at Haran, and he obeyed God in faith. So Abraham departed as the Lord had spoken to him, Genesis 12. His promise was confirmed at Shechem later in Genesis. Genesis 12, at Bethel in Genesis 13, after the slaughter of the kings in Genesis 15, in his 99th year in Genesis 17 And at the destruction of Sodom in Genesis 18. Citing Genesis 22, 16, and 17, our writer notes that on the occasion of Abraham's testing concerning the sacrifice of Isaac, God, as previously in Genesis 15, confirmed his promise with an oath. This testing was the climax of many years of patient endurance during which he had not wavered through unbelief, as Paul mentions in Romans chapter 4. So, um, everybody think back to the timeline of Abraham. So about how old was Abraham when he was first given the promise and first told to leave uh Ur of the Chaldees. Does it About seventy-five. So he's around seventy-five. And how old was he when Isaac was born? About a hundred. So twenty-five years. So he was given a promise and then waited and waited. And waited and waited for twenty five years. Yes. Well that's how Paul put it. But didn't he labor when they took uh Hagar to So um who hatch that plan? His wife and so he went along with that's the same as in the garden, the what's the one that's gonna be a good one. It is agreed. Agreed. Ag agreed. A and yes. And so Abraham is at fault for that. However, it's interesting that in Romans four, uh, Paul says that his faith didn't waver. So he was wrong to do what he did. But it wasn't from a lack of faith, according to Paul in Romans chapter 4. So yes, he sinned. He did he he did the wrong thing. But according to um Paul in Romans four, his faith didn't waver throughout all that. He didn't waver through unbelief. Right. Right. So his faith didn't fall away. He didn't lose his faith. Um yeah. Yes. He sinned but didn't lose his faith. And so I think that's a Um, there's a parallel to uh Christians today who fall into some kind of sin. It does not mean that you have lost your faith. A Abraham fell into some sort of sin. He went along with a bad idea that his wife had just as Adam went on with a bad idea that his wife had, um and sinned. But he did not it did not indicate that he had lost faith in God. His faith in God. So yeah. Uh so yes, so that's That's the timeline, 75 to 100. So think about that. It it doesn't take us very long to read those pages in the scripture. Um you can sit down and read from Genesis 12 to Genesis 22 in an hour. But it's 25 years of Abraham's life. And think about your own life and when you have been waiting for something. Uh how many times if you had to wait a week does it seem like forever? Um when you were a kid and you were waiting for Christmas to get here. Uh twenty-five years is a long time. to wait for a promise. It's a long time. Uh sometimes we lose that because it's it's only ten chapters of scripture. It doesn't that's not very long. Uh twenty five years of of Abraham's life. Including the the very uh extreme testing of the incident with Isaac in uh in Genesis chapter twenty-two. Okay, so that's the background. That's the background, and of course the author knows that all the his audience knows that story. They know they know very well the story of Abraham, and once again he's giving just an index quote, just a very tiny sliver of that scripture that he assumes will Bring up the entire story of Abraham in the minds of his readers, his original audience. Okay, so uh these first few verses for when God made the promise to Abraham, since he could swear by no one greater, he swore by himself, saying, I will surely bless you and I will surely multiply you. That's from Genesis twenty two, uh after the incident with Isaac. And so having patiently waited, he obtained the promise. So Abraham waited twenty five years. So he there is Abraham. Abraham waited patiently and obtained the promises. uh tame the promise. So um as we've seen uh up to this point the writer is urging the Jews to completely abandon the old covenant, to abandon the shadows and the types and the ceremonies, because the real thing is here. And and then he goes to this example So everything from Judaism is to be dropped away, all the ceremonies and symbols, and they are to commit themselves entirely to Jesus Christ in the new covenant, which is the fulfillment of the old covenant. Uh the forms and rituals and ceremonies and practices are to be left behind because the reality is here. One of the major themes of the whole book of Hebrews. But as the writer says very clearly here, And says even more clearly when we get to chapter 11, the true substance, even of the old covenant, was faith. So the faith of Abraham they're not supposed to put aside All the symbols and types that were pointing to Messiah, Messiah's here, put those away, but don't put away The faith of Abraham. Um that was something that is unchangeable, immutable, and that that's really the uh what comes out of this passage. Un the unchangeable thing about everything that happened in the Old Testament. Is faith. Okay, so at no point were the forms and ceremonies the most important thing. Faith was always the paramount thing. And he's making that point by using this illustration of of Abraham here. So uh probably the most outstanding example from the Old Testament of trusting God at his word for twenty five years is Abraham. Uh and therefore in the New Testament he's called the father of all who believe, the father of the faithful, in Romans 4 and Galatians 3, for example. So Paul also uses Abraham as an example of faith. Faith. Uh the whole thrust of Romans four is that Abraham was justified, counted righteous by God, because of faith. That's the whole point of Romans four. And so he's an example. We're going to see many examples of course in Roman in uh Hebrews chapter eleven, uh, but Abraham's used here in Hebrews chapter six and also by Paul as an example of faith from the old covenant. Now, it it's an Abraham's Such an important example because why? Because Abraham was saved by faith even before the Mosaic Covenant. before the law was given. So the law was given by a through Abraham, uh through Moses, but Abraham was centuries before that, before there even was a law Uh, Abraham was saved by faith. Um, and even before circumcision. So he he's li he's he's uh the Bible uh says that he's justified by faith, and that's even before circumcision, which was supposed to be and was the mark of the covenant with Abraham. But even before that, even before he was circumcised, Abraham was credited with faith and credited with righteousness. So uh none of those Um symbols are what saves. Yes. He believes in solely faith. Only faith alone. That's right. Exactly. And that's why he's such an important example for these New Testament. writers. Uh just to make sure that they're clear on what it is that saves. Abraham is the best example because he's not under any of those other uh symbolic things. He's only under Faith, right. So Paul's point in Romans 4 is that salvation has never been by obedience to the law, because Abraham was saved even before there was the law Um uh or the performance of ri of any right, but has always been by faith. Um and so uh to quote Paul, but to the one who does not work but believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his faith Faith is reckoned as righteousness. That's uh Paul from Romans chapter four. So Abraham not only was the father of the Jewish faithful, but of everyone Jew or Gentile who is faithful. And that's what Paul pointed out. That's what this all is. author of Hebrews who may have been Paul also is pointing out here in Hebrews chapter six. Any questions so far? about this example that we're we're launching into that the the author of Hebrews is using. Uh so what sort of faith did Abraham have? Uh what wa why was it so significant, so exemplary, that he would be called the father of the faithful? Uh so Abraham's faith was not blind. You you often hear this epithet uh hurled at Christians where you just have blind faith. Well, Abraham's faith was not blind. Um he couldn't see all the consequences of his faith, he couldn't see what the Messiah was going to look like, what Jesus was going to be like. But what could he see? He could see God's character. When the Lord makes a promise, he puts his integrity on the line. Just as anybody that makes a promise, you put your integrity on the line, and every promise of God is secured by his character. And Abraham could see and observe God's character. God's integrity and faithfulness are the real theme of this passage, Hebrews 13 to 20, is uh the the theme is the faithfulness and integrity of God. Abraham is simply the example of those who trust this integrity and faithfulness of God, which alone make our trust available. any value. So faith in and of itself is worthless unless the object of the faith is worthy of that that faith that you put in that that person. So you can have a giant towering amount of faith faith in a leprechaun. Um and that faith is worthless. The the the object of the faith is what's important. It's the fact that Abraham had faith in God. Not that just that he had faith, that is who he had faith in. Um so um can we trust our lives to God? Can we take him at his word? Is there really salvation and security in God? Abraham answered yes to all those questions. He believed that there was salv Salvation in God. He took God at His Word. Uh so this passage in Hebrews gives us several reasons for trusting in God. It lists uh it talks about his person, his character, his purpose for his people, his own Hoth, uh the fact that we have hope as an anchor, uh, and our high priest is w what it circles back to at the very end, and then that launches us into chapter seven and a detailed discussion of Jesus as high priest in the order of Melchizedek. Okay, any questions up to this point before we look at some of these details? Okay. Yes. Well yeah, so uh another one of the incidents is uh there was a symbol of stealing of the covenant by um animals. Animals being cut in half and the pieces separated and walking through the pieces and so evidently in ancient times that was a uh a way of saying that if I break this covenant let me be like these animals cut in half. And then both parties would then walk between the pieces. And in the case of the covenant with Abraham, only God walked through the pieces, not Abraham. And what does that tell us? That tells us that it's an unconditional covenant. That that it's God who promised. Abraham didn't have to promise. And so it's not dependent on Abraham, the fulfillment of this covenant. It's dependent on God. It's a promise that God made unilaterally Uh that's what we get from that symbol from Genesis chapter 15. The spectator, yeah. Yeah. I mean he was a participant in the the whole story as it goes along, but the one who is guaranteeing the covenant is is only one side. It's God. It's not Abraham. He he's not it's the covenant the f the the fulfillment of the covenant, whether or not it will be fulfilled, is not dependent on Abraham, only dependent on God. Yeah. Good. Good Good observation. Okay. Uh so um no one of course in the universe is greater than God, so who can he swear by? Uh and the reason he cannot lie is that he is truth as a fundamental part of his character, it's who he is. is. Um and so he can't lie. Um by de so w when we talk about things um that God can and cannot do, we say God is omnipotent, he's all powerful, and then you know some smart aleck may say, but he can't lie, um yes, but that's not a question of power, that's a question of character, who he is. He he can't make him he can't um he can't unmake himself. So if he were able to lie he would not be God and so by lying he would unmake himself, he would no longer be God. And that's not possible. Um he can also not make a square circle, he can also not make a married bachelor, uh because those things are logically inconsistent So he can't do things that are logically inconsistent. Okay, so um whatever he does has to be right, and whatever he says has to be true So if God makes a promise, he not only will keep it, but he must keep it. So if he has said something that's a promise, and by his character he can't lie can only tell the truth, then that promise must be kept, uh or God is not good. God. Um and he is God and so it will be kept. And so uh there's this great certainty about things that God promises. Um so if he makes a promise it will come too, since God has promised that all who come to Sin through his Son will be saved, it is impossible for anyone who trusts in Christ not to be saved or to lose their salvation. For this very same reason. Um because God has said over and over again in His Word that anyone who is saved will uh th they can't be snatched from his hand, they they will go from uh justification to glorification. Salvation, God promises again and again that men that that people who come to Christ will have salvation. John 1 12, for example, but as many as received him, to them he gave the right to become children of God, even to those who believed. in his name. So there are so many promises of this the the security of salvation that um God he only needed to say it once, but he said it many times To make sure, to give us this kind of assurance. And this is another example of giving us assurance here in Hebrews chapter 6. So just as surely as God has kept his promise. promise to Abraham, he will keep his promise to everyone who trusts in his son. That that's really the takeaway for a follower of Christ, uh the you know, this great promise that we have a hope as an anchor of the soul and it's and it's not a hope so hope, it's a no-so hope. Uh it's a it's a hope in something that is certain. Uh not in a you know, in a kind of well, I hope I hope I win the lottery. Not that not that sort of hope. Uh it's very different from that. Th that that's one of the points of of this particular passage to show how certain things are when God promises them. And the promise was kept to Abraham across many years and then all through down hi down through history uh uh uh as a matter of fact. Um and this promise is compared to the promise that he's made uh in Christ, th that those who are in Christ will be saved. So his basic promise to Abraham was what? It was I will surely bless you and I will surely multiply you. That's from Genesis 22. And of course he had made that promise in different Slightly different words from Genesis 12 and Genesis 13 and Genesis 15 and Genesis 18 and now in Genesis 22. So has God kept that promise to Abraham What do you think? So I looked it up, uh, this uh this world fact book, and it says that there are 15 million Jews today. So over like 15. 2 million Jews. Uh interestingly enough. There are just a hair more Jews in America than there are in Israel. Yeah, the the top two places are the US and Israel and it's like seven point four something million in the US and seven point four something million in Israel, but slightly more more in the US than in Israel. Um so well a great vast majority uh like ninety percent of all the Jews in the world are either in the US or in in Israel. Um but there are fifteen million of them. And of course, um Abraham's descendants uh include his physical descendants of course include all the the descendants of Ishmael as well, and the descendants of the w women he married after Sarah died as well. So uh there are millions and millions and millions more physical descendants the but his descendants are um are reckoned through uh Isaac. And not only that, but of course the Jews are only then the descendants of Jacob and not the descendants of Esau. There's millions and millions more descendants of Esau as well that are not included in this 15 million number. So Abraham has a lot of living descendants. lot. Tens of millions of living uh descendants. Uh so has God kept his promise to make them the father of many nations and uh and many, many descendants like the sands of the seashore and the stars of the sky and uh and yes. And so the prom and the promise of land and so we have the promise of land which of course was originally fulfilled when they went to the promised land and then of course they were um scattered and now they're in the land again and then of course they're gonna be in the land in the end times as well. Well, and so God keeps these promises. We see he has kept it through history. We see in the book of Revelation that he's gonna keep all these promises to Abraham. Okay. So he's kept his promise across millennia uh to Abraham. God has never failed and he never will. Abraham was secure because of the person and character of God who cannot lie. God had made a promise, and so therefore uh it was uh certain uh that it would be fulfilled. Uh and he can't possibly back out on his promises. Uh we can trust God because he has no capacity for deception or failure in his nature. Uh Deuteronomy thirty one, the Lord is the one who goes ahead of you, he will be with you, he will not fail you or forsake you. Do not fear or be dismayed. Um so that's one of the many promises that God had made to his people that he was going to be with them. Um and so that's the situation that the writer of Hebrews is calling to mind to these uh this Jewish congregation. Uh the all these promises made to Abraham and how God had faithfully fulfilled them. God is the highest authority uh over uh the birth that he that he made and that the both can I change uh and the fact that God cannot lie. God cannot lie. That's right, that's right. And uh I would add just explicitly that God has the power to make it so But yeah, if somebody if I make a promise and and I don't have I don't have the power to actually make it so if I if I promise somebody that I will be someplace uh next week, uh next Thursday. Um do I have the absolute power to ensure that I will be there next Thursday? I may not even be alive next Thursday. So so if I make a promise like that, I I don't actually have the the absolute power to make it so. God has the absolute power to make it so. Um and that's so that's an un another kind of uh wrinkle in here uh that that should be kept in the back of our minds that Um that normally as human beings we we make all kinds of promises that that we c we don't actually have the power to make that so. What we mean when we make a promise like that is we'll do our best. Right. I I'll do my best. You know, if there can be a big giant snowstorm and the roads are all closed and I can't get to where I said I was gonna get. Um uh through no fault of my own, there's nothing I can do about it. God is not like that. that. He he doesn't have obstacles like that, things that he can't foresee or can't doesn't have the power to do. Um he's not like that. He's not like us when he makes promises. Yes, that's right. The fact that his character is what it is, that he is truth, then when he says something, it's not possible for him to go back on his word. Yep. Very good. Okay, so um uh let's see, so we have these promises from the Lord. So uh then he has also there's a whole history here that his original hearers would have been very familiar with, um uh w w what he had intended for his chosen people, what what he meant for them to do uh uh for him and by him what he was empowering them to do and what they were supposed to do for him, uh, in helping fulfill his purpose of redeeming the lost world. So there were a number of purposes that he had for his chosen people. Uh number one was to proclaim the true God. So Remember in the midst of idolatry and ungodliness all around them, um their first purpose was to proclaim the one true God. So Isaiah 43, the people whom I formed for myself will declare my praise So they were supposed to show the world who this one true God was. They were supposed to be his people so that other people could see who their God was. The second one, of course, was to reveal the Messiah. They were to reveal the Messiah, the anointed one, who would be the great Savior of the world. He was to come through them And they were to be a testimony of his coming. And we see that throughout the Old Testament scripture, all these prophecies about the the Messiah, who we where he was going to be born and what he was going to do. And and that was one of the primary purposes that he had, and one of the primary promises to Abraham, that he was going to be a blessing to all nations through his seed. And Paul makes a big point about the fact that the seed is singular. Not not the fact that Abraham was going to have all these descendants, but that he was going to have one particular descendant that was going to be a blessing to the whole world, and that's the Messiah. The third thing is they were supposed to be God's priest nation So the Mosaic covenant was given at Mount Sinai, and at that time, Exodus chapter 19, Israel was told by God, You shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. So all of Israel is to serve as a mediator for God to the rest of the world. And so the high priest was a mediator between God and Israel. The nation of Israel was supposed to be a mediator between God and the rest of the world. Continuing, number four, they were to preserve and transmit Scripture. So Israel was the scribe and repository of God's Word. All of the Old Testament and most of the New Testament was written by Jews. So they were the transmitter, the instrument of transmitting God's word to the world. Number five, they were to show the faithfulness of God. The Israelites were to be an illustration of God's faithfulness. Over and over, they failed God But he never failed them. So God was demonstrating his faithfulness to a watching world by how he was faithful to this his chosen people, even when they were not faithful to him. So Israel was to be a means of God showing his own faithfulness. And of course God is still not through using her for this purpose. As we see in Romans chapter eleven, he's not finished using Israel for this purpose. showing his faithfulness. He he'll continue to show his faithfulness to his people, demonstrating his faithfulness to the rest of the world by being faithful to his people all the way through the the end times. And number six, to show God's grace in dealing So the whole sacrificial system portrayed God's gracious dealing with sin. Those sacrifices could not in themselves, of course, remove sin But they were a picture of how God would remove sin in Christ through the blood of the perfect, effective sacrifice of his son. And we'll see details of that in Hebrews chapter nine. So he had a bunch of purposes for his people. uh that he was using uh why he decided to have a people for the all these various purposes. Uh he could have done things any way he wanted, he decided to have a chosen people because of reasons that we see. uh demonstrated in scripture. All right. Uh any questions about any of that before we roll into verse sixteen? Hope hopefully we don't end in a rabbit trail. But going back to the promises uh part, I think it's interesting that uh Uh the Lord can make his promise because he knows everything that's gonna happen into the future in synodom. So he can make that promise knowing he can make it happen. Yes, that's right. That's right. So he d uh his sovereignty is is critical to his faithful making being able to make a promise and keep a promise is sovereignty. So we're not sovereign. We're not sovereign over very much. And even the things sometimes we think we're sovereign over we're not. Uh but God truly is sovereign over as R C Sproul put it, every molecule in the universe. There are no rogue molecules. Yes. what he was going to do through Abraham. He God had no obligation to tell Abraham that. He didn't give him that as it comes. God could have done it without letting him We can't put God under obligation to tell us anything. Um and the book of Job is a great illustration of that. Uh Job doesn't get an explanation really. Um he a he asked God for an explanation. And God's explanation in chapters I don't know thirty-eight to forty-three are uh a long monologue about The fact that I'm God and you're not, essentially. Where were you when I set up the foundations of the earth? In other words, I I'm God and you're not, and that's the explanation he gets A and and Job to his credit accepts that and has faith in in God um and doesn't ask for a further explanation. He doesn't ask w he doesn't ask to peek behind the curtain and see Satan's conversation. Yes. The children of Israel was in great ways or small ways. They didn't close up their thing. Right. But the blasphemy dependent on God. And they and and and they wanted they're they're they have. Yep. That's right. Yep. That's right. And so yeah, so one of the an exam one of the things in the list is God showing his faithfulness by making promises to these people that then flagrantly, you know, disobeyed him and were disobedient, and yet he was faithful. Yeah. Yes. Well the the question that comes to my mind would be you know perhaps it goes back to Hebrews chapter one about God speaking to man in different portions in different ways, but then it's summed up in Christ. And the first twenty five hundred years of human history, including Noah and Abraham, were without written scripture, uh because that came like 2500 years after creation through Moses. So it kind of begs the question in my mind: well, what what information did they have to go on as the basis of their faith? And so I guess it's only the mouth. Yeah, so it's it's an excellent question and the the the simple answer is we don't know. But they they we know that they knew something Uh for example, Cain and Abel knew they were supposed to make sacrifices. How did they know that? Well well God must have told them. Right? There there was no written scripture to tell them, okay, you gotta make sacrifices, but they knew to make sacrifices. sacrifices. How do they know? God must have revealed somehow. We don't know how, the scripture doesn't tell us how, but he had to have revealed somehow that they needed to make sacrifices. Um all the way back to Cain and Abel. Yeah. Genesis five one describes this is the book of the generations of Adam. Yeah. Adam was quite a bit. Uh yeah, so yeah, so uh the the uh the method of of Moses compiling the Pentateuch. Um there's a little bit of mystery there. So Moses was around for the events of the Exodus. But Moses was not around for any of those events in the book of Genesis that happened hundreds or thousands of years before Moses was born. So how did he know what to write uh about the first especially the first eleven chapters of Genesis. Um well uh many scholars believe since especially since it says these are the books of the generation of of Adam that there were family documents that had been passed down and that Noah had with them on the Ark. That's the only way they could have survived the flood. That Noah had to have them on the Ark And that Moses had access to those things. And that it that uh obviously under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, but those were prov the provided the factual background for what Moses wrote, um, especially the book of Genesis, that those family documents existed at the time of Moses. One interesting thing you brought up in your uh Genesis course was the amazing uh overlapping life stands uh so that from Adam to whoever you want to get. was not hundreds of generations. It could have been one or two. Yes, yeah. So uh easy to pass it. Yes, so yeah yeah. So w when I was talking about the way s God compiled scripture, the way the Holy Spirit compiled scripture Um, it it could have been written traditions, it also could have been oral traditions, at least up until the flood, uh, because they all lived nine hundred years and so um like Seth was still alive when Noah's father Lamech was around. So um a and and Adam almost overlapped with Lamech. So Adam could have told the story of what happened in the garden all the way up to almost Noah. uh himself. You could have got the first hand account from Great Grandpappy Adam, uh uh up until almost the time of Noah. Everybody alive on the whole earth could have heard it first hand. Um and so it didn't need to be written down is the point that I was making in the Genesis class. It didn't need to be written down until later because you could have had direct first hand oral uh uh account of all those things that happened up to that point. Yeah. She said that with all tradition in the past down is corrupted. Yes. Yes, yeah. And so there are corrupted versions of the flood, for example, we find all over the world, uh, with some elements of the true account of the flood. in there that you can obviously see. Uh but it's corrupted. Yeah. So going back to the question of how the came and able to know to give sacrifices to God, I think that's the basic difference between animals, other animals, and human beings. Because human beings have a God consciousness. They knew that there was a God and he was to be worshipped. They they just know and people all around the world still have Yeah, that's that's in Romans chapter one. We are aware that there is a God. Right. Yes. That's true. That goes back to uh Romans Romans one nineteen. Uh because that which is known about God is evidence within them. Well God made it evidence to them. Yeah, you know, so yeah, knowing God they didn't worship him as God. Yeah. Yeah. So that whole uh chapter uh one of Romans lays out the case that everybody knows um the God of the Bible. So when you get to the verse that says knowing God, they didn't worship him as God. In the Greek there's actually a um article there. It's Nantas Tante. on knowing the God. And so in English y y you y y I get people that who will say this that people have some notion of divinity. That's not what it says in the original Greek. It says they know the God in Romans chapter one. So they know the God of the Bible. That's what the the point of that whole passage in Romans one. Not just that they have some general sense of divinity. They know the God is what it says. Romans one. Okay. So getting back uh to um Hebrews chapter six. So uh Uh moving to chapter to verse sixteen, for men swear by one greater than themselves, and with them an oath given as confirmation is an end of every dispute. In the same way, God, desiring even more to show to the heirs of the promise the unchangeableness of his purpose, interposed with an oath. So it was common in New Testament times and actually probably Old Testament times too. for a person to make an oath on something or someone greater than himself, like the altar. That would make an o or that was a uh a Jewish tradition to make an oath on the altar. Or the high priest, or even God. Once such an oath was made, the argument was over. Uh the dispute was ended. It was assumed that no one would make such an oath unless he was fully determined to keep it. So, uh did God need to make an oath? He didn't need to make an oath. His word is every bit as good without an oath. So if he hadn't made an oath, still would have been just as sure. And it's supposed to be that way with us. Jesus pointed that out in Matthew 5. Let your yes be yes. and your no be no, don't make an oath, you don't need to make an oath, your yes should be yes. But in this case, uh it says desiring even more to show the heirs of the promise, the unchangeableness of his purpose, he made an oath in this case. God swore his promise on himself. Since his promise already was unbreakable His oath did not make his promise any more secure. It was already a hundred percent secure. But he nonetheless gave it as further assurance to those who are slow to believe. The bare word of God is guarantee enough, but God gave an oath Just to show that he meant what he said. So that's the way the author of Hebrews put it, desiring even more to show the earth to make it even more certain. It should have been enough just that God said it But to make it even more sure, he made an oath. So that by two unchangeable things in which it is impossible for God to lie He who have uh we who have taken refuge would have strong encouragement to take hold of the hope set before us. So what's the purpose then uh of God making an oath? It's for those We who have taken refuge, refuge in God, would have strong encouragement to take hope hold of the hope set before us. So what are the two unchangeable things? It's first God's promise and second his oath. So he's already made a promise, and so that's unchangeable all by itself. Now he makes an oath. Well that's also unchangeable all by itself. So there's two things now that are unchangeable that God has made here. A promise, an original promise that he made and now an oath he also makes. The highest approval authority Yes. So he that's why he swears by himself, because there's nothing else he could make an oath that was higher than that. So he's made a promise to begin with, that's unchangeable. Now he's made an oath, that's unchangeable. He's made it the oath on himself, which is the highest authority you could possibly make it on. So they are immutable without any possibility of change or variance. The Greek term here a math atoth, I can't pronounce that. Um that Greek word uh for unchangeable was also used in relation to wills. So once somebody made a will It was amatothos, unchangeable by anyone but the maker of the will. So that's how the Greeks describe wills, unchangeable. So once you had made your last will and change t testament, you put your seal on it, it was unchangeable. That's the same Greek word here um that that the author of Hebrews used. Um that it's unchangeable. So God has declared his promise and His oath to be unchangeable even by himself. They cannot be turned around or altered. Our security is not In our never letting go of God, but his never letting go of us. Just like the promises to Abraham were dependent on God and not Abraham, the same thing applies to His promises to us. In Christ, they are unchangeable. Um, then they're not dependent on us, they're dependent on God. In exactly the same way. That's why Abraham is the perfect example here. Um and so in the Septuagint, this Greek word, uh catafugal, uh refuge, is used for the cities of refuge in the Old Testament. Same Greek word in the Septuagint. So Septuagint remembers a Greek translation of the Old Testament. So Often if we want to get a flavor for Greek words in the New Testament, how does that apply to Old Testament principles? You can it's not often easy to translate directly from Hebrew to Greek, so we can we can we can look back at the uh ancient Hebrew translation from Hebrew to to Greek of the Old Testament. And this Greek word here that we see refuge, that we have taken refuge in Christ. Christ is the same Greek word that's used in the Old Testament for the cities of refuge that God provided for those who sought protection from avengers for an accidental killing, mentioned in Numbers thirty-five, Deuteronomy nineteen. in Joshua twenty. So that's the flavor of the words refuge, unchangeable for the promises of God, and refuge for describing us where we um we rest in Christ, have refuge. in Christ. Uh of course the the hope set before us is Jesus himself and the gospel he has brought. Um and Paul uses this same kind of language. In First Timothy Paul speaks of Christ who is our hope. In Colossians one fifth uh one five, the hope laid up for you in heaven of which you previously heard in the word of truth, the gospel. So Jesus Christ and the gospel of Jesus Christ is our hope. Really clearly uh the Holy Spirit brings that out both in the Apostle Paul and his writings and also here in Hebrews, the hope set before us is Christ Jesus. Any questions about that? The Septuagint is two hundred or two hundred and fifty years before Christ. Correct. So yeah, so a couple hundred years, so in the intertestament period, and so what had happened was Hebrews Hebrew had was becoming a dead language. Fewer and fewer and fewer people spoke it, and so there was a little bit of alarm among the the s the scribes and the teachers of the law that pretty soon uh n Jews weren't gonna be able to understand their own scriptures. And so the common language of the Roman Empire, the language of business the language of government was Latin, the language of business was Greek. And so everybody spoke Greek because you need to to have Greek to make transact business transactions. Um and so they decided to translate the Old Testament into Greek about two hundred or so years before Christ. It's called the Septuagint, the LXX, the Septuag seventy because it was seventy scholars who uh were primarily responsible for that translation. Good good question. So yeah, so that's the background and and so um Translations themselves, of course, are not inspired, um, but it can give us insight, especially when we have a Greek New Testament and a Hebrew Old Testament, to look at what the ancient Hebrew scholars who knew those scriptures really well how they translated into Greek when we're looking at individual words in the Greek. Okay. Any other questions? Alright, let's roll in. So let's Th the the the conclusion then to this uh this passage is this hope we have as an anchor of the soul. What a great turn of phrase that is, an anchor of the soul. So I spent twenty four years in the Navy and I know how important anchor were and uh I um I've had to ride out uh hurricanes at anchor um in a protected harbor and the anchor you know saves your life. Um it's an anchor especially in a storm. So this whole really um encouraged by yesterday's game. Yeah, well yes. Yeah, so yeah, yeah, Arm yeah. Yeah. So i it it was nice to have Navy finally beat Army and Yeah, sorry to all my army brothers and sisters. Yeah. Oh, is that right? Okay. The the all that Hope Bible church, so Hope is at Anchor of the Soul. It makes sense. Yeah. Yeah, and so uh if you go to I was just at the Naval Academy chapel um for the performance of uh Handel's Messiah last weekend and um there are these big beautiful Beautiful stained glass windows that all the way down the and each stained glass window was donated by a different class of the Naval Academy. Uh most of them a very old cli like the nineteen thirties. Um and each window, stained glass window, has a a scripture reference in it. And almost all the scripture references have some mm something about the ocean or and so this one is was in there. Uh Hebrews yeah Hebrews six nineteen was one of the stained glass windows I noticed as we were walking by. Uh 'cause it's got anchor in it there. Uh good navy term. Yeah. All right. Yeah, so congratulations to our our our Navy uh Naval Academy graduate uh Ross um who was who was probably rooting yesterday for the Naval Academy. Uh so this hope we And one which enters within the veil, where Jesus has entered as a forerunner for us, having become a high priest forever. according to the order of Melchizedek. And so we've we've circled all the way back around from uh Hebrews five eleven where we started this whole warning section, warning and encouragement section. Um the that the pause had been he had been talking about Melchizedek, made this pause and now he comes back to Melchizedek. Um so as our high priest, Jesus serves as the anchor of our soul. It's Christ who's the anchor of our soul. He's the one that's our hope, as Paul describes in First Timothy and in uh in Colossians, he's the our hope is Christ. And so this hope is an anchor of our soul, so Christ is the anchor of our soul. Uh the one who will forever keep us from drifting away from God. That's the picture, the kind of the the great naval word picture here that the the um author of Hebrews is using and the Holy Spirit is using. So uh here what do we have here? We we also have this uh this interesting little um mention of the veil. So Jesus entering within the veil as a forerunner. Of course entering the veil signifies his entering the holy of holies and so we had that uh this the great word picture that the the that God painted on the day of crucifixion, uh with Jesus hanging on the cross, uh to telescope it is finished, paid in full. And then what happens with the the curtain that separates the Holy of Holies? It's it's torn in in half from the top to the bottom. So and the so this is another reference to that same veil. That's the veil between uh the holy place and the holy of holies and of course the holy of holies was the the kind of the symbol, the physical symbol of God's presence there in the Holy of Holies. And so Jesus entered into that veil and he entered as a forerunner for us so that we can also enter in that that veil. And that's where the sacrifice of atonement was made, of course. Under the old covenant it was made yearly by the high priest Under the new covenant, it has made been made once for all time by Christ's sacrifice on the cross. We've gotten that um that idea hammered away at by the uh the author of Hebrews previously, uh but he keeps He keeps coming back to it. He keeps coming back to it. He keeps coming back to it. And this verse of course is a setup for all of chapter seven, which is gonna go um be talking about Melchizedek and the high priesthood of Christ. Um but here it says he's a high priest forever. according to the order of Melchizedek. We've already talked a little bit about Melchizedek. We'll talk a lot about Melchizedek uh next week. But he's made this Christ has entered the veil. made the sacrifice once for all time. And so our anchored soul is already secure within the veil That's the picture, secure within his eternal sanctuary. When Jesus entered the heavenly holy of holies, He did not leave after the sacrifice as the high priest did. He went in once a once a year, he made the sacrifice, then he came out. Uh what happened when Jesus made his sacrifice? He sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high. That's what we learned. all the way to the beginning of Hebrews chapter 1. So he didn't leave like the the ironic uh the old high priest did and that's why it wasn't a good comparison. That's why we get this comparison of Melchizedek instead. And we're going to get that uh quite a bit next week in chapter seven. Alright, Jesus remains in heaven at the right hand of God as the guardian of our souls and as a forerunner for us, the firstborn among the dead. Such absolute security as Almost incomprehensible. Not only are our souls anchored within the sanctuary, but our Savior Christ stands guard over them as well. The Christian security is perfectly described as eternal. Truly we can trust the Lord Jesus Christ with our souls. And the of course the point of this whole excursion is it's an excellent reason to come all the way to salvation and to enjoy security for any any of those who are wavering. You might be thinking about turning back to Judaism. No, look at this. Look at what we have in Christ um in heaven. Okay. Any questions? Yes. Not exactly. But I think about chapter ten in Hebrews. It says that the veil was the flesh of Jesus Christ. Yeah, we entered through the through the veil. The veil is his flesh. Yeah, we'll get we'll get to that as well in In chapter ten, yeah. So there's a there's more uh illustration picture, word pictures using the veil to come. Yes. Mm-hmm. Yes. to pray for the people. It's just a blessing to you though that I have previously for me absolutely and for all of us tonight. And the other comment I wanted to make was um going back to Abraham's so many Somebody mentioned where God didn't have to tell his hand, you know, the things, the blessings that he was then given that he did. And it reminded me of Deuteronomy where God Himself says, Give his name. He goes, Who's what you can call me? Loving kindness and truth. Yes. And the truth, you know, where he never lies. He calls himself truth. And then he calls himself loving kindness, which is probably why he did share that with Abraham. I think about that. a lot because when I read that verse, you know, having devotions by myself is the first time I I kept thinking when I got to that section where it's gonna say what God calls himself, that it would be something like justice or you know judgment. And it just shocked me a little bit because like that's how I come to think of my my husband's father. You know, loving kindness as a child. Yes. Christ himself is described in similar terms in John chapter 1, we we beheld him uh Christ uh full of grace and truth. So the two things he's full of are grace And truth. And then when he describes himself, uh I am the way, the truth, and the life, he he describes himself as so uh th these great things, uh the great description Of who God is, who God the Father is, who who God the Son is, are uh wonderful sound for our souls to hear who He is, uh, and to worship and praise Him for who He is. He is. Yeah, very good. Any others? Yes. Daniel. Going back to the uh discussion about God's revelation of himself uh before the time of the motorcycle. Uh I think that's not good fixed, I guess. It's a good example of God showing himself faithful and revealed himself in many ways, in many kinds different ways. Exactly. So so what exactly was God's relationship relationship with Melchizedek. We only have this tiny little glimpse, you know, this one interaction with Abraham and this kind of description uh of him being a type for Christ and his high priesthood, but do we get any kind of details about the life and the interactions with God of no cause nope. We we don't don't really get much of that. But in many ways and in many forms he interacted with people and only a sliver of that is actually covered in scripture. and and it's there for our good and for us to be able to understand who God is and what his plan of redemption is. But there are undoubtedly millions of billions of interactions that God had with people that we don't really know. Good. Okay. Uh let me let me close this with a word of prayer.