So we have come to the last part, part thirty-nine out of thirty-nine, uh, in the book of Hebrews. a nine-month journey, and we've come to the very end of chapter 13, the benediction and the postscript. So today we'll we'll look at this benediction and postscript that the author puts at the end of the letter We'll look at the power of God. We'll look at the final exhortation that's made here. We'll look at a follow-up and why it's important to follow up with those that we have um discipled in Christ. And a final greeting at the end. So that's what we'll look at today. Well first we'll take a look back at what we did last time. So uh we had um Uh this verses ten through fourteen, sometimes a little bit difficult to understand what uh what the context is there, uh but uh the the the true meaning is, I think, to separate ourselves and uh this idea of outside the camp that um ordinarily uh priests were allowed to eat uh the sacrifices but on the day of the atonement with the sin offering they uh it had to be taken outside the camp and burned And we've got this uh analogy made with Christ being uh sacrificed on the cross outside the city, and we're supposed to be outside of the world system. That's really the the whole point of that. So it's a picture of Christians separating, separating ourselves from the things of the world. Um and so and we'll being willing to bear the reproach of the world As we separate ourselves, there's always a cost. And being willing to bear that cost, as Christ was willing to bear the cost and the reproach. So as far as uh Christians being separated from the world, of course, we're not taken out of the world. We're living in the world. uh but we're supposed to separate from worldly attitude, uh uh worldly orientation. Um so it's not a place but an attitude, uh worldliness. Uh so as long as we're in the flesh we have to live here But we're we're to separate ourselves from worldly attitudes and habits. God sends us into the physical world, but we're separate from the world system, so this is not our lasting city. Ultimately we're seeking a city which is to come, which is in heaven with Christ. And as I mentioned last time and and it's worth bearing, again, true separation is costly. All who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. 2 Timothy 312. So then we have this idea that uh that we remember who this letter is originally written to, these first century uh Jews who uh were in this uh this body of Christ and they were used to uh the sacrifice system. Sacrifices were important. And they wondered probably w whether there were any sacrifices which were still required after this new uh in this new covenant. And there is one sacrifice then that the author gets to, the sacrifice of our praise. uh and of uh good works in his name. Um so God no longer wants sacrifices of animals, he wants only the sacrifice of praise to God that is the fruit of lips that give thanks to his name. So our praise to God is not only in words, but also in deeds. uh doing good and sharing is how the the author puts it. So praise of God and word and deed are inseparable. We see this in James Chapter one, this is pure and undefiled religion in the sight of our God and Father to visit orphans and widows in their distress and to keep oneself unstained by the world Then we had this section on uh obeying and submitting to leaders in the church. Um Uh church leaders um are of course not to be tyrants. They don't rule, church leaders don't rule for themselves, but for God and uh the command those unqualified obey your leaders and submit to them. And then of course it's the duty of leaders in in the church to um duty and responsibility To determine the direction of the church, to teach the word, to reprove, rebuke, and exhort. And we see this in other passages in the New Testament in Titus chapter two and 1 Peter chapter 5. So uh the priority, of course, of church. leaders is to care for the spiritual welfare of the congregation, for they keep watch over your souls as those who will give an account. And let them do this with joy, not with grief. That's addressed to the people and not to the leaders. And then there's an uh an exhortation to pray for the leaders. Um the writer asked for prayer for himself Pray for us, for we are sure that we have a good conscience. In other words, I'm sure that I have ministered to you um uh in the best way I could. With a clear conscience I've ministered uh to you. Now please pray for me. Um is what he's saying here. So he's administered to the people faithfully, not perfectly, but faithfully. Uh and his most urgent prayer is that he'd be able to return and see them uh sooner rather than later. Yes. I it seems like this whole class we did say this is either a letter or a sermon. And either a sermon And I think verse nineteen would say it has to be a letter because to be restored to them if it was a sermon he would be right there. So no, it's it's a sermon in the form of a letter It's a written sermon is what it is. Um yeah, so it's um it's a letter. There's no doubt about that. It was a written communication that was delivered to these people. And it was written in the form of a sermon. So so uh and of course the way these letters would work is the literacy rate was not what it is today, so not everybody could read. And so the letter would be brought to this congregation and read out loud. And so in that sense it's a letter that comes to them, but somebody is reading it out loud to the congregation. And in in that sense, then it becomes a sermon because it's being read out loud. to to the people. So um I apologize if that caused confusion. It's definitely a letter. It's a written communication but most likely read out loud to the Congregation of the People, and it reads like the transcript of a sermon. Okay. Alright, any other questions about what we did last week before we get into our final section of scripture here? Okay, so if you'll break out your Bibles Turn to Hebrews chapter 13 or tune your devices to Hebrews chapter 13. We're going to start in verse 20. And so this is how the author signs off in his letter. Now the God of peace, who brought up from the dead the great shepherd of the sheep, to the blood of the eternal covenant, even Jesus our Lord, equip you in every good thing to do his will Working in us that which is pleasing in his sight through Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory forever and ever Amen. But I urge you, brethren, bear with this word of exhortation. For I have written to you briefly. Take notice that our brother Timothy has been released, with whom, if he comes soon, I will see you. Greet all of your leaders and all the saints. Those from Italy greet you. Grace be with you all. That's how he closes this letter. So let's take a look here. Uh first I'll give you a few paragraphs from John Owen. So John Owen um was a uh a Puritan writer in the sixteen hundreds. So he lived and rode in the sixteen hundreds. So this was written in the sixteen hundreds, four hundred years ago. Uh but the the scripture has not changed one bit in the last four hundred years. And so John Howen's analysis of scripture is good. Um the the copy that I have is uh eighteen fifty-five English translation, because of course he wrote it in Latin. Everything in the sixteen hundreds was written in Latin Um but it was translated in the eighteen hundreds into English and I have a English translation. So uh and here's what John Owen has to say about this passage of scripture. Having desired their prayers for him, he adds thereunto his prayer for them. and therewithal gives a solemn close to the whole epistle. A glorious prayer it is, enclosing the whole mystery of divine grace in its original and the way of its communication by Jesus Christ. And he prays for the fruit and benefit to be applied unto them of all that he had before instructed them in For the substance of the whole doctrinal part of the epistle is included in it, and the nature and form of the prayer itself, with the expressions used in it evidence its procedure from a spirit of full uh full of faith and love. There are some things to be considered in this prayer for the exposition of the words. 1. The title assigned unto God, suited unto the request to be made. 2. The work ascribed unto him suitable unto that title. 3. The things prayed for. for a doxology with a solemn closure of the whole. Thus John Owen about this passage of Scripture. So John Owen wrote a two million word um uh commentary in in seven volumes on the book of Hebrews. So so something like a quarter of all that John R Owen wrote in his whole life was his commentary on the book of Hebrews. Okay. Um and it's really good, very detailed. Like ten pages on each verse. Alright, so uh so if you really want to dig into the book of Hebrews, you can pick up John Owen's seven volume commentary on the book of Hebrews, but you gotta plow through the Old English with their therewithals and so-untos and things like that. Or you can pick it up in the original Latin. Alright, let's uh let's dig into these verses. So uh the beginning is a prayer Um uh verse twenty. Now the God of peace who brought up from the dead the great shepherd of the sheep. Um who's the great shepherd of the sheep? Jesus. Through the blood of the eternal covenant, even Jesus our Lord, equip you. in every good thing to do his will. Working in us that which is pleasing in his sight through Jesus Christ to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen. Very short prayer, but very powerful. So um we get to the practical part. This whole last part is practical part, and so we have examples of course from scripture of Jesus and how he lived. What and and we can see what he did and and his uh his earthly ministry, the three years of his earthly ministry, and of course it's perfect and powerful examples that he left But they cannot in themselves enable us to follow in his footsteps. We can't do it. We can see those examples, but we have no power in ourselves To follow those examples. We need more than just the examples. The writer calls on God to make possible the outworking of this truth in the lives of his people. To attempt to live the Christian life without pure doctrine and the finest examples, uh with the pure doctrine and finest examples, but without God's direct power is to build with wood, s uh hay and straw as we see in First Corinthians chapter three. So it can't be done. No matter how much uh how good your doctrine is, no matter how good an examples we have from Scripture, th you still can't do anything without the power of God. And that's what the author is pointing out here at the very end as he finishes his his uh his practical uh part of this letter the the last part is the The practic put it in put it all into practice. He says y y what you really need after all is said and done is you need the power of God to be even able to do it. We not only need to know God's will, we need to have His power. We need the God of peace to equip us in every good thing to do his will. So it's not enough just to know what he wants us to do So God gives us his ethics. We have in the Bible um the things that we're supposed to do. But he also gives us the power to live them out. Christian growth and obedience have nothing to do with our own power See Philippians 2, 12 and 13. Work out your own salvation in fear and trembling. For it is God who is at work in you both to will and to do. Christian growth and obedience are by God's power, working in us that which is pleasing in his sight through Jesus Christ. So it's God working in us. And he he makes that very explicit here in that prayer to make sure they understand how this works. He he's just been given the his this practical things we're supposed to do to love one another and to love uh to love the stranger and to you know, to put ourselves in a position of somebody who's in prison and all these things we've been told to do, exhorted to do, but we cannot do these in our own power He's making sure that that's very clear at the end as he c signs off this letter, as he prays for them. Because it's has to be God's power working in us that which is pleasing in his sight through Jesus Christ. Alright, everybody see that. Alright, the greatest display of divine power in the history of the universe was the resurrection of Jesus Christ, bringing somebody back from the dead. The God brought up from the dead the great shepherd of the sheep who redeemed his people through the blood of the eternal covenant. So that's what he goes to. Look at this demonstration of God's power. He even brought a person back from the dead. God is identified as the God of peace. So we have the God of peace He has established peace with man through the blood of the cross. Colossians 1. 20. So that's the only basis for peace between a holy God and sinful mankind. Um and by that God can um claim this title of the God of peace. By that cross, an eternal covenant was made. We saw that going all the way back to the Old Testament, Zechariah 9, Ezekiel 37, Jeremiah as well. uh we have this new covenant, an eternal covenant. And the author puts that into his prayer as well, the eternal covenant The blood of Jesus our Lord is eternally powerful, unlike the repeated temporary old covenant sacrifices. Remember, they had to be done day by day and month by month, year by year. Uh but Christ's sacrifice is eternally powerful once for all time and satisfactory to God. Thus he brought him up from the dead. And so one of the the most important uh aspects of the the resurrection. The the the reason for the necessity of the resurrection is it shows that God was satisfied with the sacrifice that Jesus made. So on the cross there was a spiritual transaction. Jesus says to telesti It is finished. Paid in full. But as as human beings, um As limited uh uh flesh and blood human beings, can we see spiritual transactions? No, we cannot We cannot see with our eyes sins leaving somebody's body. So what did God do to make some something that's that everybody's eyeballs could see He raised Christ from the dead as a uh as a stamp of approval on that spiritual transaction was a physical event the resurrection of Christ to show for everybody to see there was a guy that was dead and now he's alive. I can see that. uh paid in full that the spiritual transaction in heaven that sins are paid for. I can't really see that with my eyeballs, but I can see a guy, he's dead, and now he's not dead anymore Um and so that's what he did. And there are other examples in the Bible of uh physical events that that show uh a spiritual transaction. Um the one of the other great examples is the the man who's let down through the roof on a pallet And Jesus what does Jesus say when they're l lowering this guy down? Jesus says, your sins are forgiven. And then the people that are watching this are all grumbling, grumbling, grumbling, you know, who can forgive sins? And what does Jesus say next? He says, so that you may know that the Son of Man has power to forgive sins, I say to you take up your mat and walk. And so what was the purpose of that miracle, making the guy so that you can know that the spiritual transaction has been made, that I can forgive sins. You couldn't see the sins for leaving that guy. But you can see a guy that's been crippled his whole life stand up and walk. And so miracles, that's what miracles are for, is to show spiritual realities that we can't see with our eyes. And the greatest of these was the resurrection. that we can see the greatest spiritual transaction that ever happened. Christ died for the sins of the world and and it was paid in full. The the s the physical stamp of approval, if you will, was the resurrection. And then so so the author here of Hebrews brings that one out right right away as the most important. So it's the power of this God that enables those who love him to do his will. That's where the power comes from. 2 Corinthians 3, not that we are adequate in ourselves to consider anything as coming from ourselves But our adequacy is from God. So this is the the the consistent teaching of the scriptures That this is where our power comes from, our adequacy comes from. Everything comes from God Jesus said, without me you can do nothing. Alright, so uh the thing we must contribute to the Christian life is to yield to the Holy Spirit. So that's our contribution, yielding. All we have to do is surrender our wills and let God's power work through us. This is what it means to be filled with the Spirit, Ephesians 5. 18, is to surrender our wills So the exercise is all we have to do. Yes, so yeah, so it's uh an excellent point. So here's an excellent point. It's not an easy thing to do. It's uh it's a it's a simple thing but not an easy thing. Simple to say, not so easy to do, to surrender our wills. Because do we like to surrender our wills? No. Do we like to yield control? No, we don't like that. But that's what we're called to do. And the promise is if we do that then the power of the Holy Spirit flows through us and we have the power to uh to do good works for his glory and service to others and for his glory. Uh if we will only Yield and surrender our wills. So that's our part of it, surrender our wills. Okay. Um There's other scriptures, of course, that are similar that that teach a similar thing. Now he who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food will supply and multiply your seed. for sowing and increase the harvest of your righteousness. 2 Corinthians 9. And as I mentioned, uh Philippians 2, 12 and 13 we can work out our salvation because God is at work in us both to will and to work for His good pleasure. So it's God's power both on the will side and the working side. So um even without God's power we can't even go get to the willing part of it Uh to the part where we're we're willing to do good, both to will and to work. That's God's power. The power to work and the the power to will in the first place is a work of God. Because Christ does the will He deserves the credit and praise. And so the prayer closes out, To whom be the glory forever and ever, Amen. To whom, of course, is Christ, to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen. uh is how he closes the price. So this is a really short prayer. If you were to say this prayer out loud, it would take you like what, thirty seconds? It's not like a fifteen minute prayer. But there's a lot of power packed into this prayer. Um now, he he's he's gone through a whole you know, thirteen chapters of doctrine and practice and um and to to read the whole thing out loud is probably about an hour So at this point he's been talking to them for an hour in his writing and if somebody's reading it out loud uh the in their hearing and so there's a lot of foundation to this prayer before he gets here. But still he packs a pretty uh pretty mighty power into a very short Prayer. All right. Yes. Sure. Um I'm reading this in the English, which is a impediment, right? Mm-hmm. But it seems to imply in verse twenty But if you speak phrase by the blood of the eternal covenant, that phrase, if you relate that back to what it is, it seems like that that's the cause of raising Christ from the dead. No, so it's not. So it's um if if you read all the way through the whole sentence, uh equip you to do every good thing, to do his will, working in us, that which is pleasing in his sight, the whole thing is dependent on uh the the things that follow are all dependent on um the blood of the eternal covenant. But should that cause and effect to Jesus being raised from the dead. Correct. It's it's um it's actually a Well, i in a certain ex in a certain viewed from a certain light it is. The the reason why God raised him from the dead was to show that he was satisfied with this um blood of the eternal covenant. So without the blood of the eternal covenant, of course you're not gonna have the resurrection. So in that sense it's a cause and effect. If he wasn't dead he couldn't be raised, right? Uh but it's not The the blood that caused the resurrection, it was God that resurrected because he was satisfied with the sacrifice. Did you have a comment, Daniel? I s okay. All right. Um so in in that sense there is um there is a little bit of a chicken and egg problem So there's a there's an order of things. Uh but it wasn't um it wasn't the blood of the covenant that re that actually physically resurrected him, it was God who did that. Well we have well lots of passages about it. First Corinthians 15, for example. God raised him from the dead. But the reason he did it was because of Jesus sacrifice and his satisfaction with the sacrifice. So it do I I agree it it reads a little f funny in English. Um but I think the th what what the meaning of the I think you can't just stop And at the comma there at the end of verse 20. I think you need to keep reading, equip you in every good thing to do his w will, working in us that which is pleasing in his sight Um that was through the blood of the Eternal Covenant you get all that. Um and I think that's really what the the the meaning of that holstering When you take it together, is yes. So with that could I possibly write down the sense of place? Now the God he put me to do every good thing through his will. Working in a stablish in the flight through And then kinda that part which is in verse twenty after we've got a feet is really to kinda give us more context and explain how and why we're supposed to do good work in an A first. I think that's correct. I think That's a good way of thinking through the the the diagramming of the sentence and what what the the meaning the meaning behind that those words is I think that's right. Yeah. Alright, any others? Yes, Grace. So I have to ask my dad or the meal to actually know Greece to actually be sure about this but um looking at it and looks like grace there is attached to through the uh like through the blood of the covenant and saying that Jesus is great because of his sacrifice, it's not it's not saying that like that's what made made the sacrifice great. Yeah, I I that's uh that's another good point. So if you think about the uh the the the whole thing is a description of Jesus and why he's great. Um he's great uh because he's the shepherd of the sheep and he's great through the blood of the eternal covenant. Um that's another good point and and it it may it may very well come out much much cleaner in the Greek. Um I I'm not certain, but it it may very well come up much cleaner. It looks a little funny in English, I I agree. But it but i i if it's um If it's truly a dis the whole thing is a description of Jesus and why he's great, great because of the blood of the eternal covenant. then that makes much more sense. Alright, any others? Yes. Yes, you already there's a gut powerful autobus power. Mm. Yes, it is. So yes, that is Is the the fundamental truth that's being brought out here is that um that it's in God's power that we can do any of these things, and God is powerful, and so therefore we can do these these things. Yep. All right. Any anybody else? Sure. It's kinda the sacrifice we talk about the blood and it's not really functional sacrifice. Is it substitutionary comment? It is. Right. Yeah, so this is a um a summing up of this whole great doctrinal truth that he's been teaching, um, in the practical part a as an application to a practical part of it. So th the doctrine is Christ died for our sins. Um the application is because Christ died for our sins, then we have power from God through the Holy Spirit to be able to live an obedient life. Uh and that's the only way that we have power to to live an obedient life. Okay. Um any others? All right, verse 22. So uh he finishes the prayer and then he gives kind of a a postscript at the end. Verse 22, but I urge you, brethren, bear with this word of exhortation, for I have written you briefly. Very briefly. Nine months worth of uh discussing it was very brief. Um very clear. So uh so the writer gives a characterization of his epistle. He calls it this word of exhortation. So uh he's written this thirteen chapters, um and he calls it a um uh a word of exhortation. That's how he summarizes it. Notice also in Acts 13. 15, the same phrase is used to describe a sermon in Acts 13, 15, a word of exhortation. So the book of Hebrews is a great sermon preached with a pen. So it's a written sermon. It's an urgent call to the readers to come to single-minded devotion to the Lord Jesus Christ. and to complete satisfaction with the new covenant. The high and lofty doctrinal themes are the foundation for this primary exhortation. So written in the first century to this first century church filled with uh with Jewish believers and maybe some that are not yet believers. Um and he's he's ur he's been urging them through these thirteen chapters. That this new covenant is better. Come to a complete, single-minded devotion to Christ and be satisfied with this new covenant. And don't think about going back to that old one Then we'll go back to the temple. Then almost in an apologetic manner he encourages the reader to bear with what he has written Bear with this word of exhortation, bear with this writing that I've given you. To bear with what he's written, to receive with an open heart and mind what he has said. In contrast to 2 Timothy 4-3, so 2 Timothy 4-3, Paul uses the exact same word, anecho. This uh that's translated here, uh bear with this word of uh uh uh uh exhortation, bear with is an echo. Um and those who did not endure or bear with sound doctrine. So n so not an echo, they weren't bearing with. But he urges them here to bear with uh this word of exhortation. So uh the epistle has been pretty straightforward, uncompromising They're somewhat complex in places, challenging the mind, will, and emotions of the hearers Yet even so it is written briefly, he says. Written briefly. So uh the Greek word for for uh uh briefly, Brahus uh means short or in a few words. So I've written just a few words to you is what he's saying here. The whole letter is under ten thousand words. It's shorter than Romans It's shorter than First Corinthians. It can be read in less than an hour if you sit down and read through the whole thing. Uh so in that sense, I guess, it's written briefly and shorter in a few words. Um If the writer had dealt fully with the great themes he discusses, the letter would have been much longer, evidently. Yeah, seven volumes in John Owen, according to John Owen. Two million words. Uh but it is amazingly short in comparison to the eternal and infinite truths that it contains. That's what he's s uh summing up. He's saying, hey, I've I've written these things in as brief a way as I can, as condensed a way as I can, and please bear with it this this word of exhortation that I'm giving you. So there's no uh necessarily uh point of comparison meaning we we can't think that there's any sort of other signals that he's written that word longer than just trying to. No, no, that's not what he no, that's what uh not what he's getting at. Um yeah, so similar to the end of John where He says, I've written you these things so that you would believe. But if I had written everything that Jesus began to say and do, it would fill up You know, there would be no room for all the library of books. That doesn't mean there are infinitely more gospels uh than the four gospels yet. Yeah, yeah. I don't think that's what he's he's getting at here. No. Okay. Um and then he comes to a a very interesting little knock one-off kind of uh throwaway phrase. Take notice that our brother Timothy has been released, with whom if he comes soon, I will see you. So Timothy has been released. So um they need to know that one of God's choice servants, our brother Timothy, who Must have been well known to them. I mean he doesn't try to explain who Timothy is, he just says his name and assumes that they know who he is. So We make the assumption that this church knew who Timothy was. Um and he he says, hey, he's been released. Uh the Greek term used there for released, uh luel It has a variety of meanings in basic Greek, but in the New Testament it it always refers to somebody being released from custody in prison. So it means Timothy was imprisoned and now he's been been released. Uh the historical detail of Timothy's imprisonment is otherwise unknown. apart from this passage. So n no nothing else that we have we've seen neither from other scripture or from um extra biblical accounts uh about Timothy's imprisonment, but it's here. Uh but it's not surprising that he, like his mentor in the faith, Paul, was put in jail for preaching Jesus. So not surprising But nowhere else do we see it. Yes. Timothy was not Jewish. Uh he was uh Jewish because his mother was Jewish. Um so Timothy seemed to be What's that? His father was Greek, yeah. But uh the way the the Jews do their um uh provenance is if your mother's Jewish you're Jewish And so that so Timothy would have been considered Jewish because his mother was. Yes, Bob. I believe it is. But very shortly after Yeah, I believe it is. Before seventy AD, but after uh Second Timothy, so sometime in the mid-sixties, something like that Timothy seemed to be faltering when Paul wrote his second epistle to him, 2 Timothy 1, 6 through 12. uh two twelve and uh three twelve to fourteen, the apostle encourages him to endure persecution without fear. The way that uh Second Timothy reads it, uh Paul's kind of uh trying to bolster Timothy, who seems to be in some way um going through some d difficulties uh in his life. Um so it's uh I think it's likely Bob just asked this question. I think it's uh likely that Hebrews was written soon after 2 Timothy. And we see that this man of God, Timothy, had responded well to Paul's previous exhortation. He is actually imprisoned, but he comes out And he's being uh complimented as um um our our brother Timothy as he comes out of prison, so he evidently endured it uh dirty well uh uh from from all outward uh uh appearances. So who is Timothy, Acts sixteen one? He came to Derby and then to Lystra where a disciple named Timothy lived whose mother was a Jewist and a believer but whose father was a Greek. So mother Jewish, father Greek um and in uh the usual Jewish providence that made him Jewish. Um the brothers at Lystra and Iconium spoke well of him So he had a good reputation in Acts of sixteen. Second Timothy one five, I have been reminded of your sincere faith, which first lived in your grandmother Lois, and in your mother Eunice, and I am persuaded now lives in you also. So his grandmother was a believer. And his mother was a Jewish believer. Um and so he was taught from a young age by these women who were in his life who were believers, even though his father was a Greek. And from from reading this, it's we would assume that his father was not a believer. It would be strange that they would m he would mention the faith of his grandmother and his mother if his father was also a believer and Just not mention him. So we assume that his father was not a believer, but his grandmother and his mother were and they taught him. Um Do we also assume that his grandmother was Jewish? Uh we do. We do. Because his mother was Jewish. Um so we assume that she was, although It's theoretically possible that it was his father's mother who was a believer. Theoretically possible. Um more likely she was uh Jewish and yeah, and they were the believers. Uh so uh first uh Corinthians sixteen, if Timothy comes See to it that he has nothing to fear while he is with you. So Paul's sending Timothy to the Corinthians. Philippians 2. I have no one else like him who takes a genuine interest in your welfare. He's talking about Timothy There's nobody like Timothy, Paul says in Philippians 2. For everyone looks out for his own interests, not those of Jesus Christ, everybody but Timothy. Timothy stands alone, according to Paul, uh, in faithfulness. Uh Hebrews 13 we just read, I want you to know that your brother Timothy has been released. So he was young, faithful, timid, sometimes unselfish, caring, loyal. persevered. Um and so that was Timothy. Uh so the writer's hope was that Timothy would soon join him and that together they would visit the reader. So uh he's saying that uh I want to come and if If if if Timothy can get here from wherever he was imprisoned in time, I I'm gonna bring him and we're gonna come visit you. Of course we have no idea where this Hebrew congregation was So we see a clear ill illustration of the importance of following up with personal ministry those who are taught. And so uh and Paul did this too that he was always following up with these churches he had planted, people that he had discipled, he didn't just leave them on their own. He circled back to them. He wrote letters to them. He went back and visited them Um and that's what this guy wants to do too. He he wants to come back and see these people face to face. He's written them a letter which can be read out loud kind of like a sermon But he wants to go there and follow up in person. And this is a a good lesson for us. If you have um shared the gospel with somebody If they had responded to the gospel, don't assume that you, my work is done here. You know, they said a prayer, my work is done here No, the the example that we get from the New Testament is follow-up, follow-up, follow-up. Um continue to invest in the life of new believers. Yes, ma'am. I would appreciate your feedback on that like long term. You know, with um if we have the privilege And uh your service is and then you move on, and then you move on. So circumstances maybe Make it impossible. But it it shouldn't be because we have decided that we don't want to it's too hard, we don't want to have anything to do with that person. In today's day and age, communication across vast distances is very easy. Um and so following up by emails and phone calls is easy. Now following up in person may be harder Um, and so you know, th Paul Paul had all sorts of plans. He wanted to go off to Spain and and never got to do that. So sometimes we you know, y you have a sincere desire to do something and and y it just becomes impossible. You can't do it. But I don't think we should just write off people that we have discipled as well somebody else will take care of it. Maybe they will. I mean that could be God's plan. The Holy Spirit's got somebody else to come alongside that person. That's perfectly fine. But I don't think we should just assume that we have no responsibility, that the the Holy Spirit doesn't want us to continue to pour into the lives of people that we've we've met. Um and so I think we it's it behooves us to make an effort. Uh to make an effort to keep in touch with somebody that is especially a new believer. Um there's so many um there's so many examples of people that um have said a prayer, but then nothing happens after that. You know, the the seed that's on the rocky soil and it it grows up and it's choked out. Um so I I think it's it would it's good for us to follow the example of the scripture of people that had Done work and and had preached the gospel and people had responded to continue to follow up. To the best of their ability. Okay. Uh and of course it was often expressed the desire of the Apostle Paul's Romans 15, 28 and 29, for example, uh that he always wanted to come back and see them in person. Now it wasn't always possible. He didn't always actually get to go back and see those uh people. Okay. Um and then the final verse is greet all of your leaders and all the saints, those from Italy greet you. Grace be with you all. So um the readers had already been exhorted to obey their leaders. We did that last week, verse 17 And now they are asked to convey greetings to them and to all the saints who were part of the fellowship of Christ. Greet all your leaders. So these leaders, he's just been talking about the leaders, about obeying and submitting to leaders. And then he says at the very end, greet them for me The mention of all your leaders supports the other New Testament teachings of the plurality of elders, Acts chapter 20 and Titus uh as well, to to appoint elders plural in all the churches Um and so since he says all your leaders, it's not the model of one guy. So we have churches uh in the modern world where it's just one guy And we see that over and over again, um could lead to ruin. Th that the one guy uh one uh concentration of w of power in one guy uh does not work well in civil government, it doesn't work well in church government either. Um so it's all your leaders. So there there were obviously multiple leaders, enough to say all of them uh for the greeting. Um those from Italy greet to you probably indicate that some Italian Christians were with the author and asked him to send greetings. So either the author lived in Italy and they were all around him, or he had visited there or he knew a bunch of Italian Christians and They had asked him to send greetings with along with this letter to wherever this Hebrew congregation was, because as I said at the beginning, we don't know where this congregation was. But those from Italy were greeting them And so it's very unlikely that the Hebrew congregation was in Italy from this passage here. Those from Italy greet you. And the epistle ends with a simple yet lovely conclusion in the form of a plea for God to grant grace to the readers. um similar to Titus III, as he does for all his children through the one who alone can give grace, the Lord Jesus Christ. So grace be to you all is how he He finishes the letter. So today we talked about this benediction postscript. We talked about the power of God, the exhortation, the follow-up, and the greeting. And so um I want to do a little bit of summary of the whole the whole letter, but first let me give you an opportunity to ask Anything about these last few verses that still stands out to you or that you have a question about or want to make a comment about? Do you have an opinion as to who take this? So um yeah. So uh I I think it was probably written by Paul Um but I you can't be certain. Um it really can't be certain it it it there's a lot of things that fit with Paul. So it Paul was obviously in Rome uh towards the e at the end of his life, the last several years of his life. And so saying those in Italy greet you would fit with that. And he was obviously a mentor to Timothy knew Timothy well and so mentioning Timothy at the end would fit with Paul. Uh the all the doctrinal stuff fits very well with Paul. It's very similar to the doctrine that it Paul puts forth in Romans. So There's a lot of reasons why it it fits with with Paul, but can't be certain. And the the Greek for the book of Hebrews is much more polished than the Greek that Paul employs in other letters. I mean that Paul's letters he starts off identifying for saying that. He does. He does. So it's a little there are some differences that cause uh doubt. Um now the the Polish Greek could be he had somebody I mean he was dictating and somebody else was writing it in really fancy Greek That could be uh the way it was done. Um but Paul in his other letters always identifies himself and uh this one he doesn't. Um there's some doubt. I I think it's probably Paul on the way to the evidence but there's there's doubt. Yeah. Any other questions, comments? Let's uh so let's do a little bit of a review of this letter. So um outline in the book of Hebrews from one of the commentaries, David Allen's commentary So we started with a prorogue about God's final revelation in Christ, the first four verses. We looked at the superiority of the Son, really that's a theme all the way through. Jesus' identity and work demand our obedience. And faithful obedience is necessary to enter rest. Obligations of Jesus' priestly office and saving work is perseverance and maturity grounded in Jesus' high priesthood. Christ's Melodic Melchizedek priesthood, the fact that he's the mediator of a new covenant, the exhortation to draw near. Uh this is one of the great themes of the the book is that we can draw near to God and that's a contrast with the old covenant. And the old covenant Um you know, the Holy of Holies was where the God's presence was, and only the high priest and only once a year could he go in there. And there was a b big thick curtain which separated God from everybody He was unapproachable in the old covenant. Uh on Mount Sinai, only Moses could touch the mountain. If anybody else touched the mountain, they would drop over dead. If an animal touched the mountain, it would drop over dead. You could not approach God In the new covenant you can. When Christ died on the cross, the the the temple veil is torn from top to bottom, and now we can draw near to this holy God in Christ. we can do that. So that's a the drawing near i is a um a a big theme, a big picture theme of Hebrews. So exhortation to draw near, hold fast, and love one another. in the practical part uh of the the epistle confidence to persevere and avoid willful sin, conviction to live by faith. encouragement to run with endurance and pursue peace, final exhortations to love and humble submission, and then the conclusion and final greeting that we did today. So that's a uh big outline top level outline of the book of Hebrews. So anybody have any thoughts or comments from the whole nine months? of of Hebrews. Did anyone say how the babies and I'm not I would like to thank you for a very thorough explosion. You're certainly welcome and we're gonna we're gonna look through the themes one more time just to make sure everybody's clear. Uh so the overall themes, superiority or the preeminence of Christ, Jesus is better. He is better than any Old Testament person. He is better than any Old Testament institution. He is better than any Old Testament ritual. He is better than any Old Testament sacrifice. To the Jew it had always been a dangerous thing to approach God. No man can see me and live, Exodus 3320 Since there was naturally no personal nearness to God, there had to be some basis for communion between God and Israel, and this is what the Levitical priesthood was for to have a uh to symbolize atonement for sin, point forward to the true atonement for sin in order that the the barrier could be access, the access to God could be could be granted on a limited basis. But what we human beings really needed was a perfect priest and a perfect sacrifice to open the way to God permanently. A sacrifice that did not deal just with one sin at a time, but a sacrifice that took away all sins once and for all, allowing us to draw near To a holy God. That's what we really needed. And that, says the author of Hebrews, is exactly what Jesus did on the cross Jesus Christ came as the mediator of a better covenant because his sacrifice is one that does not have to be repeated every hour, every month, every year. And um he comes as the mediator of a better covenant because his sacrifice once and for all removes every sin ever committed for his elect. And also because he didn't have to sacrifice for himself. Uh he is totally perfect already. Everything is presented as better with Christ. A better hope, a better testament, a better promise, a better sacrifice, a better substance, a better country, a better resurrection, a better everything Everything's better with Christ. That's the the the teaching of this book of Hebrews. So, um I want to thank you for taking this journey with me nine months. Um I I thank you for your patience. I I've learned a lot. Uh we started with these verses at the beginning of Hebrews. God after he spoke long ago to the fathers and the prophets in many portions and in many ways in these last days has spoken to us in his Son, whom he appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the world. And he is the radiance of his glory, and the exact representation of his nature and upholds all things by the word of his power. When he had made purification of sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on High having become as much better than the angels, as he has inherited a more excellent name than they. That's where we started. And amen and amen. Um all right. Thank you very much for nine months worth of uh journey with me through the book of Hebrews. And so you're you're dismissed about ten minutes early. Um I am doing Genesis again, but not into not next quarter, but the quarter after. Uh oh, I'm sorry. I'm not teaching anything next quarter. I'm teaching the Odyssey the quarter after that. Uh Theodicy. So the what it's i it's called What About Evil. So I'm going to teach um why does God allow evil in his good creation? Why does a good God allow there to be evil? Why is there all this evil around us? Um I'm going to teach a class on that, the biblical answer to why there's evil in the world. So I'm going to teach a just a thirteen week class on that, not next quarter but the quarter after. And then the quarter after that I'm going to start a four-quarter series on the book of Genesis. Yeah, that's what I did last time. So I did one quarter on Genesis 1 to 11 and I did three quarters on 12 through 50 So it took four quarters to go through the book of Genesis. Yeah. Yes. Bob. Yeah. Yeah. So Yeah. So man man makes his plans, but God directs his steps. So we'll s we'll see We'll see. That's uh that's my plan. Uh yeah, so uh yeah, so we're we're finished. And so let me let me let me close this with prayer and then if