Alright, I'm gonna say that again real fast. Well, sorry for everybody on the recording. We talked about all the amazing roadmarks and arguments to get up to a place that says that that God mediates a better covenant and is enacted on better promises. And those promises are in chapter eight, verse ten. It says, For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. I will put my laws into their minds and write them on their hearts, and I will be their God And they shall be my people, and they shall te and they shall not teach each one his neighbor and each one his brother, saying, Know the Lord For they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest. For I will be merciful toward their iniquities, and I will remember their sins no more. Those four promises are powerful and rich and deep and tremendously significant to our lives. And if you're still looking at chapter 8, the last thing that the author writes there is, and so the old covenant is obsolete and is ready to vanish away. Think about it like this. You ever go in the grocery store and you check the dates? Because you don't want to get that yogurt. And so You always flip it over and you check to make sure what date it is. It's as if God said the old covenant has a Best buy 33 AD stamped on the bottom of it. Because it is obsolete now And fading away. So there's two parts to this passage. Let's read the section. Chapter 9. Now, even the first covenant had regulations for worship and an earthquake. Earthly place of holiness. For a tent was prepared, the first section, in which were the lampstand, and the table, and the bread of presence. It's called the holy place. Behind the second curtain was the second Second section called the most holy place, having the golden altar of incense, and the ark of the covenant covered on all sides with gold, which was a golden urn holding the manna. And Aaron's staff that budded, and the tablets of the covenant, above it were the cherubim of glory overshadowing the mercy seat. Of these things we cannot now speak in detail These preparations having thus been made, the priests go regularly into the first section, performing their ritual duties. But into the second, only the high priest goes and And he but once a year and not without taking blood, which he offers for himself and for the unintentional sins of the people By this the Holy Spirit indicates that the way into the holy places is not yet opened as long as the first section is still standing. Which is symbolic for the present age. perfect the conscience of the worshipper, but deal only with food and drink and various washings, regulations for the body imposed until the time of Reformation But when Christ appeared as a high priest of the good things that have come, then through the greater and more perfect tent Not made with hands, that is not of this creation. He entered once for all into the holy places Not by means of the blood of goats and calves, but by means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption For if the blood of goats and bulls and the sprinkling of defiled persons with the ashes of a heifer sanctify for the purification of the flesh, how much more will the blood of Christ Who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works to serve the living God. Therefore, he is a mediator of a new covenant, so that those who are called may receive the promised eternal Eternal inheritance since a death has been has occurred that redeems them from the transgressions committed under the first covenant And so there's two sections here in this passage, right? I mentioned this at the beginning, but it's worthwhile mentioning again. The first section shows the limitations of the Old Covenant in its earthly tabernacle and worship, and that's verses one to ten. And the second part shows the superiority of the new covenant and Christ in verses eleven to fourteen. What's interesting is the author kind of moves quickly Through this description of the tabernacle. And he basically just lays it all out He's speaking to Hebrews. I'm probably not speaking to Hebrews. Um but there's a tabernacle or a tent that God showed to Moses that was built. And if you want to, you can read about that. That in Exodus 20, verses 1 to 30, and all the details of that. But essentially, in a high-level summary and a picture of what's going on, this tenth had two sections. The first section was called the Holy Place, and the second section was called the Holy of Holies. And inside the Holy of Holies was all gold. was all amazing and dazzling. And God made it even more amazing and dazzling. But in the first section, there was a veil that was on the outside of the to uh tabernacle, and people and then priests Would come into this first section, and in this first section there was furniture. There was bread that was replaced on a daily basis. There was candles or lampstands that had to be trimmed all the time and maintained, and priests would go in there and they would. do their duties as it says. So we have this first section, and it's got furniture in it, and priests go in there. And then there's a veil And beyond that veil is the second section. And in that second section is the Ark of the Covenant. And that's an important thing. And the author here lets us know that the Ark of the Covenant. Ark of the Covenant has symbols of the country, the covenant, and the nation. The rod, Aaron's rod that budded. proved the Levitical priesthood. And also proved God's choice of that priesthood. The jar of mana showed God providing bread from heaven and we Gabe talked about that last Sunday, and if you don't remember you weren't here, it's a fantastic message and worthwhile listening to. Um The and then the tablets were in there. They God wrote it. And all that stuff is in that ark. And above the ark is what's called the mercy seat. And then above that mercy seat was these cherubim and the glory of those cherubim or even the glory of God was right there. And the only the high priest could go into that section. And only the high priest could go into that section once a year. And he first had to offer blood for himself and then he would offer blood for the people on the Day of Atonement when he entered into that place. And then the author says, and we don't have time to go into detail. It would be fun here to spend time talking about it, but I'm gonna follow the author's lead, and I'm gonna say, no, we don't have time to go into detail on this Let's stick to what the scripture says. And like I said, if you want to know more about that, Exodus 26. But the thing that's important and the thing that the author is driving towards here is that first section, only priests. These are only Levites, and it's only part of the Levites could enter into the First section. And into the second section, only the high priest and only once a year, with fear and trembling, blood offered for him his own self. could enter that second once once per year. And the point is, the author is making a point, the Holy Spirit Actually, I think about this. God set all that up to make a point. You can't get to me. But the tabernacle was called a place where the people could come to God. And there was a sense where they could come outside, but that way was still hindered. And they couldn't get there. And it gets back to the idea That the Our ability to draw near to God was hindered at the fall. When mankind sinned, we were driven out from the presence of the Lord. And that has continued. And that's what the tabernacle shows. It's not just a place to draw near, but it's a place where you can only draw so near to God. and it teaches that lesson. You know, um it's it's like when you go into a store, uh, and you've probably experienced this before, when you go into the store and maybe you gotta go and you're like, do you guys have bathroom and they point at a door that says employees only. You can't go there. And sometimes they're gracious, but a lot times they're like, you gotta no, you gotta go down a hall. And it's like that. The way is not open This is actually say what the Spirit of God is saying is this is sending a clear message to us to pay attention to, just like that sign on the door Right? There you you can't see you can't you can't go into see the glory of God Or be in the presence of the Ark of the Covenant. Or look in and see the jar of manna. You can't do that. Indiana Jones tried. Yeah, sorry, I that was a joke. Back to the lesson. Alright. Back to lesson. But but reality, let's go back to reality. King Uzziah tried He got part way in and was struck with leprosy. And God made it very clear, no, no, you cannot. You're not worthy. You are not clean. You do not deserve to be in my presence. Don't presume. And that's what that story, and that's what this picture is showing to us. Also The picture is showing that the gifts and sacrifice that are offered cannot cleanse us deep down inside where it matters. And we've seen this already. The author of the book of Hebrews says said If we were cleansed, we would have been able to stop making offerings. But as it is, they had to keep making offerings. And the words here is says the gifts and sacrifices offered cannot cleanse the cleanse the conscience of the worshipper if they were really cleansed there would be no need for another. Hebrews seven nineteen says, the law made nothing perfect. But these sacrifices point to a time of reformation. is what the m is what this says. A time of reformation. And now in our hears we might go, Oh, Martin Luther and that's not what's being talked about. What's being talked about is the time when the old covenant passes away. As replaced with a new covenant. It's a time when Jesus shed his blood on a cross and made way. And that's what we get to talk about next. The new covenant, that's that time of resurrection. Reformation. That's what it's pointing towards. So in chapter verses eleven to fourteen tell us that Jesus Did better than all these things from the old covenant. In fact, the stuff that's talked about in verses eleven to fourteen are an explanation, if you will, of how those promises that were talked about back in chapter eight come to pass. are fulfilled. And so just for a real quick summary, Jesus isn't going to go into the earthly tabernacle Jesus is going to go into the heavenly tabernacle. And not only is it a heavenly tabernacle, it's a tabernacle that's made without hands. No human being polluted it by touching it. Do you remember the story about how the Ark of the Covenant teetered and was about to fall off the cart and he reached out? Presuming that it'd be better for him to touch it than to have it fall on the ground And God made it very clear, your hands are dirtier than the ground. This is a tabernacle in heaven, very likely a physical tabernacle. Made without hands, made by God. Unsane. You know, when the first tabernacle was built, they had God inspired skilled laborers. Skilled artisans, that's the right word I should skilled artisans to build that thing. And they set it up. It was I can only imagine how amazingly beautiful it was If God inspired somebody to do art, it would have been worthy of any art gallery to stand it up and take a look at what was done. And we know that people were skilled back then in artistic works. You can look at what They did for King Tut, right? And that was not somebody inspired by God to make something beautiful. And so this was an amazing place, but after it was all done They had to sprinkle it with blood to make it holy. People had touched it. Until it was sprinkled with blood, you couldn't God didn't have Have his presence in the tabernacle. So anyway, Jesus went to the true better tabernacle. He didn't he skipped the temple that was on earth And he, when he died on the cross, rose from the dead, he took his blood with him and offered it in heaven in the perfect tabernacle. That's what the author said. And so he entered once. Hebrews six nineteen talks about Jesus entering. And it says there that he when he entered, he anchored our hope in heaven. And he took his own blood. Hebrews 5, chapter f chapter 5, verse 1 says A priest has to have something to offer. And so this is an answer to what was kind of left dangling back there when he said a priest has to have something to offer. And maybe in somebody's mind we're like, what are you gonna do? What are you gonna how are you gonna answer this? Jesus' gotta have something to offer. And finally he drops it here. He says, he offered his own blood. He didn't take bulls or goats. He didn't take the ashes of a heifer. He went up into heaven and he offers his own blood. And through that, the author says, he secured eternal redemption. How long is eternal? Because I want to enjoy this together, right? That's eternal redemption. Redemption is a release from the claims of divine justice And accomplished by the substitutionary death of Christ, who gave his life as a sinner's ransom price The greatness of the sacrifice is view in view is rooted in the identity of the Son of God. That's Dr. Paul Martin wrote that, not me. Um and and Owen writes Redemption is the deliverance of persons from a state of bondage. And this can be done two ways, by power or by payment of a price. And so Jesus, when he entered and offered his blood, he made payment. He made payment for us and our sins and secured us in this eternal redemption. The Old Testament, they would offer these animals as a way of saying, here's a sacrifice in my place. And for and God would look at that and would overlook the sins for a time. He would look at, I believe, this is fair to say, the faith of the people in that sacrifice And would go, Okay, I'm gonna go ahead and overlook this sin. I will accept you. Knowing I believe one day they were gonna look to Jesus. Christ would say, All that faithful sacrificing is pointing toward the work that Christ would do on a cross. Fire away. In in first, um you said Jesus, you know, the also includes by dying on the cross I get that. And I'm confused here which is um He entered the most holy place. I always thought that was, you know, the um the physical tabernacle, but you're saying that is heaven, but it says the most holy place. Yeah, yeah, correct. Let's look uh let's make sure I got this. I think it's back in chapter eight. I may have this in my notes. But but then again it yes if you go up to um to verse fourteen it does that he offered himself without the five two sides. So then I'm thinking with that Sabbath, me. How would I have known the most holy place of that? Okay, let's look right back at chapter nine Uh verse eleven, I think it is. When Christ appeared a high priest of the good things to come, then through the greater and more perfect ten Okay. Not made with hands. That is not of this creation. Because some there was hands get put into the physical temple. Correct. Yes. Thank you. Yeah. Uh there are other markers in the book of Hebrews that speak to this being not uh an earthy temple um or tabernacle and I think that's back in chapter eight, but it might be the end of chapter seven, that um says that when Moses made hit the tabernacle, he made it based on the pattern that he saw. When he spoke with God. Okay, good. Sure. It's not something we think about all the time that that when be and for a long time I carried the idea that when Moses was on the mountain and speaking with God, he got verbal direction about how to build the tabernacle. But what this and the other passages are saying was he I was actually shown this the tabernacle and then he patterned and he was given just directions and then he patterned that Um that's you know, connecting the dots to make sense of what we read. Um I think it was Pastor Allen who taught and passed years the distinction between atonement versus propitiation. And atonement would be a temporary covering of sin, whereas propitiation is has more finality to it and it's a It's a done deal. It's uh it's finished at that at that point as far as covering is those two words. You don't find atonement in the New Testament, at least how how we are how we Yeah, and the that's a really good point, Kurt. Thank you for bringing that up. The uh all of the things that we're talking about here, uh w on the day when the priest comes into the Holy of Holies is reflect Referring to the Day of Atonement. Um that was that one day when Israel would look to the cleansing of their sins. And as the author says here, not only is it what you described, but it also says here that it was for their unintentional sins. If I made a oops, that Day of Atonement would cover for me But there was no sacrifice in the old system for somebody who said, I don't care, I'm just gonna disobey That's pretty sad. That w yeah. That would leave me out. And and maybe some of us would be left out because there have been times where like I I don't care, I'm just gonna disobey. And then afterwards you're like, uh But you've done it at that point. And what this is saying here is that The blood of animals is a representation and cleanses for the flesh or the outside. But Christ's blood is so much more effective, it cleanses to the inside. If you picture your best cleaner, right? If you got bleach or or vinegar or I don't know, some people use uh lemon juice, uh and you scrub your you scrub all you can. You can get the surface kind of clean, but you're not going to clean the inside. And what this passage is saying is that Jesus When he did what he did, he cleansed the inside so that we can have clean consciences. Way. Way better. Way better. In fact, I like the way the author says it here, right? Um, it says How much more will the blood of Christ who through the eternal spirit offered himself without blemish to God Purify our conscience from dead works to serve the living God. And and it gets to the idea of the supremacy of God over beings. Not only God over beasts, but here's an animal that is just walking up and like whatever and it's slaughtered. Christ offered himself voluntarily, fully knowing what he was doing and the purpose that he was there for. And knowing what it was going to take to go through it, and he offered himself. On top of that, he was pure. Not just, oh, I haven't committed a sin, but completely, obediently pure as well. When Adam and Eve were created, they were created kind of like blank slate. They hadn't committed a sin. But when Jesus was sacrificed, not only did he have, I haven't I don't have sin. He lived a life completely obeying the law and was pure and fulfilled everything that was done. And had no reason to bear any sin, because none was to his, but he took ours. Anyway, backing up, back up from that just for a minute. Christ's sacrifice is so much more superior. It's like trying to compare an anthill to that really tall building in Dubai It's so much more superior even than that. That's just such a pale comparison, right? Mount Everest to an anthill. No, I haven't still compared To the moon and back, if you know the reference. Right? God's love for us, the effort, the work, I don't pre I don't think I should say effort, the work that What God did to make it so that we could draw near to him boggles the mind to make us clean on the inside You know, uh what was it, a year and a half ago, I grazed a guardrail in my car. It took the mirror off, it did some damage, not too bad, and I took it to a shop that made it look nice with body putty. It's not the same as a new car. I can look at it close and still see it I know that there's blemishes there. That's not what this is talking about. That's almost like the Old Testament is body putty. And the New Testament is the insurance writes your car off, and you have a completely new car. It's and it makes sense. We're a new creation in Christ. It's who we are. Praise God, right? And and this is this is no, hello guys, this is a New Testament surprise. This has been talked about. This covenant that we read came from that that we read those verses from chapter 8 are from Jeremiah. Look at what Daniel says. Daniel chapter nine. Seventy weeks are decreed about your people and your holy city to finish the transgression. To put an end to sin, and to atone for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness. To seal both vision and prophet and to anoint a most holy place. What? How many of you guys have read that passage in Daniel? In the seventy weeks and went, I don't understand seventy weeks, I don't understand. That's talking about the promise and hope that we have, because we're grafted into Israel that we have in the new covenant. When Christ died, it inaugurated that new covenant. And God said, oh Daniel, it's 70 weeks, and it's going to be And it happened when God said it was going to happen, because that's who God is. He would never miss the bus. And look, Romans three speaks to this in a powerful way, Paul. Paul writes, but now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law He's saying the same thing there that Hebrews is saying, right? Although the law and the prophets bear witness to it, the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For there is no distinction for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God and are justified by his grace as a gift through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. Whom God put forward as a propitiation there's your word, Kurt, by his blood to be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former It was to show his righteousness at the present time. who has faith in Jesus Christ. Jesus is just to forgive our sins, and he's the one who did it. When he took his blood to heaven and offered Just look at how awesome the work of Christ is. Enjoy this. Enjoy this. This is the greatest sacrifice of It illustrates our need and it illustrates the amazing love that God has for us and His tender mercy And his desire to remedy the problem of the fall and to be back in communion with us. And that's why the promises that he speaks to. Get back to having the law written on our hearts. God being our God and we being his people. Everyone will know the Lord And God will be merciful to their iniquities and remember their sins no more. If God remembers our sins no more We don't have to worry about them. Have you ever been in a fight and maybe you said something that you regretted, and then later on you come back and you ask forgiveness? And the person says, oh yeah, forgiven, but you still feel guilty about that? You still feel like something's not right and you're not sure that you're on the right footing with that person yet? And sometimes our consciences can be like that. We can be like, I'm not sure I'm really ready to come to God. And God's like, what sin? You're mine. I adopted you. I've been waiting for you to draw near. That that oh you're talking about that thing that was covered by Christ? We don't need to talk about that. I forgot. See the treasure of what this is. Completely clean. Isaiah forty-four, verse twenty-one. Remember these things, O Jacob and Israel. For you are my servant, I formed you, you are my servant, O Israel You will not be forgotten by me. I have blotted out your transgressions like a cloud And your sins like mist, return to me, for I have redeemed you Sing, O heavens, for the Lord has done it. Shout, O depths of the earth, break forth into singing, O mountains, O forest, and every tree in it, for the Lord has done it. Lord has redeemed Jacob and will be glorified in Israel. Hallelujah. First John says if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just. And just to forgive our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And he has delivered First Colossians 1 He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son. in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. There's your biblical definition of what redemption is Forgiveness of sins, yes. David's words in Psalm fifty one, restore unto me the joy of salvation, yet uh a prayer for believers because uh issue of repenting. We sin every day and repent every day. Is that is that not true? Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. And the other thing that's interesting about That story is um David sinned and Nathan confronts him. David repents and God says, Your sins are forgiven, but there were still consequences. Big consequences. So we can be in a position of right relationship with God, completely forgiven, and still be endured Enduring consequences of our actions. And that's worthwhile remembering. Because look, the reality is, and I want to talk to this a little bit, this passage says our consciences are clean by the blood of Christ. But if you're like me, some days you don't feel clean. He does? Yep. Me reading this I do have sort of questions the the way it's kind of written because far away. I will say, when I repented and came to Christ, conscience was clean from past sins. However, at least the way it's written here in this English ESD is is uh purify our conscience and it's modified by saying from dead works. We distinguish not from sin but useless efforts to please God that we can't please God Because he's already taken care of it. It's the way it seems to be kind of written here and the way I'm kind of reading on Facebook Values. So I don't know if anyone else has any insights, but at least the English here says Denmark is that they said. You're right, you're absolutely right. And let's let me first address what you're talking about in that verse. That verse is talking about being cleansed from and not having to deal with old pa old s covenant practices. Right? Those are the old regulations, I'm cleansed from those things. And dead works that would try those are the dead works that would try to get me right with God. I am completely clean. That's not the only place wait, wait, wait, let me Right. Cleanse our consciences from dead works. The other aspect of that is there are works that I do that kill me. But I think both of those aspects are in that passage. Verse 14. So I think both aspects are there. I'll say definitely curing the conscience allows you to then serve the living God much, much better. Absolutely. In fact, it's not the only place where it says our consciences are made clean. Yes, go ahead. I was just going to say if things were dead sin and made alive in Christ, wouldn't one interpretation be that all our works without God are dead works, including Sisplay? Whether sin or we're trying to follow God, we're still not doing it in God. Therefore all of that would still be dead works. Yeah. In fact some of the translations say fleshly works. Um and it's interesting to look at both of those things. I don't rem I did not look up to see if the Greek word was Sarx. But um Necros. There you go. Dead. Dead, dead. Really dead. Yeah. Dead works. Um all of my righteous deeds are filthy rags. Dead works. And so that's another reason why it makes sense to draw the conclusion that you drew in that this would clean me from the things from those things. And there's there's also implied in your question though, this would clean me from the things I did in the past. But maybe not from the things in the future? I'm not necessarily No, but I was saying I okay I was just right. If if I categorize it as well, not sp sp specific to this verse, but I said when I was re repented, then I know I was cleansed of those previous works and had a a clean conscience of it, but not saying that that's what's implied in this one. Okay. It yeah, I'm not saying that it's uh a past thing, it's continuing. Oh continuing. Yeah, good. And and I I just did want to point us back to the idea that what Christ did s created an eternal redemption. And eternal redemption would be pretty short if I was only cleansed from my past sins at the day that I repented. Um yeah, yeah. I I'd want to do it at the very last microsecond of my life. That's when I would want to repent. So anyway, I'm sorry I interrupted you. Go ahead. Alright. Um so yeah, I think uh what you brought up there is a very interesting uh point and I really like Uh well Grace added on to that. Thank you very much. That brings some clarity. Yes. Well and I think it's also important to recognize that the same language is used for actual like thin. And and actions that we try to do to serve God that aren't specifically from God. Like they're on the same plane. Our efforts to please God are the same as there. it's only through Christ that our works are holy. Yeah. I you know I I'll I'll give a word picture to talk about what you're talking about. Because to to s to say that my sin is on the same level as my doing my own works to get to heaven. Is true in the sense that all my works are filthy rags, right? Is I like to picture this, if you've ever seen a picture from space of the earth. It looks just like a s a completely smooth ball. Because the topography of Earth, as big as the mountains are The topography of Earth is infinitesimally s well, is really, really small, not that infinitesimally is wrong, is smo is smoothed by the distance of space. And in that sense, I I take that in my head as a picture of saying, my my righteousness, my sin are are teeny tiny Compared to the standard that God requires and the work that Christ did. And and I think that supports what you're saying and maybe with a picture. Okay. I I don't know, Ron, did did any of that help to get to what you're kinda asking about. above dead works it's part of it's a piece of yeah and in the argument it makes sense to say dead works is old covenant works. Because that's where the author came from in this passage and it follows in that flow of thought. I I think that it it gives us the ability we can take all of those things into one. And yeah for us. Right? 'Cause it's all of it. It's not just those things that I tried to do right. If I understood I feel like I'm not still completely doing a good job of representing what you asked. Oh no, I think Okay, good. Right. I think the point was taken that I was making it that it's not specifically pointing it's not using the word sin here, it's using dead works as if it's us striving to please God on on our own behalf. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Dead works. Um though I'm not sure what scripture that we put it that less profits enough. Yeah. Yeah, we can't we can't make ourselves right with God. And Christ did all that work. I I'm about to I'm I'm into I'm considering going on a rabbit trail and I'm gonna discipline myself. I'll pull back. Um I did want to get back to the idea of why is it that my I scripture says I'm clean But I might not feel that way. I just wanted to toss out a few ideas that potentially might be true, if that's true for you. Our hearts can be deceitful. And if that's the case, then You need to train your heart to believe what Scripture says. Um also along those same lines, our consciences are not perfect And we need to train and inform our conscience about what God says is true. Well the reality is too we may have unfinished business with somebody. You know, Scripture says, hey, if you're about to take Lord's Supper and you remember you got a thing with somebody, go get that resolved. If you know there's something you need to apologize or make right, there's no wonder your conscience is bothering you. Go make it right. You may be right with God, but there's something you need to resolve. Even First John says it tags in there the idea of confession with seeing our sins removed. Not that confession is a requirement It's not a dead work, right? It's not a requirement for our salvation or to be forgiven. But confession is is in there and I think that there's Reason for us to be right with God by agreeing with what He says. And sin, just like what we talked about with David, thanks for the illustration, can have long-term impacts even after we're forgiven. So we can can be in a place of forgiveness but still be enduring consequences of our sin. And that might make us feel bad, which would make us feel like maybe we're not right. And also we're all growing in sanctification. And so there are things that there are sins that we continue to struggle with. And those are things that we need to repent and cry out to God about. Knowing that today and tomorrow's sins are forgiven, trusting that God's going to take care of me to grow me in sanctification. Sometimes we also could be in a position of just Um and I think this goes back to the first two points. Weird malaise, if you know what that word means, um, where we just don't feel we feel kind of blah And I would suggest that potentially what's going on there is you may not be enjoying your salvation. And I want us to draw us back to what What God has done so that we can draw near. If you want to enjoy Your salvation, spend time enjoying what God has done. Spend time enjoying your salvation and worshiping and glorying in your Heavenly Father, who did all this work. works so that you could draw near. I will tell you that spending time at the feet of God will cleanse your conscience. Even though it's already cleansed. Which is kind of a weird way to say it, right? But it will remove that uh I don't feel too much and will put us in a position of joy in the Lord. Um I I've been enjoying reading through the scripture that the pastors have put forward this year. And if you're not reading through the scripture, I encourage you to be in God's Word. Because you God's Spirit will you Use His word and His truth in your life in ways that you don't expect. It's a step of faith sometimes and it's a it's a duty, but it's a duty looking for joy Expecting that God will deliver us peace and joy. I need to mention a couple more things, and then I want to be careful with our time. The effected nef the effectiveness of the blood of Christ means that it only had to be offered once. God looks at that sacrifice for all time, for all of his people. And I think sometimes it's easy to think God saved me Or God or the two or three people I know and forget the vastness of the work of Christ. And I want to incline our eyes again To the glory of who God is. Galatians 3 says that Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us. As it is written, everyone is cursed who's hanged on a tree, so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit. through faith. And I just want to go back to the blessed the the blessing of Abraham In Genesis 17, the Abrahamic covenant says, and I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you, throughout their generations, for an everlasting covenant, to be God to you, and to your offspring after you Do you see the second covenant hidden in the Abrahamic covenant when he says to be God to you? That's one of the four blessings that's listed there. In that covenant that God promised, and he promised it to Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, and then reminded them again about it in Jeremiah and way other places in the Old Testament. And brought it into fruition in Christ in the New Testament. Jesus says, get ahead of myself, the cleansing. means that God is no longer ashamed of us. Did you guys notice, by the way, there's no command in this passage? In in chapter 9, verses 1 to 14, there is no command for us. I could extend that to say And I will go enjoy God. Glorify God for who he is and what he has done. Um but but God's done all the work. And now, and I just I want to say it again, we're in a position with cleansed consciences where God is no longer ashamed of those who are his. Because Christ has done the work. So we can draw near. There was a time when God had to write the law on tablets of stone, and now he's written it in the hearts. of his people. He's put his Holy Spirit inside of them. They no longer we no longer have to say, I need to know God Because we can know God. Titus 2 says, For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people, training us to renounce on godliness and worldly passions, and to live Self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age, waiting for our blessed hope, the appearing of our gl of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ. So there's a duty for us here in this life. Who gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness and to purify for himself a people for his own possession Who are zealous for good works. That was God's purpose and God's work in our salvation. The Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for the world. For many. And so I I I think I've said this two or three ways. You know, you picture at the Lord's Supper, John the Apostle, who doesn't even want to name himself. leans back on Jesus and asks him a question. And we now are in a position where we can lean into the arms of our loving Heavenly Father. Because of what Christ and God has done. And made permanent, irrevocable, eternal. We can rest in Christ. Chapter four of this book talks about having a rest We can rest in that, and we can taste and see that God is good. And all of these promises All of these promises are made possible through the sacrifice of Christ And putting his spirit inside of us. Let's close in prayer. Unless it wait, unless we have any questions. Then we're gonna close in prayer. Adiquely it's