In his letter to the Ephesians, Paul gives the essence of the mature, spiritually fulfilled Christian life. At some point, uh all of the went so eventually uh uh scanning child be gone. Uh he's able to save forever. Uh and and to us as as believers who know the truth, um that is terribly sad. Remember the bombing at the Navy Yard that killed ten or eleven people? it it requires a sacrifice. Jesus said no. Here's Christ, no need for sacrifice for himself, no need to repeat sacrifices, one perfect sacrifice, and it's done. Glanguage has two words for another. And but also to draw near to him, to enjoy him forever. the Holy Spirit had David put that in in Psalm one ten, it will not change his mind. Uh I don't know exactly what they say, but I'm sure there's something in there about each of those passages. So it could be. Right. Therefore God used an oath, not because he had to, but because he wanted to emphasize the permanence of the particular covenant. Even if they lived age fifty, that was the end, and even if they were to break the rules, their priesthood was going to end because they were going to die. for those who draw. priesthood in the Levitical system. You think of all of those hundreds of years of the uh law and the Levitical priesthood. But Hebrews says no, it's not. Part fourteen to twenty-six and part nineteen. Psalm 110 verse 4 where David talks about uh the Holy Spirit through David talks about this coming uh new kind of priest. For on the basis of of it, that is perfection, the people received the law. Judaism. Jesus did not come from Levi, which was the only priestly tribe. Levitical priesthood because he wasn't a Levi. And so itself had to be removed. Holy of Holies. It brought access to God. passage including last week and this week is that in Christ we can draw near to God. Talk about that verse today as a matter of fact. Um and just letting it wash over you. object lesson that was and then right after this letter was written the object lesson of the destruction of the temple in seventy AD. hadn't quite happened yet. is much more mature than the first. based on his perfect sacrifice on Calvary, was access to God opened. There was always a barrier in between. sin he actually bore our sin. Uh he never suggested that priesthood would be anything but temporary. There was never an oath connected to that Levitical priesthood or any sort of promise, conditional or unconditional, that this priesthood would be eternal. uh came to Christ and now um now preaches and evangelizes in Israel told me that his experience was over and over and over again when he opened up his Hebrew Bible and went through with a person in the street Isaiah fifty three, the person that he was evangelizing would say they had never heard that before. uh what do they call their uh set of commentaries the um Talmud. Those who will never be safe from those who will be safe. Now, from one sense you could say, well why was a priesthood ever needed after the sin is taken care of? It even said the veil was his flesh. Yes, Rob. at the forefront of the way we relate to God for all eternity. Chosen to do so with an oath. But maybe for Christ's environment as well. starting with verse thirteen about that oath that uh accompanied the Abrahamic covenant. holds his priesthood permanently. Right? He he died, and that was a uh an event for Israel to see that their high priest died and that it had to be passed on to his son Eliezer. Shortly by the death of Moses, the two things about the old covenant were symbolized. to these believers that really needed to hear this truth. In other words, something that cannot be changed. And that's a good uh I think that's a good sense of the that Greek word. Priesthood is no halfway measure, as were the old sacrifices that only symbolized removal of sin. his written word. because they're without excuse, but they haven't received the gospel and so um what are we doing? Jesus' priesthood is permanent and eternal. under heaven by which we must be saved. to the garden. Pay the penalty for sin so that we can draw near to a holy God. the required righteousness and holiness in Christ to draw near to God. From sin's guilt. to be face to face with Christ. funeral and talked about how my friend who had passed away was was enjoying watching the Boston Bruins from Heaven. Yeah. elders do, they fall down over and over and over again and worship the Lamb, worthy is the Lamb. our focus slips. of the universe and what a wonderful opportunity that is on a day by day basis and an hour by hour basis, uh when we go to him in prayer, when we uh when we read the scriptures, when we are in corporate worship, we're able to draw near to the Almighty Creator of the universe. have his imputed righteousness and will be blameless in his presence, his actual presence uh in in glory. all the way down to our day, so that we understand these things. Because this he did once for all when he offered up himself. I for both of them were staying on your is that a nuance or salvation? The the whole context here is um uh the Levitical priesthood. uh is reminding the Jewish audience there to look back to that book of Leviticus, the fact that hey it's a big issue to to approach a holy God, to draw near to a holy God. that a holy God can have a sinful person come into his presence, draw near to him, and he provided a very limited way to do that one time a year somebody could actually approach his the the symbol on earth of his presence, draw near to him. Too would have had to repeat the sacrifices over and over. That word innocent, the Greek word translated innocent here. and being tempted continually by Satan, yet he never contracted the least taint of sin or defilement. without losing the least of his sinless purity. There never was a priest who was undefiled until Christ. We're sinful. He didn't need to have a sacrifice for himself, but for others. God established Jesus' priesthood as eternally strong, just as it is eternally holy and eternally effective. Gold chains and the breastplate, holding the breastplate. on the breastplate. his affections and the breastplate, and then his shoulders, his strength in the ephon. and on his shoulders, but he needs no ephod or breastplate as symbols, for he has true affection and true salvation. Yeah. We we see that God never intended for the Levitical priesthood to remain forever. The priest that's just like those who ministered before, or of the same kind, he is of a completely different kind and order, and that really comes out in the Greek this whole text. the chief end of man and the answer is the chief end of man is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. breadth and length and height and depth, and to know the love of Christ which surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled up to all the fullness of God. what you did last week with Doug and then this week as well. indeed became priest without an oath, but he with an oath to the one who said to him, The Lord has sworn and will not change his mind, you are a priest forever uh that he quotes it here in this letter. ten uh how the Lord had sworn it would not change his mind. sometimes come up with alternative explanations. Christ ever came as uh as we see from Psalm one ten. And so the sacrifice is done. eternity. us from having actually been a man can still be the go between or the bridge between and uh a a God who is qualitatively massively above us. Even now. If God says something then it's true a and you don't you don't have to he doesn't have to add an oath onto it for it to be kind of more reliable. sacrifices for themselves before they were qualified to offer them for other people. When God made his covenant promise with Abraham, he did so with an oath. in that way. a better covenant. Demonstration of this fact recorded in Numbers chapter 20 of the temporary nature of the former priests under the old covenant to Mount Or in view of all the people. Aaron could deliver from the wilderness of sin and bring into the land of salvation. of salvation of God's people. The whole thing read together. Be because he abides forever, holds his priesthood permanently. Alright, well he while he's going I'll try to be loud enough so that you can uh you can actually hear me. Draw near to God, just like we did in verse nineteen last week, because this is really the crux. So he's saying it again in the sermon, draw near to God once again. uh unalterable, but it is also unlimited in its scope. Paul recognized uh natural revelation or general revelation uh in uh Romans 1, uh where he he described the uh the fact that nature shows the eternal power and divine nature of God. His greatness and his glory are evident for every person to see. People cannot just look up at the stars and know the plan of salvation. by God to go out there and preach the gospel in uh in places that haven't heard it. But they haven't heard the gospel. to do so. comes to the Father except through me, John fourteen six. people could not draw near to God. Old Testament sacrifices, the the blood of born goats could never take away sin. I am saved, or I am being saved, in my process of sanctification, and I shall be saved in my glorification. Together they represent the full, complete nature of our salvation. Oh he's so happy now he's with his wife Rosia. No, Marty is not watching hockey. to read the scripture. But that may not be paramount or even on a Sunday morning that may not be my primary focus. Um and and as you say, I I uh not just you, but all of us if we're if we're honest, lose sight of that. Christ allows us to draw near to God. we know this. to himself. Those who have put their faith in me, I've paid for all of them. dark and and sinful world. saved but I think that it really is the same I the same concept drawing near to God and if you think about the contents of the whole passage so uh I gotta say this once again, remember To be able to go into that Holy of Holies once a year to draw near to him, um, that was an issue, a problem, something that had to be overcome to for people to be able to draw near to him, and the liberty Levitical sacrifice system is this complicated system to show, hey, you've got a big problem here, and it requires a sacrifice. is a perfect sacrifice, sacrifice of Christ. that's a that's a key concept and he repeats it in both those places. So his presence was there in the Holy of Holies, but it was only the high priest and it was only once a year. sense that we are set apart in Christ for righteousness. He was born into this world holy and incapable of sin. never coming into contact with them. God's plan of redemption, that we he that the sacrifice be perfect, uh be separated from sinners, not sinful. He is holy, because he is innocent, because he's undefiled, because he's separated from sinners, he is therefore exalted. But the word of the oath, which came after the law, appoints a son made perfect forever. They could not even bring themselves to him. which word for another is used there. God's goal in all that he does in behalf of people is that they might come into his presence. you know, uh a tremendous uh thing that everybody could see that oh yeah, the the the whole Levitical sacrifice system and the priesthood, that's gone 'cause the temple's completely leveled, the city's leveled, it's all gone. And th that's one of the reasons why most scholars believe that this was written before seventy A D is if that e if that picture was available to the writer at this time he would have used it. through the one who said to him, The Lord has sworn and will not change his mind, you are a priest forever. up himself. appoints a son made perfect forever. They are looking for happiness and security. priest from different from Aaron and his line. priesthood as the Holy Spirit had revealed through David in Psalm 1104. role of a high priest and intercessor between us and God. i there's still a there's still a a very uh an infinite qualitative gap between us and God, even when we're in heaven what the function will be once we get to heaven. to sacrifice Christ. purpose of redemptive history and the and the focus of all of history and and the reason for God's creation of uh the whole creation and especially mankind to begin with, um and the fact that I think we still will need an intermediary between us and and God even in heaven. Uh uh as we saw in in chapter six of ver of Hebrews, God desiring even more to show to the heirs of the promise the unchangeableness of his purpose, interposed with an oath. all of Israel and the whole world to know that his promise was permanent. When Aaron, the first high priest, was about to die, God commanded Moses to bring Aaron and his son and successor Eliezer After Aaron died, the people mourned for him for thirty days. Jews in the first century. Those things were temporary. You say it over and over and over again. It is not capable of anything but permanence. Therefore, he is able also to save forever those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them. is of completeness or perfection. But they cannot know the plan of salvation unless how will they know unless somebody preaches to them, and how will somebody preach unless they're sent Now, um, God motivates particular individuals in a special way. What? That's a great phrase. able. willing to cleanse the people of sin, but they could not, no matter how strongly they they desired it, because they had no power to a holy God. Deliverance from sin has all three of the major tenses, past, present, and future. We are freed from sin's power. presence. people were saying about how he's in a better place and he's happy and um a and that's true, but the reason it's true is because he's face to face with his Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. He's a believer. And one of his fri and so uh just I s hate I'm sorry for this diversion, but my friend that died was a was a huge Boston Bruins hockey fan. Every person who puts trust in him. to be beyond salvation and then came to to Christ. family member that you've been praying for for thirty or forty or fifty years, don't give up. ourselves saved then we can save ourselves in the first place. Whenever we sin, in effect, he says to the Father, Put that on my account, my sacrifice already paid for it. Perpetual intercession for us. holy, innocent, undefiled, separated from sinners, and exalted above the heavens, who does not need daily, like those high priests, to offer up sacrifices, first for his own sins, and then for the sins of the people. they they would never have in the original context have read just na ten verses or so. a sinful fallen human being enter into the presence of a holy God. The same as the whole book of Leviticus, the same thing he's pointing back to here is how do you draw near? only with his imputed righteousness. were both temporary and weak. Continually firing shots. I'll be teaching the new member class again. So we'll be looking at the fact that Jesus is a superior priest, which is the same topic really as last week. Covenant. in Jesus Christ. Therefore, he is able also to save forever those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them. Only in the new covenant is complete entrance possible only by the blood of Jesus Christ, only by his priestly intercession at the right hand of God. You n you do not need a symbol when you have the real thing. Because the sin is already paid for. there's still this huge gap, there's this huge chasm between uh who he is and who we are. to think about is that um God's purpose for all creation was to destroy his glory. be eternal. the plan of salvation. And him alone who is able to save. to to just think about the fact that he is, he has the power. Uh so it's good to have reminders in scripture that that this is the this is the central uh core of the gospel that everyone because we don't know. Holy Spirit is bringing through this uh this author of Hebrews to the first century church and the church of every century. be to the Lord, He has provided a way to do that permanently and perfectly. Like those high priests, the sinless one needs no sacrifice. What's on the shoulders here? Uh before. Jesus came into the world and was undefiled by sin and there was no way. Okay, so uh our schedule. Uh but it was inferior and only pictured perfection. But the word used in Hebrews 7. The former priests, on the one hand, existed in greater numbers because they were prevented by death from continuing. BC, and then here again the Holy Spirit brings it through the author of Hebrews over and over and over again here for the fourth time at the end of chapter seven. uh shy away from Messianic passages um like Isaiah fifty three uh this ev this this uh Christian who uh came from Judaism That continues on. He's still he's still the intermediary between us and the and the father. It's permanent things that he uses an oath with. His priesthood is permanent and eternal. Uh the meaning in the context of 725 can be that of eternal. um and a and a motivation to get out there and proclaim the gospel to people that haven't heard it. about the the things that uh when we do funerals or memorial services for people that have passed away, even Christians we sometimes miss that point that w you know, uh when my father died in August, um uh Yes. in Leviticus and the Biblical Priesthood. Innocent, undefiled, separated from sinners, and exalted above the heavens. And because of Christ, because of his sacrifice on the cross, we can also draw near to God, but only in him. Hebrews did that boil down very construct way that the law is no business, it's not good enough and the priesthood is not good enough, so therefore Christ is the only um uh Doug taught instead and I th don't see Doug here but I thank him for uh for teaching last week and I'll be here this week and next week and then excuse me. Set aside the old and imperfect and has replaced it with the new and perfect. to offer up sacrifices first for his own sins and then for the sins of the people. Um in a sense reminding God not that you would forget but uh all I paid for that. They couldn't be permanent because they all died. uh this word uh uh translated permanently here. uh to to get the gospel out there because we we can we know we know the truth we know the condition that those people are in they're under condemnation Um there was a physical symbol of that with men uh with Adam and Eve thrown tossed out of the garden physically. He healed, but he never harmed. Totally different from theirs and from ours. And there's an oath which came after the law and appoints a son made perfect forever. By a perfect priest, and it was done for all time. But to enjoy him forever requires drawing near to him. For it was fitting for us to have such a high priest, holy, innocent, undefiled, separated from sinners, and exalted above the heavens, who does not need daily, like those high priests, So much, the more also Jesus has become the guarantee of a better covenant. My my theory or guess is that we still need some sort of an intermediary between us and God, not because of sin anymore, because there won't be the presence of sin, just because he's the God man Um aparabato tas means unchangeable, unalterable, and violable And so uh the whole Levitical Sacrifice system was a was a symbol of of how can it be done. But not everybody will put their trust in him. in the Father's sight. this idea of drawing near to God. that there was a difficulty here. He is able. The light will always project onto the darkness and and and uh shine the light. Yes. Attached to the ephrad by gold chains was a breastplate, excuse me, on which were twelve more precious stones representing the twelve tribes. Many of these priests no doubt had a heart for the people, but none of them was able to bring the people to God. Anybody else? When you open the door, the darkness does not spill out into the room. It replaces Judaism altogether. of that Levitical priesthood. So he he's still gonna be God and we're still not gonna be God. I mean there could be many functions that are uh that are kind of priestly like that. The batteries are not permanent. The only way to remove sin was through Christ's sacrifice. The scripture is clear about this. And the short answer is I have no idea why it needs to carry on for eternity. I don't know how that all fits together in God's plans, but I know that will always be controlled our our free lady to the Father. The human giver of the law and the human progenitor of the priesthood would both die before Israel entered the promised land. That Christ is able to sow save both eternally and completely. So and so I was thinking to myself, Amen. But first, let me take a look back at what Doug covered last week. Because the Iranic priesthood and the Mosaic law were so closely tied w to one another, a change, replaced priesthood also meant a change of law, as we saw in the scripture last time. But their belief had no basis in Scripture. and we're man and he's and God's just God. So everybody see that? He could draw near to them, they could draw near to him in the garden before the fall. But then what happened when Christ was hanging on the cross, the veil is torn from top to bottom and now we can draw near to God. So it's a completeness uh there that that that word really means. So when Adam and Eve were in the garden, they could walk with the Lord in the cool of the day. So that's just an example of times when w sometimes we we miss the focus on Christ. But I was gonna say we we talked so much when we failed in the temple and the poems that talked about the male access to God. That's justification. An elaborate vestment on which were two onyx stones, each inscribed with the names of six of the tribes of Israel We're going to talk about how he is the eternal savior and he is holy and sinless. That's really the the thrust of of Christianity. Uh Henry, uh when you get to heaven, are you gonna know how to properly praise the Lord and worship him? the heart of the gospel, bringing men near to God, the part of God's plan of redemption all the way back He was a friend of mine in the Navy. MacArthur says this, some Christians seem to look at Jesus Christ only as a means to salvation and personal happiness. He did not plan for it to be perfect or permanent and so did not establish it with an oath. Natural revelation, like the Old Testament sacrifices, is God given, and it does proclaim his greatness and glory. When Peter cut off the ear, he put the ear back on. So it it's a really important book to bridge that gap from the Old Testament to the New Because as believers as if we've read and studied the Old Testament, we could think that that is the way In glorification, there will be no sin in heaven. And inasmuch as it was not without an oath, for they indeed became priests without an oath, but he with an oath Therefore, he can save forever, because he exists and ministers forever. Other priests were never able to save, not even partially or temporarily. Um that commentary, this opening commentary by John MacArthur, and he speaks of those who, to put it a different way, go to a Bible church and under good teaching and may be disappointed. Jesus Christ intercedes for us before his Father constantly, eternally, perpetually Who does not need daily like those we just went through that one, uh first of his own sins, so he doesn't need to do that. He had all the tribes of Israel on the ephod and on the breastplate, and he carried those into the Holy of Holies, into the presence of God. Yeah. And so the whole scriptures, the whole plan of redemption is about well, how can a sinful person draw near to a holy God Yet he ate with them, traveled with them, worshiped with them. Uh w we lose focus on the fact that what we're what should be um what should be a motivation for opening the scriptures or for coming to church on Sundays is to draw near to the the holy God The idea that uh this is the the Christ's purpose, that his enjoyment, that we have uh Christ as the intermediary between God and man is the whole That's really the point here of this oath and the fact that it's eternal. Therefore Jesus has made a guarantee of a better covenant. And so this is why we need missionaries and we need to evangelize. But our great high priest is not only willing, he is also able. So drawing near to God was actually the whole purpose of that Levitical system, and now here it is perfectly done in Christ. Um and so uh what did this symbolize? Um so the the Messianic passages of the Old Testament are of course very difficult for the Jewish rabbis and they do Um it's been referred to as a sermon. Therefore, this this verse starts with therefore, and when you see that, therefore, you've got to ask what it's there for. Yes, Kirk. And so Christianity in a sense comes from Judaism, but Christianity is not merely enhanced Why? Jesus on the cross um made the sacrifice for our sins Hebrews chapter seven, verse twenty to twenty-eight. For the law appoints men as high priests who are weak, but the word of the oath which came after the law But the key to the Christian life is drawing near to God. We see this in uh other circumstances as what as well. He is able. I I have to confess that I'm one of those that it may not be paramount on my mind when opening up the Bible that this is an opportunity to draw near to God. When we are glorified, we will blame be blameless in his presence. The former priests on the one hand existed in great greater numbers because they were prevented by death from continuing, but Jesus on the other hand, because he continues forever Remember how things were. Yes. Yeah, okay, I I can see what you're saying. But not one of them ever not one of them ever gets in the goal. So once again Doug will be uh teaching the first part of uh chapter nine. The Levitical sacrifices only symbolically anticipated its cancellation. And since Jesus uh priesthood is permanent and eternal uh permanent and eternal, therefore And so there were stones on the shoulders, six tribes, six tribes, and there was a gold chain Not anything else. Not everyone will believe. The the the wonderful thing that God has done to allow us to draw near to him. Because God is holy and he can't be in the presence of sin. The other side of this truth is that Jesus can save only those who come to him in faith. His parents were sinners. It brought nothing to conclusion. The key phrase of this passage is we draw near to God in verse 19. So what are you doing about it? Jesus said on the cross the Talus died, paid in full, it is finished. The veil could not be removed because sin had not been fully done away. The power of salvation is Christ's ability. Okay. Um so he's not only able, but he's the only one who's able. Yeah, I thought of one hockey analogy for my friend Marty in heaven. Both translated another. Okay. But we we have this established, the the way that God has decided to do it, is we do, even now, even after Christ has paid for the sins, we still have this is Christ still has this Yeah. So uh it the scope then uh of Christ's redemption and Christ's priesthood is unlimited That the heavens declare the glory of God, but the heavens do not proclaim the So by delivering from sin, it qualifies believers to come to God, to draw near to Him So we're no longer slaves to sin. Okay. Yeah. It might be that he he loves he came as a servant, right? God reminded Moses that Aaron, like Moses himself, would not be allowed to enter the promised land. To keep on um obeying God and keep on pursuing Weak, uh the scripture says here, in the fact that they couldn't they didn't have the power to um to remove sin. So uh I was uh I was teaching the new member class last week, so I wasn't here and So we're inching towards halfway through this particular quarter. The Old Testament precedent for a non-Lavitical priesthood was Melchizedek, and so that's why uh the author of Hebrews, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, brings up Melchizedek. They find these in Christ and are satisfied. Ephesians three, seventeen to nineteen. The Holy Spirit is saying to the author of Hebrews, the permanent has now come in Christ. Jesus' priesthood does not just happen to be permanent. He's in the presence of his lord, so he doesn't care about hockey at all. And we can do that only in Christ Jesus. Uh I knew him for years and years and years. One of those was one of my best friends. Jesus not only is able to save, but he's the only one who's able to save. Okay. Jesus injured no man. Ephod breastplate. And it's very, very clear. Um uh I have personal experien no not personal experience secondhand experience with people that have evangelized in Israel, um, that many of the rabbis See the difference there? There's a problem. Christ could only be the eternal and perfect high priest if he were completely righteous and sinless, and he is. 15 is heteros, which means another of a different kind. So where will this go be a need for us to work off? And and I don't know exactly why that would be. It's a good question and a good thing to ponder what what is the priestly function once we're in heaven and it's different than it is now, uh when the sin is completely done away with. He moved through the world and remained untouched by any of its blemishes. And when uh when you really need to get a truth across, when you're preaching a sermon, you don't say it once. I think no he's not. And the the point of Leviticus is to point forward to the ultimate sacrifice which is Christ. So th the the holy of holies was the the the his presence All the Levitical priests were sinful, and they had to offer sacrifices for themselves before they could offer them for other people. We are counted righteous in him. Uh so let's take a look uh verse by verse through this passage of scripture. Even somebody who appears to be uh heart of heart, there are multiple stories of people that appeared Right, and now there's another another one. Um uh w the writer of Hebrews refers to it over and over again. But there is still Christ as intermediary between us and God. Um i i and I mean there were rules they could only be priests from age twenty five to age fifty, uh, but not all of them lived to age fifty, especially back then. Remember how God showed you that these things were temporary. No other priesthood ever needed. Uh so good, yes. You say it with different illustrations. Um and that's a sad uh reality. Okay, just continuing with the same theme here. But Jesus can keep us saved. And so uh it gives us encouragement, it gives us hope. And so that whole system point further to Christ here in Hebrews is He did it once. Because he is able, we can draw near to God. Christ was from Judah, which had nothing to do with priestly service in the old covenant. We see that in Genesis twenty two, sixteen to eighteen. Romans 1, 18-20. Um yeah. Preach it. Um the security of our salvation is Jesus' perpetual intercession for us. The new priesthood after the order of Melchizedek was not added to Aaron's priesthood, but replaced it. Neither when the old priesthood was first established, nor when any priest or group of priests was consecrated had God made an oath. They have to be replaced. Nobody else is actually able to do what Christ can do, but he is For this we give the highest thanks, for otherwise he could not have been our Savior. It's a way that's that's God's plan of redemption all the way from the garden to the end is allowing people, in spite of the fall, to draw near to him. His flesh which was torn for us from the cross is what made the way. Um continuing. One is alas, which means another of the same kind Yeah, so yeah, so yeah, that's right. So think about this author of Hebrews preaching the sermon His brothers and sisters were sinners. Okay, great. Uh as already emphasized several times in the book of Hebrews, the Levitical priests ministered in the temple on a temporary and repetitive basis. So let's move on then to the last verses of chapter 7. To make the point more emphatic, David added, and will not change his mind That being the pinnacle of God's destroying story, he's not going to ever allow that to disappear. Now that the perfect had come, the imperfect passed away. Um it can never be anything but then It's like Yeah. But neither the sacrifice pictured uh the the sacrifice that pictured it nor the law that demanded it could provide the perfection. It gave no security. And so the scripture seems to be indicating that that goes on. That's the whole uh the whole theme of the entire Bible. God impressed on them the fact that the priesthood he represented was a dying priesthood. So we'll be freed from the very present. There's a separation of sinful man from a holy God. He went about always doing good to others, including those who had done or who he knew would do harm to him. Preach it. So uh and and so we uh at the end of this text is is really the climax, the fulcrum of this whole text, including the text that we'll see today. The King James here translates that word to the uttermost, save to the uttermost, where it says forever here and ask me. He's happy because he's with the Lord. But it the whole concept I think is is the same So this is once again a quote from Psalm 1104. And how do we draw near to God? Through Jesus Christ, we are able to stand in the presence of His glory, blameless with great joy, as we see in Jude 24. Uh Jesus was undefiled, free from any moral or spiritual blemish. They didn't have the strength. He's a priest forever. Uh so th that translation of the King James is good, I think. Jesus is also innocent, uh harmless or without guile, that Greek word means. And it uh uh reminds me of that image of uh light in a dark room. Uh God made an eternal decision about the new eternal priesthood, and oh by the way, he'd already made up his mind thousands of years before uh Christ Um that's my guess. Jesus is the superior high priest because he needs no successor. So the Greek word here used for permanently Very different from what it was happening in the Levitical priesthood over and over again for day after day and year after year, having to sacrifice for themselves Six names on the each, so all twelve tribes on the ephod, and also twelve stones with all twelve names. So uh we've got uh verse twenty-five I can remember a friend of my dear friend of mine Right? The covenant that God made through Jesus is better than the old one because the old one was temporary and the new one is eternal. Everybody see that? Alright, verse 26, another great verse. So uh when Peter said, Should we call down lightning from heaven? And so uh in verses eleven to nineteen And he's right there at the side of the Father saying, I paid for that. It was only when these stringent requirements were met that Uh the law also had its place in God's plan, representing God's truth and righteousness and demanding perfection. The oath does not represent greater truthfulness, but put it puts an emphasis on the permanence It was through Abraham that Messiah came and therefore the blessing for every believer throughout all of eternity is a perpetual fulfillment of the Abrahamic covenant. It was not permanent, and it could not bring the people into the promised land. They can know the God of the Bible, that he's there Okay. And so salvation is for everyone who puts their trust in him. Um so don't give up on don't give up on your And that's the kind of righteousness that can truly draw near to God So absolutely. They were not permanent. So this was a picture that God was painting for Israel at the time, and then the author of Hebrews is bringing that back to the mind of these The object of Christ's eternal salvation are those who come to Him to be saved, those who draw near to God through Him. The old system could reveal sin, but it could never remove sin. Uh any other question? You make the same point with different illustrations, and that's what he's doing. So give me the question. So they couldn't really uh m permanently allow us to draw near to God. Um because Marty as much as he liked the Boston Bruins, um, he's not watching them in heaven, he's he's he's watching the Lord. That's right. And Christ as the intercessor and as the Lamb and the Spirit as one of the slame will be a memorial for that. Uh yes. And we can we can profit from this this sermon as well. And so what was the point of the whole book of Leviticus? But his nature was totally separate There are common there's something in there This Greek word pantolase uh translated forever here You never know when when or if God will draw them He made this perfect sacrifice Light goes into the closet and lights it up. Good, deep thoughts. Because he he takes the penalty for our sin and his righteousness is imputed to us. And uh he and his family were members of Emmanuel Bible Church. Okay, any questions about w yes? That is the basic goal of the gospel. Um and so that that that should be the case. And he was killed in 2010 or 2011 by that bombing uh at the Navy Yard He can save us and keep us saved. I I agree. And that was never really possible fully and perfectly under the old covenant. People like Adam Judson and Hudson Taylor and uh and and others that we know throughout history have been specially motivated All right. And so that's the other half of the the the reason why God created people is to glorify him, yes. Others see their Christian lives as a continuing, growing relationship to God through study of and obedience to His Word. Even without the sin, there's still The sacrifices themselves only had a certain temporary effectiveness and so had to be repeated and repeated. Alright. So Jesus excuse me. Uh any questions so far? And while there are some sprinkling in uh the other New Testament books of of of of of of how Christ is the the only way But the priesthood of Jesus Christ made all of what Israel looked forward to a reality. Right. So this promise, the Abrahamic covenant, was unconditional and eternal But all of us have a responsibility, uh, in that area, to support missionaries, to encourage missionaries, or to become missionaries. Then the fall came and there was a separation. Um I think it's the same concept. His friends and his disciples were sinners. You can't score on Christ. Okay. There there's still an intermediary function there. Alright. They weren't able. So that Christ may dr may dwell in your hearts through faith, and that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the Uh many Jews no doubt thought that it would be permanent. Why would you ever need a priest even now The basic idea of that Greek word These are the great recurring themes in Hebrews. There still is the presence of sin and when we're in glory there isn't the presence of sin. So it's a very strong Greek word. So that's the image that came into my head when uh you were talking that step. The fullest expression of faith is to enter into the presence of God in his heavenly holy of holies and to fellowship with him. Okay, any any questions so far? So now you had sin. Um that I don't think it's really clear in scripture what It's in Christ. We call this evidence natural revelation or general revelation, but it's limited The old sacrifices partially and temporarily covered sin, but they did not even partially or temporarily remove sin. So we're freed from its power. How can it possibly be So when Aaron and his successors went into the presence of God, went into the Holy of Holies, he carried with him all the tribes of Israel. Even though they were regular synagogue attenders. It cannot possibly be anything but permanent. The nature of salvation is bringing men near to God. So that's past, present, and future salvation. Right present. But Christ's righteousness is in himself. It's a it's a great bridge from the Old Testament to the New Testament, this this book of Hebrews. Drawing near to God is the essence of Christianity. Yeah, so it that was the yes, that was the absolute end Because this he did once for all when he offered him And we talked about that and I think think actually um Doug went all the way back and read this section of scripture from uh from chapter sixteen It says here he is able. All these statements are true, all are scriptural. And so God set up this whole Levitical priesthood, Levitical system of sacrifices to show And so that's the point that the author of Hebrews is making here. That's really the message here of this verse. The basis of salvation is Jesus Christ, divine I I got that one. So right now he sees Christ's righteousness when he when he sees us. Um any other questions? It was fitting or necessary that Jesus be such a person, otherwise, he too would have had to offer sacrifices for himself first. Jesus was separated from sinners. Uh he doesn't teach that anywhere in Scripture. They passed away. Many of the priests of the Old Covenant were probably The the and and I think uh Doug did a good job last week of going all the way back to s verse six thirteen and reading it forward that Yes, Kurt. In the past tense, we have been freed This is a real opportunity to to draw near to God. And so maybe he still loves to be interacting in that capacity between those that he died for. So the oath part of it is uh really geared toward permanence. Uh but we don't know which ones, and so we share the gospel with Any other c questions or comments? Yes, so this is a that's a that that phrase there uh is is worth just stopping and uh And Christ, who became a man and so has this um this connection with us Really the But today uh we're on part nineteen of our thirty-nine part series on Hebrews. This represented what the priesthood was to be. Um any other questions or or comments in in this area? All these things are are wonderful things that uh the the So Jesus preached that not only is eternal and unalterable Right. This is part two of the discussion of Jesus as the superior priest. And we'll be doing the last verses of chapter seven today. But the fact that the Messiah was a priest after the order of Melchizedek opened the way. That's good. Uh it's him This is a wonderful truth, yes and each uh time everybody's thinking about Jimmy Carter and all the people on the He can save those only those who the Father draws, is is how Jesus put it. Henry asked me if you can do a purple suppression, so I have a purple comment. And how can we draw near to God permanently? The symbol was important for that covenant. How can a sinful uh human being draw near to a holy God? He came into the most direct and personal contact with Satan, yet he remained as spotless as before they met. Okay. So the glorified God part is the worship And so this is a this is emphasis over and over again how Christ is different from the priests, the Levitical. But um one can imagine that Um and so that's what we're going to be doing in heaven. That's yeah. So much the more also Jesus has become the guarantee of a better covenant. And now that sin had actually been dealt with, the Levitical priesthood was no longer necessary and God set it aside. The Levitical priests had the ultimate disqualification for permanent ministry, which was death Those unreached people groups, they're under condemnation And what a wonderful thing that is Yeah, Pastor Ross, the just thinking about the the tearing of the veil to the Holy of Holies, how much of an offer? So I'll give you a few paragraphs from John MacArthur and his introduction to this section of scripture And just to take it a step further, I don't e know why it even needs to be now They couldn't do the permanent full job If they believe they are saved and are fairly happy with their circumstances, they consider their lies fulfilled. Um but the separation the spiritual separation such that the He's in the presence of he's not watching Barton Bruins hockey But just as Jesus has power to save us, he has power to keep us And because of all five of these things, he does not need to offer sacrifices for himself. Yeah, it's a good question. Everybody see that? And it requires this Jesus lived his life in the sinful, defiled world God's ultimate desire for people is for them to come to Him. David brought it up for the uh the Holy Spirit brought it up through David for the first time, um and about a thousand We've seen it several times. He's not only willing to save us, but he has the power to save us. P all people since Adam and Eve have been born with a sin nature and have contributed their own sin such that we cannot draw near to God But Jesus, on the other hand, because he continues forever, holds his priesthood permanently. They could draw near to God. I've got that one too. That was never the case with the Levitical The first word indicates a quantitative difference, the second a qualitative difference. Judaism brought a man into the presence of God, but not in the purest and fullest sense. Both Moses and the law, he died. Wha what are we doing about that as God's people? That is a great thing. And and the next speaker was Jesse Johnson, the pastor of Emanuel Bible Church. And so that phrase there that w we draw near to God really is the the the centerpiece of this Our high priest has no such weaknesses. And that's in the past. Everyone he encountered Additionally, Christ is exalted above the heavens. For the law appoints men as high priests who are weak I know I won't, but I hope Jesus will be there to show us how to do it or at least delegate to someone else to show 'em what to do. For it was fitting for us to have such a high priest And the sacrifice that's that's ultimately required Um but here it is perfectly done. So because all these things are t are th true, we have this priest who's not weak, Darkness can't it's not a thing. So if you'll open your Bibles or tune your devices to Hebrews chapter 7, verse 20. So none of them could serve indefinitely. Yes. The focus should be on Christ. All the priests of the old covenant, even the most dedicated and spiritual of them Um save to the uttermost. Okay, neither David nor the writer of Hebrews suggest that God's oath was any more reliable or valid than his bare words. The only one who has the power of salvation. This is absolutely essential to It has nothing to do with sacrifices. Yeah. Jesus offered only one sacrifice, not sacrifices over and over. Okay. He's preaching this sermon to these uh these Jews in the first century. He always lives to make intercession for us. When he officiated in the Old Testament, the high priest wore an ephod. So therefore, here refers back to what has just been said in the previous verses that Jesus He perfectly loves us and he can perfectly save us Um yeah. Right. Um and the pinnacle of that was the glory of his grace and forgiving sin. I shouldn't have shouted for those few minutes. In the future tense, we shall be freed from sin's Is it uh this is the goalie for the Boston Bruins? Uh the old priesthood had its place in God's plan And in fact the Old Testament anticipates another priesthood coming. He's just making this point. Um it gives us uh strength to to live the Christian life in a in a He was of an utterly different class. Um and the way that I would think about it is I paid for that. Um i in in the second sense he's talking about those who are being saved. The whole book of Leviticus is the holiness of God, that's the theme, and how can And it seems like that would have been this powerful communication of the C I've got this one. For thirty-three years or so he was in the world mingling continually with sinners. The high priest symbolically bore the children of Israel to God on his heart. Any questions? Alright, let me close this with prayer. And so that's really the the thrust of this whole section of scripture, including what we did last week. This is actually the fourth time But we can only learn about salvation from special revelation. If Jesus became a high priest, therefore he obviously was of a different order of priesthood than the So that's really the fulcrum of this whole Yeah, through Christ. Jesus' priesthood is also based on an oath of God and is thereby shown to be The entire plan of redemption is here, drawing near to God, allowing us to draw near So we're freed from sin's guilt, the penalty of sin. So we can say I have been saved Aaron's priest could never bring a man fully to God The first few verses, uh and as inasmuch as it was not without an oath, for they Yeah. That's not really the focus. A great and wonderful and marvelous thing to Questions, questions. He was holy from the very beginning, eternally holy First the heart for the people, and secondly the strength to bring them to God. So God did not swear to Aaron that his priesthood would be forever. We can learn some things about God from nature. So it's uh I think that's the case for all of us if we're honest. And so that drawing near is really the So sometimes they shy away. It was God given and God required, but still was only a symbol. Any questions about any of that? Aaron's priesthood now has no validity at all Um so yeah, so in that sense, why does it need to carry f uh on for each Aaron's high priestly garments were taken from him and placed on Eliezer. So once again, we've got And in heaven the focus is on Christ. And so but what was the whole point of the Levitical sacrifice? Holiness points toward God, harmlessness points toward men. Yeah, that's a good that's a good way of of thinking about it as well. Okay. And so this picture, the ephod is He's hammering this point to his audience. The sacrifice is all done. Yeah. We're going to be falling down and worshiping the Lamb. I've got that one. Um you were on the one side you were going uh about that um Aaron and the sacrifices, Aaron died. Because Christ is permanent. And so I went to his funeral I went to his funeral at Emmanuel Bible Church To the church and as well as to uh old Old Testament believers because I pay the sacrifices done, I've paid for that. But this is not the case for our present high priest. Darkness can't spill out into the into the bright room. So the Westminster Confession, um uh the second question is what Yeah. That was talking about the Abrahamic covenant. Neither the law represented by Moses, nor the sacrifices represented by Moses. Therefore he's able to save to the uttermost, save forever This is really the L lose lose our focus sometimes. Yes, Angela. Uh and to finish up the last two verses. Believe in Psalm one ten? That's the reason for uh ultimate happiness is Yeah that's a good image. That that's true. Huge f Boston. Alright, moving on to uh verse 23. And so the whole plan of redemption is so that Christ can Yeah. Yeah, that's another word picture that the scripture paints. Okay. And so that's a wonderful picture of Jesus. Uh do we have this uh this holy fire I've paid for all the sins of my people. He carries our names on his heart. Uh when he makes eternal transactions, God has chosen But with Christ, he swore an oath, establishing an eternal. So Jesus Christ, on the other hand, And so now we do have He is exalted because of all the other things just mentioned, because Remember it was only the high priest and only once a year they could go into Why does the the person need to be shallow? Yeah. The dark will never snuff out the the true light. Jesus himself said, this is Anne's quote here, no one Acts four twelve. There is no other way but Jesus, and this way is open to If you if you have a bright room and there's a dark closet with the door closed. We're going to talk about how he is the guarantee of a better Um and then once again on the nineteenth of January Later on in things, I think now in chapter ten. Um in fact the sacrifice is all done already. So uh and I think that happens a lot of times. He was not separated from sinners in the sense that he never They were also sinful, so always had to offer since In King James it says save to the uttermost. He could remove the veil because he atoned for sin. Okay. Great gate connection. A better priest guarantees So think about what the uh the twenty-four hours. Um as the scripture last time said, God gave Israel a dramatic and significant difference. That gives us security. And that one not for himself. That's the weakness that they're talking about here. Chapter seven, verses twenty to twenty-eight. God intended for that priesthood to operate Well it's by sacrifice. As believers, we were all holy in the We had five whole minutes. I I may be thinking about a lot of good things But all right. I I'm sure if you look through So one of his friends spoke at the funeral This quote from Psalm 12. Remember, this is a letter. Uh yes. At that point there'll be So if we go to uh Paul In His Son, we are now blameless. Uh Aaron is replaced by Christ. To be able to draw near to God. Uh people that are that are in The veil was always there. Okay. We saw that in We draw near to God. So with the death of Aaron, followed Jesus. Yeah. And the Holy Spirit demonstration. Uh this quarter we're Uh but he didn't because it God wanted Abraham and eventually And he got up and said But Perfection is provided only Right. There is no other name given unfortunate. So in Christ we don't have another This view of Christian life is not a good thing. Yes. As another example, Um and e Only light can go into the cloud. That's always going to be Um just a Any other questions? Yeah. Um Okay. We can no more keep Uh and so Yeah, I think these are Yeah. In the present tense, Okay. Christ is holy. Uh Jesus And so Um Good question. And so there But those Um We talk And he God But Southeast