Go ahead and open up your Bibles to the book of James in chapter one once again. It's amazing how much practical wisdom for life is contained in such a few verses, but really throughout the entire letter of James you find that this is true. Chapter 1 of James speaking of trials and temptations. But also about true religion. Chapter 2, speaking about favoritism and faith. Chapter 3 about words, how to speak properly, and about wisdom Chapter 4 about battles and boasts, and chapter 5 about riches and repentance. And that's so much practical truth for us in the book of James. Here we're in the midst of Series on trials and part two of help in the midst of adversity. And we're going to focus again on verses 5 through 12. Let's begin by reading. But if any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask of God, who gives to all generously and without reproach, and it will be given to him. But he must ask in faith without any doubting, for the one who doubts is like the surf of the sea, driven and tossed by the wind. For that man ought not to expect that he will receive anything from the Lord, being a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways. But the brother of humble circumstances is to glory in his high position, and the rich man is to glory in his humiliation. Because like flowering grass he will pass away. For the sun rises with a scorching wind and withers the grass, and its flower falls off, and the beauty of its appearance is destroyed. So too the rich man in the midst of his pursuits will fade away. Blessed is a man who perseveres under trial, for once he has been approved, he will receive the crown of life, which the Lord has promised to those Who love him. Now last time, after two messages already on how God uses trials and hardships in our lives to bring about that mature Christian character that we want. We began thinking about the ways that God will also bring us help and assistance right in the midst of our trials. Boy, do we need that. And the Lord knows that. He will never abandon his people, particularly in a moment of crisis. It sure feels like that sometimes. But God says he will never do that. Hebrews 13, 5 and 6. If you need a promise this morning, write it down and think about this all week long. I will never desert you. Nor will I ever forsake you. I think they were meant to be read something like that. It's a strong promise. So that we confidently say, the Lord is my helper. I will not be afraid. What will man do to me? The Lord never leaves us to send for ourselves. The first way that we found that we can receive help from God right in the midst of trials. was found in verse 5 and we covered that last time if you want to get the CD of that and missed it. It's all about wisdom. Asking God for wisdom. Why wisdom? Well wisdom to know why we're going through the trial. He may make that clear to us. He may not. He doesn't have to. Wisdom to know what we should do in the midst of the trial, that he definitely will give us. And wisdom to know how to live because of the test. How should I live while I'm going through this God does not want us to go through the trial so that He can relish our pain. Rather, He wants us to benefit from it. He tells us to learn from it, learn even in the midst of it Learn, be humble, ask God for faith and wisdom. Now today we're going to come to the second and third ways. I hope we'll get to the third way. That God wants to help us in the midst of our trials. Way number two, we need to maintain, as we go through the trial, we need to maintain Unmixed faith. I'll explain what I mean by that. Maintain unmixed faith. That's in verses 6 through 8. If you'd look down at it again, and I'll read it. But he must ask in faith, without any doubting. For the one who doubts is like the surf of the sea, driven and tossed by the wind. For that man ought not to expect that he will receive anything from the Lord, being a double minded man, unstable in all his ways. Ladies, you can just put that in there if that's you too. A double minded woman Because it's talking to all of us. Verse 6 says, faith is the requirement for receiving what we ask. We need wisdom. We have to ask God for it. Yes? We have to ask God for it, but we have to ask in faith. We have to see that, oh people, we have to listen carefully to this Because we can just go about doing what we normally do and not listen to this. In Hebrews 11, 6, I know some of you haven't memorized, it says, without faith it is impossible to what Please God. There's no way to please God without faith. It just says that in the Bible. There's absolutely no way someone who doesn't believe in him and does not trust in him can please God. Nothing that they can do No amount of religion can they do that will please God if they don't have faith. Faith in God is never optional. Never. God demands faith. He demands to be believed. It is failure to believe in God and in the Lord Jesus Christ that will be the reason God sends souls to everlasting hell. He demands to be believed. He must be believed and trusted. It is a command from God. It is a moral obligation to have faith in his word. In Matthew 13, 58 says that Jesus did not do many miracles in that place because of their unbelief. He just decided: no more displays of God's power here. They're not believing. No help, no aid. Hebrews 3, verse 19. We read it for a scripture reading. So we see that they were not able to enter talking about the promised land because of unbelief. There it was. The promised land was prepared for them. It was called the Promised Land, but they didn't believe the promise. And they didn't enter in. They walked around in the wilderness of Quran, in the wilderness of sins, literally what it's called. And uh the whole Sinai peninsula until all of them, twenty years of age and up died except who? Caleb and Joshua. Why? Because when they entered in, they said they're giants in the land, but the land's beautiful. God has promised, let's go take it. They believed. They didn't have it in their hand, but they believed. So faith in God is necessary. What is faith? It's not just agreeing that something You know that. In James chapter 2, if you just look a little bit ahead, you can see that he talks about the kind of faith that doesn't save. He talks about uh In verse 18 of chapter 2, he says, Someone may well say, You have faith, and I have works. Show me your faith without the works, and I'll show you my faith by my works. You believe, verse 19, you believe that God is one. You believe that there's one God. There's faith, right? Well, you do well. He commends them. The demons also believe that, and they shudder, shudder with fear, that is. If you ask the demons, is there one living God in the universe? They have that theology right. They believe that, but they're still going to be punished. Because they don't have faith in God. They don't trust God. True faith is always followed by works, so says James 2. But what is faith itself? In Hebrews 11. 1, it says, faith is the assurance of things hoped for. Listen to that again. It is the assurance. Faith is the assurance Of things hoped for. You don't see it yet, you're hoping for it. And faith is then the confidence, the assurance that what you hope for, you will have Here's another way of defining it. Faith is taking God at His Word. You take God at His Word. When God says something, do you take Him at His Word? No, no, often we don't. And even we Bible-believing Christians who believe the Bible is inspired and infallible and inerrant and fully sufficient for our needs when it comes actually to believing what it says. We don't do it. We don't have faith. We don't believe. We don't take God at His Word. You know, faith has to always be in something Faith has to always be in someone. People today have a lot of faith. They really do. This is the wrong kind of faith. Say, what do you mean, Pastor? I mean this. They have faith in themselves. They've been taught to. It's our society's religion, more or less. It's the religion that's taught in the public schools. You're not allowed to teach religion in the public schools, but they do. They have to Religion properly understood is not just organized religion. It is what your worldview is, ultimately what you put your faith and confidence in. If your faith is in A certain church, then that's where your faith is. You define yourself that way. If your faith is in yourself, you're a humanist. Your faith is in mankind. Your faith is in technology. Your faith is in your goodness That's not the kind of faith that God is calling for in here. That faith doesn't help a Christian. That's not Christianity. There are a lot of TV preachers that are talking about faith And they're inspiring hope. And everyone's getting really, really inspired. The only problem is they're believing in the wrong thing themselves rather than in God. That is not Christianity, and that is never pleasing to God. God doesn't want you believing in yourself. You and I are dust. What is there to believe in? We were taken from dust and we returned to dust. Does anyone not agree with that? That's all we are. There's nothing there to believe in. God is not pleased with faith per se. He is pleased only with faith in him, in his word. No distorted image of God. At all. He's given the perfect image of who he is when he sent his son, the Lord Jesus Christ, to fully explain who he is. To not believe in Jesus is not to believe in God. Any God one believes in that is not Jesus isn't the real God And that kind of a faith can never please God. How can there be other ways to God when God is displeased with believing in any other way? He gave a perfect picture of himself, the Lord Jesus Christ. That's contained in Scripture. We read it. And he says, believe in him and believe in the word. Faith is nothing. Everybody has faith. The object of faith is everything. Faith placed in the wrong object is simply deception. And it eventually leads to destruction. And you don't want that. The faith that James refers to here is an attitude at heart that does not question God's word or God's motives or God's ends, but expects good things from God in his time according to his wisdom. The old adage that says there can't be an all-powerful and all-good God because evil exists. If there were an all-powerful God, God would destroy it. If there were an all-good God, he'd want to destroy. He forgets one thing that there's an all-knowing and all-wise God as well, and he knows the exact time, manner, and way in which to destroy evil. And it's not yet. He's got a purpose for it. He's showing his glory even in the display of his wrath against sin, and he'll be glorified in that. No one should ever question God or his ways, but we do. Now we don't always know exactly what God is going to give to us. Sometimes we do, sometimes we don't. But we know whatever He chooses to give to us is going to be good, and that is our faith in Him. Lord, I don't know whether you're going to solve the problem this way or whether you're going to solve the problem that way or just leave the problem for a while and work on my heart a little bit more and my relationships I'm not really sure which one it is. I don't have an answer straight out of heaven from you. So I don't know which one to believe in. I just believe this: that you're good to me and you love me, and I will trust you And that's sometimes where we land. Faith is the only proper response to the goodness and the generosity of God. There is no other logical or proper response. Then faith. Do not believe in God is an insult to him. He delivered the Israelites through plague after plague and demonstrated his power over every God of Egypt And then he brought them through the Red Sea and they got to the other side and said, We don't have any water to drink. And God didn't get angry with them. He provided water. Then they said, We don't have any food to eat. And God didn't get angry with them. He provided manna. But they persisted and persisted in unbelief. Do you understand? We can be like that too. God has saved our souls from hell. But I don't like the job that I'm in. You see how God has done a greater thing for us and we disbelieve him on the lesser things. We do that. We have to be careful. Unbelief vexed the soul of the sinless Son of God once. In Matthew 17, 17, Jesus answered and said You unbelieving and perverted generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I put up with you? He didn't like unbelief. So we must have faith in God. The Bible teaches us in Romans 10:17 that if you want faith, here's how to get it. Here's how you gain it. Faith comes from hearing. And hearing by the Word of Christ. You have to listen to the Word of Christ right here in the Bible. And by listening with an open mind and heart, God will grant you faith or stronger faith if you need it. That's how you gain faith. Faith then assures us that what we have not yet seen will become true. This assurance of faith is so important in the midst of trial because prayer is so important in the midst of trial. Remember, Jesus said in Matthew 21, 22, all things you asked in prayer, believing you shall receive. You know, the health and wealth preachers abuse that verse Anything that I want from my will to accomplish my purpose is to use God as a great genie in a bottle to rub anytime that I want to and make me rich. That's not what he's talking about You know, God is not a mere dispensing machine. You put your fifty cents in, a couple of prayers, and boom, you should get out exactly what you want. If it doesn't work, kick the machine until it shakes and shake it until it something comes out that you want to drink. That's how people treat God. We are the ones who must trust Him. He's in control, not our prayers. Our prayers are only in control when He wants them to be in control. In 1 John 5, it says this is the confidence which we have before him that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we know, we know that we have the request which we have asked from him. We don't know the timing. We don't always know exactly how it's going to happen, but we've asked him, work God, work in this person's life. And he's creative and wise enough to know exactly how to do that. But some people say, but I do believe what I ask God. I'm asking God now. I'm in the midst of a trial. I'm praying for wisdom, and I ask. I just don't completely believe. Thank you for being honest. I have my doubts too, and it never feels good. Look at James address that next in verse 6, and boy, does he address this. Let him ask without any doubting. Without any doubting. Doubting literally means disputing. Disputing. Here the verb is in the middle voice. It means you're disputing with yourself. You're having an argument. You're having an internal debate. I believe, I don't believe. It's going to happen, it's not going to happen. I should ask God, it shouldn't happen. And it's all going back and forth inside. You feel like a yo-yo. You ever been there? You're not fully convinced God will help, but you know you're supposed to ask and you want to ask, and you're needy, but you're not really sure it's going to work out. So you got a problem. Because doubt is the opposite of faith. It is mistrust. It's like oil and water. Put them together in a jar, shake them, they still don't mix. We're supposed to pour only pure faith into the cup of prayer and nothing else. Don't mix any doubt in there. That tastes bad to God. Our thinking must not be divided. It has to be straight, simple, pure. One direction Doubts are like weights on our prayer. They hold them down. They want to fly up to heaven, but they kind of start get going, but it's too much weight. It just comes crashing back down again, and they never make their destination. It's interesting that the Apostle Paul uses the same word for doubt when referring to Abraham's faith in Romans chapter 4 and verse 20. It says he did not waver in belief. But you may remember that even Abraham had his times, did he not? He had his times. Sarah too So James must know that every believer has moments of weak faith as we pray. We sometimes feel like that father. He desperately wanted to see his son healed, and he cried out in Mark 9:24, I do believe. And then he added, What? Help my unbelief. He's divided. And he knows it. And he knows it's not good James also knows that we are to work through all of those doubts, just as Abraham did, and became fully persuaded, so he'd even offer his own son on the altar. The book of Hebrews tells us that he believed God was even able to raise the dead if necessary to fulfill the prophecy. We pray and we keep praying, and when we start to doubt and we start to disbelieve, we ask God to strengthen the faith so we can continue with a prayer, so we can see God provide Hebrews 10, 23, let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful. You have to stand on a rock during that time, and the only rock is God's faithfulness. That's it. Yes, we may have to wrestle in prayer, so to say, the way Jacob literally had to wrestle with God when he was disbelieving that really he was going to be provided everything and that his life would be spared from his brother Esau when he returned from Laban. And he literally wrestled with God, I will not let you go until you bless me. Can you imagine that? Talk about some interesting stories in the Old Testament. That really happened. Sometimes we're like that. God wants us wrestling with that. Why? Why? What do you want me to do? How am I supposed to respond? I'm sorry, Lord. Yes, it's your will be done. You know what's best. I should have always been believing. Forgive me. There it is. Believe And we increase in faith as we struggle, and it results in more and more prayer given with determination. Matthew 7 talks about petitions, three imperatives, ask and it will be given you, seek and you will find, knock and the door will be opened to you. We all know that. Those three imperatives, did you know, are in the present tense in Greek, and that means the asking is ongoing, the seeking is ongoing, and the knocking is ongoing. That's how it is in Greek. It's not a one-time thing, it's an ongoing thing. Keep asking, keep seeking, and keep knocking. Jesus is not referring to any old quick kind of prayer. These are popcorn prayers. Boof, it's over, and that's it Snap, crackle, pop. It's all over with. Talking about ongoing requests. These are requests that are so dear to the heart we won't stop. They're so necessary for us we can't stop. We keep coming back to present them to God. It's not meaningless repetition. We're increasing our logic and our understanding. We're adding other information to our prayer from previous times. We're making our case to God and we're learning from God During the weeks, as we pray, there's more information from Scripture we learn, more sermons we've heard. A brother or sister has talked to us and it gives us more wisdom, and we come back and we pray again We need fervency in prayer, not the kind of prayer that fizzles plop, plop, fizz, fizz. You remember the old commercial? Those of you that are around my age or so are older. They make a splash, they dissolve quickly, they're never to be heard from again. That's not the kind of prayer we're to have. Ongoing, persistent, powerful, fervent prayers. Jesus teaches us that persistence in prayer is necessary. He warned us of that. He told us of that. Why? Well, I guess because the pleading of God's children brings joy to the Lord. He sees us dependent on Him. The Lord wants us actively depending on him because he knows we are in actuality dependent on him With strength of faith, we wait for that moment in time when he decides to act. You know that God has every prayer request timed. It's like it it starts and then I don't know there's a timer up there or something like that. It starts and it's gonna it's gonna be fulfilled at a certain time. He doesn't tell us the time. Just know when the prayer is given, the clock is started. He'll give it at the right time, the right way, through the right people, after we've learned the right lessons. After we've suffered as we need to suffer, then he gives the answer to prayer. That's so hard when you're younger because you're so impatient when you're younger. I'm still impatient. I'm 47. I'm still impatient. I don't know why God just doesn't do things quicker It's the argument I have with them the most. It's like you're slow. You got thousands of years up there. We only got so long down here. Don't you understand that? Then I realize who I'm talking to, and I rearrange that prayer. It doesn't work, it's just how I feel, so I tell them. God has every prayer request time When we are impatient or whining or demanding of God, well, we're not going to be strong prayer warriors like that. Whiners want what they want when they want it. Not to be any whining. It's supposed to be prayers. You know, uh if you start something, run hard and quickly, but give up too quickly, you don't receive anything. That's his point. Because you start running into doubt, and you're not gonna receive anything, or find anything, or have any door open to you But if you work persistently in prayer, Jesus promised it's always worth it. It's worth it because there are guaranteed results. Guaranteed. It will be given to you. You will find. It shall be open to you. Is that a religious platitude? Is that a slogan for a church to have, or is that a promise from God to you? You have to decide. Part of the reason that God waits to answer the prayer in the first place is to test our trust in Him. I'm so trusting of the Lord. Well, we'll see. We'll see. Put you in the trial now, we'll find out. We're always such a high view of ourselves until the test comes. It's like, well that's heavy, Lord. That's heavy. Yes, you're not as strong as you thought you were. So now let's learn, let's grow, let's become stronger, because this is where you need to go James wants us to know, despite the timing, that God does respond to our prayers when there's integrity before him, a consistency of purpose and belief. In the meantime, uncertainties about God's help reveal sin in our hearts. Remember Peter walked out on the water in Matthew chapter fourteen, it says there that Peter said to Jesus, Lord, if it is you, command me to come out to you on the water. And Jesus said, Come. If he was bluffing, his bluff was called there. And Peter got out of the boat and walked on the water and came toward Jesus. It's better than the other disciples. But seeing the wind, he became frightened and began beginning to sink. He cried out, Lord, save me! Immediately Jesus stretched out his hand and took hold of him and said to him, Man, you have better faith than everybody else in the boat. Congratulations, Peter! Positive vibe, man. Is that what he said? That's what the positive preachers would have said. God just walked on the water He just walked on the water. Peter just walked in the water. And all he's got for him is a rebuke. Oh, you of little faith. Why did you doubt? Doubt is not reasonable to God. It's only reasonable to us. He knows his power and he knows his will. Unfortunately, we have that inner unwillingness to let go of something and just to trust God fully. Is that you? Do you got your fingers wrapped around something today? Maybe we need a little more time in prayer, a little more time for confession, a little more time to be tested until we learn more humility and pure trust. Stronger faith is needed for this trial. And stronger faith is born often of despair, or greater need, I should say, and humility. The more desperate that we are, the more willing we are to let go of our own devices. They're not working for us anymore. What we've trusted is failing us. So we reach out, help! And we grasp around and faith comes and it becomes stronger. Why? Because we're desperate. And that's what God wants from His people. Faith born of need See, the God that we believe in is still a bit too small. He's a bit too stingy. The real God is not like that. The real God is too wise to make any mistakes. The real God is too good to ever be untrue to his word. The real God is too faithful to neglect any one of his promises. The real God is far too compassionate to close his heart to our pleas. Or to look the other way when we are mistreated. The real God is far too committed to our souls to leave them unattended. He is far too great to be thwarted by the difficulties we face. The problem with us is we're like Gideon's army. We have too many people relying on our own resources and doubting God. We have to send all the doubting soldiers on home And get reduced only down to the little few who can see the glory of God. Maybe today you need to send all those unbelieving soldiers home in your life. If you know what I mean. Less of you, less doubt surrounding you, and more of God's power and faith. So God may just press the trial harder against us to push us more and more toward unmixed and resolute faith. In the meantime, the struggle to have faith, until we are going to be that way, can be most unsettling. Most unsettling. Look again at the vivid description that James gives of Such a man who doubts. Verse six, for the one who doubts is like the surf of the sea, driven and tossed by the wind. This is the restlessness in the soul He's unable to decide if he's going to trust or not, whether he'll have joy or not, whether he believes or not, whether there's assurance there or not, whether he can have confidence or not And James uses a picture that was familiar to himself and to Jesus as they grew up there in Nazareth. He knew of the Sea of Galilee and how at times that sea could get whipped up by the wind. The waves and billows would rise up, they would toss here and there. The word for surf here is cludone. It does not refer to one individual wave, but rather a succession of waves, one long ridge of water after another carried along by the winds. A very choppy and windy and wavy day, the billowing sea, you might call it. The divided heart is driven by the wind in every direction. Like the water, it has no ability to stand against other forces The one who doubts, you might say, is on a wild ride to nowhere. He's unstable. Do you remember the people in Elijah's day in 1 Kings 18:21? It says they came came near, uh Elijah came near to all the people on Mount Carmel, and he said, How long will you hesitate between two opinions? If Yahweh is God, Follow him. But if Baal, then follow him. But the people stood there. That's my interpretation. They didn't answer him a word, it says. They were stuck between two opinions. Maybe it's Yahweh, the Lord. Now maybe it's Baal. You know, Baal, he's powerful. There's something to that Baal thing. What a terrible and completely unprofitable place to be in life. The believer who prays but prays with doubt is like an oscillating fan blowing this way. And then blowing that way, then blowing back this way again, and blowing back that way again. Make up your mind. His petition is expressed, but he has no rest internally with it. He doubts. Some doubt the Bible outright. Others say they believe the Bible, but they don't believe the Bible as it pertains to them and their situation. Folks, that's just as much unbelief. What is the point in saying we believe the Bible is God's word and that God is faithful and then not believe it? What's the point? I say that to myself as much as you. Doubt brings confusion. When you're doubting God, then confusion comes into your life. Doubt brings stagnation in Christian growth. Doubt brings unfruitfulness in the work of God. Doubt brings a lack of motivation in Christian service. Doubt can even bring depression over time. For the joy of the Christian faith only comes as we are convinced God is presently working for our good. Ultimately, if one doubts and doubts and doubts, the Bible says that doubt, total doubt, brings damnation. And let no one think otherwise. Take care, brethren, that there not be any one of you, in any one of you, an evil, unbelieving heart that falls away from the living God. Brothers and sisters, doubt in our hearts is nothing to be trifled with. In Revelation 21. 8 it says, for the cowardly and unbelieving And abominable and murderers and immoral persons and sorcerers and idolaters and all liars, their part will be in the lake that burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death Look at verse 7 here in James. It says, For let not that man expect that he will receive anything from the Lord. Have no illusions about receiving an answer to prayer Notice James actually sends his principle beyond just the request for wisdom. He says, nothing that he has asked for should be expected. Nothing. For why should God give anything to people who doubt his generosity? That was the lie of the devil from the beginning. Why can't you eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil? Because when you eat it, God knows you're going to be like him. He's stingy. He's trying to keep all the good stuff from himself. He's go after it. God keeps the good life from us. It's been the lie of the devil from the beginning. No wonder God was so angry with the Israelites after He provided so much and they refused to believe. Verse eight is the final indictment of the doubter. Being a double-minded man unstable in all his ways. Notice it's not just that his prayers are wishy-washy He is wishy-washy. He is unstable in all of his ways. His prayers simply reflect himself, his heart. He is double-minded. Dai Suke Kos, two soul. He occasionally believes God, but he refuses to rest on God when the trial hits hard. He is unstable in all of his ways. He's not standing on solid ground. He's wobbly. He's irresolute at every turn. He's a walking civil war This warning from James about the effects of doubting is so important because faith is at the center of our lives, beloved. A defect at the center flows outward to every area of our lives. When we doubt God, we're useless. Useless to our spouse, useless to the children, useless in church, useless in every way. We can't accomplish anything of value while doubting God. So, beloved, when fear grips you because you don't think that you can make ends meet, you're living by sight and not by faith. When the healing doesn't come instantaneously, you must hold on to this truth that God is good. When a child continues to be rebellious despite praying, keep praying and never lose heart. When you don't know which direction to go and wisdom doesn't come immediately, keep asking it will come. How good it is to be firmly believing in God and to receive the help that God so wants to impart to our souls. Wisdom for life Wisdom for the trial, wisdom of character. Wisdom to remind us that God has a good purpose for all that He does. How good it is to be as David in his time of trouble and confusion and fear, where he wrote this in Psalm fifty-six When I am afraid, I will put my trust in thee. Do you notice that? I recognize the fear, the temptation, the trial. Now I make a decision. I will put my trust in thee. In God, whose word I praise, in God I have put my trust, I shall not be afraid. What can man do to me Well, there's a third way that we can receive help from God as well, and that's to keep the right perspective. I don't know if we'll get done or not, but we'll get started. Keep the right perspective. When you're in a trial, if you want help from God, keep the right perspective. That's verses 9 through 11. Let me read that. Verses 9 through 11 But the brother of humble circumstances is to glory in his high position, and the rich man is to glory in his humiliation, because like flowering grass he will pass away. For the sun rises with a scorching wind and withers the grass, and its flower falls off, and the beauty of its appearance is destroyed, so too the rich man in the midst of his pursuits will fade away. You know, in the present world, there are basically two life circumstances. There are those who live in wealth and those who live in poverty. Of course, uh here in America we feel like most of us are in the middle class, somewhere in between there. You need to understand that if he teaches us how to be content and how to have the right perspective, either when we're wealthy or when we're poor, if you feel you're stuck somewhere in the middle, you ought to be able to figure out what the wisdom is as well. Some of it will be from this end and some of it will be from that end. Maybe certain times of life more over here and certain times of life more over here. But James is presenting these two categories as the all-encompassing environments for life in the present. If you can learn happiness and contentment there you should have no problem anywhere in between. You know, there are many non-religious people that seem to have a very wonderful life. They seem to be at peace, they seem to be going along, uh they're very content without God. Everything seems to be happy in their life. They think of themselves as well-adjusted kind of people, able to hand you know, handle all kinds of things And then all of a sudden, wham, right? Something hits them. Unexpected. They're in a car accident. They have a disease. They got fired. Some friend stabs them in the back. Something happens and it was unexpected. And all of a sudden, with this tragedy, they began to understand that what they based their life on couldn't stand. We believers understand that. We try to tell them that. You know, the the the house that you've built The foundation that you built your house on, that's sinking sand. It's not going to stand when the storms of life come. It's going to crumble and fall. Yeah, yeah. Keep your religion to yourself. And we hear that, and we know that But they don't, and then all of a sudden their lives become devastated, and that flippant, self-centered philosophy of life, I'll live whatever way I want to live, it doesn't it didn't work. They built their life on a happy mirage, but it was sinking sand. It seemed great to them. It was fun while it lasted, but it was indeed a foolish fancy. Now reality has come and reality has blown away their cloud of dreams and it hurts. You know, apparently Can never know a man's heart for sure, but evil can evil repented in his last year of life last year before he died. He made great confession of all of his sins. He didn't exactly do it on the best TV program, but he did make confession of his sins. And it does appear that he had faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. He understood that he'd lived his life for the wrong reason. He wasted his life. He'd built it on the wrong foundation Thankfully he found Christ. You hear about all these celebrities and their lives are falling apart. Brittany Spears, you know, she's probably the main example. You can only hope that now in the midst of all of this, not able to handle life, that she and others like her will come to understand that it's all been built on a mirage. There's a reality that's hit you now. Learn now before it's too late And we hope for them and pray for them, even with all their sin. How utterly empty life can be when it's lived the world's way Unbelievers don't understand that there is a way of dealing with life that brings lasting and fulfilling happiness, and it's not the way they're doing it. The Apostle Paul said it was a secret. He talked about it in Philippians four. He said, I've learned to be content in whatever circumstances I am. I know how to get along with humble means And I also know how to live in prosperity. In any and every circumstance, I have learned the secret of being filled and going hungry, both of having abundance. And suffering need. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. He said there's a source of power in my life. There's a source of contentedness, and it doesn't change whether we move richer or whether we move poorer. It's constant, it stays the same. It is a source of lasting happiness. It's eternal. It's unchanging. It goes right through the toughest times, and sometimes. Being rich can have tough aspects to it as well, and he knew that. He knew of the temptations and how that could draw your heart away from God, and that was a real temptation. And he said, it doesn't matter. In either circumstance I'd learn the secret Well, I think verses 9 through 12 here in James 1 help us to understand the secret of a happy life. A happy and blessed and joyful life in any situation that we are. Notice that James starts with the poor. with the poor. Are you poor? Are you poor this morning? Are you here in poor economic conditions or people here in this church that would like to help you if you're a hardworking person and you want to take responsibility for that And you know you have to work hard as well. There are people here that want to come alongside you and help you. Maybe you're not maybe you're not poor, but you feel today that you're poorer than you were five years ago. That's the question All the candidates always ask, Are you are you in a better living condition now than you were five years ago? And you're supposed to say no for their candidacy? But maybe that's really true of you. Maybe you're not uh as well off right now. Maybe you just hit some really tough economic times. Well, there's truth here for us. Verse 9 says, Let the brother of humble circumstances glory in his high position. That word but there at the beginning shows the contrast that James is trying to draw here between the double-minded man mentioned back in verse 8, the one who doubts God and does not ask God with faith in the midst of his trial. He's an unstable man in all of his ways. But, James Wright, now I'll show people how to think, how to face their problems in the present. And so he chooses the economic situation of each person as a way to express this attitude of faith. James knows if we respond to money correctly, it's a pretty good indication that our spirituality will be right. A brother of humble circumstances was not a humble brother. A brother of humble circumstances was a poor brother. It's talking about their circumstances, their economic condition. Back in chapter four of Philippians, we saw humble circumstances have that meaning. Also in Mary's Magnificat, in Luke chapter 1, verse 52, it teaches that God brings down rulers and exalts the humble. The humble they're referring to those in a poor condition in this world. The humble are those who are hungry. They are those without material blessing. And here in James, the humble are contrasted with the rich that we'll get to next time in verses 10 and 11. So he clearly has poverty in mind. And all of the sorrows and disappointments and trials and struggles and difficulties that go along with poverty, for there are many. He addresses the poor first, probably because it's more likely that most of James's readers would fall into this category. If due to their new faith in Christ they had fled persecutors, they may well have had to leave much of their belongings behind Experiencing at times as they ran, as they hid, exposure, hunger, discomfort, disease, Christians were persecuted terribly by the Jews in the first century, and then later by the Romans. The New Testament tells us that there were many, many poor believers in the early church. In Acts chapter 2 and verse 45, it shows that many in the church sold their belongings in order to provide for the many poor who were in the Jerusalem church. In 2 Corinthians 8, verses 1 and 2, it tells of the churches in the province of Macedonia who gave liberally to other poor Christians. They gave in a great ordeal of affliction and out of their deep poverty They were the poor taking from themselves and giving even to those who were also poor, the poor helping the poor. Poverty in humble circumstances is a very tough condition to be in in life. We as brethren in the church cannot talk about love and care on Sunday morning. if we're not actually looking out for our other members and making sure we know of their financial situation and we're willing to help. None of us envy being in such a position. We're Americans. We have the American dream. We would hardly envy that. We know in our day of many tragedies, we remember the Katrina tragedy and all those who've had their lives ripped up because of that. We hear about war-torn parts of Africa and our heart goes out to them. It's just a heart-wrenching situation. Loss of loved ones and home and shelter. Subject to the elements without clean drinking water, nowhere soft to lay your head at night, no simple pleasures to enjoy, no security. These are all humble circumstances We're so worried here in America this year about a slowed economy. Hardly seems to compare. We need to count our blessings. And we need to look after those who are hurting. Is there any advice that we ought to give to those who are poor, who are in humble circumstances? What do we possibly say to people like that? What would you say Hey, um, live the American dream. Come on, work a little harder. What if they're already working hard? Believe in the free market and a little bit of luck. How can a poor man remain motivated when he works three times as hard as the rich and gains just a fraction of their benefit? What do you say to poor people? The solution for many poor in the past has simply been to pick up their arms and revolt and take what the rich had by force. Others just rely on government. Government give, give, and give. That's not God's solution. What does James say next? Those in humble circumstances are supposed to. Look what he says next. It's going to shock you. Glory in your what? High position. High position. What high position? Have you seen my house? You see that mule that I ride on? It's borrowed. What are you talking about? High position, James He's not talking about them sitting on any powerful committee. And he's not talking about the prestige of the Christian church in the world, that's for sure. They had none of that. The Christian poor man's high position is his sonship with the living God. That poor, unfortunate, humbled man, God has called his own son. And has given him unbelievable privileges in his kingdom to come. You say, yeah, Pastor, that's only stuff you could really grasp by faith. That's the point. Because it's by faith doesn't mean it's not real. He's to rejoice in his privileged relationship to God. Among all the peoples on the face of the earth, those who are in Jesus Christ are the most privileged. Some believe that strongly, others don't. You know, in Ephesians chapter 1 it speaks about so many of the blessings we have in the Lord Jesus Christ. One blessing after another after another. Go read it this week, Ephesians 1. In Ephesians 1:3 it says, Blessed That God has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places where? Where? In Christ. Ephesians chapter 2 and verse 6 it says that he raised us up with Christ and seated us with Christ in the heavenly places in Christ. It's in him and in him and in him and in Christ A Christ is seated at the right hand of God the Father Almighty, that is a very high position. There is no higher He has the name above every name, and in some mystical way, we who believe in Christ are positioned in Christ, and we are also now, according to Ephesians chapter 2, seated with him in the heavenly places. We are. That's our position in this universe. We're not receiving a lot of benefits from that right now. Not outwardly, no, but that will come in time. You'll see. You will see, literally. I want to ask you something. If all those blessings are in Christ, I want to ask you this very simple question. Are you in Christ? Because if you're not in Christ, then all the blessings we're about to talk about, they don't apply to you. I didn't ask you, are you in church? I could see that I'd ask you if sometime in the past you stepped down into the baptismal waters and you were baptized in the name of Jesus. I'm not asking you that. I'm asking you, are you in Christ? How do you get in Christ? You have to put all of your faith and confidence in Him as your Savior Lord, I'm a sinner, I'm lost, I deserve your judgment. I believe Jesus died on the cross for me, and I give my life to you. He was raised from the dead. You have to give your life to Christ. You have to turn from your sinful way of life and turn to Christ and believe in him. And when you are, he puts you in Christ. And now, no matter your outward circumstances, you have a very high position. A very high position. The Christian is to boast in his high position. Dr. John MacArthur writes this: He says, the poor Christian man may be hungry, but he has the bread of life. He may be poor, but he has eternal riches. He may be cast aside by men, but he has been eternally received by God. He may have no home on earth, but he has a glorious abode in heaven. This is what it means to glory in your high position, to bask in it, to exalt in it. There are very wrong things to boast about in life. We are never to boast in ourselves or our own talents. That's pride and that's in. In James 4:16 he says, as it is you boast in your arrogance, all such boasting is evil. But here we're told to boast in the Lord, to glory in our high position. Sounds like Jeremiah chapter 9, verses 23 and 24. Let not the wise man boast of his wisdom, or the strong man boast of his strength, or the rich man boast of his riches, but let him who boasts boast about this. And here it is. That he understands and knows me. That I am the Lord who exercises kindness, justice, and righteousness on earth, for in these things I delight, declares the Lord. Boasting is not always wrong. In fact, here it is required. In 1 Corinthians 1 and verse 31, it says, Let him who boasts boast in the Lord. There's your avenue of boasting Are you boasting in the Lord Jesus Christ today? Is he your boast of your life? Yes, Pastor? Yes, yes. How so wrong it is for us Christians to mourn all of the places we have never got to visit when we hear about people coming back from the airplane. Oh, I never got to go there. All the gadgets we don't own in our house, I don't have one of those. All the things we never got to do that money can buy. Gee, I never had that experience. This is how we think. What has the Lord done for us? Oh, not too much. He just forgave us of all of our sins. Delivered us from eternal hell and gave us an eternal heaven. Called us his own children, said that we would reign with him and have an inheritance that would never end and we'd live forever and ever, and he'd raise our body from the dead, and we'd never ever be sick again and never die again and never have any tears and all of our relationships would be wonderful and even in the present he's decided to include us in the greatest work that there is to do in the world? Not that much, you know. I don't have an iPod yet. We believers can accept the temporary discomforts of this world because we have a vastly more valuable position and possession in heaven. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God and if children heirs also. Heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ. If indeed we suffer with him in order that we may also be glorified with him. How plentiful is our inheritance! Paul said, I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that is to be revealed to us. You have to have a vision of glory in your mind and heart. There has to be faith that pounds in your mind to give you a glimpse of the glory you're going to have. Whatever we suffer now, and believe me, Paul suffered a lot more than we did, and he said his suffering was unworthy to be compared with the glory that was going to be revealed to him. Whatever we suffer in now pales in comparison to the joys to come. Look around at the faces sitting next to you. See them. These are VIPs, very important people in God's kingdom. One day these are the people who are going to be reigning on this planet with Jesus Christ. Their face is going to shine. They're going to have unspeakable wealth. You need to make friends with them. They're important people. That's what God has said. Millions in agony today who wouldn't stop one moment to even consider talking with you will be begging. To be like you. I am convinced that our inheritance is unspeakably fabulous No disease, glorified bodies, no death, no pain, no sorrow. Get an amen out of that? With all the aching and complaining we do? We're gonna see Jesus Christ face to face. We're gonna have a home in a pretty good neighborhood. We're gonna get out and travel on streets of gold. We're ourselves, we're going to shine like stars. And that's just a few of God's promises. You're not as rich as you want to be? So what? So what? So what? So what Glory in your high position. You have a high position. Focus on it. Believe it. Understand it. Glory in it. Exalt in it. And if you're rich, we'll get you next week.