And there'll be a lot of just applying these principles with various case studies. There's a key word there, marriage, pornography, depression. So that's what we're getting into detail with today, in terms of how do we really come to understand what is going on in a person's life, in a person's heart, in their mind, so that we can bring relevant truth. And Nicodemus has come out to him. And so he admonishes them and then he uh works through increasingly offensive and confusing uh statements, or I should say he doesn't work through them, he makes increasingly confusing and offensive statements. Uh s some of us uh are hungry for change. He doesn't say, What's wrong with you? And I fail all the time. And I'm just like, this is this is not right. And the next week he came in totally different. I'm I'm realizing we need to move a little bit faster here, so I'm not gonna spend any more time on that. It's talking about other people being the source of the problem. I want to make sure we make the best use of our time today. But there is still a concern about, again, if if it's an ongoing pattern of uh are are they just uh talking in an unhelpful way that doesn't contribute to what we're trying to accomplish. And then Brian will be leading the class uh in talking about some case studies so you can put these things into practice. Uh we'll do a little bit of interaction today just thinking through some of these these practical things. You know, it's not a clinical setting where we hold each other at arm's length and there's this professional client dynamic. And they're ready for their next meal. Uh I think with the information gathering it's not to assume that any of the physical stuff is causal, it could be result in and it's information that we're mentioning So their definition of we argue a lot was very different than by God's grace any arguments that my wife and I might have. where we acknowledge our common sinful experience that we're both sinners. So that then we can speak relevant truth uh to the particulars of their uh circumstances And so we want to consider his example. Verses fourteen to sixteen. He dwells in the heavens, and certainly before his incarnation, he dwelled in eternity uh with the Father and the Spirit, uh in glorious splendor, you know, without And Jesus experienced them all. And so he launches into a theological conversation with Nicodemus. and he would have given you living water. Uh too lowly to her. And so Jesus engages with him, you know, based on where he's at, what his current experience is, uh, and you know, they go on from there. Now he's speaking metaphorically, figuratively, but the people don't realize that, so they take offense at that. And so that pushes them away. I just, you know, have them memorize this verse or I, you know, sp out, you know, these truths to them. Just a taking steps to do it but we're failing and we're trying and we're failing and we're trying and we're just overwhelmed by by uh uh guilt and shame over our inability to overcome our struggle, even though we know it's true and we know what we're supposed to do. in terms of their um cognitive abilities and so they're able to think more freely and they start to to think, man, I I I think I know more than my parents do. You know, is there obstinate, hard hearted rebellion? in the biblical counseling world that we need information and in order to obtain that information you need to gather it. Psychosomatic means that we are soul and body beings. Hey, what's your diet been like? Just his whole disposition was radically different, simply because he just he ate food that wasn't killing him. uh influential people of the past. And so you then have a follow-up conversation where you ask questions. Not with the Lord, but he is uh one of the leaders in the biblical counseling movement. Are are they just looking at uh greener pastures thinking, well, if I go somewhere else everything will be better when really their the problem, their own attitude toward their coworkers or their boss or their work is is the problem So you have to understand and define what what do you mean by that. And then you can ask, you know, questions about the the what and the when and and that kind of thing. uh struggle with depression. Uh like sparks fly offward man is born for trouble. Um rather than just uh very unhelpful general questions. We are specific in our questioning. I I I can't stop. And talk and talk and talk and talk and talk and talk and talk and talk yeah and you're just like I just I guess how do I get in there? It's hard to know in the moment what they're not saying because you don't know what you don't know. help reveal something else, another issue that aligned with the issue that you're trying to address. And so that way they they know ahead of time and usually if they're like, Oh yeah, I want to make good progress too, I don't want to waste time, so they'll be more open to that. You know, is their uh a reluctance to acknowledge their own uh contribution to a problem, their own sin. You know, are they constantly saying, well, what he was trying to do and what she was thinking and what their motivation was and what they were trying to accomplish? You know, a person says they're talking and talking, especially with the long talkers. You know, we uh variously use the language of being an agent of change in the lives of others. But if we don't get down to the nitty-gritty of okay what should be coming out of your mouth, it's it's uh not quite as helpful. Sometimes somebody will slip in the language of their client. Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. That we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. uh became like one of us and he's not ashamed to call us brothers. And so uh he is our sympathetic high priest and and that's what the author is certainly emphasizing here. as one of us, to be born as as a human being, to take on a human body and human nature. against you. And it is in light of that personal knowledge that then he is able to minister to us. to the throne of grace, knowing that he offers mercy out of his understanding of our experience. But he modeled for us how to engage with others with the re understanding with the understanding that people are different. It's not hypocritical to say we need to engage with others under the recognition of a person's particular And Jesus responds not by saying, hey, how's it going? uh of sorts and and his response to that again in in just only the way that he can respond verse sixteen go call your husband and come here uh they're looking for that and that is not the truth, they're not looking for uh messianic um uh experience with Christ, that they're looking for simple uh food to eat. Uh John chapter six. And so Jesus then interacts with them and he challenges them. what their situation is. But isn't it true, and this is true of me, isn't it true that so often we just we we don't take the time to consider their frame of mind in the moment or determines what's right and wrong. My temptation is just to say, oh no you don't. to either draw conclusions or make assumptions or whatever else it is. So that's where the word data comes from. lectures from the Counseling Fundamentals class, which I know a number of you have taken, so this will look familiar to you. All they can test is the body, the physical part of you, and to the degree that they can find information about you, all that tells you is what is going on now in your body is what your body is like right now. you know, just we had a relationship so I understood kind of his normal manner of of being, if you will. I didn't say, oh, let's put you on a you know vegetarian diet or you have to have salad every meal. And so her sleep is is awful. I pulled over, they were driving, they pulled over, they called me, they said, Pastor Gabe, I'm really worried. What's what's their job experience like when they go to work every day? that they just respond to everything emotionally and then they act based on their emotions. We we make statements like that. The struggle with sin. That's generally a safe assumption with a statement like that. Um uh when or where are you doing that? Are you not getting your work done because you're really in your closed office looking at pornography and you're about to get fired? decision with you, you really have to understand what is it that they're dissatisfied with, what are they trying to escape from, uh, what is it that they're looking for. uh just gets, you know, rather than seeking a a definition, what do you mean by depression, what do you mean by argue, what do you mean by this? So when you say you argue, okay, you're there's a lot of uh yelling that's happening, uh can you clarify, this is one that I use all the time, if I was a fly on the wall in your home So we want to avoid yes or no questions. Do you love your husband? So open-ended questions are critical. Uh wh wh wh why would why did their uh why did their face make that uh shape, if you will, to convey some kind of anger or disgust? You know, I'm looking for eye rolls, I'm looking for shaking of the head, uh, you know, that kind of thing. Say some more about that. Yeah, there's all kinds of reasons, yeah, for sure. I'll just have to jump in and say, hey c can I stop you right there. So, you know, he and I do a lot of formal counseling where we're have an appointment for a specific amount of time, usually an hour. You're not thinking about that kind of thing. And so you want to listen for hopelessness, uh evasiveness, where they don't really want to talk about things, uh exaggerations uh to uh identify is is this an ex ac an exaggeration or are they accurately reflecting the the facts. Don't jump to conclusions. Or or they say something like, You think I'm thinking right? Don't allow the person to waste waste time, don't hesitate to ask if you don't understand. And because we don't want to offend or we're shy or whatever, we're just like, yeah, and we have we have no clue what they're talking about. So, okay. No. Now it's no and then in a few weeks it'll be speak and then do. What we're saying is that God designed for all of us to change in the context of relationships. uh because that is such a a a clinical therapeutic uh term and it's not that it's you know sinful in any way, it's just it doesn't convey the relational dynamic of two sinners coming together to seek the Lord's wisdom together. And so in the context of that relational dynamic, we're pursuing change and being an agent of change in others. Our Lord Jesus Christ, who is the perfect man, you know, there is no other more perfect agent of change than him. the Son of God. Any ceasing of delight and joy and unity and love with the Father and the Spirit. He left his father's and spirit's presence, if you will, in in in I think you understand what I mean. Right? Uh and we'll just kind of flip through some of these passages in John to see how not only did Jesus model getting into our world in the sense of Hebrews 4 He comes out to Jesus to talk to him, and Jesus says to him in verse 3, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. recognizing you know what her uh understanding is, what her questions were. not be thirsty or have to come here to draw water. to have a a clear understanding of of who he is because her response to what Jesus says is, I perceive, verse 19, that you are a prophet Uh this layman's primary need in this moment, certainly his own perceived need, we know his greatest need is to believe in the Messiah, but his his own perceived need in the moment is to be healed Uh the people follow Jesus and uh they're hungry. That's 56. And what condition are Mary and Martha in when he interacts with them? a cookie cutter template that whenever somebody you know shares with me a problem that here's the thing that I always say and here's the solution to every problem with everyone. interacted with people based on his knowledge of them, based on his understanding of the condition of their soul, what their needs were, what their situation is, what their background was, you know, uh Especially when kids are younger, we ignore the fact, or we maybe we don't ignore it, we forget the fact that sometimes there's just childish foolishness Alright, there's just immaturity. Oh man, that's hard, isn't it? uh what is going on in their heart and mind that we understand the situation and not be quick to judge, not be quick to come up with a solution or conclusion and just you know spout that out and there I'm done, you know. You know, knowing them and their situation, their heart, allows us then to bring the right kind of help for that person. And our soul and our body are not like two separate components that you know you can just cut in half and separate and never shall they meet. bring out charts or, you know, do tests to see how is this i uh soul and body interacting, right? You w the first question you could you should ask I mean really the first question you should ask is when was the last time you slept? you will start to hallucinate. uh depression, anxiety, those things can be side effects. And I said, well, you know, just kind of what's going on? Uh and that's absolutely true. Do they have challenging situations at school? But uh where are their emotions coming from? And then historical, uh would it be helpful in this situation to learn about their past? And one of the challenges with this is, you know, as we're sitting here uh thinking about this, you know, part of what we're thinking is, well, how do I know what's the first question to ask? And really the answer to that is simply thinking to ourselves, what do I not know that would help me understand this person and their situation better? It's just two people relating with one another. What does that mean? that more, just getting more and more understanding of of the situation. An interrogative, or if uh if you're not sure what that is, think of it as interrogative. Now that's a yes or no question. background, you know, your your immediate family. An intensive question would be, uh, is there anyone that you have specific trouble with at work? An intensive question would be something like, um, did you experience any uh particular troubles that have carried with you as a child? Uh are they blame shifting? Or you can answer a question in a way that conveys bitterness in your answer. Nonverbal communication helps us just to perceive how this person feeling about their their answers. you know, particularly with somebody who's struggling with sin, some sinful pattern, alcohol, sexual sin, whatever it is, i if they're uh they claim that they're trying to overcome it and they just say I just can't do it And so that's very important to know that they've come to that conclusion in their own mind because that's something that's something that you have to overcome in their thinking before you can really move forward. communicating and some people are really good talkers. I think the greater concern is down the road where uh it's it's uh a pattern and it's ri just unhelpful. So anyway, all right, let me let me run through these last things uh quickly here. May maybe he was. of being involved in the lives of others as agents of change in their lives as well. theological, if you will, philosophical conversations about what that looks like, what that means, what our goals are, what we're trying to accomplish. changed conversation has to be with someone you've had a lengthy and in-depth relationship with, uh but that when we engage with each other Or rather, one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. source of much heartache for for many of us. Starting with John chapter 3, as you can see there in your Bible, that's when Jesus is talking to Nicodemus That's maybe not how you and I would start a a conversation, but you know basically Nicodemus starts in verse two by just acknowledging who Jesus is, at least his understanding of of Christ. And she was shocked. Doesn't mean doesn't justify sin, doesn't make you know what they do wrong right. You can't answer this, but how many times have I, as a parent, failed to make that distinction in my kids' lives when they were younger? And they had the audacity to act like they know better than you. uh to not throw this away but to uh fold it up uh put it in your bible just so you can carry it easily Usually when we're talking to someone who has uh an emotional struggle or they're they're battling with someone in their something in their lives, we don't tend to think about the physical dynamics in their lives. how you feel. kind of wake up, if you will, somewhere in the house thinking, how did I get here? contribution of the physical body to our spiritual experience, if you will, our soul experience. Um you know, not that not that we should all expect, hey, you need to be eating three square meals a day on round plates, you know, with uh that was a joke. uh i is really the the bigger issue. the moment and what what do I need to know what would be helpful for me to know to be able to minister to this person in this moment? Uh is their name calling? of uh answers or or how when we go about that. Um, you know, how how tell me about your marriage. uh or or you know gosh it's just innumerable the kinds of questions but being specific, you know, thinking about the different categories, uh asking about specific things. These are just you know examples of things. You want to listen for a victim mentality, again kind of like blame shifting, um, but where they're you know totally free from responsibility um uh of their own sin. You want to listen for calling sin sickness, which of course is very common today with uh both the uh disease model of And you know, whether or not they answered the question, who knows, but they've wasted twenty minutes talking about things that are irrelevant. uh uh specifically his index finger um to indicate he wants to have uh to interrupt. Again, we're we're talking about a conversation, we're talking about a relationship. uh they will not think there's any ability for them to change, for their circumstances to change. Again, willingness to accept responsibility or not. uh by those who claim to love him the most. really just uh reflects that human experience that our our life is beset by trouble and challenges and weaknesses Uh what was what characterizes how would you describe the conversation that Jesus has with a Samaritan woman? But he does it in a way that reflects uh you know who she is, where she's at, what's going on in the moment. And so he i again in the way that only he can, he keeps bringing her back, he leads the conversation into areas that force her Does he engage in a theological conversation with a lame man? So we're all in in a different frame of mind, we're all in a different stage in the growth process, and so as the Lord desires to use us to be an agent of changing the life of another person, we have to consider where does the Lord have this person? It is essential that as we seek to be an agent of change in the life of another person, that we consider uh what go and do likewise kind of thing. Uh think about how you can apply some of these practices in that conversation. Okay? Unlike many things that you would research, you can't do a Google search on what is this person thinking. There are physical things that go in in your body that affect your soul, that affect your thinking, that affect your mood and your emotions. Uh and I just have one fast fa fast food meal a day. Uh with you know exercising thirty minutes a day, you know, getting your ten thousand steps in. Alright, so those are some of the different categories. Well, what do you mean you're not you're looking at things what what shouldn't you be looking at? in my work to find a another job or something like that. We might say, you know, when you said that, this is what I'm thinking. we can ask. Tell me about your working relationships. So asking questions and nonverbal communication are essential to just gathering data. I I I try and like uh oh um and yeah so sometimes I mean if it gets bad enough, uh Yeah, let's let's come back to the question of hands, good. We can't simply hear that they have a marriage problem or they're struggling with pornography or they're they're battling depression and then, oh He knows what it's like to to grow up with sinful siblings. Uh, but they didn't change the experience itself. And then just one more, turn it over to uh John chapter eleven. In a sense to push them away, because he knows that they really don't want what he really has to offer. Uh with parenting, we're of course we're constantly trying to bring change into our children's lives because we're constantly confronted with their need for change. And be purposeful this week. But a lot of situations involve uh the need for information that we don't always recognize that we actually need. You can change the chemicals in your body by how you think. They can draw implications for what's gone on in the past based on what it is now. I'll say weak. They confine that they're hearing voices or that you know they're hallucinating. So we have to be considerate of what is going on in this person's life that might be affecting their suffering. And then of course the conceptual, this is where we get into the heart. uh determines who we are, but rather uh it does influence us. They had a shooting match with pistols. Because that's a wide range of experiences. Um even something like, you know, I love my job, but sometimes I just don't feel very satisfied. Well, what does it mean to love your job? What would I see? Just clarifying to again get more information about what's what's really going on. Uh we want to ask specific questions. Alright, so those are the the various kinds of questions. of uh mental health where everything's a disease, alcoholism is a is a disease, depression is a disease. And you know, and so that it that can come out differently. So um for me when I'm getting to know someone, you know, in a in a counseling setting and they're a talker, uh I'll usually let it I'll just let them talk because you do learn. You know, when when somebody's comes and says to you, you know, my uh my husband, he was yelling and screaming at me last night. So uh today we're going to be talking very s uh practically and specifically about how do we engage in conversations with those that the Lord gives us the opportunity to minister to. A lot of these principles. Situation their needs, their their challenges, uh the dynamics of their life. Jesus knows Nicodemus in his mind, his heart, kind of where he's at, the kind of conversation he's able to have Casual. So he carries this conversation that she is able to carry with him. And of course in this situation Jesus intentionally stays away so that Lazarus can die. As an academic matter, if you will, um, Jesus ministers to their sorrow. Alright, so that's just a survey of different people that Jesus interacted with, and it shows us that Jesus All of those kinds of things. are in different uh stages of that change. So we have an opportunity to consider in their lives what's what's really going on. And so it is with all of our relationships, husbands and wives, relatives, friends, brothers and sisters in Christ here in the church. This is one of the main things that I do as a pastor. So what kind of data should we gather? And we do that to our own detriment. And just in asking them questions I asked so uh tell me about your diet. Well, um I'm not a nutritionist, but I'm pretty sure that's not healthy. Then actions, how are they then responding in terms of their behavior? You know, we we say things to one another all the time that we naturally assume we all understand what we mean. So defining, can can you explain what you mean by that? are are words that we can use when asking questions to help us get more information. So that those three words would be helpful terms that we can use when asking questions. Okay. We want to ask open-ended questions. Hey, um, do you have any struggles in life? In those things. It's helpful to be mindful of a person's demeanor, their facial expressions, their tone, the just the way that they express themselves, you know, their eye contact. Or does their nonverbal communication indicate that there's something deeper there? Um and so it's you know depending on situation, sometimes that can be something that's that's relevant that's skipped over. You know, this is tough, but what is what I use the word counselee here again, these are from the counseling notes. Interrupt um without being rude. So to do that, as always, we want to start with the example of Christ. He knows what it's like to be under sinful parents. And then Jesus doesn't really respond to her question, uh in at least not directly, but he says in verse 10, If you knew the gift of God, who it is that is saying to you, give me a drink, you would have asked him Yeah. And uh he says, well I I have uh typically after work after work I'll uh go to this uh fast food place, I don't remember which one it was. I don't know that there's a breakdown of this or that, but just know that it's like you said, information to collect. Every question has one of those words in there where we're trying to understand the people and situation, what actually took place, the timing, the location, motivations, and the methods. are basically questions that are broad versus uh narrow. Which is to say that he not just understands the human experience, but that he's lived the human experience. Um skipping down to verse 15, of course they've talked about living water. So, questions should always involve one of those terms and those different aspects of a situation. Just how is this person presenting themselves? Um you know, you can answer a question in a way that is just kind of placid and yep, just passing on information. K-N-O-W, right? The Samaritan woman who has come out to to get water at the well. John chapter five, uh Jesus is uh uh there back in Jerusalem and he finds uh a lame man. And then we'll uh with with uh Brian uh do more application of it with case studies next week. So that has implications for all kinds of things, but my whole point in that is to say that our body and soul are intertwined and they affect one another. Some of us don't live up to that. As you're talking to them and you're hearing things from them, does it seem like this person is living just a really feeling-oriented life? And as he's drawing out what's going on in the home, he comes to find out that sometimes, and I don't know if it was just once or or multiple times, but uh s let's just say at least once, because it's bad enough. So some yes or no questions are helpful for very targeted, very specific questions, but they're terrible for gathering a lot of information. Now if you're talking to two people, let's say a couple, uh one of the things that I often do is I'll talk to one spouse at a time, but I'm looking at the other spouse while the other ones answer. Yeah, and then and it may not be that they're trying to avoid it, but it's just they're undisciplined in their thinking. And just to pull from the handout that we have, the second bullet point there has a list of passages. He joins them in their sorrow. Wha what is their frame of mind? For example, the first one there is physical. So sometimes we will have the opportunity to minister to someone who's struggling with depression. There was one time I was meeting with a a young man in his twenties a number of years ago and uh I'd been meeting with him so I had a pretty good uh Because again, we can easily make assumptions and based on the general categories of how people sin. So we want to listen for that. No. So that gets much more narrow into the situation. Uh don't do distracting things, you know. Yeah, I think for for those of us who are parents, this is a struggle. Yeah. You have there at the top of your handout, 1 Thessalonians 5. Sometimes we don't realize how much medications as side effects negatively impact a person. And we'll just consider for a moment verses fourteen to sixteen. Uh he experienced all kinds of things with regard to the human experience and and the word weaknesses there we that says he's unable to sympa or he's not unable to sympathize with our weaknesses Or uh a question in the area of um just trying to choose a random thing here. Tell me more. He speaks to her just on the basis of who she is and her abilities and her need. Alright, before we actually dive in, let me just pause to see if there's any particular comments or questions so far. Sorry. Uh you say, you know, thank you for sharing with me that you're struggling with depression. I've tried and I can't I've tried everything and I can't do it. These categories don't imply, man, you have to get all of this information before you can give any kind of hope, encouragement, or counsel. We're very narrowly focused on the spiritual dynamics, and that's an important thing, obviously, but we tend to neglect the physical dynamics in the person's life. Want at least two meals a day, and one of them can't be fast food Those would be the primary ways that we gather information, that we give the other person an opportunity to speak, to open their mouth and bear their heart. Alright. You know, uh, do you discipline your kids? Uh next week, uh bring this back. Don't you know that I'm that I'm able to raise Lazarus from the dead? What have you been eaten lately? So so we we we have to ask questions that c that define what do you mean by that. W wh what's the gap in my knowledge? How long have you been struggling with depression? But you can ask open-ended questions like tell me about other times in your life when you've You brought up rapid trails, so uh thinking about God's sovereignty when helping this person. Right. You know, you're thinking about having somebody over for lunch or dinner and you're having extended time together. Maybe he was. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me and I in him Sometimes just for the sake of getting a specific answer, you can ask a yes or no question. How do they interpret things? Casual? I mean they are pained to the max in their soul. So, to avoid assumptions, uh we have to ask questions that do the following: define, clarify, and explain. And again our tendency is to say, oh well, let's go to Ephesians five or let's talk about Ephesians six, you know, where's talk about parenting or we tend to launch into things when we s don't yet quite understand what's going on. You know, uh sometimes people say, you know, I I sometimes I look at things I shouldn't look at online So how how can we gather it more practically? Mr. It's a hard saying they say in verse 60. It's just understanding what's what's going on in their heart and how can I shepherd them, how can I teach them, what's appropriate discipline As you think about someone who you're seeking to come alongside to minister to, there's different kinds of information, different categories that can be helpful depending on the situation. All right. That is a mystery beyond understanding. But at the same time, carefully listen because it might be heal some of them. What Jesus does there is he launches into a theological conversation. And so that shows us that we can learn from Jesus that we don't just talk to everybody the same way. Uh that we I g we don't draw immediate conclusions. And that's just an open-ended question that lets them uh speak and ensure uh their response to that Uh you want to listen for words like, I can't, uh, I'm unable to do that, um, or this is too much for me. You know, ask questions when you're tempted to draw a conclusion. So the first of the four parts of the outline is love. And we've already talked about it a little bit, but just to use another passage different from the one we used before, let's go to Hebrews chapter 12, or excuse me, Hebrews chapter 4 together. It's not necessarily a rebellion. This is not normal for him. Uh the you know virtually every question, if not every question, has an interrogative. Mike. And I'm like, Oh I I didn't hear what he said. There's a lot that happens in John chapter six six. You know, we say things like, uh, I love my job. Share with me how you discipline your kids. He's a Pharisee. So he he goes from her question and he uh quickly runs to wanting to help her see who she's talking to. They can't identify why your body is the way it is right now. And then as you get into that, they might say, well, we argue a lot. God has designed your body in a way that that's what happens. What's driving their emotions? We get extensive we we use extensive questions and then we follow up with intensive questions. Is is the person thinking like that? Um but you want to listen for some of these rabbit trails and you want to kind of control that so that it doesn't um derail the conversation, become unhelpful That's where we have the shortest verse in the Bible. Um like he couldn't even articulate clearly, he was more mumbling, like lacking of energy completely, and then of course his thinking was totally uh negative. What would I hear? Because that happens. The fact that he was sinless did not change his experience. Are they bullied? I I don't know if it was nine millimeter, if it was forty five, I I don't know, but but it wasn't BB's. Where'd you grow up? And then next week I'm going to be doing the meet and greet for the folks who are newer to our church. What is the condition of their soul at this time? So uh so we have to think really carefully about how can we be purposeful in coming to understand another person. No, no, no, no. Alright, so uh the first section there, and by the way, this this I took almost entirely from one of the We want to avoid yes or no questions unless we need very specific targeted information. Um but you want to be listening for blame shifting. So I really appreciate what you're sharing. Um if it's if I know this is a pattern and this is this just happens every time I meet with a person, eventually I'll start a conversation by saying, hey, just so you know And so there might be times where I interrupt you. So that just recognizes again that we're all we're all in a different state of mind, that those who are in need of change, which is all of us, And and they volunteered, well, I just recently started this medication. If I get a yes, I'll say, well, what kinds of things are you saying to your wife or husband? Like we want to avoid do you love your wife? I failed this week, I failed last week, you know, I I fail all the time because it's so easy just uh We do that to the neglect of important things because we are, as human beings, psychosomatic beings. That's that's the real test of your sanctification. His problems weren't solved, right? And when it there's been times where it's been so bad that for days she b like barely, barely sleeps and she's uh had hallucinate where she'll What are you looking at? That language conveys to us that our Lord Jesus Christ is high and holy and transcendent, that he It was starting from her knowledge. Is it childish foolishness? So you see at the top, gathering data. Uh and again the goal is to understand the person, to get to know them, what what their thinking is, what what their background is, what their situation is, so I can minister to them effectively. Everybody experiences it differently. And so understanding the influences of the past, uh key moments of the past. Obviously I'm not giving you a list of questions with each of those things because it just entirely depends on So all of us have trouble, so that's not very helpful. We use interrogatives, who what where, when, why, how. Another way to gather information is nonverbal communication. And they say, well, uh I don't know about the the market and what's what restaurants are around, but we know that Jesus provides good food that's pretty good, so let's go to him And sometimes, you know, you have to have multiple conversations to draw out more information. Am I accurate about that? How how's your marriage uh going? Uh and they're just going in circles and here and there and everywhere and you're just like, okay, I ah I've lost control of the conversation. Why are you asking me for water? We just don't know how to go about it. Another physical example is if you were to ever talk to someone who couldn't confides in you that uh they're hearing voices So open-ended questions are are wide open for them to answer and where you get their thinking. Do you tend to have good working relationships? And obviously it w uh people all kinds of people do that. You know, trying to help other people grow and change, dealing with challenges and struggles that they have And so we have to continually work at this. Resources and relationships. Take it out, review it, and when you have a conversation with somebody, anybody, a family member, a coworker, whoever. You know, things like that. He tells the story of a couple that he was counseling who said to him that they argue a lot. Um how how big of a struggle is it? Yeah. So for for the recording purposes, uh when Mike says this works, he's talking about just raising his hand and But uh we need to consider, is there anything going on in their life on a physical level that is contributing to these things? What are their goals, values, desires, motives? Uh that that can be helpful in in many situations. Are are they answering questions in a way that their nonverbal communication contradicts their verbal communication? Tap your pen on the table or you know, just something that's that's distracting. He's a teacher of the law. I mean he's he maybe he's on the on on the scale there where he tends that direction, but this was this is not normal How are their emotions driving them? What is it that you love about your job? What are all the Bible verses that I can spit out that addresses that issue? So she makes a statement of Lord, I I want this living water that that you're offering and of course she misunderstands. Such that the assumption is, and if everybody else did what was right, life would be good because I haven't done anything wrong. Yeah. He doesn't speak above her, uh above her uh you know knowledge. Well, if they say yes, you haven't really learned anything because there's such a wide range of 14, we've we've mentioned this before. It it it's not uh I don't know that's a simple thing, it's just different people have d different abilities in that regard. But this is more one of those things that uh you either gain from experience or you think about afterward and you think, you know, they didn't mention anything about, you know, you have those kinds of thoughts. For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who is in every respect What kind of data, what kind of information should we gather? And sometimes, you know, to really understand the situation, we have to we have to ask very uncomfortable questions. Um, specific uh or non-specific would be things like Tell me about your relationship with your parents. And Jesus understands what that's like because he lived that. And so he he came into our world and he knows what it's like. How do they describe and explain things? And I said, don't ever do that. You know, we we have perhaps the greatest opportunity to be an agent of change in another person's life as well as those who are married. Suke is the Greek word for soul. Uh emotions, you know, s uh particularly extreme emotions. Um but it's helpful again if you really want to understand what what is really going on. What's the volume that's happening Strike that for the recording. But can I can I just can we pause? But by making a theological declaration, which they will then go on to discuss. He says, The only reason you're looking for me is because you're hungry. Jesus wept. Um, you know, school, what are their dynamics for school? Uh think through some of these things and conversations that you have over the course of this next week. Uh and so I got a call one time from uh someone who And to if if you're and there's if they're seeking your counsel on that and wanting to think through that And then clarify, um, it really goes along the same line, but Uh and and by that I mean they they can talk and talk and talk and talk. Yeah. He has associated himself with us. Is it immaturity? His life was not, hey, everything's better, I'm fully sanctified. Uh extensive questions uh versus intensive questions Well that's that's a mental conclusion that they've come to that it's false, right? They're they're just doing something because they're, you know, five years old and they just they're just a child. That's that's what I eat. Help me understand your definition of that. Can you clarify if that's if that's not the right understanding? Um Pastor, uh when you have people like that, how do you gently Jesus experienced the uh grief of of loss. It's a very long chapter. Some of us uh are obstinate in our need of change. Um do they have intellectual challenges? So we want to understand what is this person's experience. Because all that we do is to be modeled after And by that that just means sleep patterns, medications, diet, activity level, illness, you know, things like that. Usually an intensive question follows an extensive question. Um but that's today and next week because the banner that we're talking about is But there's there is a difference between obstinate, hard-hearted rebellion and childish foolishness, right? You didn't just say that, did you? So those three terms define, clarify, and explain Uh hopelessness, uh that's such an important thing to be listening for uh because uh if a person does not have hope Uh the the food that they ate that Jesus provided has uh been digested. So again, Jesus interacts with the crowds on the basis of their unbelief, on the basis of what You know, of course our first instinct is to think, okay, is this person crazy? I just had the sudden urge to drive into a light post and kill myself. And there's no one right way to launch into a conversation like that. An open-ended question is a question that cannot be answered with a yes or a no. So what we're what we're trying to pursue is a dynamic of relationship with one another John chapter eleven is uh the the death of Lazarus. Uh or I don't know if she's ever heard voices, but anyway, uh that that's a significant That's not terrible, but you know, like Job says, as But other times, you know, they're talking and then they ask a question, I'm like Um hopefully we're both saved by grace. Um many of you, many of us have siblings, uh, and that was a But he doesn't do that with everybody else, does he? No, what does he do? Um what specifically are you looking at? And then explaining really just is an open-ended, hey can can you explain that to me? Sure. Uh we are, each one of us, people in need of change, and God has given us the privilege That's verse nine. Again, what's around this person in terms of their job situation? Um obviously we all have emotions and that's that it in itself is not wrong. So you can look forward to that. Again, not to n none of that justifies I didn't say any of that. We're just trying to gather information to try and understand. What does that look like in your home? Yeah. C can you help me understand what do you mean by depression? Don't let your mind wander. He's one who is uh very concerned about uh obedience to God's law, religious uh fervor, and I mean, you ha if you're really going to bring help, you have to understand the dynamics of the situation You might get a short answer to that. Rabbit trails, you know, as you're engaging conversation, we we all know there's uh different people have different ways of of What does the counselee not say? So he doesn't exhort them. I did take out a couple of things that were more for formal counseling related, but that's just where this this comes from He was upstairs, she was downstairs, you know, they were shooting at each other in the house How how do you feel about the state of your marriage? He joins them in their sorrow, he speaks to them in their sorrow, he encourages them in their sorrow. They can maybe guess what the traje trajectory is for the future based on what it is now. I think we've talked about how our past uh doesn't determine us, but our response to our past Alright? And Jesus says, sir uh the woman said verse 15, Sir, give me this water so that I will We're just struggling to actually do it. And so like I said, we're going to walk through this this sheet here today. That's the language that's often used You have to actually talk to them, engage with them, and draw out their heart and their mind. Alright, any questions? And I I just I don't want to be rude. The author writes there, Since then we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens We urge you, brethren, Paul says, admonish the unruly, encourage the fainthearted, help the weak, be patient. So we have to consider um sometimes what is going on in this person's life, what are the physical dynamics Well, there's different kinds of questions. Sorrow. Are they just testing the waters Uh and no scientist can Are they committing sins? It's a quite it's a way of asking questions. Because that doesn't tell you anything. Sean. And uh we c we can have uh all of the And the chemicals in your body can change how you think Um so more specific would be something like And so that that can be helpful too if you're in that kind of a situation. You know, sometimes people will say, does that make sense? Let me pray And just a reminder that when we talked about love You know, how are we supposed to eat his body? It starts out talking about how Jesus fed, you know, the the thousands of people with a meal, then goes on to walking on water, then the next day Uh some of us know how to go about it and we're we're My my sister has uh severe um RLS You know, w not that we should expect that of everybody because uh So I just said, call your doctor, tell them what your experience and see what they have to say about that. Um questions like You know, just that's an extensive question. Scripture says, out of the overflow of the heart, the mouth speaks. Okay. Not because their past is determinative. Um you know sometimes people are are thinking, well, I'm thinking about making a transition. Some listening habits to avoid. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace Joseph and Mary were his parents. And he came in one day and he was just so sul s uh sullen um uh Um we we might somebody might confide in you, you know, my wife and I are having some trouble. That's a yes or no question, but you can add on to it. How is it that you, a Jew, ask a drink from me, a woman of Samaria? Just eat two meals a day because I don't know what to say about any of that. Uh we want to be considerate of that Is this uh once a year? What what does Jesus You know, whatever I might respond in in a less than biblical, kind, loving way. An extensive question would be something like, tell me about your family We ask open-ended questions. Yeah, you just say stop it We've talked about that the last couple weeks. You know, when when I've uh gr graded ACBC exams um for people who are pursuing certification as biblical counselors So just You need to draw it to yourself. Now, this is limited in the kind of information it gives you, but it is important. They answered it a certain way, but I need to press in there because of how they answered that. So we're thinking about that context. Uh there is of course the danger of uh suicidal uh thinking Yeah, he he met her at her level. When this, you know whether whatever size they are compared to you, uh, but age wise, maturity wise they're diminutive in your eyes. What are their beliefs? Can you define that? Yeah. Well, do they really know that or are they just judging each other's motives? Uh that's not helpful. And yet, in humility, he passed through the heavens. Every day, one fast food meal. I'll ask couples now, is there cursing that takes place? Oh, that's embarrassing. He doesn't stand far away from us. And as he says there that he's not unable to sympathize with our weakness. How can I minister to them based on where they're at right now? It's like when I say, is there cursing that takes place? As you're talking to this person and you're talking about the channels of life, are are they constantly You know, fewer questions uh give you more information in that kind of a situation. Sometimes they just want to talk. So you're a little less concerned about the time efficiency factor Next week it'll be very interactive. Um just just to practice and and to grow in these things. Are how are we responding to that? What what do you typically eat? Um So, you know, uh for Mike, he's one of our certified counselors, if you didn't know. Uh judging another's motives Man, I've gotten in trouble with this. Uh not necessarily every And he came into this world to be born Uh yes Jesus engages with them theologically, but not as a Uh we have to minister to people according to where they're at. Right? What is this person not saying? But maybe it's an exaggeration. Now, uh remember we looked at this principle when we talked about how Christ He he cares for them in in his interactions with them. Or even as they're growing older and they're starting to become more and more aware of the world around them and starting to come into their own and just And I would encourage you Are things easy for them or hard for them? And you know Uh defensiveness No, they are intertwined with one another such that they impact one another Soma is the Greek word for body. Or is his condition caused him, I don't feel like eating, but I know I gotta eat something, so I just eat whatever garbage. Uh that's hopeless, right? You're not really interested in what I really have to offer. It could also be an attempt to justify, you know, if I give you more information you'll understand my perspective and understand why I'm right. And that then encourages us, verse 16, to draw near with confidence. Is it easy, is it hard? Well you can't answer that with yes or no. He experienced that. Just summarizing all of what they say there. If you read the side effect on many especially psychotropic antidepressants, SSRIs and whatnot What do they believe to be true about God, about themselves, about the world around them? Well, there's something there that I need to press in on to understand better. Yeah, yes. And so Brian will be leading next week's class. If you're a biblical counselor, you don't have clients. And to do that, we remember we talked about how we need to get into the other person's world. Uh no, we have to get into the situation uh in terms of our understanding And notice how he says in verse fourteen that we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens. Sorrow. So that that's a helpful reminder. Uh clarifying just e extend that out to Uh either either way that it's answered And so, you know, you ask a question and then they talk for twenty minutes. Because we know scientifically that if you don't sleep for three days straight Or as you're processing things later, you realize, oh, I forgot to ask this or I didn't think about that Turn over to John chapter 4. Again, with marriage parenting, what uh Uh how often are you doing that? Well, it's just this week or the last few months. Or there are specific situations at work that you find troubling As well, your thinking, your emotions, your your attitude can affect your body. Did I hear something? Ryan. Um So like you hear something like that and you just naturally assume, oh, they're looking at pornography. Could those rapid trails No, yeah, I that I'm the worst with this. Again, he's not a God far off, he is a God who is near to us and he's experienced what we have. Now turn over to the Gospel of John. Because remember, Jesus asked her for some water. No, none of that. And And with that, um Don't interrupt again unless you absolutely need to to carry on the conversation. You know, if you want to get to the other person, just ask. They changed his response to the experience. We're forgiven in Christ. They were sinners just like you and I. Each person is unique. Uh John chapter five. He doesn't speak Lazarus dies, then he goes back, and he interacts with Mary and Martha. They can't test the soul Alright, how to listen. You know, that's cannibalism, that's against scripture. And so my encouragement to him, I gave him a homework assignment, I said, all right, this week, this coming week I want you to eat. Can you clarify that? So you don't want that to happen to you. Like, you know, I've said that today. Do you want to be healed? Yeah, that's potential. But Um So we want to get that practical today. Uh and then as the conversation carries forward We we don't want to change. You need to draw out from the other person information that you don't have And so he says in verse Are they sinning by omission, by withholding things and not doing things that they ought to be doing? Um Is is this uh ten times a day Anything I can define, clarify, or explain? We're avoiding Familiar passage to us all. And so that's just one example of how uh sometimes we have to ask someone w just What was the word that it distraught? Does that make sense? But he would he had energy, he could talk, his thinking was clear Yeah. What is your experience of that? It's a wide open question of a wide area. An interrogative is who, what, what, where, when, why, how Is there maybe demonic things involved? Uh can you explain that more? I just want to make sure that we're making good progress today. Uh and in many conversations that we have outside of that that you would have as well So psychosomatic, we are soul and body beings. Yeah, no, and that that's helpful. There's no one right path to take in a conversation like that We're struggling with our parenting. They know what you're going to say and they know what you're going to say You know, our past doesn't determine us in the sense of what happened to us Um So questions like You ask the broad open question and then you get narrow from there. Because if it's a disease, there's nothing we can do about it. It's a very common struggle given all the challenges that we face in life as human beings. And so asking specific questions Jesus, and we could go on and on. We're growing in Christ likeness. Who's he talking to in John chapter 4? Um Uh social, spiritual. Uh relationships at work. And so that's why at least You have to explain. Uh he experienced the uh false accusations that people can make So he knows what it's like to grow up in a home with sinful parents. Just tell me about your relationships at work. How do I know what's the fifth question to ask Because that's extremely common, sadly. Because as a believer you can overcome sin by the power of the Holy Spirit And And I gotta tell you, this is hard. And and let me mention medications as well Um You know, honestly I'm not quite sure. You're not really interested in the true need that you have What do I do? Uh others are just so s short and succinct in their answers that it's like, oh it's Did they just get a job? So you can really assess what are their values, their priorities. What are you listening for? I said two meals a day, one of them can't be a fast food mealer I hate interrupting people. He doesn't admonish them. But really all they know for certain based on what they can test in the body Um That was terrible Just talk more about that. Are you cussing at your wife? Uh we'll introduce She thinks he's talking about some kind of physical water, like the fountain of youth. But um Jesus experienced betrayal Hebrews chapter 4 Those those dynamics of food and and medication and sleep and things like that. I don't know if there is anything implied, but And so they respond to you in that way. That's how the interaction started out. I mean how many You know, we're like thinking again in the spiritual realm. Why did they say it that way? Hebrews chapter four. Got her on a different medication, and that didn't happen again. Did they lose a job? Can you put it a different way or whatever What else? Just what's what's going on in their life Uh an extensive question would be We don't have a template. I just want to understand You you learn how do they think, how do they Okay. David Palison, who is So um Sure. Grief. Jesus So Uh