And then sometimes it's intentional where we have purposeful, even planned conversations to talk about specific things So God uses us in each other's lives all the time. And that will draw them into us. I almost said holier than now, he was holier than thou. I don't want to say that I think the word that's used there for perfect could also be translated to complete. Yeah, so their view of God was God blesses those who are righteous and he curses those who are sinful. When we get into someone's world and we understand what's going on in the heart and mind, we can understand what is it that they're thinking about God, how are they thinking about themselves, and how can then we minister truth to them Uh those are great preferences, of course, because they're my preferences. Yeah. uh that kind of keeps you track of where we're at in the curriculum. and cause us to be more like Christ. set of righteousness or whatever it is, it's about the heart and conforming the heart to the heart of God and helping some w someone grow uh in that and then that will flow out to the rest of life. Right? Do I like the music? Alright, so think about that. But four that are certainly essential. We can look at those problems from the outside and say, well here's the solution to that. uh humility, gentleness, you know, love, grace, forgiveness, compassion, mercy, uh all of the attributes of Christ, uh of course there's there's many of them, the fruit of the Spirit Christ that shows them that change is possible, that they too, by the power of the Spirit, can grow in Christ-likeness and be an agent of change in the lives of others. it we can appeal to him in his power and his glory to to accomplish his purposes, uh, you know, make our own requests, knowing that he understands. in our suffering if he has never experienced the suffering in the same ways that we do. And his and his human nature was perfected through obedience. Jesus to go to the cross. that is then imputed to us. Imperfect obedience to the law of God and the laws of men, not necessarily the traditions of men, but the laws of men And so by actively obeying the Father and responding to all of his circumstances of life, most especially the various sufferings. who comforts us in all our afflictions, so that we may be able to comfort those who are in any affliction, with the comfort with which we have been which with with which we ourselves have been comforted by God. Uh there's only one you in terms of the the job that you have and and the the the body, the health, the sickness, you know, whatever it is that you have. Whatever means he's using, maybe he's using other people, maybe he's using a book that we read or something that we listened to or heard or something like that. I can I can take that psalm and I I can minister it to someone else. Or am I going to throw my hands up, reject God's uh what God's revelation of himself, his purposes for suffering, and and grow in bitterness? Within your church. without Industry becomes my killed friend. So they had a wrong view of God, uh, and therefore they made wrong conclusions about Job. Uh maybe they're not doing something that we think they should be doing. And so they they experience suffering and sometimes we think, ah, see, if they were following the Lord, they would not experience that, Michelle. by God's friends. Mm-hmm. you know, and and being that that devoted, if you will, to to ministering to someone. You know, he's been up in the mountain forty days, forty nights. redemptive loving relationships is by identifying with suffering. and dismays us, uh we need to draw closer. Other passages, you know, one person it seems one day or event over another, one person uh you know chooses to eat meat, sacrifice to idols, the other person doesn't. Uh all right. How can you give your testimony, not only your salvation testimony, but a testimony of God's work in your life to others? That's edifying, that's honoring to the Lord. We've we've been working through uh what does it look like uh to uh understand our role in our relationships is not a result of the fall. uh and then to live them out in our daily lives as we have opportunity to uh be an agent of change in the lives of others. And so we looked at uh how the heart is the central issue in any person's need for help and change. in particular is that we have been united to Christ. that God desires us to change and he gives us the ability to change. Uh we start with the reality that God designed our relationships to be characterized by uh redemption But we participate in the redeeming work of Christ that He is doing in each other's lives by uh encouraging each other, pointing each other to the truth, comforting each other, and so forth. to some degree that that just the way that we think, the way that we talk, the way that we live has a a natural influence on the other person because they're challenged by our example. And that can be, he puts someone around me in the worship center, you know, sitting next to me, in front of me, behind me. If we're thinking about having a loving, redemptive relationship, what does that include? What are the things that they're struggling with? And all of that is to say we understand their heart. What is their life experience? how he uh understood, he came to understand human experience and he knows us, and so he ministers to us effectively. You can uh throw in there, uh, where we are uh showing this person uh who Christ is by how we engage with them. but have an agenda. Again, we want to always be considering how did Jesus do this, and so how can we imitate him in how he did this for us? Uh I'm still, you know, above you, and of course there's nuance to all of this. You know, he's not just with us and that's it. He was reviled, but he did not revile in return. And so we can look to his example and his model for, okay, when I'm going through suffering, how can I suffer in a way that's pleasing to God? that uh that he that is the father should make the founder of our salvation perfect through suffering. By his indwelling spirit he is with us. that we would uh or that we do rather but like the these efforts to be like the highest limit of of suffering um and that is not only strengthens our confidence, but also contributes to the merit of Christ. if you will, and and I think even this would be wrong to say, but it's it's the term used in theol theology. You know, I say that's not passive because even though things were happening to him, Jesus was very clear, No one takes my life from me, I lay it down and I take it up again. I think this goes to what Josh was saying. uh that there's a wholeness, not where there was incompleteness in in the uh in his natural state of righteousness, but there was an incompleteness in the sense that there was no demonstration of it A familiar passage to many of us. to be perfected, knowing that we too would suffer for the purpose of uh perfection. It's the word that is also translated trials. Fixing your mind. so that we can endure our temptation. So here's a question I want us to bat around just for a couple minutes. situations that they all dealt with things within the church and all of us in our own way experienced the feelings of injustice and questioning of who would have to let this happen in their own Yeah, yeah, and and that's another key point. the wrong counsel of, hey Job, what sin is there in your life that has led this uh to this happening to you? But it is a good point that you raise because even though we can sit here and all acknowledge, yeah, those friends of Job, they were terrible, you know, they didn't know God well Again, sometimes that's a pretty easy to connection to be to make. questions that pop up. We have to help people when we see what the wrong thinking is saying. uh that that then we can bring to someone is to help them remember that God is with them. But they began to question, well, did God forget us? May the God of endurance and encouragement grant you to live in such harmony with one another in accordance with Christ Jesus, that together you may with one voice glorify God. And that's what these believers were doing. did not think they had freedom in Christ to do. struggle with, I can share what I've gone through, I can share how Christ has worked in my life, knowing that I won't be rejected. And if needed, that I will receive help, I will receive encouragement, I will receive counsel from others. the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ, who gave Himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness. and to purify for himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for good works. But it means that in the course of relating, in the course of life, as we relate to one another, as we suffer, as we battle sin, that we are purposeful to love one another well enough the instruments in the Redeemer's hands for the the chapter for this particular session. Whether it's a salvation testimony, whether it's how the Lord has worked through a trial in their life and comforted and grown them. specific way. to receive the truth of your word, to fellowship with one another, to grow in Christ, to worship you. And uh we can go out uh from uh our time this morning and in the worship service uh with strength for what you have ahead for us. who in his divine power has granted to us everything pertaining to life and godliness through the knowledge of him who called us according to his uh and or rather by love and redemption. That we would be agents of change in each other's lives. in his uh uh work uh in our lives to bring about change uh and in that sense also redeeming. Glory and excellence. So that tells us, that reality tells us that God has higher goals for our relationships than we do. The overarching purpose that God has for that connection between you and another person is for you to be an agent of change in them and for them to be an agent of change in you. And that can be a way that God works in you because of how you're encouraged by their example. uh also be uh an agent of change in the lives of others. Nothing inherently wrong with those things, especially if you have good preferences with regard to, you know, I want someone to be preaching the Bible to me, uh, or I want some Is this a place where I can be used by the Lord? How can I exhibit the love of Christ to them? Do you know that all of that was purposefully designed, the specific people God has in your life, family relationships God has purposefully designed for your growth and for you to be an agent of growth in their life outside of their world and make judgments and give counsel based on what we think uh of the circumstance. So that understanding their context, their mindset, their uh commitments, their excuse me, their beliefs, their desires Right. So to your point, when we're ministering or when we're having an opportunity to love an unbeliever, uh there's still an important element of that where we want to understand them and for example, what is it in their life that um has prevented them from putting their faith in Christ, potentially. So that's that's the the first main uh way that we have a loving redemptive relationship with we get to know the person. For sufferers, as Jesus engaged with them, he drew them in by how he loved them and cared for them. And it also shows them that because we're a sinner, you know, we weren't born uh with the character of Christ. For it was fitting that He, for whom and by whom all things exist, in bringing many sons to glory, should make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering. That means that in suffering for us, Jesus did not maintain some elevated And he says, these are my brothers, brothers and sisters. becomes like one of us, experiences suffering all the way to the point of death, and as a result of that he aligns himself with us Uh he comes down to the level of brothers where we are all on the same plane. to make propitiation for the sins of the people. He can bring comfort to us. And we won't trace this out completely, but one of my favorite passages of Scripture is 1 Peter chapter 2, where this is made explicit. So again, Jesus came, he humbled himself, he experienced suffering, and in light of that suffering, he associates with us, and therefore his ministry is effective to us. In that process, not only did he experience common suffering, but he modeled for us how to suffer. Just keep your finger there in Hebrews if you want to turn there. suffered. on our behalf for us for the purpose of redeeming us but he in his experience of suffering he associates himself with us he calls us brothers he's one of us we're one of him So a if I understand what you're saying, kind of he's adding to the merit of righteousness, adding merit to his chest of righteousness, if if we want to use that language. Sinless, holy, you know, uh undefiled, unblemished, that never has changed, never can change because he is God and He cannot not be holy But it still has to go through a quality inspection to make sure, hey, was this actually made the way it was supposed to be made? Is it really? is true of him. For you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. And so in the same way that Christ was perfected in his suffering, we also, admittedly in in different ways, because though we are perfected in Christ, we wear the righteous robes of Christ. So it was simply proven, and in that sense it was complete. So that and many other passages tell us that the purpose that God has for our suffering is that we would be perfected, that we would be made complete. Maturity, you know, all all of those kinds of terms. Or we don't know what's happened in their past, what kind of home they grew up in, what kind of suffering and experiences they had, tragedies, traumas, all the rest. Turn over to uh First Corinthians, rather, 2 Corinthians chapter 1. Starting in verse 3, blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort And as a result of receiving the comfort of God, we now can give that comfort to others. But the overflow of that is so that you can minister to anyone in any affliction. Should you think, well, gosh, I've never experienced anything remotely close to that. someone eye to eye who's going through something that we have no ability to identify with in terms of the the nature of their struggle uh with their experience. Why did God let this happen? human experiences of trials and temptation. uh recognizing the rest of what Scripture says that in everything that God uh uh in every moment God gives us resources. His divine power is granted to us everything pertaining to life and godliness. I already said, based on the commonality of our trials and temptations, that they tend to raise the same kinds of questions. So that's a another common question. There's those questions of how long and why and God why aren't you paying attention to me? And if it's not know God better, maybe they already know, but they just need to be reminded. Isn't it true? You know, they they got what they deserve. But other times uh we look we have an opinion about someone. and has to I think it's instructive that that's the concept of idolatry. And so they raised questions in their own hearts and minds of who God is and his care for them. Uh and God's goodness, God's character, God's presence, uh and all of those things. We have the same theology. For Christ did not please himself, but as it is written, the reproaches of those who reproached you fell on me. together? But if we're brothers and sisters in Christ, we should not let those differences cause us to separate from each other. Did he accept us for the purpose of just leaving us how we are? So while we accept one another, we also ought to be purposeful in each other's lives to help each other grow in Christ. Now this doesn't mean, and we've got to be careful here, that you meet someone who thinks differently than you do and your job is now to make them think the way the same way you do. But rather, just if you think in the bigger principle, we welcome each other, knowing that God intends for all of us to sharpen one another If people knew that I had an abortion, they would reject me. He says this, for the grace of God, Titus 2. training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age, waiting for our blessed hope And we have the good works. And there therefore, again, as uh as we model and imitate him, we accept one another. Again, our very first session we highlighted that the need for change that we have is or rather the need for help outside of ourselves that we have Alright, we we often engage in relationships for our own joy and delight. Nothing wrong with that. The way that you live your life, you can have an influence in the lives of those around you. In many cases, for you to receive encouragement and help and a positive influence from others, and then especially for you to be purposeful in showing the light of Christ to others. that turn them away from Christ? Identify with suffering. has given me. Nuggets. That's why it says it's down there, verse 17. But then there's also uh that ministry aspect of being our high priest, that we can now cry out to him knowing that he's sympathetic, that he understands what it's like. I think it's helpful to again make the comparison here between him and us, where it says in verse 10 But there's no one that you can meet who doesn't suffer. And it's the content, it's the substance of the comfort that we receive from the Lord that then helps us minister comfort to others. Uh if you know I go through a a trial and there's let's say a particular psalm that the Lord uses to really strengthen me and and cause me to trust in him and and whatnot. That's when we start to think, well, I know this minister to me, but I have nothing to do with them and their struggle, right? Uh if you put together all of the details of people's sufferings and temptations, they really boil down to some common There's going to be those moments where we can't be with them. What Paul says here, welcome one another as Christ is welcomed you, is the standard for our relationships, the rock bottom standard is are we in Christ? No, he accepted us. Let me back up. How can I point them to the Lord in the midst of their trials? uh l logistically, but um I would like, uh if if the Lord would be pleased, uh I would like in the course of this year And so as we think about the relationships in our lives, and and I'm not talking about just the uh or or I'm not talking about every conversation that you have has to be this spiritually deep, redemptive conversation, life-changing moment Those are all things that the Lord desires for us to be mindful of as we're engaging in relationship to one another. And with that, there are four categories or four specific things that Paul Tripp teaches in the Instruments in the Redeemer's Hands. But until we it's or rather it's only when we understand their mindset and how are they thinking that we can really understand what's the what's the precise biblical truth and help that they need. And that he was crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death. And they now call each other brothers. And then he modeled for us so that we can look to his example and consider what it looks like to suffer in a way that's pleasing to the Lord. And again, I will put my trust in him. Okay. Uh built into all of what's been said is the fact that though Jesus was, is always perfect That is not true of us. Uh, you know, the James uses the word perfection, um, sanctification, uh, growth So he is with you in the moment of your suffering. Because this is true, this puts us in the prime position to be an agent of change in the life of another person. And we are particularly having in mind specific ways in which the Lord is comforting us. session, I use this verse to end our time together. Now I won't go through it the same that I do with with people all the time, but I'll do a little bit of that. It's a temptation that leads you to question God's character. That's saying that the trial or the temptation, the substance of it, is common. That if you look at all the circumstances, all the situations in people's lives, all of the the relational dynamics, all of the types of suffering Yeah, I mentioned Second Peter one that we have all of the um uh through the knowledge of him, um Who convicts us, who encourages us, who reminds us of the truth, who empowers us for obedience, gives us strength for each day, gives us grace. And and yet the consistent solution is always go to God. And there's only one answer to that loneliness. was, I am with you. with agenda. um and that it was taking place in the life of the church. Have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak and not to please ourselves. the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. then we should welcome one another despite whatever differences we might have with each other. to be uh an agent of change, to be zealous for good works. Alright, let me pray uh to say, hey, how can I be an encouragement to this person with what they're going through this week? Sometimes that uh is unintentional, that just by relating, just by being who we are, especially if if we're like Christ, be used by the Lord to change people's thinking, to help them think rightly, to give them ways that they can put the truth into practice. Saying, I will tell of your name to my brothers. Like us. He became like one of us, and he was not ashamed to call us brothers Uh you know, he he doesn't maintain this maybe fatherly relationship where there is there is a familial dynamic, but it's still one of hierarchy. Because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example that you might follow in his steps. Through suffering. The act of obedience, which is to say that he lived a righteous life. We become more holy through our suffering. That He comforts us in all of our affliction, which is particular to you. that make uh the the ministry, the comfort of the Lord strengthen us that we can then pass on to others That we can look, and by God's grace we live in a day and age where we all have our own Bibles and and we have it where wherever we we are, and we can look at it and remind ourselves of things that we can't remember in our minds. To remind us of what God's Word says, to encourage us, to motivate us, to keep us accountable, and all the rest. And then they suffer. Which, you know, we can sit with someone. Except with agenda. If people knew that I've been divorced or if people whatever y people have gone through things and they sometimes think if people knew they wouldn't welcome me You know, it's short, uh just you know a couple minutes, a few minutes at the most, uh, so that that could be an encouragement to the rest of the body for how God is working in our church in So as we think about what does it look like, how how can the Lord use us as an agent of change in the life of another person? Music that is is doctrinally sound and you know spiritually uplifting, that it's not a rock concert, you know, it's where I'm getting my ears blown out every Sunday. In addition to biblical reasons that we should be choosing a church, you know, sound doctrine, you know, good teaching, uh, biblical fellowship, those kinds of things, we should be thinking about uh is this a place where I can grow in Christ? We want to understand the person in front of us so that then we can minister to them according to who they are. that we can represent Christ, we can be, if you will, the hands and feet of Christ to others if we model Christ-like character is incredibly important. We see him crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone. For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all have one source. In the experience of suffering and in the association of relationships. In a similar way, and perhaps in a much more significant way, because of who Jesus is, that he is the the Son of God, that he is uh the second member of the Trinity, uh, he humbles himself So there's both a horizontal relationship that's established in that He can help us, He can minister to us. But there is a difference between having the quality of perfection and demonstrating that perfection. Without that sticker that is usually put on a product that, hey, this has been tested, uh there's something in us that says, hmm This is also part of how he modeled what life is like for us. to serve the purpose of perfecting us. Perfect and complete. And then you can even add to these truths of reality, as I mentioned earlier, that uh because he dwells within us by his spirit. Because he is in us and we are in him. Because unlike him, we we are sinners, but but we also suffer. There is no person alive who has not experienced suffering. What is this saying? So that we may be able to comfort those who are in what? What the Lord has taught you, how he has comforted your soul, he gives to you, not only for your own personal comfort, but That means that we have to be, uh let me rephrase that. In the sense that we can not just get through a season of suffering and oh glad that's over. God is faithful, and he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability, but with the temptation, he will also provide a way of escape that you may be able to endure it. A temptation is a temptation that is seeking to convince you to reject what God says. And all the benefits that come to us from God's Word. We can endure whatever God has given us. Which is also a question about God. What's another question? Whether it's a health issue, whether it's a problems in the church, whether it's uh family issues. All of those are God-oriented questions that we find in the Psalms that then the answer is consider who God is. God is still with us. Because the assumption is if people knew, they wouldn't want me to be part of this church, or they wouldn't want to have anything to do with me. But we have redemption, we have um sanctification, uh progressive sanctification training us to renounce ungodliness. How can you share your own story in a way that's helpful, honoring to the Lord, but also is ministers to others to make a number of videos of people in our church giving testimony to God's faithfulness to them Believer helping believer, believer helping unbeliever says getting into the world doesn't necessarily mean join them in soon. Yeah right. That both draws them closer because the only people Jesus ever repelled, right, are are the religious leaders who didn't want anything to do with Christ. Author writes here, but we see him, Christ, who for a little while was made lower than the angels, namely Jesus, crowned with glory and honor. There's something about the the acts of righteousness, the the work of righteousness, which that is uh of of our own nature. And we'll come back to that in a second. Yeah. Let me just put the final nil in here with Titus chapter two. A lot to think through and then as we apply it, it's sometimes hard to remember in the moment uh what what's a wise way of handling a situation. Grace and peace be multiplied to you. But just think about the those regular relationships in your life where you're interacting with someone, maybe on a daily basis, you know, someone in the home, maybe on a very regular basis, uh in the workplace uh or uh in the church. So uh that's something to to consider. Um i is there some intellectual wall that they can't get through? So he was a fellow sufferer, but he suffered perfectly, if you will, in that his interpretation of his suffering and his response to suffering is perfect in the eyes of God. So at least in this particular way, Jesus modeled for us how to endure unjust suffering. Expand on his human nature is perfected. Is perfected through his active obedience. Why me? I mean, character, the will, the purposes of God. That's why we can look to the Psalms and uh yeah, okay, there's a a lot of commonality of uh enemies, you know, personal enemies, especially on David's part. But God is in it with you. Uh-huh. So this means that, I mean, just in a sense that re-restate it, but to be more specific about it, we have to be purposeful in our relationships. In all the human relational dynamics that are in your life, that's on purpose from God for you to shine the light of Christ. that is promoting Christ-like change, if we're going to be exemplifying Christ-likeness, that we need to get into their world. What's the problem? We we meet each other, we see each other on Sunday mornings, we you know say hello, how's it going? I if someone reveals to you some trauma they had as a child that is you know an ongoing struggle for them Uh turn over now to 1 Corinthians chapter 10, just back a few pages from where you're at. that are a particular struggle, almost regardless of what you're going through, and therefore what are the the solutions to that? So I say that to say if you're if you're interested in sharing something that God has done in your life, please talk to me. Or the people that that you have a relationship with. It's all on purpose. God has put you in the context of that environment so that you would be a light for Christ and so that you would exemplify Christ's likeness. So in his suffering, Jesus suffered and died for us, and you could say with us, in that he came to this earth. Put it another way, Christ, Jesus, was made perfect through suffering. Entrusting ourselves, just like he entrusted himself, to him who judges justly. Father. uh see living farms the the perfect life that we could not live like at our ultimate like we would separate from the word much more really Where the table itself was made, and let's just say for the sake of argument that it was made right. identifies with us in our suffering. Now, if Christ so identifies with us, then the lesson is how much more should we identify with one another? If there's someone who's lost a loved one, should you think, well, I don't really know what that's like, so I'm not gonna draw near them and minister to them That we share regardless of the kinds of suffering we experience. Primary ways that can happen is the Lord can use us to help someone else know God better. True. Romans chapter 15, Paul is more or less wrapping up his discussion about uh the debate of uh eating meat sacrificed to idols Again, we we often choose our relationships based on commonalities. To know what you've done, or to know what's been done to you I don't remember exactly how I phrased it, but I identified it as one of the most succinct and significant definitions of the Christian life in the Bible. And so how can we imitate him? So there there's I think there's a valid truth in all that and and there's you know, as with anything that r relates to Christ, there's all kinds of things that that we can say that are true. So as we think about how can the Lord use me to be a blessing to another person who's struggling, one of the But uh no matter how much we can uh come into someone's life and minister to them with a ministry of presence And and this has an implication, by the way, for choosing what church you're going to be a part of. Does it suit my preferences? Because we can look at problems like, oh, this this is a broken marriage, or this is a person that struggles with sexual sin, or this is a person who struggles with anger, or this is a person who is depressed. Where you know if you think about this uh uh to use a very uh insignificant exam example, you know, probably every table in this room went through some kind of quality inspection. It's really important. How could you let this happen? So all that to say it's perfect example of how it's totally different situations, but the same common to man Some about us, you know, what have I done or how can I control it, you know, that kind of thing. We may not always have the specific answers to someone's suffering, but we can point them to the Lord So yeah, but when I w when we say getting into their world, we're not saying, hey, join in every activity that they do. And that is why he is not ashamed to call them or us brothers. How uh just to tease that out a little bit because I I think you're onto something there, uh how is that different than if we he hadn't suffered? In any affliction. Think about those that God has put in your life and how you can be a blessing to them. He suffered by putting his trust in the Father. So there's no sense in which he somehow becomes more holy, more sinless, uh than he already is, right? That's considered to be the passive obedience of Christ. He demonstrated, he put on display, he proved his righteousness. Now I I think that's something that's easy for us to okay, I I I grab that, I understand what that means. If you want to think of it this way, the test is: am I going to trust God in this moment? Do you notice how almost all of those were specifically and directly, explicitly, about God? I mean obviously yeah, we don't necessarily know how they were thinking in those first seven days, but but when they opened their mouths we know how they were thinking. Do we have fellowship with one another in the light? So we need to be a church that welcomes one another so that people can say, I I can, you know, in appropriate context, in appropriate ways, I can share what I've So Christ accepts us with an agenda, right? 10. And you know often people say, well, I don't know, it sure feels like this is beyond my ability to handle this moment. I think a common but misguided question is how can I control it? Yep. So identify with s with suffering. What we see here is the emphasis on the fact that Jesus suffered A trial is a moment of suffering that leads you to potentially question, is God good? All right, so ready for another look at uh love. What really binds our suffering together, no matter what the circumstances are, is that it raises major questions in our hearts about God. So here here's I I've said this before, but here's where I think it gets real serious. So we have in the power of God, because of the power of God, everything that we need for life and godliness. That will increase their trust and their desire to receive the kind of biblical help that we would have to offer. And the fourth, which we'll come to, is uh accept with agenda. How long is this gonna last? And the first that we talked about last week is getting into another person's world. Right. Last year, three of our very close friends who are in different parts of the US and the world, and ourselves, all experienced very different Isn't it true that sometimes, not all the time, but sometimes we know that someone has just, they've messed up their life. No, it's been a while, but uh when I preached through Titus a couple years ago, uh this sentence, verses eleven to fourteen. It's a result of how we were made. There's no accidents there. Alright now there's a a variety of things there. And so he's he's fulfilling the full righteousness that's required. My first one was the loneliness like the deep abysmal loneliness that comes in suffering There were those who were f strong, who had uh who felt that they had freedom in Christ to do things that other believers In his name we pray. But at a core level, the reason that God made us to be in relationship with one another is so that we would encourage one another and help each other grow in Christ-likeness. Very simple, it's pretty obvious. Uh or rather, what is their experience of life? Moses is up there, and he will come back, right? To look at this, I want to just look at two passages. He brought us into his family for the purpose, ultimately, of bringing about change in our lives. Start over. Is there just pure ignorance? Right? Well it starts with what we started with of getting into their world. And I think that that's the answer to not being Joe's friends. He says, No temptation has overtaken you that is not common to man. Maybe it's it's obvious how there's a connection, or maybe it's not so obvious. Yep, for sure. Uh let me know and I'll don't tell anybody, I'll phot photocopy it and uh give that to you. This kind of goes back to what Michelle was saying in a sense. It's not just about, you know, perf uh being perfected in this sense is not adding to a level of perfection. What what have we done? So st let's start with I get into their world and that's what they did for the first seven days. He can affirm I understand what that's like to us because he suffered just like we suffered. No, he's actually, because of his suffering, he's now a high priest over us, and so he can minister to us in that way. And so he so there's mystery, but there's I think there's something to there. James chapter 1, verse 2. And then here's the culmination. And he was that that example was perfected through the suffering that he would rub them go through suffering, not to the extent that Uh if you haven't um been reading, which uh again I don't assume that you have, but um in um How are they interpreting their trials? We don't have inherent, we don't have uh uh, if you will, a natural righteousness. So we can ask the question, do you have to go through the same kind of thing that another person goes through in order to minister to that? Yeah. Alright, so for today we want to talk about the other two aspects of having a loving and redemptive relationship. Where we are purposefully or or uh where we're mindful, I should say, of the fact that the Lord Himself is comforting us. And they decided we did not say God is with you. I had to think about that for a second. He uh before his incarnation, he was above the angels. Right. Uh they're s they're suffering because of their sin And so there was two groups. So it would be how could you let this happen um specifically with I guess they got used to the thundering clouds and lightning and all of that that was up there. We're brothers in arms. Yeah. But we can say he's put on display his perfection. He experiences, he goes through suffering right along with us. Uh do I just generally like the people? And of course you may not know that definitively, but where I think I can be used by the Lord to be a blessing to others. Yeah, Michelle? Why has He chosen me? That he, the Father, should make the founder of their or our salvation perfect through suffering. I think so. Okay. In other words, our relationship relationships are to be loving and redemptive. So they're so that's why they're great. When he was suffered, he did not threaten, but continued entrusting himself to him who judges justly. So again, it's a test. And then something you know unrelated, maybe they're it's not overt sin in their life, but they're they're simply not living up to what we think they should be living up to We can certainly join together in that. 11, for the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people Therefore he had to be made like his brothers in every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God. Not of our own strength, not by just girding up ourselves, but by taking advantage of the blessing that God has given us. Um and so I think that's the same thing is we have to help people we need to know ourselves who God is. You know, you get in a uh in a car accident because you've been driving drunk. And so that's that's one of the truths. We need to welcome one another and have and do that for the purpose of uh encouraging and and being agents of change in each other's lives. When you think about your coworkers, for those of you who uh actually work outside the home or maybe even if you work inside the home where you have communication with with other human beings apart from your computer Um kind of gives you problem with that. And that's when Jove's flight came back. Turn over to Hebrews chapter two. What do you mean by that? But that's what's common. Uh I don't I've never heard outside of Joe's friends of someone in the modern world sitting with someone seven days, seven nights, tearing their clothes, throwing ashes on their head Amen. They've never heard the gospel before. Yeah, already is perfect. Uh it's it's how God sees us, but it's not inherently true of us. This simply means that rather than uh keeping people at arm's length and running away when we hear some tale that you know shocks us and You can even observe someone from a distance, you know, like someone who is going through a trial, and you can read their prayer request on Hope Book. And so in that sense, Christ again was our uh model uh in that he suffered I'm assuming there. And so he says in verse one, we who are strong And so we have the indwelling Holy Spirit and we have the power of God in His Word. That then enables us to be more effective in the counsel that we give. So a lot like our we're perfected often through suffering. Yep. Which is a question about um myself. And that uh kind of underneath that is a question pertaining to the w the The last one, and and this we can cover we can cover quickly, is uh accept We like the same kind of food. But uh uh apart from you know what church you choose to go to, we should be thinking about man when the Lord puts someone in my life But in in 1 Peter chapter 2, verse 21, he uh Peter writes, For to this you have been called, that is, to suffer uh graciously. If people knew that I was abused as a child, they would treat me like dirty laundry. It ends there with the zealest for good works, where we he now uses us to accomplish his purposes in this world that he has prepared for us, as it says in Ephesians 2. They did not know when they opened their mouth to speak there they didn't know who God was from what he was seeing in this situation. God made us to be dependent, first and foremost, on Him as well as on one another In the midst of the congregation, I will sing your praise. And just I think you know this is easily seen in James chapter 1. It's kind of uh uh using two words to make one statement. It can mean a temptation or a trial, just depending on the context. Or let me put it this way, they tend to raise the same questions in the heart and mind. So let me pray and then we'll get started. And so at a fundamental level, our relationships are to be loving, that is, reflecting the love of Christ that He has for us We're brothers because of the experience that we've had together, where we've shared this common experience. God comforts us in our affliction, in our suffering, in our trials If God knew what was good for me, I would He would let me do this. Our our benediction for the service this morning is 2 Peter 1, uh two, and 3, which says, blessed be the God and Father. Grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God, our Father, and Jesus Christ. You just need to trust God more. You know, sometimes we think that because we don't know the details of people's lives. And then we have the people of God that God has put around us. And Joe's friends bat with him. Yeah, and that's the promise that is so clear in the New Testament that I will never leave you or forsake you Yeah. Hebrews chapter 2. But stature above us, like, yes, I'm gonna die for you, but you know, don't get too close. Well I'll tell you, I just got it from John McCarthy. So Jesus, uh because of his suffering There's a connection between you that you would say, yes, I have some kind of relationship with that person. When uh you think about the family the Lord has put around you. I just want to pull out a a few uh specific It says, there no temptation has overtaken you that is not common to man. Am I going to trust what God has revealed about himself, that he is good, that he is faithful, that he's in control? Are we brothers and sisters in Christ? People are often afraid. We should be actively thinking about that so that Christ is glorified, they are helped, and we're encouraged by how the Lord uses For because he himself has suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted. So we've already established that we don't need to have experienced the same thing that another person has in order to minister comfort to them. What could you possibly be doing in all of this? Yeah, so that's oh that's such a great question. Therefore, welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you. And so he knows exactly what you're feeling, what you're thinking, and in that sense he is suffering with you and he identifies with you in that. We can think about that in in general, but then it gets tricky when we actually face Yeah. He saves us, he brings us into his kingdom, he adopts us into his family with the agenda to bring about change in our lives. Where just by your own testimony, by the prayers that you give, by the prayer requests that you make I you know the Lord really blessed me and I I don't know what that's like, so maybe somebody else needs to minister to that. And the say example is realized, but then also uh you know can't the next thing is like tweaking idolatry. That assumes that we have received the comfort of the Lord. It's like when people go through some difficult experience together. And let steadfastness have its full effect that you may be So we have everything that we need. You know, what's sin in our life? Alright. That's probably more accurate. He's quoting an Old Testament text that exemplifies how Christ Number one, Romans chapter fifteen. Yeah. They tend to raise the same questions. Hey, let's go out and go bowling. In dying for us and suffering with us and experiencing life in a fallen world, just like we experience life in a fallen world, he associates with us. Yeah. But with that sticker, it's like, okay, somebody looked it over, they measured it, they tested it, it it works. There was a division between them. A lot of more really helpful material. Alright. All right, just got the last one. So their conclusion was, Job, you must be sinful because of what you've done. Alright. Again, that doesn't mean that every conversation that we have has to have some deep meaning where we change each other. So what in the world does it mean that Jesus Christ was made perfect? Alright? What kinds of afflictions? So that's identify with suffering. You need to stop yelling. Uh maybe they're not walking faithfully with the Lord. And so then they moved to idolatry and uh And they've never had the opportunity to respond or think about these things. Hebrews chapter two That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers. So he suffered for us. I think we couldn't believe that he could be with us. Uh and not that you know, that's in many ways that was a cultural dynamic Um but And unfortunately we don't have as much time to to bat this around, but let's just give maybe three three particular examples So there's multiple questions, but that is a very common question. Yeah. All right, so uh That's true. It was made perfectly as perfectly as a table can be made. He didn't simply passively obey the Father by going through the cross and the sufferings of the cross So if we're able to model the character of Christ So, yeah. So if if you're interested in man, I've I've gone through something and I've never really known how I can share in a way that's How do I know if I'm being loving like Christ? And we call this in theology the active obedience of Christ. That's one of the comforts What are the things that are leading them into temptation? But then there's the active obedience of Christ, whereby Jesus lived his whole life from infancy to adulthood. First of all, the word temptation there. We embrace one another as brothers and sisters in Christ, knowing that uh we have an opportunity now with that relationship So it says here including self in order that he might be an understanding In his case he already was holy. And you know we we don't hear about what's actually going on in their lives. Yeah, and not just idolatry in general, it's specific to when the people were at the foot of Mount Sinai wondering, hey, where's this Moses guy? Did he did he bring us into his kingdom like, okay, now have fun? So he associates with us on a personal level It has to do with um as as well as well as it said like uh propitiation in the sense of Right? Right? Yeah, Ron. Lord, what a what a gift this is to us, that our souls can be enriched, our minds can be instructed. So we started last week talking about what does it look like to have a loving relationship Right? And then on top of that, as you have opportunity, where you have purposeful conversations, where you can You need to, you know, forgive. What are those things at a fundamental level? How could you let this happen? We like common interests, we read similar books, we like similar activities How can I be a blessing to them for the service, after the service? And that's that's an ancient question. Let each of us please his neighbor for his good to build him up. It it's kind of it's not about he would you know have said and what Our suffering is designed by God. And again, I will put my trust in him. Yeah, a I I was sorry, I was for an imputation more than for vacation. He doesn't stand off from afar. There's no one that that you can meet, and you all know you're suff that you suffer. Am I going to believe what God says, or am I going to reject what God says and go my own way? Trust in the Lord. And Paul talks about in Yeah, Ron. They they need to be helped to think rightly about God. But they didn't answer that loneliness that they're sitting. And they weren't mixing. That that would be uh unintentional, if you will, in the sense that they're not trying to change you, but God is using them in your life to change you. It's all in the third person here, but he's referring to believers. And when God answered Job, his answer was And so if we want to be an agent of change and be used by the Lord in that way, we need to exemplify the character of Christ and Okay. And in that sense there's a completion. But he's comforting us, he's giving us truth, he's he's helping us. It's not sitting with someone in their loneliness and being like, Huh, you are in it. Heavenly Father, we're thankful for this morning, a morning where we can come together Are they in the age range or the demographics that I prefer? That if we're going to be an agent of change in someone's life How do they think? So we need to we need to kind of convince ourselves, I think, a little bit more of what are the kinds of things Matt, go ahead. And thinking wrongly, they imposed false ideas on themselves. If the answer to that is yes, Remember our outline is love, no, speak, do. It's not just about outward conformity to some lifestyle or So we'll come back to modeling in a moment. Did God really say? We have the Spirit of God, the Word of God, and the people of God. Erica here. Maybe some of you have been afraid to really let people into your life. Accept the person And so that enables us to identify with one another. There's only one you, if you're married, married to your spouse, or with the relationships that you have in your life, past or present This is a passage that I use uh all the time, almost almost everyone I meet with for the first time for a counseling uh Trying to understand Okay. And he says there, God is faithful and he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability. And so Good, life is better now. Yeah. What are the common problems and therefore solutions Uh we uh lesson learned, don't drive drunk. Uh is there some past experience I'm going to read verses 9 to 13. And then it says he was made a little lower than the angels. Because this is true There's only there's there that you have your own afflictions that God comforts you in the context of Uh they got into Job's world, they they joined him in his sorrow. How can I be a blessing to them? Uh let's let's go do this fun thing. Obviously we don't pay for each other's sins What we're saying is mentally understand this who this person is Mm-hmm. So suffering then produces That doesn't mean that everybody goes through the same thing that you're going through. Barbara? But um For whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction, that through endurance and through the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope. He has a section talking about Secondly, we talked about incarnating the love of Christ, and that means uh exemplifying Christ-like character. Um Rather, we should welcome, we should accept one another. Well, whatever it is, just some kind of a testimony of how the Lord has worked in their life And if you flip back to Hebrews chapter 2, that's exactly the example that is given in verse 13. Yeah, and I'll say I'm not agreeing or disagreeing, I'm just saying there's mystery there because And do you notice what it said? Uh all right, so much more we could say about that. It was when his loneliness was answered Um when uh Usually we church choose churches based on our preferences, like do I like the preaching? Uh we have to get into their world. And we talked about how Christ has done that for us, that He's come to this earth. He committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth And so not only can we say that he is righteous because that's what God tells us Now All of that is to say that Jesus Can you qualify that as to Does that make sense? James says, Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds. But many of these questions are about God. Um That's one of the ways we cultivate So uh incarnating the love of Christ, uh modeling him, imitating him, uh is He didn't simply, passively Understand that it's What can I do to fix it? Yeah, so there's definitely truth in that. And I think what Paul is getting at there is They wouldn't want nothing to do with me. In fact they were judging each other. There's a lot in there I think that with George Brown and Minifield themselves You know, we we can give kind of general bland counsel from the outside There's no such thing as perfecting on perfection, of true absolute perfection. That's a temptation, like the garden. I'll end with this. I'd love to to to know that. And that means that we don't simply stand And our first instinct is, well, there you go And the root idea is that it's a test. So temptation, trial, same idea. There's all kinds of differences that we might have in the body of Christ And how is that? We have the Spirit of God. In any affliction. John nine, who sinned? Right? So minister to us, teach us. Is that more or less answered? But it's passive it's referred to as passive because you know he didn't nail his own hands on the cross and you know that kind of thing. He doesn't sit up in heaven, unsympathetic, unaware, uncaring. We have the Spirit of God dwelling within us. You must have done something to deserve this. In our case Parents, kids, uh siblings, extended family relationships. So when you had asked what are the common And it says in verse You know, war would be an example. No. Have the same preferences, root for the same teams, you know, eat the same food, you know, that kind of stuff. How can I strengthen them? It was made according to specifications, right size, dimensions, functionality, all of that. Uh I've had this thought and I don't know how it'll happen Okay, that it makes it much more believable for us, for sure, for sure. Uh perfect and complete, lacking in nanda. It assumes that as we suffer, we are seeking the Lord. And so we can have confidence that change is possible. And with those three resources, with those powers combined So what are some of those questions, if you will Yeah, how can I control it? And they came with And Jesus is our example. The only answer to that loneliness We have to understand their own personal experience of their life. Uh Lord, let this time be helpful to us. We have the Word of God. Yeah, all right. The third one, remember, is identify with suffering. But um It's it's uh talking about We enjoy our freedom in Christ in the same kinds of ways. And I think kind of It functions the way it's supposed to work Either what's going on in the moment, what happened this week, what happened this morning He's comparing Christ and believers here. Absolutely. 2 Corinthians chapter 1. What else? You're too immature and you know you're sinning and whatnot. And so we need your help. Don't know about that, but I have a friend that asked me if I Um and uh that would then help me make progress. And again, behold, I am the children of God. Um How can I lift up their arms when they're when they're feeling weak? 1 Peter chapter 2. Uh but there's a lot of other kinds of suffering as well. There's probably a lot more we could talk about. Don't become too familiar But just understand that that Jesus not only experienced suffering Okay. I hope that's This man or his parents said he was born blind. What have I done? Yeah, good. How can I encourage them Brian And the hope that we have as believers Um I guess by going back a couple of verses Right? We'll talk about that even a little bit more today He is our model Carol. And no one, not even Aaron, stopped to say, Hey guys I don't know that you really need to memorize that, but Is that what you should think? And just the bad idea He got his feet dirty We need your help to understand these principles. How do you do that But how did Christ accept us? That's where we're called to weep with those who weep. Does it suit my preferences But for sinners No, that's not it. Let me put it that way. Uh yeah, Josh. He says I know that there's Um So that's that's a common question. 10. No. And so that's how you can which is