So last week uh we did uh kind of a transition a week, remember, where we uh did a little bit of um Just a brief review of what we've looked at so far. That really call us to be ambassadors. instruct us in the reality that God designs for us to be in relationship with one another for the purpose of growth and change. And we introduce very briefly what will be the outline for the rest of this class and how we are to help others change. And that outline, remember, is love, know, speak, and do. And so today we're going to be have the first of the two weeks uh on love. And this is a a lesson which, you know, you could Think very generically. Yeah, we're supposed to love each other and we're supposed to, you know, love each other like Christ and think and think very generically like that. And that would be true, but that would be less than helpful because uh we we know that Uh but we don't always know what that looks like. On a very practical level, especially when uh we are in engaging with someone who's struggling with something in in their life, whether it's a uh a matter of suffering, something they're going through. Uh or it's uh a battle with sin that they're uh engaged in We don't always know what does love look like in this situation? How can I engage with this person in a way that ministers to them effectively? And so that's what we want to start to talk about today So uh just uh again a quick review from what we've covered so far. The first week we looked at the fact that uh we all need help, that help is not the result of the curse of sin Help is not the result of you being a particularly weak person and only weak people need help. Help is something that God designed us, built into us to need. We need truth from outside of ourselves. We need truth, of course, first and foremost from God, as he reveals himself in the pages of scrip of Scripture, and then He placed us in a world in relationship with others that we are dependent on. for growth and change. He didn't design us to live on our own, to make it through life um without any relationships or just to have all of the resources, all of the wisdom, all of the uh knowledge in and of ourselves. No, he he put us in relationships so that we would grow and become more like him. And then we talked about that uh the fact that the heart is the target. Then we're we're when we're thinking about how do we minister to uh to people, uh we're not just aiming to conform people in an outward sense to some legalistic standard, to some mold that we're trying to shape people into. We're rather we're aiming at the heart. We're seeking to address that central part of a person that makes up uh who they really are, their soul, their mind, uh, their will. their affections uh because that is what drives everything else in life. And so if you address the heart, if you uh help someone be conformed into the image of Christ at the heart level that then will overflow and flow out into all of the areas of their life and not just help them in terms of the particular situation that they're dealing with in the moment, but even help them with whatever situation they might find themselves. in the future. So we're aiming at the heart. And then we talked about the fact that what gives us great hope in this endeavor is that as believers we have been united to Jesus Christ. That you and I have died with Christ, we have risen with Christ, His Spirit is in us, and He is with us and in us, and therefore we have all of the resources that we need in Christ to grow and change. Uh this isn't just about uh again us uh uh in our own strength uh conforming to some legalistic standard of behavior. It's It's about uh cooperating with the Spirit of God who is in us, who has given us spiritual life, given us the ability to see truth, uh to understand the truth uh and the power then to live out the truth, right that Philippians uh two, twelve and thirteen, uh, that we are to work out our salvation with fear and trembl trembling because God is is working in us the will, the desire, and the ability to do his will. So our union with Christ is what gives us hope that there is possibility for change. And then again last week we saw that we are ambassadors for Christ. And and that is our responsibility, really, that's our privilege. That even though God doesn't need any of us Uh God doesn't need to use you and me in anybody's life. He can change any of us on his own, without anybody else's influence. He can download the truth right into us if he wanted to. You know, he he could reveal through prophetic uh words if he wanted to, but no, he uses us in our in our uh lives with one another uh to grow and change. And that's a great blessing and opportunity for us to do that. So love, no, speak, do is is the outline for the rest of the class. And so today we start with love. Now, the main idea we want to get out today, uh uh today and next week, really, is that God designs for us to change in the context of relationships that are based on love God designs for us to change in the context of relationships that are based on love. Uh we can change in all kinds of ways. God can work change in us in all kinds of ways. We can uh listen to preaching on the radio and God can do a work of change. And there's no particular relationship of love between us and the radio preacher Uh w we can hear someone speak from the pulpit that we don't have a close relationship with and and w the Lord can use that to change us. And so the Lord can change us in all kinds of ways. Uh he can change us even when someone is speaking unkindly to us. He he can uh use someone's even sinful speech to convict us. Uh God can use false teachers to have enough truth that he he gives spiritual life to dead sinners. God can change people in all kinds of ways. But one of the primary ways that He designs for us to change is in the context of relationships that are based on love. Uh really that's the most um uh the most common uh dynamic in which we live. We're we're in in relationships all the time. Right? We're we're in homes with others. We're in a church context. We're we're around other people all the time. And so that's that's the the air that we breathe. That's the soil and out of which we we we grow. One way to think about this is what is God's purpose for relationships? Have you just kind of s uh set aside for the moment the the idea of growth and change? And uh how God designs us to grow and change. And you instead ask the question, what is God's design for relationships? Why did God create us to be a relational people? You end up at the same answer. We we can say that God designed relationships for all kinds of reasons, right? In Genesis 2, the Lord said, uh it's not good for man to be alone. Let me make a helper suitable for him. So you can ask, well why is it not good for Adam to be alone? You could say, well, well, let me ask you, why is it not good for man to be alone? And I'm not speaking just uh a single man as opposed to a married man, but why is it good? W what was in God's mind do you think, or what what would be some answers as to why it's not good that man should be alone? A accountability? Okay Yeah, so it's a it's a context to put on display godly character? Oh. Yeah, if you're by yourself, yeah, who what else is there to think about other than yourself? Mm-hmm. Yeah. Opportunity to love others, yeah. We i in large part we learn how to relate with God as we have effective relationships with each other. Anything else? Yeah, all all true things. Good and helpful thanks. What a lot of that is getting at is the fact that uh if we're left to ourselves, now we're obviously thinking in the context of a syncursed world. Uh if left to ourselves, we're gonna go down the path of selfishness, self-orientation, self-self self. But with others, now there's an opportunity to to serve, there's an opportunity to demonstrate the love of Christ, there's an opportunity to uh grow in what it means to have a relationship with other people, uh, which then helps us have a relationship with God. All of that is are different ways of saying that God designed relationships To be loving and redemptive. God designed relationships to be loving and redemptive. God did not, listen to this, God did not design relationships to fulfill our personal happiness. And yet isn't it true that so often, because that's our expectation for relationships, that when that doesn't happen When our personal happiness is violated, when it's damaged because of our relationship, our our temptation is to say, well forget that I'm cutting that person out of my life because they are no longer satisfying or fulfilling their purpose of of of increasing my personal happiness. It's like that saying, I love uh I love you because you love me as much as I love me. And when you stop loving me as much as I love me, then I'm not gonna love you anymore Right, that's obviously a very self-oriented way. But isn't that true? At least you look at how the world thinks about relationships, how they promote uh what you know what what you deserve. You know, so when a relationship is hard, you know, between a man and a woman, whether married or not, uh the advice from friends um in a very secular context, though this often bleeds over in the life of the church is you gotta get rid of that person. They're toxic for you. They're they're not they're not building you up. They're not making you happy. If they're not making you happy, then get rid of that person. Well that's not God's design for a relationship. God's design for our relationships are to be loving and redemptive. Now there's obviously a whole lot we could say about what do we do with those relationships that aren't loving. Um but the first thing we can say about that is that we should pursue redemption in a in an unloving relationship as much as we can, right? Reconciliation. That's a whole nother class, the reconciliation class. But God designed our relationships to be loving and redemptive. Which, of course, because we cannot control how anybody else participates with us in in relationship to us, having that thought is to shape your own mind as to how should I engage with others. In a way that's loving and redemptive. Alright, so that's the main idea for for today. And so what we're really going to be talking about is How how do you pursue that? How do you have a relationship that's uh loving and redemptive? And the model for how we are to do this is God Himself. If we want to know how do we engage in a relationship that's loving and redemptive, we can look at that one perfect relationship that is indeed loving and relationship uh and redemptive. Excuse me. Turn over to Romans chapter five. We're gonna look at three passages in Romans five that highlight for us Romans 5, 8, and 12, but starting with chapter 5, that highlight for us how God engages with us in loving and redemptive relationship. In Romans chapter 5, we'll start in verse 6 here. It says, For while we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly. For one will scarcely die for a righteous person, though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die. But God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Since therefore we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. Alright, we'll stop there for now. What was the uh dynamic between us and God when God initiated a relationship with us? Was Paul said here We were enemies. We were enemies, right? We are enemies. So we were enemies of God, we were rebels, we're hostile, uh Paul says in Colossians one. Uh we hated God, we're dead in our trespasses and sins. I mean you just pile on all of the terms that the scripture describes of our unredeemed state. And there was there was no hope. We were not pursuing God. We were not running after him saying, God, I want to have a relationship with you. Please, please, please, I want to be in the cool crowd. I want to be part I want to be part of your family. Right? There's none of that going on. But God in His love and His mercies, compassion, came to us in our sinful um animosity and our hostility and he redeemed us. And really what he did, uh that the word there in verse nine is he justified us. What does justification mean? Okay, he's declared us not legally guilty of sin. Another twist on that is he has declared us righteous. We're standing before the judge of all the earth. We know we're guilty. We've committed all the crimes that he knows we've committed. And yet he looks at us and he declares us not guilty, or even better, righteous. How does he do that? He has credited our sin, he has taken it away from us and put it on Christ, who himself has uh paid for that sin on the cross, and he has given us the righteousness of Christ. So we are wearing the righteous robes of Christ so that when God sees us, he doesn't see our sin. He sees us primarily wearing the righteous robes of Christ. We're no he's not fooled, he knows we're sinners, but but he treats us as if we had the righteousness of Christ, and he treated Christ as though Christ had our sin had lived our sinful life. So he he credits our sin to Christ, credits Christ's righteousness to us, and therefore declares us to be righteous. Now that that kind of removes the hostility In the language of Ephesians 2, he has torn down that wall that divided us and God, and really us and everyone else, especially Jew and Gentile. So there is this restoration of relationship, there's this reconciliation between us and God that we are no longer hostile to Him. But then he goes one step further. Flip over to chapter 8. Verse 14, he says, For all who are led by the Spirit of God are what? Sons. Sons of God. You could say sons and daughters of God. We're children of God. For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the spirit of Adoption as sons by whom we cry, Abba, Father. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him, in order that we may also be glorified with him. So God, in justifying us, doesn't simply take our sin away, remove the wrath of God so that we are no longer uh on the receiving end of his wrath and then just kind of leave us alone. Okay, good. You're you're good to go. Have a nice life. No, he brings us into his family. He adopts us. He makes us his own. He establishes an everlasting uh covenant of relationship with us such that not just do we get to call ourselves children of God, but we actually get all of the privileges and rights of being children of God. Right? That's what it says in verse 17. And if children, then heirs. Heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ. So God reconciles us to himself, removes his wrath, he establishes a kind of relationship in the sense of we're no longer at war with one another. But then that relationship is defined by adoption, by being ch his children. And what does it mean to be a child? To be a child means that your parent has the purpose in life. The purpose of parenting is to train. to teach, to nurture, to grow their children, uh according to, you know, the right way And so that's God's purpose for us. We learned that in Hebrews chapter twelve, that uh there is there is no child of God whom God does not discipline. Right. A any child of God who doesn't whom God doesn't discipline is an illegitimate child because God disciplines those he whom he loves. So, what we're describing here is a model that God came to us when there was no pre-existing relationship except one that was defined by hostility. He removed that hostility. And then he brought us near to himself, adopting us into his family for the purpose of redemption, for the purpose of bringing change into our lives. Another word you could use for that is for the purpose of sanctifying us. Right? He made us holy That's the positional sanctification where he separated us from our sin unto himself. And then that began the process of progressive sanctification where he is increasingly Uh gradually becoming uh causing us to become more like Christ, to become more holy. That's our model that that God reconciles Sinners to himself. He establishes a relationship, a relationship that has its purpose changed. Now flip over one more time just to solidify this to Romans chapter 12. Romans twelve, one and two, I appeal to you, therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice holy and accessible to God, which is your spiritual worship. Do not be conformed to this world, but Be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. And from there on to the end of chapter uh sixteen, he is talking about what does it look like for one who has been saved, redeemed, justified By God adopted into his family, what does it look like then to live the rest of your life? It's a life of transformation, a life of change. So this is what God does for us He justifies us, he adopts us, and the purpose of that is to sanctify us, to make a people for himself. So that's our model. So our model then tells us that our relationships with one another should be serving the purpose of demonstrating that same kind of love which is a love toward sinners, a love toward those who uh we may not otherwise be naturally tend uh naturally um attracted to in terms of you know commonalities or whatever uh personality. Um and we are to engage in relationship with one another for the purpose of of growth and change You know, so often and just the natural way of things is we all gravitate toward different kinds of people. Uh you come into a church for the first time and you're beginning to wonder, is this a group of people I can you know spend years with on on a regular basis? Well you walk in, you know, you don't know anybody, so you don't know yet So then you start to mill around, whether that day or over the course of weeks, and start to meet people and you start to find out, okay, who has the same interests that I do? You know, who likes uh to go shooting, who likes to do crocheting, who likes to, you know, whatever. Who's the who are the techie people? Who are, you know, who are the history buffs? And you find that group that that m uh fits with your particular interest. Now there's nothing inherently wrong with that. But one of the things that that does is it keeps us in circles that we're comfortable with, and it establishes relationships on the basis of commonality. Again, that's not necessarily a problem. That's not a sinful re uh dynamic. But God wants so much more for us But when he places us into the body of Christ, he places us into a people that we would normally never interact with. I mean just think about all the people you know here at Hope Bible Church. If you weren't part of Hope Bible Church, how many of these people uh would you have a relationship with? Would you encounter just in the course of your life? Very few, if any, right? I mean frankly we wouldn't even be here because we'd be on the West Coast if it weren't for Hope Bible Church. Um and so Uh God places us into a local church in a relationship with all kinds of people, with all kinds of interests, all kinds of backgrounds, different ages and stages of life and family dynamics and life dynamics, just all all sorts of things. And rather than um filtering ourselves into special interest groups, if you will, God designs us to live in relationship with one another so that we can grow together and have redemptive, growth-oriented relationships. Yeah, Josh. one thing to echo what you're saying that's standing out to me is that you know this sanctifying love is offered to us without condition and going back to your earlier question of why was it it's not good for man to be alone. I mean it's the accountability and selfishness. Those are good answers for the fallen man, but when at the time, you know, these man still in the state of grace. And I was thinking that without that context of life and and family, it would be hard to truly understand experience the unconditional love that the Father has for us. And so it's like that aspect of that unconditional love was or understanding it, practicing it was kind of missing from that equation. And and I think that is the the crux of the model to me is that you know we we shouldn't have these special special interest groups of love but unconditional towards everyone. Yeah, yeah. It's good. It's helpful. So again, it's I'm I'm not saying it's bad to have special interest groups. uh for like the homeschooling families to get together and do things together for I mean I w at our previous church uh we had a men's bible study at the gun club. And so whoever wanted to stay afterward and go shooting, you know, we would do that. So only certain men showed up to that, right? Those who wanted to do that Uh none of that is wrong. But what would be wrong would be to say this is the only group that I'm going to have any relationship with. When you join a small group Bible study, a home Bible study, uh those tend to not be special interest groups, those just tend to be somewhat geographically oriented people who generally live in the same area Maybe in some cases similar stages of life, but still a lot of differences among us. Those are great opportunities to get to know others who are just different than you. who you otherwise wouldn't choose to spend time with or I I should say who you wouldn't be uh have the opportunity to to get to know. Same thing with classes like this, where you can get to know each other before and after, where you can hear each other interact during the class. uh same thing before and after the service with the people who sit around you. There's an always there's always opportunities in the context of the local church to get to know people who you you otherwise have no common interests with, or you're just in a different stage of life, or just the dynamics of life would otherwise keep you apart. And I would just encourage you To take advantage of that. To to not think to yourself, well, uh that's that's an older couple, you know, we have young kids, so we're we're probably not gonna become best friends. It's not about becoming best friends. It's about how can we love one another and grow in Christ together. Uh, because we don't know how much our differences the Lord can use to bring mutual blessing and and help in in our lives. The Lord can bring in those uncomfortable context. The Lord can bring people into your life that do end up being best friends and you just look at your relationship and you go, How did this even happen? And it's because of the Lord and it's I have two very close relationships with women that I would we would never be outside of Christ. But it's it's a it's a relationship where we are best friends but we also leave the truth in love. We say the hard things. We we do this Yeah. So don't don't be afraid of people who are different from you. Yeah, very good. Thank you. And let me add another layer to that. It's not only it's not only about people who are different. Another layer of that would be people that we would perceive to be needy. Uh and we're like, I don't have room for that in my life. So I don't wanna get started with that relationship. Um You know, you think about the church as a hospital, we we understand that analogy. We've heard it many times that the church is a place where uh Christ came to save the sick, not the righteous. So we're here because we're acknowledging the fact that we're all sinners in need of grace, not only saving grace, but sanctifying grace. Uh and yet there's something in us, it's it's our sinful nature. that uh really wants our relationships to be with other people who are helping. Uh we we really avoid often I'm making a very broad brush statement here. But we tend to avoid relationships with people who are really sick, and I'm not thinking it's uh physically sick, but that could be true. But we we're like, uh that there's something going on with that person. There's a whole lot of mess there. Uh there are really needy. Maybe it's physical needs that they have. May maybe it's you know brokenness. Maybe their personality is Different than what you'd prefer. Whatever it is that we're like that's that that person needs a lot of grace from Christ And uh I'm just gonna let someone else show that grace. You know, I I wanna I prefer to to get to know and have relationships with people who are relatively healthy. You know that that's a self-oriented way of thinking that would say, I want relationships that make me happier, that build me up, that are easy, that are comfortable And we we often avoid those that are difficult for various reasons. And so we have an opportunity, again, as the body of Christ, to say, you know what, I'm just as sick as everybody else. I have all my own issues, my own sins, struggles, sufferings. And so I have uh the privilege of uh coming alongside another person with their own challenges, very different than mine uh to show the love of Christ to them. Alright. Um What does it look like to have a loving relationship? Let me give you four, again this all comes from Paul Tripp's material here, but four characteristics. of a loving relationship. There's a whole lot more you could add to these things, but when but when you're specifically thinking about how do you help people change, there's four things that are essential in a loving relationship. We'll work through the first two today and the next two next week. But the first one that we'll talk about is enter the person's world. If you want to have a loving relationship with someone, that's a redemptive relationship. One of the ways you demonstrate love is by entering into another person's world. The second one, I'll just give you all four of them real quick and then we'll come back. The second one is incarnate the love of Christ. Which essentially is to exhibit the character of Christ. Put on display what Christ is like to that person. Incarnate the love of Christ. The third that we'll talk about next week is identify with suffering. Learn to identify with suffering to recognize and affirm that we're all sinners in a sin-cursed world. And then number four, accept with agenda. Accept the person, welcome them into your life, but with an agenda for growth and change. So we don't Uh we don't leave each other the way we we are. We we pursue growth and change in each other's lives. So enter the person's world, incarnate the love of Christ, identify with suffering, and accept With agenda. Alright, so first of all, enter the person's world. What does it look like if we're having a loving and redemptive relationship? What does it look like to enter another person's world? Well, Proverbs 1813, some of you know it, says, He who gives an answer before he hears, it is folly and shame to him. He who gives an answer before he hears, it's folly and shame to him. And intuitively, we hear that and we know exactly what that means. That means you need to get information before you can give counsel. Uh I can't tell you how many times I've quoted that verse. Uh just at the start of a counseling session, because I want the person I'm meeting with to know that I I need to spend a lot of time uh hearing your story, getting to know you before I can know how I can help you. But we often hear that passage and we think in terms of facts. I need to get the facts. I need to get information. so that I can know how to respond to that information. And what I want to encourage us to consider in this under this heading of Entering Another Person's World is it's not just about the facts. Yes, facts are essential, obviously But we ought want to understand the person. Want to understand the person. Um We want to be person oriented in our ministry, not problem oriented. If you only focus on the facts, what happened, what was said, what was done, what was the response, you're focusing on the contained problem, you know, however big or small it is. But if you're focusing on the person, you're focusing on the heart that is walking through that particular trial. So that's what we want to get at here. When we are in a relationship with someone and we want to be an agent of change by the grace of God, there are various entry gates into someone's life Maybe uh there's a problem that's going on in their life that we think, oh, there's an opportunity here to engage at the level of a problem that someone's uh going through. Uh maybe there's a circumstance in their life, you know, similar to a problem, but there's something going on that I have an opportunity to engage uh with this person. Or maybe there's uh other people around this person, there's broken relationships, or a broken relationship that I can come alongside this person and minister to them. Uh the issue though is not what is the problem, what is the circumstance, or w who are the people that or the individual that this person is in a broken relationship with. The issue that we really have the opportunity to get into someone else's world is their own experience of their circumstances, or you could say their interpretation of their situation. So for example If you have if you're talking to someone who is a frustrated parent They're frustrated because their child is rebellious, stubborn, hard hearted, won't listen, doesn't matter how many times they you know, w do all the steps of biblical discipline, doesn't matter how much they teach and try and do family devotions, it doesn't matter how much they try and build into this child's life. biblical truth and discipline and and you know consequences just uh trying to help this child listen, submit, obey, you know, do what what they're responsible to do. That child is just hard-hearted, rebellious, just doesn't listen to anything. So now you have a frustrated parent who's exasperated over their child What a as you think about this, maybe you're you're a parent or you can imagine uh what what it might be, what would be difficult about that situation? Why would having a rebellious, stubborn, hard-hearted child be difficult? And I'm talking at the level of a person's experience. Maybe you've been in that situation. What is it about having a child that doesn't listen? I have a loss of expectation. Okay. And this was something that I dealt with. I I felt like I did all the right And then I had this rebellious child. And what about the promises of God who it you know, everybody quotes um Train up a child, yeah, twenty two six. Well he's eighteen and he's you know living life of the devil. So a lot of expectations. And it's really ultimately a disappointment Yeah, yeah. That's very good. Right. I think um teaching is like since we're on set of features. Okay. I I know when I get frustrated if somebody's not with me or if it's not happening, it's really easy to fall into the scent of just losing my customer. being overly irritated or easily irritated. So some deep concern for their future if they're not paying attention to something or you want them to get something right away. Um how is it going to play out in the future where it could be walking the world like those components and worry about that? Yeah. Yeah. Projecting into the future. Yeah. Very good. Yeah. It's heartbreaking. So if we look at the if you're talking about looking at the person's heart you know, because you know the child's not doing this They're not doing the right thing. But the parents, it's their heart is so broken. And I think that has to really be looked at Can you tease that out just a little bit more? W why is it heartbreaking? What what comes to your mind as to what makes it heartbreaking? Because it's so child you know, it's they had different hopes and dreams for them. And it's very heartbreaking. Yeah. You know, like if you could take a x ray of your parents' heart, you know, you see how many times it's been broken. Yeah Then it's just, you know, instead of focusing on what the child's doing and you know the parent will think they did wrong, you know, and but the parent is so heartbroken and nobody can take the child time but then to talk about that. Because it's much easier for the parents to not deal with themselves and the pain that's on the inside of how disappointed, heartbroken they really are. Yeah, yeah, no, that's good. I mean there's a lot of different things there that you mentioned which are all all helpful. Uh I'll just highlight what what I w uh uh heard uh particularly is the love that they have for their child. Um and love meaning I want the best for my child, not uh not necessarily the best things of life, but I I want my child to, you know, be as successful in in in the best of senses Um and that's not happening so my heart's broken. There's sorrow, there's there's grief, there's loss. success, comfort, and great relationship with the Lord and with others. And because you're older, you know a good path to get there. But you can't control them. And that I think for me that's what's most frustrating is like you have the answers Yeah, yeah, frustration. Okay, what maybe one more, Josh. I was gonna say I also think that control gets uh frustrated too. with responsibility where you know God is entrusted to me to be the parent, to be the shepherd of his child, and my sheep It it's questions like am I being a failure, you know, am I a temptation of Yeah. Okay. I'm going to stop there. Just these these are examples. But I hope you've heard how different all of these things are. And I would submit to you that while a lot of these might be at work in one parent's heart What's probably true is there's one or two things of what said or maybe other things that are rise that are really a particular emphasis in their heart Yes, they'll be heartbroken, they'll be frustrated, they'll lost expectations. There might be a variety of things, but there's probably one or two things that are the real issues that are a point of struggle for them. And so while we might come into a situation like that and say, well, have you tried this parenting technique? Have you tried this or have you read this parenting book? You know, we we want to come with a solution. to their problem that they have this rebellious child. But first, before we offer any help, we have to listen what is this parent particularly struggling with? Right? Uh I've mentioned this story before, this is along the lines of what Josh just said, but uh talking to a a mother many years ago whose daughter was rebellious and came to find out that her particular struggle was how her daughter's behavior reflected on her as a parent. If I'm not uh if I don't have a an obedient child, what does that say for me as a mother? And so for her that was number one. For others, it might be other other issues. And so we have to know what is it about this experience, this situation that this person is struggling with the most. Because that's going to be the most pressing issue. There might be, yeah, again, other other issues that can be talked about, but the most significant issue is where we really have the opportunity to listen to what is going on in the heart of this person. Change the situation. Um I have several examples. Uh for the sake of time, let me pick um Cancer diagnosis. What are some uh things that would be particularly difficult for someone uh with a cancer diagnosis? You know, they hear the news. They're struggling with that. Why might someone struggle with that diagnosis? Clinics. So it goes back to what somebody said earlier. So if you I do the gym. I'm eating the quote unquote public diet. I get regular checks those and do all the things that are supposed to I guess keep you healthy and you still get this diagnosis Yeah. Yeah. So loss of expectation, maybe uh questioning God's goodness. I've I followed all the rules. Alright, what else? Josh. of like why would God let this happen to me? Is it something I did? Is it why would he allow bad things to happen to his people that Yeah. I think that um feel like I I can say I feel like even though I know this was wrong, I sometimes kinda get caught up in well I I deserve So now I have these kids, I deserve to have this time with them. I should see them get married, I should see them do these things. Even though that's not that's not promised, but I mean so The shifting of that. Why am I here? I wasn't promising that out. Yeah. What else? One or two more Yeah, right. Okay. I don't know if I can say, but it it seems like Like it really hinders your ability to function. So I think that would be future not being able to to complete that. Maybe one more? Yeah. like that who's gonna take care of like that. Yeah. Yeah, so again you hear all these different reasons. Uh and so if you're having an opportunity to minister to someone who's struggling with their diagnosis It's not just about, hey, trust God, He works all everything for good. I mean those are true things. But you have to first understand what is it is it what is it about this that makes it a particular struggle for this individual in this moment And they may change over time. You know, maybe you learn that uh just to go over the last one, that they're really struggling with who's gonna take care of my family? Uh and you know for a mother it might be you know they're raising other kids uh that that uh you know who's gonna raise my kids? For a father it might be who's gonna provide financially for my family Different different ways that can manifest itself. So maybe you have an opportunity to work through that, they come become settled, okay, I'm gonna trust the Lord and He's gonna take care of them. But then another uh issue rises to the surface that makes it particularly difficult. Uh why is God doing this? Is he punishing me? Whatever it might be. So we have to understand, we have to get into their world to understand What is it about this situation that is particularly difficult for them? So that's critical to understand what is their particular experience. So we can ask ourselves, what is this person struggling with in the midst of this situation? What has this person in its grip in this situation? Now, if if you pursue this approach and you're trying to understand what is it about this that's particular particularly difficult for this person, the benefit of that is in the process of that the person you're ministering to, they will See very clearly that you're seeking to understand them. So you're not just throwing, you know, uh platitudes and verses and whatnot their direction that you know they probably already know. But they're like, wow, this person really wants to understand. They and they actually do understand what what's going on. And then also if if you're really understanding what they're struggling with, then you're gonna be prevented. from giving unhelpful counsel. Right? From saying things that don't apply to them. Like, yeah, yeah, yeah. But that's not what I'm struggling with. That's not the issue here So how how do you go about getting into someone's world? Well, here are some things that you can be listening for as you have conversation with someone. You can listen for emotive words. Words like, you know, I'm so scared. I feel so angry. Or I'm frustrated by, you know, just words that express emotion. And emotions are the visceral reaction that occurs inside of us when we interpret uh the s situations of life through our heart, through our desires, our thoughts, our beliefs, our our um values, priorities. uh our will. And so when we express emotion, we're revealing what's going on in our heart. Uh you can listen for interpretive words. uh where they are interpreting their situation like I guess I deserve this. I uh I guess that this is what's best you know for for me. Or listen for self-talk where they're reflecting on themselves. I am such a failure. Uh I I have not lived up to, you know, what what God asked for me or w whatever it is that that they're expressing about themselves. And then also listen for God talk You know, God is punishing me or you know, w I thought I did everything right. Why is God not blessing me? Listening for those kinds of things for emotive uh words, for interpretive words. For self-talk, for God talk. Those are windows into the heart of another person that help us understand what's really going on at the heart level. And then we have we just have to ask questions, heart level questions. Remember the heart is made up of those three basic chambers of the the cognitive, the thoughts and beliefs, the effective, the uh values, priorities. desires and then the volitional, the will and commitments. So we can ask questions. What are you believing to be true about God in this situation? What what do you believe to be true about yourself? What are your desires in this situation? What do you desire is the outcome that would be best? What's important to you in this moment? W what are you really committed to in this situation? What's going to determine how you move forward? Th those kinds of questions, I mean there's uh uh innumerable number of questions that you know you can ask it depending on the situation. uh to get at the heart of their thoughts, beliefs, desires, priorities, values, their will and commitment. You can ask questions about their view of their of God, their view of themselves, their view of others, their view of the world itself. Just to draw out from them what's what's in their heart. And all of that is just aimed at getting into their world. It's not about let me get something so I can you know, come back at them with a a sledgehammer of the word, but it's just seeking to understand what is going on in this person's heart. What are they struggling with? How can I How can I know them in order to minister to them effectively? Alright, uh time is running low Incarnating the love of Christ is the second dynamic of a loving, redemptive relationship. Turn over to Colossians. Colossians chapter three. This is uh I think a point that We can make fairly quickly Colossians chapter 3. Again, incarnating the love of Christ means simply to display Christ-like character to them. In Colossians chapter 3, starting in verse 12, Paul says, put on then as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved. Compassionate hearts, kindness, humility, meekness, and patience, bearing with one another. And if anyone, if one has a complaint against another, forgiving each other as the Lord has forgiven you, so you also must forgive. And above all these put on love which binds everything together in perfect harmony. And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called in one body and be thankful. Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs with thankfulness in your hearts to God. Whatever you do in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through Him. I want you to notice, just look at the text. I want you to notice how he starts by emphasizing our identity. He says that we are God's chosen ones, that we are holy, and that we are beloved, which is to say we are loved by God. It is out of those aspects of our identity, and that's who we are, that then we exhibit Christ-like character. put on compassion, compassionate hearts, uh kindness, humility, meekness, patience, uh, tolerance, um, forgiveness Love. All of these things are attributes of character that Christ had, right? Which then we are then to exhibit to others. And notice that our identity, which leads to our character, that then leads to our words. And then verse 16, let the word of Christ dwell in you recently, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom. I don't know if Paul or the Holy Spirit necessarily had a step-by-step uh chronological process in mind, but uh he clearly put these in a particular order that I think is helpful to us Because if we speak words without Christ-like character, uh we can do damage. We can harm someone by speaking the truth without love. Right? Uh if we lack compassion, if we lack patience, if we lack kindness, but we're just throwing truth out Man, you can really harm someone uh by either not saying what they need in the moment or by saying it in a way that's destructive and tearing them down uh or by uh just your your own uh demeanor uh conveying a lack of of concern and care for them as a person that shows uh even disdain uh to some to some degree. You know, where they don't feel like you're seeking to help them, you're you but rather you're seeking to uh to control and dominate them. So lacking character, the truth, can be harmful. But with godly, Christlike character, the truth can um just move into their soul, obviously by the Spirit. uh working, but the the the the the truth can slide down their throat as they say a spoonful of sugar makes the medicine go down. I don't know if anybody says that other than Mayor Poppins but there you have it Um Proverbs says, you know, uh wisdom is like apples of gold and settings of silver. You know, there's there's uh an appropriate way to convey truth, and that appropriate way is exhibiting Christ-like character Compassion, meekness, kindness, love, patience, tolerance, forgiveness, all of those things. And this is so essential because if someone is struggling And you know their maybe anger is part of their struggle. It's probably true that their own battle with sin is going to come out toward you. That if they're frustrated with someone and you're trying to help them pursue a restored relationship, that at some point they're going to get frustrated with you and their sin is going to get splashed up on you. And so that's going to be an opportunity then to exhibit Christ-like character. To to show the love of Christ that there's true concern there and and and true love. Uh I remember a number of years ago um when I was pastor in Washington, I was counseling this uh teenage young man whose uh grandma would bring him to to counseling and he had a lot of different challenges. Uh uh broken family and just all kinds of issues that that led to suffering. But then he was also a teenager, right? He was he responded to a suffering with a lot of sin. And in my immaturity, I I thought, you know what this kid needs is he needs some hard truth. He just needs someone to slap him upside the face, you know, and and convey some truth to him. Just speak frankly and directly and not not beat around the bush So I don't remember all of what I said, but there was this one moment where I just said something along the lines of, uh, you know, I I just perceive you to be a punk kid and blah blah blah. I uh that's all I remember, just punk kid. And you know what? That's all he remembered too. He came back several weeks later and he told me, he's like, yeah, I was really offended last time that that you called me a punk kid And I'm thinking, well yeah, 'cause you are. I didn't say that. But that's what I was thinking. And uh he he told me how he left that counseling session, the the previous one, you know, upset, offended And that he told his grandma that I had said that. And that his grandma was like, Well, I don't think Pastor Gade probably would have said that. Well, she was wrong But that that was such a a helpful lesson in I thought he just needed to hear some direct truth. Right? But I didn't exhibit any compassion, care. Uh love, uh and you know, w whatever truth there was in anything else that I said, he didn't hear it. Because he was offended by the one thing I said that was unloving. And so it's so vital for us that we exhibit Christ-like character. Uh exhibiting Christ-like character, uh what The benefits of that, um I mean all of this together, if if if we bundle in the getting into someone else's world and incarnating the love of Christ, uh what that does is it builds trust in that relationship Because they know that we're actually interested in who they are as a person. Uh that they're not a project to us, they're not a problem for us to solve, they are a person for us to know and love and care for Uh and then we're exhibiting Christlike love and compassion and c uh mercy and kindness and all of those things. Uh that that builds trust where they they see us as someone that they can listen to, someone who has their best interests in mind, someone who wants to hear and not just talk. That also can strengthen vertical hope. In terms of as we then do speak and we give hope and encouragement with Christ, like, well, because I now trust this person, I I have hope in what they're saying is true. that God really is for me and not against me, and whatever other aspects of hope uh uh is is conveyed. And it also uh helps them to be more committed to that relationship for growth and change. They want now to engage with you because they have received that mercy, that love, and compassion. And so they they want to engage in that. It's attractive to them. And then exhibiting Christ-like character also reveals to them, if if that's an issue they're struggling with, that change is possible. That if you can walk like Christ, that they can then also grow and walk like Christ. So it it engenders uh hope in the in the possibility of change. All right, well there's there's a lot more we could say about those things, which is what all teachers and preachers say when they run out of notes. No, really, I I am at the end of my notes. No, there there's a lot more in the books, um, but we're out of time, so I hope this is helpful. This is the kind of thing where it's hard to remember in the moment, you know, when, oh, there's a conversation. What was what was I supposed to do? Uh, you know, if there's any just one thing that you remember, it's just how can I show the love of Christ? How can I uh exhibit the character of Christ? How can I love this person well I I think this is a quick question would be I I'm sure most of us have given bad counsel and received it. A lot of this was in terms of someone giving it But what's a good way to respond if you're receiving it? It's hard enough to react in a bad way. Yeah. Well, you know, one possible response could be along the lines of, you know, thank you for caring enough to share that with me. Um I I will you know, consider that and and pray about that. Um yeah. Just give thank them for the c because even when someone is giving bad counsel, uh it's You know, it whatever their motives are, which you know often are good, sometimes could not be as as righteous, there's still uh an intentional desire, like I want to be helpful to you. You know, it might be prideful, like I know I can help you if you just do what I say. But there's still there's still something there of I I want to be helpful to you. And so we can at least acknowledge that. You know, thank you for speaking up and sharing that with me. Yeah. I'll yeah, I'll I'll I'll consider that. That really gives me something to think about. Something got done. Do you think it's ever appropriate in that instance to tell them how um Um for example, like you tell them like I just needed someone to deal with me, not fix me. Because sometimes you just need to you need that connection, but you're Like maybe it's grief that you can sit through. You don't want somebody to just shove it at you. You just need someone so is it okay to let them know that? Um I'm not gonna say it's not okay to say that. What I'm thinking through is how to communicate that well. Um They may not they may want to this like that. Um I mean I I can say uh I've heard that kind of thing from my wife many times uh where I just I let me solve the problem for you. Um and Um maybe um one way to convey that is is to say something like Yeah, I appreciate you know your your words of encouragement. Uh could we just take a moment to pray and could you just pray for me? Right now. Or, you know, when you have an you know, depending on what the context of the situation is, hey, when you have some time, I I'd love to just sit and share with you. you know, what what I'm struggling with. But you also there's wisdom to consider, you know, if you engage further, are they just going to continue to respond that way? So Um I I think you probably just need to discern, is this someone who they just oops in the moment and and they're able to sit with me in my suffering? And they just kind of need a a hint to do that or or are they not able to do that? And so maybe it's just not helpful to convey that. Um Um I would suspect that usually it's more helpful to convey something like that sometime later. um where they're it might be received better. So and by the way, what what I often say to people Who share something very difficult is uh I'll say something like, that sounds so hard, and I can imagine why that would be hard, but would you mind sharing with me what makes it particularly hard for you Um you know, as opposed to sounding like, well what's hard about that? Probably not the best way to say it, right? So there's an uh identifying yes this is hard and I I can understand how why that would be hard if that happened to me, but why is it hard what is it that makes it hard for you? Anyway, alright, let me pray