Alright, so we are today doing week two of the speak portion of the Love, Know, Speak, Do outline for how to help people change, helping people change. Last week we talked about some kind of higher level overview principles of what we're trying to accomplish uh when we communicate um the truth and when we speak the truth in love to others and we just want to continue down that road Uh of course, there's no way that we can get overly specific about here's what to say in this situation or here's what to say in that situation. uh because it varies. I would encourage you, um, you know, I um I don't know why, but we haven't really been promoting the counseling fundamentals class, but you've been seeing that in the Life at Hope And uh that starts this Friday night and it's not too late to sign up. So I know some of you uh are signed up already, or at least one of you in this room that I know. Uh but if you're interested, uh you can sign up for that. That's uh like I said, it starts Friday night. It's Uh six three to nine on Friday, nine to five on Saturday, and then similar weekends uh in March, April, and May, uh four weekends total. Uh you can get that information in Life at Hope. But that really goes into more depth, especially as it relates to a lot of the most common kinds of issues that we face in life, and that uh as uh those who are uh ministering to others we'll encounter so that we can think through how does scripture help us think about things like depression Anxiety, anger, sexual sin, just personal suffering, physical suffering. How can we think through those things biblically and then how can we uh bring the truth to bear in someone's life. So just consider that if you're interested in in getting more equipped. But for today, I want to just again do a couple higher level overview things And then we'll kind of jump back to where we were ending last time pretty quickly to think about how the gospel relates to conversations that we often have. When you think about speaking and responding to someone who has conveyed to you some struggle that they're having. They're going through some uh trial in their life. No fault of their own, just something that's come upon them. They're suffering, they're struggling with that. Or maybe they confess to you some sin that they're struggling with. Some sin of of thinking that they know they're not thinking rightly. Maybe they're battling sins in the mind. uh sins of bitterness or lust or whatever it might be. Uh or s uh sins of action, that they're they have a pattern of behavior in their life that they're confessing that that that they that they want help with. And and usually in in the life of the church, um when people convey those things to you, they're often putting it in the frame of, Will you pray for me? Right? Uh because that's uh certainly a good thing to ask, and we don't have an expectation that our friends, our family will be able to actually help us. Uh we don't we don't think in those terms. We think, well, they can pray for me and that's how they can help. Well, uh we can help one another Uh and so hopefully as part of this class is as you know we're thinking about how can we actually cultivate uh a culture where we recognize no we we actually can help one another. We can do more. Prayer is is the first thing we can do, but But we can do more than that. We can have conversations together to to grow in Christ together. But you get to that place where now it's it's your turn to speak. You know, we s we spent time thinking about uh data gathering, collecting, getting to know the individual, getting into their world to understand their frame of mind. Now it's time for you to speak. How can you decide what what you are to say? Uh what what you are to how you are to approach the situation Well, uh really important to have it's really important to have the the framework of the biblical process of change in your mind. When you think about how you want to speak to move someone from where they are to a place of growth and maturity, you have to think about what does the scripture say needs to happen in their life for them to grow and change. What are the what are the three aspects of change that Scripture teaches us? Ephesians 4, put off, put on, get on And renew your mind. Good job, Orion and everybody else. Put off, put on and re read renew your mind. This is from Ephesians 4, 22 to 24. We see the similar principles taught in Colossians three and other places. Put off is simply this idea of stop. Stop uh sinning, stop doing uh what you know is displeasing to the Lord. Uh take that pattern, that habit and and bring it to an end. put on is the opposite. Start something. Cultivate new habits of living, new ways of of responding to your situation. And then there's that key part, which is to renew your mind. Learn to think the way that God would have you to think. Cultivate God's mind on the matter that you're wrestling with. We used the language last week of using the mirror, using the Word of God as a mirror to see yourself through the mirror of God's Word. So renewing the mind, Romans 12 puts it in the frame of tran be transformed by the renewing of your mind so that you you think differently. I was meeting with uh somebody this week and We're reflecting together about how uh so often, you know, if if you have kids or if you've been a kid, you you you understand this dynamic. Um uh you know your parents tell you to do something and everything in you despises what they want you to do. You know, like a chore, wash the dishes or, you know, clean your room or something like that. And because you just, ah, you don't want to do it, uh, all of a sudden you lose all your strength and energy and ability. I can't do that. I don't want to do that, right? Everything in us convinces us that we can't do that. That what they're asking is is too much. It requires too much strength, too much power, too much energy that we just don't have. And I don't know about you if you're a parent, but uh I've said to our my kids, I know Rachel has said to our kids uh many times, you just need to change your attitude. You just need to change your attitude. Yes, you can do this. It's not that hard. You just need to think differently about it. And and maybe again you've experienced this where you're going through a hard time and you're you're just thinking about it in a way that just makes the the whole situation so much worse. There's so much pressure that you're putting on yourself. But then all of a sudden your your thinking changes And it's like, oh, the the clouds have cleared, the sun has come out, and I can I I have strength and energy and I can make it. I I can do this thing that you know, whatever the situation is We've all experienced that. Well that's that's the the power, if you will, of renewing your mind according to the Word of God so that you can put off and then put on. And so uh when we are in a position where we can speak the truth in love to someone, that's what we're trying to help them do. We're trying to help them to speak, we're trying to help them to renew their mind so that then they can uh put that into practice uh in in the putting off in the putting on. So that means that you have to again know what what is going on in their mind that isn't aligned with God's word. So that goes back to the date data gathering. And so as you're listening, as you're getting to know the situation, you want to be thinking about what what are they believing, what are they thinking that is off What are they believing about God that isn't true? What are they believing about themselves or their circumstances that aren't true? And then as as you're learning and you're understanding, you can be thinking about how can I help them uh cultivate a right way of thinking about all that. So again that framework put off, renew the mind put on is is key to thinking about how you can say, what what you are to say And just to look at that from another angle, as you're thinking about what to say, uh you can think about the goal that you're trying to accomplish Whatever it is you say, what what are you trying to accomplish with what you say? If you're not sure what words to use, if you're not sure what ideas to convey, think about the goal. Well what am I trying to accomplish? What are we trying to accomplish? Okay. Okay, giving them hope. Good. That's that's key. What else? I'm I'm I'm the very basic stuff here. Yeah, Ryan. Okay, pointing them to Christ and his sovereignty? Okay, goal? What what are what are we trying to aim at? Renewing the mind. Renewing the mind? Change? I mean these are all true. But goal, uh glorify God. Try to help them glorify God And all of these things are how we approach, you know, helping someone glorify God. We're trying to help them grow in Christ, so we have to pour them in Christ that we have that happens as we renew their minds, you know, all of that So we're aiming our conversations at helping them to glorify God by having a renewed mind, and that renewed mind will then help them to put off and put on. So um one way of looking at it is the process of change. That's how I think about what I should be conveying to them. Another way to look at it is what what is my goal? What am I trying to accomplish? I'm trying to help them glorify God. and all that that involves. Alright. Now let's talk about some specific things here. Uh some steps, if you will. What what what are the steps someone has to go through in their own mind that that perhaps you can help them walk through to bring about change. This isn't uh you know a one-minute conversation, but over the course of time what are we trying to help people do? The very first thing is we're trying to help people um What is it? It's all C's. I couldn't remember the C word. Uh consideration. Oh consider We're trying to help them think about the situation. We're trying to hold up the mirror of God's word so that they they're thinking, they're actively thinking. Again, in the same conversation that I had this week that I mentioned about the attitude, this was a couple that are mature believers. They know the Word of God And uh I knew that I wasn't telling them anything new. I knew that they already know everything that I needed to convey to them. So My goal in that situation was I want to help them think what they already believed. I want them to think about things that they've already learned. They just need to think about it in the context of their situation. When we renew the mind, so that's consider, uh then the next step is to confess. If there is uh sin in our lives, uh wrong thinking that has uh taken over our our minds then uh the first step toward beginning to change is confession, acknowledging. Uh you you probably know that the the word for confess in the Greek it's probably don't know the word itself. Anybody know the word? The Greek word? Well, what the actual Greek word is though. Yeah, but Daniel's right. It's to say the same thing. It's homologo. Hama, homo, you know, the same and logeo is to to say or to speak. So hama logo humal geo is to to say the same thing. And so you Confession is to say the same thing about your sin that God says about it, to acknowledge it, to affirm it, to look at it and say, Yep, that's what it is. I acknowledge that this way of thinking is wrong or this behavior is sinful or you know whatever it might be So in helping someone to think, to consider their situation, to look at the mirror of God's word and consider how it applies, the first step toward change is to confess. And so what these two really involved is the change of thinking The mind has to change, right? Renewing the mind, transforming through the renewal of the mind. Then the third step, after the mind is being renewed You could put it this way, is commitment. And uh this conveys the idea of They need to kind of do that actual turnaround that we call repentance, you know, that change of mind, that not only do you acknowledge what's wrong, but now you affirm what's right And there is a a recognition of this is what God calls me to. And so I'm going to commit myself now to walking down this path. But it's still in the mind here is what we're talking about. So so there's an acknowledgement of what's wrong. A confession of what's wrong. And you could even say a confession, an acknowledgement of what's right, of what God does call me to, and then a heart commitment to say that's the path that I want to go on. That's where I want to go from now on. So that would be commitment. And that involves obviously knowing what God calls you to do. And what his standard is. And then the final one is is it this simple? It is this simple. This change. And so these two are Changed living. So you go from changed thinking as they consider And confess to changed living as they commit themselves to the truth and then change their behavior, change their lifestyle, change patterns. Change their words, their responses. So if you're going to help somebody change, by the grace of God, if he's going to use you as an agent of change, This is, if you will, the step-by-step process that someone has to go through. They can happen pretty rapidly. It doesn't have to be, you know, one conversation is considered, the other conversation is confessed, you know, all the down the line These things can happen rapidly in someone's mind as the Spirit works. But this is what you want to see happen because this is what is involved in growth in Christ. You know, sometimes we want to go right from confess to change living. And you know, it Sometimes it can look like that's all that happens, but if uh if there hasn't been a consideration, if there hasn't been a commitment then what might be missing is a fuller, deeper understanding of their sin, of what's going on in the heart. Um somebody can change their life. They can stop bad behavior and start good behavior and not actually have a change of heart. Uh and just be a kind of a fair cycle surface level. You know, they stop stealing, they start giving, but there's no heart behind it. That's why there has to be consideration, seeing things from God's perspective, commitment in the sense of acknowledging what God says is is true and walking down the path of Christ-likeness. So as we are ministering to to others, we want to help them walk through those four steps. You know, and not that you have to call them use those terms in that way, but that's what we're trying to help someone move through. uh in the process of change. Any particular questions about that? They want to change in order to avoid the consequence. Maybe getting worse. There's not truly a heart change. Because for a believer, the heart change needs to be there for us to have the right focus, the focus on Jesus and what he wants us to do, bringing him glory. Mm-hmm. But if their focus is on avoiding the consequence, like in the Old Testament where they do uh sacrif uh sacrifices, right? Right. Show people Yeah, well then oh let's not let's not have them suffering more. There isn't a heart change. Does that make sense? Yeah, well that's um first Corinthians seven would call that worldly sorrow. Uh you know, I I I don't like the consequences of my sin, and so I'm gonna do whatever I can to mitigate, minimize, remove consequences, just so I can feel better. And you know, lessen the embarrassment or shame or whatever it might be in the person's case. Um so yeah, that's that's why it's so important to again think through uh the uh uh biblical principles. Uh I have a section here on on getting to the heart of uh understanding the the heart that's behind one's words and one's actions so that uh they can Right, their motivations so that um uh they can be uh uh I was dissuade from just a uh behavioristic or uh simple motivation to change. Yeah, one of one of the things that I think is really important um that we'll talk about about more just well we can actually move right into it is uh dialogue. Uh because if We're um preaching a sermon, if you will, in a conversation. If if we're having a monologue and we're just telling someone Here's how you need to be thinking about this, uh, here's what you need to stop doing, here's what you need you need to start doing, here are the concept and we're just like monologuing the whole thing. And they're like, Uh-huh, uhhuh, okay, okay. Yeah, you're right, you're right, you're right. You know, and then you you know, there's no dialogue, you're just telling them and Uh and then like, okay, that's what I'm gonna do. Okay, good, great conversation. You know. Well, you don't actually know what uh have you changed their has their mind changed, I should say. Um you know, w what how are they processing that? Uh and so part of the the the uh uh part of the process that's so inva invaluable is dialogue to see what What how are you thinking about this? How are how are you understanding what I'm saying? Just reflect back to me how you're uh how you're thinking w why are you wanting to make this kind of change? There's just a lot of dialogue that needs to happen so that you can discern uh what is motivating them to change if if you know if they are wanting to change. But when I'm talking to people who challenge they're challenged with some struggle of life, I'll take them to a passage and I'll ask Ask them Socratic method. I'll ask them what do you think it's saying? Yeah, yeah. And if they don't they have no idea, then I get to tell them. Hey you you must be reading my notes here. We'll talk about using scripture in a second. Yeah. Maybe this relates more to interpersonal type of stuff, but Um and maybe you can also s suggest like let's say you have sixty minutes, how much each one of those should take, which in my mind 55 minutes should be of the considering and the interrogative and the consideration because a lot of times they may be confessing but they're not actually confessing Right. Because they've misinterpreted where they think they are, and you need to help them get to where they really actually are And and I said the interpersonal parts where like they're responding to a slight they think they received because they didn't actually understand what the truth was or someone else's motivation because they kind of projected onto someone like hey they were thinking you don't know what they were thinking, you just know what actually came out of their mouth or the action or something like that. So maybe you can comment on how much you think percentage wise or time wise between con uh consider, confess, commit, change. Yeah. Uh the only way I can really answer that is you need to spend as much time to ensure that it happens. That that there's a a a thorough um understanding uh of you know their sin, of of the situation, looking at it from God's Word, uh that that their confession is um a heartfelt, uh biblical, uh heart level confession that the their understanding of what God calls them to do, their their commitment, their desire to change. Yeah, you just have to take the time and It's not really a percentage thing. It's it's just making sure that they happen and not jumping too quickly to the next step. Like we we can move someone. Well actually Mike, let me know of the We shouldn't forget that we are just instruments. Right. And the Holy Spirit is doing the work. Right. We have no idea When the Holy Spirit how he would do it, when he would do it. He just bring the word and pray that the Holy Spirit bring about J so there's no real time limit, percentage or anything like that I I guess meaning that I can parently nobody changes on my timeline. Yeah. I I had one situation years ago where a guy came, he was struggling with grief, loss of a a parent. And I set in my mica, here's kind of my agenda that I want to walk through for several weeks. I'm like, it'll probably take several weeks of conversation And the the next week he came back, he's like, Oh actually I'm good now like, What? Oh yeah, you know what you said and then I you know I was reading the scripture and Yeah, you know, I'm I'm good I'm good. I'm like, are you oh okay. So so that's pretty rare though. But yeah, the Lord the Lord works on his own timeline. Yeah. You think this is what's happening with the person. You build a relationship, this happened for me. The guy came in And he said since I can trust you, here's something else. Right. Now you got something else. You know, and then s some of the stuff like confession uh It's not that it's wrong to confess quickly. Obviously, we want to confess as quickly as we can as soon as we're convicted by the Spirit. But uh we shouldn't think of confession as a once and done act because we might confess what we're convicted of in that moment. Yes, what I did there was wrong. Please forgive me. Um but then over time come to realize at a deeper level uh other facets of that sin the heart motivations, uh wrong thinking that we had, that that we need to confess uh not again because we didn't confess it before, but we need to confess that too. And so um My tendency is to not encourage people, like if if there's some you know adultery, let's say, is to is to not encourage them to confess right away. Because I I want to make sure I want to take the time that's needed to help them think through all that's led to that and uh and that their heart um is um Uh convicted, truly, and and not just trying to get away from consequences, which sometimes happens. Now, sometimes the Lord has worked in a person's heart and they have all of that. they're they understand what led to that and and praise the Lord when when that happens. But um you know, usually when someone comes into the counseling for the first time, you know, in a formal situation, formal counseling situation, uh it takes time to kinda unpack things like that. But you just wanna want to take the time that seems to be new to to uh aim at changed thinking. And as Mike said, understanding that sometimes More things will come out over time that need to be worked through. So let's talk about some practical things. We already mentioned dialogue, how that's important. You know, if you think of uh the the aspect of speaking the truth in love, using the scripture, using the scripture to no worries, uh to minister to people Don't think in terms of, oh, I need to put together a Bible study uh to bring to this person and, you know, let me Preach you a sermon. We wouldn't call it a sermon, but let me let me tell you what the Bible says and then we go on a 30-40 minute Bible lesson of here's you know what the Bible says about your situation Don't don't think like that because that's that's not what it should look like. It it really should be an active dialogue. And with any dialogue there's moments where one person speaks for a while and then the other person speaks for a while. Sometimes there's a lot of quick back and forth, short interaction. So it's it's varied, and that's that's the way these kind of conversations should go. It's just a normal dialogue uh uh communicating of ideas uh and and r and working through things together. And so when you're thinking about using the scripture Uh Brian mentioned, you know, that um having uh a dialogue around the scripture. Uh I I would encourage, you know uh when possible it's not always necessary so there's no rules about this but I would encourage that uh better than just quoting a verse and moving on, they say, you know what, let's let's take our our Bible out, or our Bible app out, and uh let's look at this verse. Let's look at it with our eyes So we can focus on it and and talk about it. And maybe you have them read the verse. There's a variety of ways that you can uh have a conversation around it. You can say, okay, we just read this verse. Now what do you think that means? What is this t telling us? What's the meaning of this verse? And you know the first thing we always want to get at is what's the meaning of it? We don't want to jump too quickly to application, but what is this verse saying? So, you know, paraphrase it, put it in your own words. What is this verse saying? Depending on what the what the verse is and what you're wanting to draw out of it, you can say, let let me just point out a couple key things that we see in this passage. Let's just highlight and underline a couple of the phrases here. And I think I did that a few weeks sometime ago when I walked through 1 Corinthians 10. 13. in just uh let's look at this phrase and what does that mean? Let's look at this phrase and what does that mean. And again, it doesn't have to be a a monologue. It can be uh a dialogue because as you're going through it you can say you know now now put that in your own words how would you explain what what you know Paul or Jesus or whatever uh means there So paraphrasing, identifying key features, uh explaining, you know, sometimes you do need to explain what it means because they're they don't know what it means. They're they're not sure uh what what the passage means, and so explaining can certainly uh be a a needed thing. But then of course you want to get to application. If you're gonna use the scripture, you don't just use the scripture for the purpose of you know quoting quoting it. You want to have it be purposeful in application And that's a dialogue. That's not a here's how this applies to your life. That's a, so now that we've talked through this, how do you see this applying to your life Uh how do you think uh this verse helps you when you're in this situation? When you go to work tomorrow and you're gonna see that co-worker. How can this verse help you respond to your coworker? Or when you're when you're dealing with your kids this week and they're making you want to pull your hair out, how can this verse help you if it comes to your mind and and change how you respond? So thinking through application s uh directly out of out of the scripture. And and sometimes uh as much as we would want someone to think of the application themselves, sometimes we have to help them with that. Um I was watching the the video from the curriculum for this lesson and uh um Tim Lane was the instructor for it and he conveyed an experience that I've had many times myself, how you know he was counseling a couple and he was trying to help the husband know how he could respond to his wife in in a particular situation and the husband's like, I just I don't know. I I I don't know how to say this any differently that she would receive. He's like, well How about this? And they gave him a script, if you will, of how he could communicate to his wife. And yes, his wife, so if if your husband were to say it this way, would that be helpful? Oh yes, that would be very helpful. That would that would radically change uh how I would respond. And uh and s and so sometimes we have to actually put words in people's mouths to help them to think about a different way of communicating because they're just not used to it. And so we w uh while we don't want to say, thus says the Lord, this is what you have to do, we can help think through what are ways of responding uh you know with words or actions uh in in terms of applying the scripture Um you know one of the key passages that I've often used in virtually every case is 1 Corinthians 1031. You know, whether you eat or drink, whatever you do, do also do the glory of God. So you can have a conversation around what would it look like when you're in this difficult situation, if you're going to face it this week, what would it look like to glorify God in that moment? And just have a conversation around that. There's no one right answer, but that's a conversation to have. And thinking through that in advance can be very helpful. You don't want to just say, hey, here's this verse. Take it, it'll help you. You know, we'll see you later. Because if you just wait till the moment of uh tension of difficulty to all of a sudden try and come up with an application of the verse, you you're probably going to fail. So thinking about it in advance is is uh very helpful. Any particular thoughts or comments about that? John? So uh this makes this all summed up in communication when you're creating dialogue. And um I just wanted to recommend the Joe Learning podcast, which comes out of two women who go to the Horace Church. Um one of them is a pastor's fife, they're both counselors. And they recently put out a podcast called Godly Communication and it is spectacular. So if you like podcasts, World Journey Podcasts, Godly Communication. And And all the rest of it too. Yeah. Yeah. Here, here. I used to listen to it, but I have too many podcasts to listen to. Um In the course of conversation, you might consider: are there ways that I can illustrate truth or metaphors that I can use? If you think about how uh God has communicated to us, how he's given us a record of a lot of these uh changes kind of conversations in scripture. You have that. You have the prophet Nathan who went to David to confront him over his sin. Remember how he confronted David? He didn't say, David, you rascally terrible king, you know, you've committed adultery. No, he told him a story. He made up a story that he knew David would respond to rightly, that that would kind of inflame his moral uh uh fibers, and then he used that reality to say, and that's what you've done. in this situation. And so sometimes we we can help someone uh to think about a similar kind of situation. If they're blind to their own sin, they're just not seeing how their sin has uh been at work in a situation, you can give them a a story, make something up that that you know they would be able to see clearly. And then say, that's that's the same thing that we're talking about with you. And so that can be a very helpful way to approach it. Using metaphor, using illustrations like that. You know, Jesus used parables. A a lot. You know, there's the parable of the unforgiving slave in Matthew eighteen. Uh there's the parable of the um uh what are they called the uh tenants who uh uh wanted to take for themselves the land that they were given to steward. They kept killing and and beating the servants that that the master would send to collect some of the produce of the land. Uh and he used that metaphor to um indict the uh Pharisees and the religious leaders. Uh he used the prodigal son as a story to uh indict the religious leaders So parables, uh metaphors are are used often in scripture to convict uh people of their sin. I know you probably already have, but could you tell for just a quick moment on how it's possible that we can be so blind to our sin? How can we be so blind to our sin? Well, the the nature of sin is that it's deceptive. That's that's the the root reality, the inherent nature of of sin. Uh it it is lies, it is irrationality, it is deception. And that's why it takes the convicting work of the Holy Spirit to help someone help us come to see our sin because we Uh we engage in sin by believing in lies. And unless the truth comes to us to help us see that. Which sometimes somebody can be speaking it right to us and we're so deceived that we're just like, I I don't get it, I don't see it. Um and and that's why the Holy Spirit has to be the one to bring conviction. So that's that's I think the most basic answer. Uh uh I think a corollary to that is as believers, we have a tendency to think better o of ourselves. than what is actually true of ourselves. We're we we we tend to um downplay perhaps sinful motivations that we might have had Uh we we we may not be as attuned to uh the desires of our heart that led to a sinful response in a given situation. um you know w uh w in the flesh our tendency is just to push it off on somebody else. Yes, I responded sithfully, but that's because I was responding to their sin. And if they wouldn't have responded that way, I wouldn't have responded this way. Why are we doing that? Because we're not willing to examine our own heart and remember what Jesus says, that everything rises out of the heart. Um so it that that's all in the same realm of deception. We we're prideful, uh we think better of ourselves than we ought to think. Uh we're we're we uh we're not willing to consider our our own heart. Um uh and we're just blinded. Blinded by the sin. We justify our sin uh in so many different ways. Um and So all of that just leads to the the fact that the Holy Spirit has to open our eyes, otherwise we'll be lost. Yeah. Yeah, that um that speaks to you know David, where he could righteously judge another person for committing the same sin that he committed and he couldn't see his own sin. Um now we don't know what was going on in David's heart and mind in the moment and in the aftermath of his sin with Bathsheba, in the sense of Was there any pang of conviction? Did he know this was wrong to take advantage of this woman, married woman? And uh murder her husband, you know, was there anything inside of him that was like, maybe we shouldn't do that. Was there any pain? We don't know. We don't know. But we do know it took a prophet uh to convict him. And um you know, we have the Holy Spirit indwelling us in a different way than David did. David had the Holy Spirit upon him. That's why he prayed in Psalm fifty one, Take not your Holy Spirit from me. because the Spirit was more of a temporary uh dwelling on the Old Testament saints. Um But even with us who have the indwelling Holy Spirit, we can be so self-deceived. And and that's why Jesus taught in Matthew seven that you have to take a log out of your own eye first before you can see the speck in your brother's eye. Anyway. Uh Brian, you were painting a picture metaphor is illustration. So I have an example not too long ago talking to someone and who sin we all sin. I keep on going back to the same sin. Keep on doing it, right? So of course I'm thinking of Romans six one and two. What shall we say then? Shall we continue Anyone sin that grace may abound? Certainly not. How can we who die to sin? So I focused on die to sin. I asked him, where did we die to sin? You could have think of it. I said, go over to Galatians two twenty. So we went over there and talks about being crucified with Christ. I said said we actually died our whole life with sin and all the all the baggage died with Christ on the cross, trying to paint them with So when he's getting ready to possibly sin, there's other verses too, 1 Corinthians 1013 and others. But when he's getting ready to sin, think of that you died on the cross. Mm-hmm. You can't a a dead person cannot sit. Good right. Dead person cannot dead And I said I said you died on the cross with Jesus. Right That's interesting. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that's good. That's helpful. Yes, Matt. Just one more quick comment. I when you brought us to the features board, uh you may have talked about this when you went through that passage But just the fact that that be renewed is not it's not the similar commands in other places the words like renew your mind, it's it's be renewed in that passive sense. Um But I I think they're not not like just thinking about the work of the spirit mode. Right. Right. Yeah. And um You know, this goes to Mike, what how Mike was saying that the spirit has to work. He's he's the change agent And uh, you know, uh we might get frustrated in the conversation with a person who's not seeing what we think they should be seeing, and that might tempt us toward anger. Um where even we sin now because we're t we're confronting someone and they're not willing to listen, at least that's by our perception. And so we we have to remember that the spirit has to open their eyes. Um And uh be pa we need to be patient uh with the spirit's work in that way. Uh in in the course of conversation, uh it It's so much better if someone can uh acknowledge things themselves rather than being told uh about their sin. If if someone can come up with the ideas, the thoughts and the words to say, Oh So when I yell at my kids, what I'm doing is, you know, da da da I'm I'm allowing my desires to rule over me And then it's so mu so much better where you can say, yes, that's that's what this passage is saying. Because then you know, and they're getting it. The Spirit is working, the Spirit is renewing their mind. And And you don't have to be the one to tell them that. Not n you know, sometimes you do, but if if they can come out with it, that's always the best. So that means that it's great to ask questions to uh help them reflect. on things. So let's say you're talking about uh James 4, 1, where it says, you know, what causes fights and quarrels, it's it's your di desires, it's your pleasures. You're thinking through that with them. You can ask a question like, so in light of what this passage says, in light of what James 4 says here, what what is going on? when your your kids are disobeying, they're not doing what you're telling them to do, and what rises up within you is is anger and and and clamor, yelling. W what's going on there? And then let them kind of reflect, oh, this is what I see is going on in my own heart. So helping them to think about their own application of the truth. And so when they can come to that place of recognizing their sin themselves, Because of the work of the spirit, isn't that? Uh that's that's when you know there's a real change of thinking. Um And so encouraging them to uh reflect on things. Uh and again, our temptation is to tell them what we think they need to be seeing But I would encourage you to ask questions that would be aimed at seeing, are they getting up, are they able to see how the scripture is relating to their situation? Just another uh aspect of a helpful conversation is uh when when the person you're speaking to has spoken for a bit, uh it's good to uh show good listening skills by re summarizing and reflecting back what you've heard. You know what I'm hearing you say is, da da da da da am I hearing you right? That's a really helpful way to show that you're listening, you're attentive, you're wanting to understand them, you're not just thinking about your response to what they're saying, but you're really having effective communication. And then uh I already mentioned application, but I I I would just emphasize when you think about application of biblical truth in a conversation. To get as concrete as possible, as specific and concrete as possible. Don't be content with you or them saying, so really what you're telling me is I just need to be a better husband Uh I need to love my wife more. Yeah, yeah. Go, go do that. Okay, yeah, that's true, but um Again, uh uh that doesn't really help you. That doesn't really get to the details of life. So it's better to say, all right, yes, you're right. You need to love your wife better this week. What what is something that you can do differently than what you normally do that would demonstrate love to your wife. Or in a moment where you're tempted to get upset at your kids. Uh what is a a different way that you could respond? What what what things can you be telling yourself in your mind as you're starting to feel that rise of of tension in your soul? Uh and then how can you verbally respond differently What what would it sound like? What words can you use in that situation? You know, when when you're at work and that coworker comes and you know they're Doing whatever that coworker does. What's something you can do in response? What what what's a word you can use in response? What's a way you can proactively show kindness? You know, just get very, very specific and concrete Almost planning ahead for that situation and putting detailed plans in the mind so that they're ready and prepared to do that with God's help You know, it's been said, I think I think this was said in the uh last curriculum for the last class. Um we don't sin in general. We sin in specific ways, right? There's a particular attitude that we have. There are particular words that we say, there's particular actions that we do, thoughts that run in our minds. And so if change is going to happen, it can't happen in general, it has to happen in specifics. And so talking through the specifics is vital. All right, last last couple thoughts here. I just want to really encourage you, and this I think is one of the hardest things, at least it has been for me. is to to make sure that you get to the heart. Because our we see the the actions, we hear the words, uh that's that's what's so uh present right in front of us, so obvious we can jump too quickly to changing you know those outward things. And we really need to press into the heart. And when we say press into the heart, we're talking about thoughts. Desires, values, goals, uh motivations. So you really want to make sure that you're having conversations that address the heart and And that they're thinking at that level, both on the confession side as well as on the change side. And then the last thing that I'll mention for today is Recognize suffering without excusing sin. We often use examples and I've done it today. You know, you're talking to somebody who's suffering, no fault of their own. They're just they're you know, there's something's happened to them that's very painful. Or you're talking to somebody who's battling sin. Well do you do you know that like that's almost never the case that one person is hundred percent suffering or a hundred percent battling sin? There's usually a mixture of sin and suffering in a person's life. Maybe their the what initiated their suffering was not their own fault, you know S stock market crashed, they lost the money, they lost their job, some natural disaster happened, they they their house um you know had some major problem that they can't afford to fix It wasn't their fault. But now they're responding in a sinful way. Or they do have this battle with sin. They have sinned in certain ways, and that's led to suffering There's consequences that have come to them because of that sin. And so there's a deep suffering as a result of that. So sometimes it can be difficult to be like, is this person a sufferer or are they a sinner? How am I supposed to approach this person? Well, yes, they are a sinner, and they are a sufferer And it's not our job to figure out how to weigh that, what's the balance of that, as much as it is to minister to them in each of those ways, into those categories. Uh we we you know just in understanding the situation you do want to understand the catalyst to where they are now, so what has led to this. Uh and and so we want to address suffering where there's suffering. We want to address sin where there's sin. And uh and and we I think it's easier to address sin when there's been more suffering. Uh when it's something that's come upon them and they the the the sin has been a response, I think that's generally easier for us to do because we have compassion for their suffering What's harder for us is to address suffering when it's been brought on by sin that they've committed. Because part of us wants to say, well, you deserve it. It's good that you're suffering because that tells you that your sin is serious. And so we need to be very careful to not have that attitude, but rather have compassion and have grace and mercy. uh for their suffering. And so we wanna we wanna recognize, we wanna acknowledge suffering without excusing the sin. Without saying Well, it's okay that that you've sin in that way because really you're a sufferer and whatnot. No, we we we acknowledge the reality of both and we treat both uh in their own way. Okay, well those are all just a variety of maybe uh scattered principles of thinking through the c the way that we can approach conversations when we have an opportunity to then speak, to uh minister the truth and love uh to those that the Lord puts in our path. Um I would encourage you uh I don't know. Some of you have taken notes today. Uh maybe you might want to l listen to the recording and just get the main ideas and just think through a conversation that uh you'll be having this week uh interactions that you'll be having and how can I incorporate one of those one of these things uh in into your approach to a conversation like that If you're a parent, it's easy to have lots of conversations that are aimed toward change. So you can think about that. How can you grow in that area? But then in your relationships with others as well. Alright. Alright, any final questions or comments before I close? Yeah. Yeah, so if someone is is wanting to go down a path that that you know is wrong, I mean that uh I think there's uh an opportunity to graciously but directly warn them uh to warn them of the uh of what God says, remind them of what God says, warn them of the consequences, uh, warn them about even their own blindness. Uh Um you know, again that can be a a conversation of of why is it that you're wanting to do this when you know it's not right? Because with that example, uh it's fairly normal that a believer who wants to marry an unbeliever knows that they shouldn't do that. They often acknowledge that. Sometimes somebody will be so self-deceived they won't they won't consider that. But uh I know there's a number of cases Um I'm thinking of one that I uh was involved with a few years ago or yeah, sometime recently. And I was Uh as I got to know the couple, one was definitely an unbeliever. And so I asked the the believers uh on a separate occasion. So you know they're an unbeliever. Can you help me understand why you're wanting to go down that path? Uh so again that can be a conversation of what's going on in their heart that that they're wanting to move forward in a sinful way. Uh and then just again graciously but directly um warn them about that. Uh it's not our place to to be the judge, no, but um Proverbs what is it, thirteen fifteen This uh good sense wins favor, but the way of the treacherous is their ruin. And uh though it doesn't come across well in the English, it's basically saying that when you live a life of sin, the way of the treacherous is their ruin When you live a life of sin, you're you're paving uh deep um ruts in the road of your life, and it's going to be very difficult to get out uh of that situation in the future. And so uh there's there's a warning there. I think the King James translates it, the way of the wicked is hard. And and uh Just warning someone that, you know, you're going down a path of destruction. And I I don't want to see that before you, right? But ultimately the Holy Spirit has to convict them and turn them around. Yeah. People who are contemplating getting married on the believer or are what you were married? They're already married. Well th they're uh either confession needs to take take place if it's already happened. Um but they just need to acknowledge that that was the a sinful uh thing to do. Uh but at that point they're married, so that now they they have instructions from the Lord, primarily First Peter three on how they are to live with an unbelieving spouse. and represent Christ well. You know, part of that is even confessing to their spouse, you know, I should not have married you. And um that wa I sin against the Lord and and I put you above God in my life And that was wrong. Um because no doubt there will be temptations in the future to do that uh in other ways. And so part of living rightly before the Lord uh with an unbelieving spouse is to help them understand that your primary loyalty is the Lord, not the spouse. So okay. Let me pray.