Sarah gave you the rundown for those of you that came in late. My undergraduate degrees in special ed, my master's is in counseling. I taught special education in Frederick County public schools. Yes, I was in Frederick that's why. Um people at Chapel Gate are like act like they don't know where that is. But um so I taught um in a special program in Frederick um in Frederick for kids who were coming in and going out of residential treatment. So it was behavior disorders. And then I um worked at uh Mount Mary Bible Church Christian Academy and I worked there as there's they have a school and I worked there as the school counselor and resource teacher for them and then um I got and then I worked at um Chapel Gate. I started there um in Biblical counseling center, Chapel Gate has like a biblical counseling center as a ministry. And so I was their biblical counselor for um children, teens, and families for seven years and the and so I was the school counselor and then I was um and then I was um also so I was helping the school, they have a school there too. And I was working in the um counts in the counseling center and the school and um and then I felt into this and I will tell you. Um so um one of the one a mom a mom who had a son. It was okay a mom who had a son, um and he had a lot of behavior issues. Um, I think he was on the spectrum. I really didn't know her that well. I really didn't know the kids that well. Um I think I just kind of listened a little bit in staff meetings when they talked about it because I was just interested because you know this this was a special news kid is It was like the aunt was raising him. And um so I kinda knew there was like an issue there. Um and then I was in a staff meeting and they were talking about the fact that she had left this mom with this Son. Um, and so I'm just like, Oh, oh wow, what happened? Like I heard you guys you know you guys were trying to figure stuff out and they were like, Well when he is in elementary school, um, you know, he's in a Sunday school class and I don't know, they're I don't know, structured or whatever. They are. But when you got when you got to our middle school, um our middle school is very like it's a great ministry, it's really big, but it's very high energy lights, noise, running like you know, and it was just too much for him. So he was acting out. And so um they very n I was impressed, they very nicely said, look we don't know what to do you um and so they actually said to to her um we we will if you hire somebody that knows how to Be with him. We will pay for it, doesn't matter what it costs. So this kid can come to Cairo that's possible. He can come to Cairo, but we don't know what to do. Um so um if he has like a an aide or an assistant or whatever, that person can come to Sunday school, that person can come on Friday night and we'll pay for it. Um but um it just it hurt the mom that um like the people there just weren't willing. to learn, you know, how to um how to work with her son. And so, um and and so in this situation, like I I think the church did something very nice I would say Like, oh wow, who I that never even would have thought of that as an option. But um I think the mom just wanted like him to be part of everything. without like paying somebody, you know and so whatever. So they told me that story and I was just like, oh guys, like that can't happen. Like you can't have like people leave church um because we can't accomplish Their special needs kids or whatever. Um and then 'cause I was um passionate about it, then the the past two of our pastors you know called me and were they were like, You were kind of aggressive in that meeting. Um and I was like I'm like it's awful. Like a family can't come to this church because um because there's Son is different. I'm like, and I I love that you guys offered to pay. Wow, I mean that's like super impressive. Like they were like, doesn't matter what it costs, whatever. I was like, um, but um that was really hard for that mom. That mom wanted us to learn how to love her son. Um not us because one of the things that I hope them this they didn't have any way of knowing but the pastors like one of the things I'd explained to them is um kids with special needs, the majority of people in their life are adults and the majority of people in their lives get paid to be with them. And so now there would be no way that my pastors would know that. I mean they're like, oh wow. So the idea for that mom of hearing, you know, okay we're gonna get another adult, we're gonna pay, whatever, you know, I mean it sounds lovely, but that mom was like, No, like can't we teach the kids to welcome in? Can't the son school teacher take a class, whatever. And so when I cling when I clinged that they were like, oh wow, okay. Um and so because you have kids kids with special needs. I mean that's what like they don't get invited work anymore each You know, they're even when they're 14, 15, their mom has a mother's helper come and watch them so that she can cook dinner or make a meal or whatever. Um, you know, when parents go away, family usually doesn't take them. They have to pay. arrested workers. So um so anyway, I explained all that and they were like, okay, we understand why you were so aggressive. Um and then a couple days later they called me back in and they're like, we need to start events. straight for this and you need to do it. Um and um I didn't want to do it. I didn't want to do it. I didn't want to do it. Um because I was seeing like thirty five kids a week. It was an Like, I can't do this, I can't do this. But um they were just like it sounds like this is the kind of thing that you have you have to be passionate about and like so far you've been the only person So I didn't want to do it and I said I wouldn't do it, but then they said you need to pray about it and prayed about it and then of course I had to do it Um and so for a year I just they kinda what started. Um for a year they just um cut I cut my council hours back or whatever. And for a year I just learned how to start a special needs ministry. I hadn't been a special ed teacher for like I don't know, fifteen years. Like, you know It was different, the name, whatever. But I went to um the big race and Fulton. They have gems there. And then Ricterstown has new life light light point It has Life Point and they have hugs there. And then I went to Damascus Road. They had a ministry there. just spent a year just um like in the PCA church they have this whole branch for engaging disability and I went to Pennsylvania and met with them and I just, you know, so I took a year and um and and then I thought I was ready. So we started. And so it started actually in 2017. Um Keystone started. And so that's a little about me, and that's a little bit about how Keystone got started. And one of the things Um, I think people just don't realize is um oh it just oh just ha it I just was sending a text book because I was kinda late. Is um I don't think that people understand how hard it is for specials with families to go to church. Um it's hard um I mean sometimes it's hard for any of us that have a few kids to get on Sunday morning and get there. But it's really, really hard um because typically if you're a special needs parent then if you go to church they need you to stay with your kid because they don't know how to, you know, work the wheelchair, signing line, whatever. And so, um, and it's very interesting, I think it's like ninety percent of something of peop of churches that have special needs ministry are because parents of a special needs child started it themselves. Yeah, like people it's very weird that like I don't have a child with special needs. People are like, really? And I was like, no, I actually don't but um because they Like I'm in this group that meets once a month from all over the country we meet on Zoom. And um I think I might be the only person in that group um of pastor, you know, that that does not have a child aspect. But that's what's really sad. You know, that's not a good thing. That's really sad that you know the parents usually start the ministries because no one else has done it. Um and so um so often these families um don't go to church Um if they go to church they do have to stay with their child. And I think of co most of the statistics I say by the way are taken from Johnny and Friends or engaging disability, which is the Presbyterian thing. Um, but they say that families that have special needs kids usually go to seven churches before they find a church that will they can stay at, that they feel comfortable staying at. Um unless they start the special needs ministry themselves. And so um like just before I came here, this is really funny, you guys are all willing to volunteer. We're having volunteer issue at Chapel Gate right now because of COVID. But um I the nursery people put out this thing like we need volunteers and so I was looking at it come up and I saw one of my moms come up as you know, she was volunteering to help in nursery. And so I texted the new nursery director because she said no and I just said like, Hey, I see Blinken Blank is offering to help you. I think That's great, I want her to serve, I want her to be part of the body, I want her to be able to do that, but don't put her on a regular schedule. Um because she's a special needs parent. And then the lady just wrote back to me, I think she was kind of like Well, a lot of parents have six kids or whatever she was saying. Um and then I just said um um that before she came to Chapel Gate, her or her husband had to be with her her little girl's autism every single Sunday. And since they've been at Chapel Gate, they don't. So I was like so I would prefer if, you know, like you know, you put her on rotation like I don't know, once a month or something, but please don't make her you know do that. You know, she has given up church this whole time to be with her little girl. And so I um and so I was like, you know, she did it because she had to and now she's sweet. She wants to do Um but I was like, you know, let's love on her and like, you know, not do that. But um so they do say that um this again that um The special needs population is actually the most um the biggest mission field. in our country. Um because um it's like one in six um oh fifteen percent of Americans have disabilities 20% of families are caretakers of those with disability. And so there are a lot of families out there who are affected by disability. And we don't see them because they don't come. And they don't come because we don't welcome them. Um and so I just learned this on my own and then also like like in the information is um the number one word that parents will use to describe their life as a special needs parent is isolated. Um again I did I did ice cream truck today, that just means I take my husband's work. truck and I make it look like an ice cream truck and like oh it's ice cream and then Keystones and Buddy just come have free ice cream and there was a new woman's uh church yesterday and I texted her this morning, I was like, Hey I know this is like notice and your kids nineteen, but we do ice cream truck, like you might want to come and she came and she was like cried. She was just like I had like like wow there just like families here like with disabilities, like wow. And the moms were just so lovely. Um and um and so I just thought that was really cool. And she's very fancy so But she was just like and it was just today she goes, I feel so isolated. And she's like, you know, this is like so nice. And so I was just thinking in my head like that's the um thing So um that all being said, um why do we start a special needs ministry? Oops, I have oh am I supposed to say something? Right arrow. Okay, that'd be the right one. Okay, so kind of did the statistics back to my pastor right there. Um And um and I kind of just spoke about why do we need a ministry for families with disabilities, and it's because um they're part of the body And one of the things I did is when I when I started the ministry, I got freakishly obsessed with naming the ministry. I don't know why, but literally people like, remember when you were trying to think of a name for Keystone? Um I really wanted something um that um kind of our our verse, the first Corinthians um twelve twenty. Um guys know there are many parts, you have one body, the idea I cannot say to the hand, I have no need for you. On the contrary, the parts of the body that seem to be weaker are indispensable and on those parts of the body that we think less honorable. We bestow the greatest honor. And um I wanted something that um a word that meant like you don't you don't know how good it is? But it's really, really, really great. You know, and so I think I went through like, let's call it the oysters, you know. Or let's call it a butterfly, whatever. But I wanted like, you know, I don't think that thing's very good and then it turns out it's like the greatest thing ever And I was so obsessed with finding a name for my ministry that I actually in a doctor's office looked through an architect architecture magazine and they had this little thing and it said a keystone is a species that plays a role I'm sorry is something that plays a role in its community that is far more important that its relative abundance might suggest. And I was like, voila. Um, that's it. That's the key that's the keystone. And it has turned out it's so many People have just been like, wow, like we had no idea like how blessed we would be by this ministry or how much joy we get from having the special needs. Um Um, you know, worship with us. Um I think my church would probably say the best video that we show all year long is the um my mission trip video. Like it's you know, they're just like um just even watching that is so amazing. Um so um I just think when when they say why did we start a session it's because we're called to we're called to include everybody um in our ministry. And I think we just need to be um very intentional about that. Um let's see, so there, okay let's go. Okay. All right, what are some of the disabilities that we serve? Okay. What do you guys what are some of the main disabilities that you think like you might hear you might have or that might come here? Autism. Autism. Usually big one, yeah. Intellectual disabilities. Yeah. It's oh look, she said it right. There you go. The lanes always change, but intellectual disabilities. Um, yep. Autism is a biggie, um, or just well they're saying on the spectrum or whatever, but autism is and then it's intellectual disabilities, um um down syndr children who have Down syndrome and um a lot of kids who who have um genetic disorders. Um different parents call it different things, um, but you know, book will usually call it um genetic disorders but I think that I have four kids well one one moved away but I had four kids in the past few years that all um were the only ones like in the tri-state area that has what they have. Um yeah. And a lot of those youngers actually live here because they moved here because of we're we're somewhere can increase their job cost Um but so that's that uh working with a lot of kids that um have that. I have um I actually have a lady, she was she's in she lives in Thailand. Her little boy had so many issues. They couldn't get him help over there. And the husband's mother was like, Our church has like a special needs ministry? Like and so they moved here not for Keystone. They moved here because of Kennedy Krieger or something and then they'd never been to church before but they now come to Keystone. Um and so yeah. But um all right, so well so mostly I would say autism, at least for us and you know, visiting other churches and stuff, um children who have autism, um people not children and um Down syndrome and the genetic disorders or chromosomes at whatever they want to call it. Um that's pretty much the most of um what we have and then um what um uh what I see at other churches like when I I'm in two different groups of different people and that's pretty much um the main thing. Um But it's funny 'cause even little things like this. I really like I think the kids in the husband industry, I'm not sure, but I love these little colorful things. But it's really funny because like when you read, just like with children. Like when you read it, they say I know at Johnny and Suns they always say if you've met one kid with autism, you've met one kid with autism because yeah, uh you know, and like when we say characteristics or behaviors or whatever, it's yeah, it's very hard to um say that all, you know, kids will do that or won't do that. Um I find that at least in my church, um, I think this is the scenario. We're so hurt, can we raise okay Um that in our in our church um um it's just a more affluent area, like people are very educated here. People have really good jobs, people have money, things like that. Um and so I don't see many kids in our ministry whose parents ask for help if they have like learning disabilities or ADHD. Um and it's usually because they all are, you know, have tutors and behavior specialists and take their kids to therapies and all that stuff. Now the place I worked before this in Mount Airy, totally different group of people And so um um they were people that would come more asking about things like that because they didn't have the resources. But um Um they do say, and you said, um people now um um we try to use the word intellectual disability or cognitive disability. um for um people um that usually have Down syndrome or or have other uh other situations, other things like that. Um now you will, there are certain things you We'll have um children who have autism. One of the characteristics is they're usually like really smart. Um, but then you can have a child with autism who has an intellectual disability. So that's just people so sometimes so that's something that's like it it just like I do with kids, but um the stereotypical things. Um like I have two little boys who are non-verbal people think that they have autism because they're not verbal, but they're actually two of those kids that have the um chromos have chromosome issues or the genetic disorders. And so um, you know, and one of my loudest most popular kids actually has autism. So um Um it's just it's just varied. And I will just say here, when you do um meet a family, I'm kind of going off a little bit here, but it's really good to ask them questions. It's really good to say things like Like, oh well how do they communicate or is he verbal or can walk independently or and they're the questions that you really don't want to ask because you know you feel like you're you know, that's private or whatever. But parents always say like I would rather people ask me than not know. Like I would rather people um you know ask me how to interact with my kid or ask ask me um like as soon as I meet a family I'll be like okay what's the best way to communicate with them and how do they show they're happy and how do they show they're upset. Like that's I'll never let a new parent like leave my room until They've told me those things. How do you communicate? How do they show they're happy? How do they show they're they're upset? And so that's just always important. ask the parent um questions. Like if they say especially because it'll be if the parent just says, Oh, he has Down syndrome, you can't just be like, oh okay, I got it, I know what that means. You know Um that'd be like what what is the neural soccer player? Well is he defense, is he offense, is he this is it you know, it's just so um so it's okay even if the parent gives you the diagnosis to be like, can you tell me more about that? Um or how that, you know, how I'm going to see that or whatever. So um okay, let's see, I know I'm talking past you by the way Alright, fine, it's getting somewhere interesting. Okay, from okay um each year after I started this ministry, um I wanted to make sure that I had a um mission trip for my ministry. Um, don't even know why, I guess because I've been in the youth ministry for so long. But so um so of course everyone knows Johnny Erickson Tata and she actually went to Chapel Gate and her nurses actually are from Chapel Gate. And um and so um she I just kind of checked into things like that. I knew that there was like um Camp Barnabas somewhere in America and Champ Beckwith Hills is in like Ohio. Um so I knew a couple of places, but um I found out that Johnny Erickson had it camps for families affected by disability. And so um so for the past five years I have taken um a mission trip for a week in the summer to Pennsylvania to go to um family retreat. And one of the great things about Family Retreat is they do a really, really good um training when you get there. Um and so the first time I ever saw that was there. And um it's called the stages of how we view those with visibility. Okay. So what they do is um they sorry I don't have this for you, but um they put this up here. But there's there's five different stages of how we do this difficulty. And most people are in the first stage and it's ignorance, not like in a bad, demeaning, condemning way. Ignorance But just literally I don't know. Like I haven't learned, I haven't been taught, like um I just I don't know what it means. I I guess people with disabilities are like um broken or they need heal they need to be healed or Or um you know, they're weak. You know, that you just don't know like the if that's the first stage. Um and so when we go to Johnny Growa is like a lot of you here today are probably in that stage um of just being like, well, I think they just um um they're in pain they you know just they just don't know okay but they do see them as like I need to help them like I'm here to help them I'm here to let them them. I'm here to serve them. The second stage is, and I think I started in this stage because I remember my first job at How to disabilities, but it's pity. And um so after we we learn a little bit more about them, I think the next thing we call in the I feel so sorry for them. That's normal. You know, that poor kid. Um, it's just so sad. Um And um and I think that's loving and that's nice. Um but um it's first of all it's inaccurate. Um and um and it just feels very um it's really hard for parents when they can sense that you're giving them pity. Even though you're trying to do it like in a compassionate way. Um it's um it's it's just hurt mom's feelings a lot when you um have have kiddies. The next, and I would say everybody here in this room right now would be in the third stage if not further because you're here tonight. Um, which means I don't think you're in the first two stages. But the third one is care. And this is when um you care about those populations of people. Like you're like, hey, these are our friends. They these are people like me. Um I could be their friend. I can see the things they can do. Um, you know, I don't, you know, get a pitiful look on my face when I when I see the mom or whatever, but um I really um care. These are also we always say these are the people though that um they care and they know that these people are very valuable but they don't know what to do. do so these are the people that will write you the checks. Yeah. I don't mean that ugly, but yeah. Um because they really do but they don't know what to do. They just don't know what to do. And so um it is funny, I will say this also, our I don't know how many mission trips we've chapter But like my people always like raise so much money. Um because it is something people want people feel like I've always wanted To help people with disabilities, but I never have or I've never known how. So they are very good to send your mission to letters to because they'll send you money. Um the fourth thing is friendship. And this is when um you know that they um have value and you actually start to establish a relationship where it's not um I said before most of the people that spend time with people for special needs are adults and they're paid. This is when you um you don't get paid, but you you often to take Billy to the game with your son or um you can um I see this with a lot of my pals as my volunteers is like when they're saying they're talking about um their Keystone kid the way they would talk about their friend. Like they'll be like, oh my gosh and then when that happened we were like totally like and it's kind of this equal playing field thing that's really Um cool. And then the last thing though is co-laborers. And this is the thing I think when I went to Johnny and they first talked about it. Talked about this. But it says God wants me not to just minister to them, but I want them to serve alongside me and we can equip each other. And um and so I have found that to be very true with a co laborer thing, especially like older teenagers or young adults um who have special needs, they really want you to give them a job. Like they really want you to give them a job. Like which is so lovely because I'm used to teenagers. Um but um they it is so that is just so um they just really have hearts to serve. Really have hearts to serve. I it's very interesting, I'll find kids that you know, or whatever, but like um a child I'm thinking of with Down syndrome, um, will usually be the first one to go to the little kid. Um, or the first one to tell me that somebody's hurt. Um, or to notice something different, like I colored my hair a different color. You know, they're just very relations, they're just very relational. These kids are. And um so it's just been helpful for me. I mean part of this is learning that like I'm not just giving to them a book. But that they're doing something back. And so I do think it's really cool when um you know someone with a disability is on the hospitality. Or is helping the building assistants collect the recycling. A mom today just said to me if you if you put her in charge of something she'll be fine. She's like she'll have a very, very bad attitude, but put her in charge of something and she'll be fine. And I I think the mom felt like she needed to explain I was like, you don't need to explain until we get it. Like we all we all want to be in charge of something. I get it. Like, you know. Um and so we do want in in your ministry you do want to ultimately get to the point where um your friends and part of worshiping is server So you want to find a way for them to serve. Um because I do think that that's really important that um um that that they have that opportunity. Because it's a beautiful opportunity to volunteer and to serve. And I mean I I just think it is part of, you know, worship and um so we should have that expectation. um for them as well. Um okay. The next thing. Do you guys have any questions so far? I'm gonna I'm keeping saying a lot and I talk really fast. If you do, just raise your hand, I don't care. Um, alright. The next thing is another Johnny and Friends thing. Um I have totally like reworth it though because there's things on there I didn't like. But um but um they had this little thing um oh that was the when we ran COVID. They had the Take all these pictures of stem selves with me all over their home, send them to me. Yes, and he did actually meet Adam Lovine twice Okay, um and uh so um one of the things to remember is in the etiquette is just how you speak about people with special needs. It's so funny. I've given this talk so many times, but I still mess up all the time. The main thing that just pops in my head is Don't because the mom does it think you can do it. I don't know how to explain that. But um like we I wouldn't say he's down syndrome. Okay, I would say he has down syndrome syndrome. Um now you'll hear a mom say, oh my son is down. That's okay. She's his mom. She can say whatever she wants. Um, but um you but we as, you know, fellow Christians, whatever, we want to just make sure that um that the person if it the they're a person, they're not a disability. So, um, you know, he's um you know, he has autisms rather than he's autistic. It just sounds better if it's something well it's true, if it's if it's something they have, like it's a characteristic, but it's not the defining feature of them. So like um it's Instead of a disabled person, it's a person with a disability. Instead of normal, yeah, normal. Um, they say yeah, there's lots of words for that. Um the other thing is uh like wheelchair bound You say they say all the time it's a wheelchair user. And it is so that's something I try to just make sure that I remember to to my volunteers is to um but they'll always say like the mom says he's autistic and I was like okay that's fine. Um I was like and you know your mom's probably called you a b But if I told you right, your mom would be like really mad at you. Like, you know, mom's gonna do whatever they want. Um, but um but um you know, just try to remember they have, like we say, affect those affects by special needs, those who have special needs. And it's hard because like you'll sometimes be like their special needs. I say all the time my special needs moms, which is really bad, but like we're to the point now where they tease me about it. But um anyway, so we want to do that. And there's really important wheelchair etiquette. So the first time I went to John I was 49. I'd been a special ed teacher. I started a special needs ministry. Like I thought I knew everything, but boy, I learned about Wheelchair et does anybody know any wheelchair etiquette? I think it's very interesting. First of all, a wheelchair should be treated the same um as like a seeing eye dog. Like, um, it is something that they need. 'Cause they one of the things they always say is like people can be um compassionate about seeing eye jobs, but not compassionate about a wheelchair. Um, but um but the wheelchair, think of the wheelchair as an extension of their body. Um or think about the wheelchair as something that you really need. So you need glasses. Okay, so you need glasses. So if you come if if she came in tonight and I was like, Oh here, why don't you sit here? And then I just said, Oh, you don't need those right now and I just took them and I walked away with them and I laid them here. Now I'm thinking I'm being helpful. need your room watches tonight, you know, whatever. But like, so that's the kind of thing like I would do or any of us would do is we would take, you know, if they transferred to a seat, we would just take the wheelchair, you know, and put it out of the way. That is a lot of anxiety. It'd be the same if I decided you didn't need your glasses and I put them out of the way. I'm not being mean, but now When someone hands out a paper, you can't see it. And you may or may not be able to ask, you know, a soft and wheelchair users can ask. So you need to think about it as um and because people get out of their wheelchairs They think like it's okay. But um a wheelchair is an extension of their body, it's something that they need. So So if you um are with a wheelchair user and they you know come here and they transfer in their seat or whatever and you're in a restaurant, so you have to move it, you would say, hey I'm going to take this and I'm going to put it right there where you can see it. Is that okay with you? Okay, even if they're nonverbal, it doesn't matter. Um, if they are nonverbal and have no way to communicate Just you know, let them know. Um that's the other thing. If you think, oh, the person doesn't know, they they know, they know, like they know. Um and so you're always supposed to um because and it's funny because I remember when I learned that, I was like, Do you know how many wheelchairs? Like I pushed to the side of rooms before without like telling people. I'm like, I'm like four years. Um but um you just need to be very respectful the same way this is also I'm a very touchy person, so I would be very quick to if someone would sitting here in a wheelchair to kind of lean on the back or put my hands because I would I see that as like I'm being you know being very close to them or whatever. But that would be the same as me walking up to a stranger and just kind of put a you know myself on their shoulder. Like, you know, it's just kinda like, okay, we don't know each other. So don't lean on me. Um and you never would have thought of that because I've just like, oh, that's just the way I feel like I'm kind of being living or whatever. And if I'm doing that to a kid that I have a relationship with or I know really well it is But if they're not and I'm just like welcoming a new person and kinda leaning over their wheelchair, um it's it's it's just not polite, it's not respectful. So um So you just wanna be um careful of people with wheelchairs that you don't lean on them. You don't go those with team At BBS last week we had a little girl and she was in a wheelchair. And the little volunteers show through sixth grade, they don't know. But like they all took their bad their gym vaccines and they like hooked them over the wheelchair, you know, so that all of the gym vaccines were wheelchair. And um, you know when I thought you guys are so cute and I totally understand it. I said, but um and she she's the little girl's on verbal but I just said um and I told and I told her mom, I said, Hey, this is what they did, I'm sorry. And the mom knew, but she's like, it's okay, it's okay. And I said, I know. I said, look, this is a great opportunity for them to just learn. Um that um that totally made sense. I am Understood, I would have done the same thing, but that's like part of her and who she is in her body Now, if you want to ask her, hey, I'm pushing you up a hill, I can't carry my bag while I do that, are you okay with me hooking it over the back of the seat? That's okay. But you don't just put your book bag on it. Um and so um so it is very important um that um in our efforts to try to help that um that we just try to remember um these things. And a lot of people with disabilities they don't have um they don't have have a lot of choice. You know, they gotta go where you want to go. They can go to the bathroom when you tell them they can. They, you know, it they just don't have a lot of choices. So little things like can you Where should I put your wheelchair? Or um, you know, would you mind holding my bag? I would just like it, I I would say the they're not They don't care. But I would always just be like, okay, it is so hot. My water bottle is super duper cold and I'm gonna lay it right here on your lap because I know how hot you you know it how hot you are. I mean But um and so I would even know, you know, his mom and his mom's like Tanya, because he doesn't and I just feel like I'm just, you know, um, you know, that I would do that because I wouldn't do that to you without asking, yeah. I mean it was was working with the senior population, but I would say, okay, well ready to go back to your room now. I'm gonna go ahead and start I'm gonna unlock the chair and should you always ask them before you move? I just think it it is it's just like to always do it. Yeah. I mean I know that like I said like la like two weeks ago we were there, I mean we have my team had most of the like wheelchair people who were nonverbal and who had medical issues and um and I told them because the p I said to them, even if their parents say, look, they don't know what you're saying, you don't need to you you don't need to do that to them I was like, you know, even if it's when the two of you are like by yourself, for instance, they were never by themselves. But I was like I was like just I said just I said the parents are probably trying to be nice to you. Um, which is lovely. So if the parents are there and they said you don't have to do it, I said, but when they're not there I said I would like for you guys to still. Um you know it's funny because then by the end of the week I would you know see them just talking away to this person that you know the parents were like, oh they don't know what you're saying, but um Um, I was like, um, and I do think then when parents see that, they're like, oh, they're talking to them. Um So anyway, so we do want to just be careful with the language we use that we use. Um oh this is a good one. I um this is very random, but um um either if someone's in a wheelchair Rather than if it's an adult rather than bend down, go backwards. Right? Does that make more sense? So they can see you Because people that are in wheelchairs often has I don't know but like back there's a back pain for something And so by looking up at you, so if you're standing right in front of them and they have to look up at you, that's really bad for their neck and back. So um I I'm trying to remember now for that. But if you step back, then they don't have to look up right Um so that's just something um like a lot and some wheelchair users will say, Can you step back? You know. Um so yes. Would it be appropriate to just go like get down on the knee and just be ready? Do you know what I do when it's a kid because if if there was just a a another four year old in here that was trying to talk to me, I'd get down on my knee and I'd you know be like what so sh what's your dog baby thing? You know, whatever But um if it's an adult no. Yeah. They said um we have the wheelchair users actually did it, but they said if you can get to a lower like get them higher than you, that's good. Like if you're on a step or something like step down that would be good or they said to go back, but not to lean over. Um and that's always different. That's hard. Like there are some people that they have very, very significant disabilities and they're in wheelchairs and like, you know, people like they can't turn their head. They can't do and so you kind of like almost like a little you know, you're you're j you know, you'd lean over and, you know, and I'd be like, Can I can I re you know, can I The other thing is we grab them. Me especially like I'll grab people I'll grab about anybody and rub their hand, but like but like you know, like you would like uh but it's just Just like um think about if you did that to like a little old lady, she'd be like, whoa, what are you doing? And so even if they're not just be like, hey, can I just can I you you look chilly, can I just hold your hand and can I just like rub it or whatever like that. Or your your brain is so gorgeous. Is it okay if I just, you know, touch it or whatever. Um, and so anyway. So that is our little um how to Be respectful. What? Who do we minister to? Okay So one of the things is when I started Keystone is um I learned from going and visiting like Life Point and Grace um that um Um we just lost it. Oh, that my church was going to tell me that it needed to be a kids ministry, um, and I needed to tell them no. It's going to be a family ministry. And it was interesting because they told me that because I was making it a kids' ministry. Well, first of all, I only work with kids So but um but they were just like, you know, everyone has made the mistake of you start it be it's a need when the kids are little and you start it, but then they're eighteen. And if you haven't prepared for that or you haven't whatever that, then it turns out like the other kid with behavior problems that once he's not shooting in fifth grade, but he's already in sixth grade, you don't have anything for them. So um So that's just something to keep I will just say um m I was I was asked to keep it kind of like a kids ministry for now because of Joe um budget spacing, blah blah blah like all the things that church leadership has to do. Um and so uh originally everything is Keystone Kit My shirt might be Keystone Kids. Um and so we called it Keystone Kids, but actually all of my newer stuff just says Keystone. And I don't know if this but like my first shirt is kids have little case on them and like no they don't have little case on them but um and um and so that's just important. I don't know what the plan is but um it is good to think about if it is going to be a child a a children's kids ministry like think about how what you're gonna do when everybody turns eighteen or whatever. Right now I have some interest four to thirty. But there's a big gap in there. Like like lots of little kids, then like five or sixteen, and then I have a thirty year old. Um and so um but like his mom was funny. His mom's like, Oh no, he likes the Keystone kids stuff, you know. Um but I made sure that he just got um the Keystone but um so But I so but one of the things was I um I was like do not put me under children's ministry on the website. or the app. I'm like, please don't do that. Um I I am a family ministry, I am not a children's ministry. Um because I am very intentional with um ministering to the entire family Does anybody know who in the family is ministering to more than anybody? Mom. Moms. Guys, these moms. It is hard. It is hard. Are you working? Okay. You need to work on that because just today at ice cream trap, one of the moms said uh one of the new the And she's like, Well this is so funny. She's like, Well Tommy has the Keystone mom, so she probably had it at Harvest. It was just so cute. It's really interesting. My teeth and moms have become my very best friends. We are so tight now. Um, but um the moms you need a lot. You need to love on them, you need to give them grace So going back to the five stages of how we view disability, ignorance, pity, care, friendship, and co laborers, I was thinking That is a very generous perspective and it seems like how outsiders might come to view uh people with disabilities. What about in families and thinking about mom and dad, are there more difficult stages to to work with where where is fear or anger or rejection and maybe eventually moving towards acceptance Acceptance and even appreciation. Wow, I love that, yeah. I do think I mean that was a really good question actually, but I will show you one thing that's kind of cool that um I don't know, I've been Pennsylvania at a conference or something like that. But they were saying so a typical person who deals with grief, you know, they go through their stages, you know, like You know, they go through the five stages, right? Um, and it's you know, they always put that diagram in a book or whatever. And then she was like, Because special needs parents it's it's grief. It's it's it's ongoing grief. And so actually the woman who was doing it, her husband has been a paraplegic since like their honeymoon. Um and he's f from the neck down, whatever. And she It was so funny because she's like, you know, this is how the textbook goes, this is Greek or whatever. And then she goes, This is this is when you're um in a family with special needs. This is what Greek looks like And like it was so funny because so many people were just like looking like, yeah. Like you go here and then you go there, but then you go back and there it's like every time you hit a milestone as a special needs parent, they feel like every time you hit well what shit should be a milestone. Um it's for your child's age all the so when kids turn six 16, they all get cars. So you see all the sixteen year olds getting cars, but your child will never drive. You know, when it's prom time for your prom, you see everybody's Facebook showing off their kids at prom, but your kids never drive gonna do that. And so that she was it was a really interesting talk, but she um and so she was like for a a a a parent of special needs, like you don't come out of it. You're in it. you know. And um and so moms just need um a lot of love. Um and not because they're high maintenance or anything, but because they really need it. And um they had very hard jobs. Um I know at my church, I mean obviously you guys have a pretty aggressive person, but like even Like um like this is a stupid example, but we're talking about something and I was like, Well can we just save seats for the Keystone moms? And somebody said, Well, why can't they just be on time? And I'm just like looking at them and then the person said to me, My mom had five kids and we got to church on time and then literally Pastor Allen, who's one of our pastors, he's a really in front of my heat literally like grabbed my arm and he just said, Don't don't do that and the poor person was just like oh I mean I was like I just cried I was just like oh my gosh like I just because um I just know I just know I know because I Don't just go back in the car for the dumping notice. Just go. Go back in the car, you know. Um because they'll walk in and they'll be like, We can't even stay because now I I'm crying now I'm at I'm gonna go jump in donuts. Just in the pocket, like do whatever you want to do. Like um yeah, and it's it's just I think social media which is the root of all evil. I think social media has made it harder for fam for families with special needs because everybody's showing off their kids Yeah. And that is just smack in the face, smack in the face, smack in the face to a mom. So one of the things we try to do is we celebrate a lot of odd things. Um, like, yeah, if you have foster kittens, we have a party, because that's like a milestone. Um, yes. Um, if you um if you owe If you can finish what was it? I don't know. Like ten to I don't know ten to ten like know your numbers, I don't know, one to ten or something we have party. Um so any oh we just like look for things. And I try to count them and I try to make them like milestones because they say that um parents who have special needs kids like the milestones are super duper hard. Um and so who do we minister to? We minister to the family. Um I have a Bible study for my mom. Yes, sir. I was missing a little incident that happened the Sunday that we visited you. Oh yeah, what was it? Oh, Mikey. Mikey, yeah. He said He's uh going the whole boy. Oh, okay. I guess I was like, freaking spikes for the first time. Sha Yes. Yes. Oh yeah. I don't even remember that. Yeah, we find lots of reasons to celebrate. Lots of reasons to celebrate. Um and um So we just want to show the moms. I have Bible studies for them. Um such a talker here. Um another this is like really cute. So pre-COVID, I don't remember, but pre-COVID I started doing um like, you know, Bible studies for moms. in a support group. But one night I was just like, um, do you guys do you guys like wanna go could you go out? Like is or would that be more stress? Like like having to get a base of what it is out. But I was like, Do you guys like want to go to a restaurant? Like would you like to do like a mom's night out there or whatever? Like I mean I hadn't asked them in like two years, but I don't know. I was just like, okay. And um they were like, Oh my gosh, that'd be great then. Great. So I'm thinking that night we went to Pachang, I think it's called I don't know, Allican City. Um just yeah, I don't know why they're but um and that night I wasn't expecting hardly anybody to show up because I know they're live. And they weren't gonna come. I'm like sitting there on my phone or whatever and like six moms come in which made me cry. And like they had their hair done and They were wearing like, you know, a sparkly sweater and like they were like the they had like gotten ready, like For like I'm in like this, you know. Um, because I can do mom side out wherever I want. So like it's not as you know, I don't do my hair from mom side out because like, you know I can have moms right now everything. But it was so sweet and I was like, let me take everyone and I was like taking everyone's pictures and stuff like that. And it was so cute because um like I don't know who's mom, whatever, but like I mean, even if we have jobs and kids and everything like that. We can get a mom sign out when we want one. Um but like these moms it was such a big deal. And to see them it was so important to them. And so um So and I never would have guessed 'cause I thought that would be a stressor. Like if I ever tell them they fill out a form big stressor, I fill out all their VBS information for them, like they like Um, but so um love on your moms, have a mom's night out, they really like that. And anything I would say like when I did my Bible study and stuff, don't make anything like where attendance or homework matters. You know, like usually, you know, with when we're in a Bible study, like, you know, we don't know if we didn't do our homework because, you know, everybody But like for this, like I did a violence, I think once I did it and I told 'em, look, we're just gonna do what we get there, but then some of them would do it and then the next time, like, we we I just picked a book. to read rather than a Bible study so that they wouldn't have to write anything. Um and so um yes to the moms. And then also um the siblings Siblings are super duper duper important. Um I was a sibling, so um Um it it's it's very hard um to be the sibling of a child with special needs. Now typically you grow into a I don't want to say this now that I just said I was one, but other kids, not me. But like you often grow up and you're like you're a nurse or you're you know, they usually tend to be very like empathetic, compassionate kids, they share better than other kids, they, you know, there's lots of pluses in siblings. Um but it's really, really hard to um have people, you know, whether they stare at your sibling or whether your, you know, your mom says you can't have kids over because Johnny gets upset or I mean there's just so many reasons. So um do try to like I've taken the siblings bowling They come over for a pool party. Um they get to that age though that when they don't want to or whatever. But um I just try try to really um make the siblings feel special. As Johnny and Friends, they're very, very focused on siblings. Um and so um we minister to the whole family. Um my dad's poor dads. I did have a Thanksgiving one for them. We're thankful for dads. We did do that before COVID. But usually if you make the moms happy, then you make the dads happy. Great. Now I know a lot of people have um uh um single moms. Um the divorce rate with people who have um children with disabilities is astronomical. I think it's like eighty percent. It's very high. Um I actually don't have single mom when I'm interested which is very 'Like at Johnny inside, that's like half the people. Um but um but um I think for the most part um dad's you know And I think I'd understand I mean, not always, not always of course, but just like moms in general, like they do most of the stuff. Um And the doctor's appointments um are never ending, the doctor's appointments and the therapy appointments and everything like that. So, um, so anyway, um Um the moms also, this is a little psycho tube. I think that other than the moms laid out, the best thing I ever did for them was they tried Came and um this really rich lady at my church let me use her crystal. Um and they um had like fancy drinks and then this manicurist that went to our church, she did this nails and then a lady that lives in my neighborhood that does relaxation yoga and she's a Christian. So the moms came and they drank their sparkly punches and then they got their nails done and then we did this relaxation yoga and they loved that. They really, really loved that. Yeah. Um just make whoever's in charge here money and your budget for that kind of thing. Because it is important to spoil your moms. And that's but that's a lot of my money, I think, is doing stuff for my mom. Okay. That's my son, by the way, I'm right. Um um so the volunteer so For um your ministry, I'm not sure, but my ministry, um the main the bulk of my ministry is um that I have housed. Um and pals are just buddies or one on ones. And I did not they're not called buddies, which is very confusing to people because um my first little group of volunteers I ever had, they're in a picture here somewhere, they said that we shouldn't call them buddies because it didn't sound the way they wanted it to sound. They were like What my dad always says, be a little ready and they were like, I don't want to be a buddy. So ours are pals now. But um so the main the main thing is we have pals in our ministry. Um every Single child or adult in my ministry has two powers. And um and so that's Johnny said that doesn't it? Um so that there are two people, the moms know that those are the two people that work with their kids. It's not it they alternate each week, you know, so they go to church, volunteer, go to church, volunteer. Um, but they know those are the two kids that are with their, you know with their kid. The kid knows those are their two people. And because a really big part of this is um relationships. And so if it's changing all the time, it's hard to start a relationship with someone with special needs if they're not verbal or you know, um and so I'm um so for me I think for my ministry is the most um if there's a volunteers. My volunteers have it harder probably than the other ministries because like nursery, like you're a month on and then you don't do it for six months and then year month on, like I don't know, at different searches. But like for me, I'm like I need every other week for the year. Like you need to commit to that. Um so um So the the POWs is the bulk, and I'm going to talk about that in a minute. Um the other thing that I have is I have PEPS. Um POWs are patient accepting loving service and pets are parents encouraging parents. And every special needs mom has a pet. And a pet is just somebody in the church usually an older woman. I have a dad and this is an older man. And their job is to just be a prayer warrior for that person. And um a lot of times these are people that are like Um like busy moms, you know, that have a lot of little little kids or like older women that are like, I love your ministry, it's like super cool, but like I can't see a pal on Sunday morning you know, kind of thing. Um, then those women then what they do is they get assigned, you know, I get assigned to your family and so In and it looks different for everybody. Um but basically I give all of the pets um you know, but big box of Hallmark cards and And I'm like, you know, whether it's email, send I said that maybe I wanted to email or text them and get prayer requests and um and then send Like that's kind of it. Um now I have I have peps that have gone above and beyond that. They've gone to coffee. Um I have a pet that the mom actually got cancer. And so she takes her dinner every you know, whatever. But I don't requ I require that you pray intentionally for your mom. Now if you wanna meet up and be friends too, that's okay, but like I don't you know require that it But um and it also helps because I actually I need two ministries and I'm getting ready to start leading a third one. It prayer is so important. I mean I don't think I could convince you guys of that. Prayer is just so important and I don't have the time to pray. for everybody in my ministry. 'Cause my other ministry is a mental health ministry, so my I my people are needy. Um, I don't have the time to pray for my people that I really want them to have want to have. Um so this was a way. Like if I, you know, find out something, um, you know, uh Nana's husband's mom died, like I'll just text the pal and be like, hey, you know, uh the the dad small diet or something like that. So please, you know, touch on that or whatever. And um and I all I did that. One of the reasons I did that is one of the smart ladies, um, the lady at Life Camp Life Point, I think told me that because she's like when you're going to starts it's gonna be small and you can pray for everybody and send everybody cards she's like but it's gonna grow um and so I just found that that was like really important because um they need so much prayer. Um and so this is a way to make sure. So we have our pals and talk about, and then our pets. Um And um as a ministry, um our volunteers also we have special events that the volunteers are not required to come to, but I just always say if there's any volunteers that could do this event that I'd like you to do it. Um most of my volunteers are teenagers. Um and so oh there's no minute but like I I do a fall fest, a keystone fall fest, I do keystone ice cream truck in the summer summer. Um we um I don't even know respite days, we've had respite days, um all kinds of stuff. I I'll show you, but um so um The volunteers usually just are asked to like try to come to, you know, a couple things a month or whatever. And then random people will help me at these event at night events. Like people that yeah it's n it's never usually hard for me to um to get people to help me for the um for the events. But um so the volunteers when it says hold on, I just need to see about those Okay. Alright. So the volunteers are called cows and um They have two goals. Um the number one goal is to is they need to develop a relationship with their kid or their family. Like it's you know, or boat whatever. But um But I don't like you can't do this because you need service hours for school. Um you can't do this because your mom thought it'd be good for you because you don't or you aren't compassionate. Like, you know, I am very like You you do this 'cause you really kinda want to do it. Like I the best people are the people that come to you and they're scared and they're like, I don't know if I want to do it, like I think I'm scared, I think I'll be really bad at it, because you know they really want to do it. Because like you know they're they're facing a fear to kind of do this. But um so um I want this to and that's one of the reasons every kid has to two so that whatever. But um it's one of the most beautiful things, um, and the way I've been blessed the most in this ministry is when I have a teenager that works with a child and then they'll come run down to the room, they're usually upstairs in children's church, but they'll run down to the room where I'm teaching the teenagers. And um this is happening probably half a dozen times and light it's a girl. And they're like crying crying because like their kids for the first time got called up on stage to sing the worship song or um the first time those of danced or you know and so these um these teenagers we used to have these volunteers like they to when they like rejoice in these little milestones um like I do um like I'm just always like I'm like you have put the pinnacle of this you know, of this ministry because you have a relationship with this kid because you are literally like crying. um, you know, with the joy that you saw them make progress. Um and so um and so that's it it's cool. That's cool and then it's also really cool when you have a teenager and they get feisty with one of the like old lady Sunday school teachers because like she's not calling on their kid or something like that. That's always fun too. Um and I actually praise that because I just you know they'll Like she wasn't calling and I just was like, Hey, you need to call on him Um and I just love that like they care, like they know, like he's he can answer, he has his hand up, like I want you to you know, do that. So um So having a relationship is the main thing. And then the second thing is um support support the family so that they can participate in the church community. And so things like watching their kids over time so that they can go to the inquiry with the mem the church membership class. Like you know how many so many of these families like aren't actual church members, it's a big Presbyterian thing. Um because you gotta go to like a class for ten weeks and like they can't Do that, like whatever. Um, and so um they that's part of being, I mean At least at my church, like that's a big deal, you whatever. And so like supporting them in doing that. Um or when they go to V w our VBS, w our kids are all invited to VS, X Camp, Easter Egg Comp Whatever there's um our kids are um part of all of all of that. Um I love my moms to volunteer, but like then I'll always go in behind them and do what I said. I'll be like, you know, don't put them on a really because I want them to be able to go to church. Um because I do that's part of that's part of it is having them serve and having them do things. But um and um Yeah, I just and some of them do say like which this is probably a bad thing but they're like this the keystone is like my community. Um and so when I do hear things like that, I do try to, you know, reach out like have a women's pastor like reach out to them or something like that. Because I love that they see our little thing, Keystone as a community, but like again, I don't want them to be my identity is as a special needs mom in the special needs industry. Okay. Um Alright, so that their goal, the pals goal each week is to um keep the kids with their peer group. So they go wherever they go, the pal stays with them. and um and assist them to being part of the group. Um depending on the kids. Some of the kids that means just kind of being in a room. Um some of them that means um lots of prompting. Um some of them that means like I have a timer on here. I give the kids, but um they like they stayed in the room for five minutes and then we all just go outside and scream because we're so happy because they made it five minutes. So because but that's what they can do. Um and so um another thing is just make sure that like the group remembers that they're there. You know, because people will be like like if Johnny's still sitting there and the group is lining up. e the kids and the leaders, which are also often teenagers, will kinda like, Oh, he probably can't do it. And so, you know, I'm like, you know, Cow you know we can do it, so be like, Johnny, get up. You know, you know, get up and do it or whatever Um, or if they'll say to the the teacher or the leader, hey, he can do this, you know, so whatever. But um so um we do want to keep them with their peers as much as possible. Um and I do tell all of my pals um to um don't tell the parents if they do anything bad. If you think they did something bad, you tell me and then I'll decide if it needs to be. the moms need to know. Typically I don't tell them anything. It has to be I really can't think. Um but because often these moms get more phone calls from school and everything else. And so um so I just tell my pals like if even like if he if somebody yesterday was like he she bit me four times and I was like, did you bleed? And she said, No, I said that never fine. Um Um and um and so yeah, like I because you know what? Like There just wasn't any like mom's working on that. You know what I mean? Like you're her pal, like you know that, whatever. And she laughed. Like we have a good relationship. But um Um I at the beginning, which I'm gonna talk about here, it is we do a PAL training um twice a year. Um and um so that just we're all sort of on the same page. Now you guys are grown ups for the most Um and so um yeah, so I love that there's kids here. Yeah, um um the kids will be the favorite so I don't need to tell you that but um but um we do um we we training um just to kind of give them um different hints on things to do. It always looks different kind of depending on what what we're doing But I'm going to go over with you guys just some practical tips for working with kids for people that have disabilities. Um does anybody have any questions, Christopher? Thanks so much. Yes. So What the pals that come in and meet with the children are uh people. They're not necessarily not like I mean a um is there a time where the the pal, the assigned pals actually work with the parents in in order to understand to because as like an aide in the school the the parent has to come and t teach the aides how they commun not just how they communicate happy tab but if they need to go to bathroom how they they're you know, like this is th can they get up out of their wheelchair, can they not? How do we support them in order to make sure that, you know, because often schools is part of right and stuff. So there should isn't, I would expect or think that there's going to be a period where maybe the parent wants to stay there for the first time. And and and work with the pals in order to get them understanding what the needs particular needs of that particular person are. Yes. And that what you're saying is really important. Um one the one of the things that I say is when it's when the kid the first com the first Sunday the kid comes I have the parents' day. Okay. And um I Okay, well usually even before that. If you're interested in Keystone, you contact me on the website, you click on the form that says child profile form and you give me the information information about your kids. Uh you know, things like that. Toiletry, the main like whatever allergies, um can they communicate So I always ask parents, unless they show up Sunday morning, but like usually they'll call ahead of time they call the sign or whatever. Um and so they'll fill that out. So I I will have that. I will figure out who's gonna be their pals and then And like so yesterday me and the other one wasn't there, but one of the kids that are gonna be their pals were there with the mom the first time the kid was there. Um I um and so I was asking questions, I asked the palsy How many questions? But um and so um so that's how I do it. I and you guys it can be different. I never let my pals well, I shouldn't say, I mean it's a but like my pals don't interact with the parents without me. Um, and I don't mean that ugly, I don't mean that mean, and it might not be the same here because I think what you're saying as a teacher, like that's really important. But um parents, um I have found just like some of of mine like um they'll just say things which I understand. Um you need to be on time. If you're not on time you're gonna stress out. And they or like, well you sh like the they just Um, they just have a lot on them. They're always advocating for their kids. Things are hard. And um I wanna feel that I don't want my my volunteers to do that. Um I don't even give like um my Moms don't have the volunteers' phone numbers. Okay. Um and that's like I said here it might not matter, but like um I know sorry silly but like there is a very rich and educated that's kind of and so um you know things like like I would have moms who would stand there and be like um you're five minutes late my volunteer. And like I'm like this person is giving up, you know, church every other week and they're a kid and they love your kid like You've got to not go. Right, you can't do that. Yeah. Um and then also there was a a kid that like threw the crayons in somebody's face and both the pal and the teacher, oh it's t totally like you know, were like, you need to pick up the crayons. Totally able, totally able And um and then the mom jumps on the pal, jumps on the pal for it. And so I was like, absolutely not. I was like both the POW and the teacher, the regular Sunday school teacher, you know, saw it happen, whatever, and I was like, you cannot. I said, I have really good volunteers And if you don't treat them with respect, then I'm gonna lose them. And so um I'm very protective of my volunteers. Um because I require more of my volunteers. Like I said, the other ministries, you know It's a very limited my guys are I mean I have teens that have been with me the entire time, like for five years, and they've had the same kid. Now I do den that role because I'm really good friends with some of the moms now, and one of the daughters of one of the moms is going to be a house for This mom's little girl and I let them talk because I know this mom would never ever. She's just so thankful for everything. She's so chill. She's so laid back. Like and so in that situation I did. Um but test typically I don't. And that's why I say that the my past can also only tell the parents good things. If there was a problem, even a really big problem, I'll deal with it. Like they are not to tell. And I said even if the Sunday school teacher says, well when the mom comes, you need to make sure you tell that mom that they whatever, like they're supposed to say, Oh Miss Tanya says we can't do that. I have to get her. Um because I can't make it that the moms can't, you know, and then like have the kids say bad stuff. Um so that's my thing. Okay. So I okay. So these are just some practical tips here, okay? And I'm gonna try not to so and a lot of this is is anybody here like a teacher or is there any oh I just feel like some of this is gonna be s oh very very repetitive to a lot of you. But um okay, one of the things I tell the pal to do is just be very consistent. Be consistent in the language you use. Um be Be consistent in you know the boundaries you make. Um the kids cannot have your cell phone and it doesn't matter how good they're being or how much you need to bribe them, they cannot have your cell phone, okay? I would just say that for you guys too. Do not let children get your cell phone. Um and so um so to be as consistent um as possible, things like letting them know it's very good for any kid to like know this is what we're gonna sing and then we're gonna go to the bathroom and then we're gonna make Play-doh and then we're gonna leave. Yes. Why? Oh so why? Why can they not have their cell phone? Oh they can't have our cell phones because um one of the reasons they can have our cell phones is because one little girl got my cell phone and she literally wrote things on all my friends' pages. And um also the moms are usually very adamant that the children should not have cell phones because when it's time for the kid to get the cell phone back to like at the end it causes such like a fit that then the mom's the one dealing with it in the car on the way home. Yeah. I did I do have one mom that I told her I'm I like begged her, I'm like, can we please just do little mermaid if she stays for five minutes because I couldn't find anything else to motivate her. But her mom is like she can do it but she can't hold the phone. You have to hold the phone the whole time. And so um I don't know, I don't know if there's any special needs parents in here now, but like their number one thing is like like don't get my kids a phone. Um and they're so computer savvy. the kids in general are computer savvy. But like I said, that little girl, she's in kindergarten. Her mom all the time is like, she'll go on your Instagram, she'll go on your Facebook. Um and she literally went on my Facebook page with my phone that my husband gave her. And she wrote to the people that she knew in church and she got like such it wasn't bad or anything, but I it was just like and um and then her mom was very upset. And I was like, it's funny, like it's okay. But mom's like, it's it's not funny when she goes into her siblings' accounts and does things like that. Um and so um Even now I don't know if you but like a lot of the kids if they have iPads and they use that for communication or whatever, usually at church the parents turn off the ability to do games or go on the internet. Like I don't know enough about it. But like um like the parent will be like um if I'm like, oh is it gonna be hard for me to get it away usually the parent will be like the only thing they have is their language board. Like I we've turned everything off. Um and so but yeah that was a really good question and it's hard because um it's such a good bribe but you gotta find something else because it does make it hard Um sin mom. Um, good question. All right. Um uh okay, um I said that about um parents Um when you have like a teen or even not a little little kid, um the same way if if you were talking to anybody, well, fourteen year old or whatever you know that they're very, you know, cognitive way what you're saying or something, don't the same way you wouldn't talk about typical kid in front of their parents like the same thing, like speak to the kid. Um um I had a nineteen year old girl yesterday that sort of the first time. Um and it was funny 'cause I kept talking to the girl and the mom was like trying to get her head in in there and it was just cute, you know. Um but um you know just be very respectful um that um that you talk to them. I this I'm a bad person to stay this but you know use a quiet voice, use shorter phrases. Um the whole thing, any of you moms probably did if you had kids when they were little is look at me. Okay, often having the kids look at you first or repeat back to you what you just said. Um I find that all of the good practical tips are the same exact good tips of just being a good teacher, a good parent. You know. Um like the things like a wheelchair etiquette, that's different. But for the most part, kids like a schedule. You need to be concerned You know, don't give four step directions to a you know, six year old. Like it's really the same stuff. Like even things like grab, like don't grab a kid. I mean if you do that one we but like you know You're not allowed to touch kids now. Same thing like, um, you know, don't grab a kid. Um what just saying that now because you will have kids that are aggressive and are runners is is we just use our bodies. Like you just you just have to use your body. Like if someone's trying to elope, like run away, you just get in front of the door and you just stand in front of the door. Or if they're, you know, we just like use keep your hands where you can see 'em and just use your body. Um if I mean the only time you believe is if they're like trying to run away. Um if they're going after another kid, well that's a whole different thing, but if they're going after another kid then um that's one of the reasons you never want to be alone with a kid because if you do have to put your hands on them, they're needs to somebody needs to be there or see it or whatever. But the only time we would is and like we haven't, our kids are pretty well, um is you don't want them to hurt another kid. I think I did have one kid that the pals had to, but they always I said don't grab like with your hands, like grab with your arms. Like instead of grabbing their arms or hands, whatever Like, you know, just grab them here like that so that, you know, there's no fingers, there's no nails, there's no grabbing, there's no, you know, whatever. But um just yes, but same thing with regular thing. Um yes. Is there any training that um people could take for that? I vaguely remember taking a training um Um when I work with special needs people. Um I don't remember what it was called or if you guys do that anymore. Well there's um what there is something called therapeutic options. Um I was trained like like through th school system. Um but um a couple of years ago um I did a tr at a church for special needs pastors or something. Um but um it was called therapeutic options. Um but for that even if you get if you're if you take that course and then you get your little certificate or whatever, then you're allowed to do it. But like you can't even Like I I couldn't come back after I got my certificate and teach my pals. Like they would have had to have gone to it. first. Um and so um and the other thing is your your church everyone has different rules or whatever, but like I never want even if my volunteer tells me like, oh I took that, I got trained or I work at Maryland School for the Deaf because they like that's who train like I'm like not here though. Like you can't like because it's a volunteer and like I don't think we should ever ask a volunteer to do that to do that. Like Yeah. So I would be um yeah, um so you can do it on your own, but like even if you did it yourself, I mean your church can do what they want, but I probably would never ask a volunteer to do restraints. or anything like that. Um yeah. Um in that case you just I mean if I think if somebody like that, like I don't know how you get parents in service, like if a number comes up or a beeper or I don't know, like What do you do? What do you do? Maybe we do we just call their sub. Oh call their stuff. Okay. So like you might if usually if it's gonna get that bad, that was a good question. like you see it escalating and I think at that point like we do that for night to shine, like the night to shine, the prom. Like if we see a kid escalating, like we immediately just text the parents who are usually in the parking lot. and then they'll come in. Um and so um so yeah. Is there a training that you would recommend um to learn about um escal escalation That was a that training therapeutic options was really good and it's Started from of course from just redirecting, you know, nonverbally, redirecting, verbally, prompting blah blah blah all the way through. Um and so that and that wasn't that long ago. I mean just a little bit before COVID. And it was a Christian it was Christian based. Um yeah, I it was in Pennsylvania it was. Yes, so. Um okay, um we go for lots of walks. My kids are are take their kids for lots of walks, lots of breaks. Um never be with any kid ever where other people can't see you and that's a just a good rule to protect your yourself. Like not you know, like just ne like m like my kids can walk, but like you can't go down a hallway if there's not somebody in that hallway. How do you deal with women Um fortunately actually don't well it I'm in the nursery. I'm sorry. If we have kids that are in the nursery, then um they use the regular rules whatever to it to to win. Um, we do not have anybody uh above that age that needs um toileting. Not anybody, yes. Um and we do have a couple kids in Mike. that they wear pull ups and then if they need their pull up changed, um, the m the mom comes over and she does it. Okay. If they're nursery then they can do it, but if they're older then the mom does it. I think Y one of some of these questions are really good, like the uh restraining, and that you need to know your church's um in Insurance and something. There's something. But like that some of that stuff like we just think, oh the ministry we're gonna decide this, like your church insurance, like So like we have some rules and it's not because any of us like them or think they're good or think they're bad or whatever, but it's because like our insurance policy, we have to do that. Um like only women can change diapers at our church. Um um there have to be two people over twenty one at all times. You can't be we're like and a lot of that is just good, but some of it is um Um like I bend the rules sometimes just because like I I can't not but then I usually get called out. And they'll be like I know why you did it, but you cannot do it um because of like the legality of it Mm-hmm. Um, and they're harder. Like just not that this but they're harder. Like if you're like, oh but the daycare center lets the teacher be twenty down the street, the amount of well that's okay, but they're harder on churches. Like the the daycare down the street can hire a twenty year old teacher. But a church has to have a 21-year-old. Like so um it is just important. Like my our whatever CFO, whatever, w had to go through all of my stuff and make sure that um that it was okay. Like for respite days. Sorry now, but like for respite days, we they have to sign a waiver. And I'm which seems ridiculous because on Sunday mornings they're with us. You know, and the parents don't sign a waiver. But um for respite days because they leave property, they have to sign a waiver. Um and there has to be rules like the parent has to have their cell phone and they have to be able to get back within twenty minutes. or something. And like that to me is like so annoying, but like you do have to protect the church because it's not even just you or the ministry. It's it's like the church so we try to be very um careful on that. Um okay. Um The breaks are going to be the most important thing is just when you see kids hitting antsy, just give them a break. I have wagons, so like little kids can go on wagon rides. We have um we'll take them outside. There has to be two people all the time. But if but one of the things and the p Marit moms will also say they're gonna need breaks But let them know what you're gonna do. Like if I'm gonna if you're acting up, so I'm gonna take in a break, I'm gonna be like, okay, we're gonna go outside and set the duck timer And we're going to be outside for five minutes, okay? But once the duck timer beats, we have to go back to group. Because if you don't tell them that, they just don't want to go back to group group. But if you say, you know, we're going to do this or you can hold a timer or what did I just say, whatever. Um, because these kids need a lot of breaks, but often if you get them out, then it's really hard to get them back And just say that the timer is the one who tells you that you have to go out go back inside and the timer. Exactly. That's very smart to the companies. But you're exactly right. Yeah, and there is like a little, like I said, there's like a there's very cute little apps for very engaging, like uncover the picture timers and stuff like that. Um it is again, I know I said this again, but like you have to hold the Don't give them and you and think like that also, like we know that once the kid gets a cell phone they're gonna want to hold it. So don't give it to them because then you're gonna have to get physical to get it back. Like when kids have gotten a hold of cell phones, they've had it the whole time because the pals couldn't wrestle it from them. And so yeah. Um, so that's that. But I a lot of the things I'm sorry, I'm gonna be done in one minute. I oh how do I Okay, where's my what's where's the video? What would you mean? I'm just gonna show you the video. Yeah, uh-huh. Um I just of some of the things that I um have been talking about, I um I just like pictures and so I have pictures um I'm gonna be done talking in just seven minutes. I was so sorry to talk so long, but um, and um and then I want you guys to be able to ask me like whatever questions um there are. Um okay, you guys. Or is that just the picture? Well and I also like didn't know what I was doing, so it might not be While he got placed with that moment, I would say something. It is very important. Your branding is super duper important. People love t-shirts. People will volunteer just to get a t-shirt. Pizza and and t shirts. Um so um whatever your name is, whatever like that, branding is super important. My helpers all wear orange lamp lanyards. Um I think the children's church people wear like blue lanyard like plain lanyards. My people have bright orange lanyards because um like my pals can get up and take a kid out without asking a teacher You know, because a teacher and turn church would be like, why where are you leaving and why are you chicken at kid? But like if there's a yellow lanyard, that means they're on they they don't need your permission to leave. Um or if you see someone in an orange, sorry, in an orange lanyard If one of the adult study school teachers sees a kid with an orange lanyard and it looks like they're having a hard time, then say, please assist. So the that is just so for that. Magnets, we have little flashlights. Um and um yeah, that I know it sounds silly, but like have the money in your budget to kind of have things like that to PR I will also say um oh I'm leaving these words. Um Beyond Suffering, this was the class that Sarah was taking when we met and she had to write a paper about somebody. Um it's a really good little class like if you're working with special needs ministries. Is it it was like online like 10 sessions or something? Yeah, it was it was a semestive course. Okay. And it went to um manifesting professionally for all Elementary teeth and else Yeah. That is true, yeah. For every for all the ages. So and now I don't make my volunteer steward or anything. I'm just showing you guys. Um like Bible studies, like this was one of the little Bible studies held that I I did with the moms. Um and um this is a book if you don't have it, um whoever's in charge here. Um then this is probably the one of the this is like the the book that special needs ministry people like all refer to. This is the book everybody knows. Same length, different boat. And great book. for church ministry. Um so just like that. But I yes, we're ready. Um and I'll just okay so that's our our thing. Okay, go ahead. I just um Yes, y it'll just start. We're just gonna go I I'm just gonna um I'm talking a little bit just so that you guys know. Okay, that is my room. Um I guess I'm not that nice. So that's our key stone row. This is my first group of volunteers that I hand fixed, like I hand fixed that, um, to start our ministry. But that's shadowing her two volunteers, her two out. They've been together for five years. Um, that's my He is my volunteer with me. Alright, we participate in Night to Shine at um Brace. And so that's one of my kids at night. I volunteer and my kids come. This was a sibling hay ride. Those are siblings. Um that we my husband, we take them, we have a lot of property. Every Christmas we make Christmas cookies. The pals make Christmas cookies. with their kids and the pastors come and eat them. Uh we went to a um a minors baseball game and we got to walk the field. It's a respite day. One of their activities was um Um something. Um this was VBS and so a little boy from our church and that um my son was his pal. I may I make home visits, um like their mom has cancer so I go every week and spend like an hour with them. That ice cream truck that's well looks like an ice cream truck with that ice cream truck One of our moms, we had a drive-by baby shower for her. They were a new family. And so everybody who'd never even met her came out to her baby shower. Oh, we had our fall fast thing. That's our Johnny trip from two weeks ago. The little boy that I had the first year of Johnny, that's him. And I have I go and he visits me every year from New Jersey and I visit him. That's the siblings bowling day. That's Mom's right out. Oh, that's my children's in my drugstore. Several years ago. I have no idea why that picture's in there. I could Okay. I write all my own curriculums. We're doing B right now, but I I write my own curriculum to meet the needs with my kids. This is what our schedule looks like. The kids names up there, then their pals are every other week. I do it three months ahead. And then I said I direct another ministry so um the other ministry so just in all of this um mental illness is also with the invisible special need or whatever. And so like a year and a half ago, I started the 3418 Ministry, which is a mental health support group. So I direct the mental health support groups for people that cope with mental illness, and then I have groups for um caregivers and loved ones of those who have mental illness. And um I mean they're very different but they're also very much the same. The people if you're living with someone with mental illness, um, it's a lot of the same stuff as um as if you're um when I do bite like during COVID I did adult Bible studies like men and women together and it was funny like they were half my thirty four eighteen people and half my keystone people, you know, and so um so I I I that was kind of like a spin-off Um and I actually think I have like out of twenty-four people, I think four or five of my people in my third breaking group are keystone. Um Moms because they deal with a lot of anxiety and depression. So um the last thing that I want to tell you is, um, and then you have two questions, is at the beginning when I showed you the room, okay, this is what you need to do. when you get your space. So you'll get a space, like you'll get a room, right? Um you go on Amazon, whoever's in charge, um, and if the password announces And you make an Amazon wish list. So Hope Church um is starting your sport. Hopeability. So hopeability and you you put the things that you're gonna want for this ministry. If you want timers or you want squishy balls or you want beanbag chairs or sensory light, whatever you want. I mean I But and you on Amazon you for hopeability you put the list of everything that you want, big things, little things, whatever. And then your pastor says on Sunday morning, hey congregation, you know starting with pope ability and we need these things. Um um and um they will get them because they I I I know I this is so awful but like people will give money to the ministry. Um they people just will give money to people with special needs. I was a special aid teacher in college. I was not that good of a student, but I had a scholarship for all four years because I was going to be a special aid teacher People love to give you money. So that's just a really well for any dream industry, but like somebody told me to do it and I was like no one's gonna I had to add stuff to mine because people like people from my pastor's old church in Florida because it was his church So I would suggest doing that for all your ministries actually. Okay. Um I know I said so much and I'm really sorry if it was disorganized or too fast or whatever. But um do you guys have questions? Oh yes. No, it's fine, it's fine. How big is your church? Like how many like how many people like on the average week. Like we're about four hundred. We're probably close. I I I I think pre COVID like six hundred. We have two services. Um Yeah, I think I think like six hundred. I mean I'm just trying to get a sense of this program and the and the size of your church. Yeah, when I started, like when I started, it was with four families in my church that I was we knew the kid had to Like the parents had either said, or the Sunday school teacher, whatever. And they helped me. Like that first year I met with them several times. Those moms, what did you want to look like? Blah blah blah. And so we had four families, and we have we have 14 now, which still doesn't sound like a lot, but it's a lot. It's a lot. I mean for time, especially COVID. We lost two during COVID, but then we got two during COVID. But um so yeah that um in the first year you like double. Things like you guys are on a main road, my sign on the road, it's one of those Rolls up plastic, whatever. I think four of my families that have come in the past four years are like we were driving by and we saw your spine. Oh give me time. Yeah. Let's need a specialist to right with A U my Yeah. So the the th the sign was um um yeah, just uh um yeah, just talking it up. Um but yeah I think we're I think we're two I don't know now, it's so weird because the COVID, but um it was two services and I wanna say like six hundred um this gives me a perspective whether Oh no no no no or of no. And like the first verse is a little like yeah. The reason why I pick what what the reason why I picked out and Because uh see a lot of people are about to say Oh right. Uncomfortable. Uncomfortable. Yeah. Um so I know that uh you mentioned whenever a parent comes, you typically ask um how do they communicate? And how do I know if they're getting upset or they're happy? Um and then you also mentioned that uh you typically have a conversation with parents beforehand so you know a little bit deeper. Yes. So is that when you might have a a discussion about um any aggressive behaviors? It's not a nice topic to have But um in order to keep the other children safe and to let the pals know if it's um maybe a something that I don't know could be a blood borne pathogen that they bite and you know, prick the skin. Yeah, no that's a great that's great. Now one I just think of that, like if I have time I'll take the mom out to coffee so that we can like talk. 'Cause it's hard to talk to a mom when But um the form if I was computer savvy, but if you go on the website like chaplicate. org, ministries, whatever, like there's a if you go and there's a volunteer form and then there's a a mo parent form to fill out about the kid. And it has a lot of questions on there but usually I think I don't know what's on there now because it's been so long, but like with the mom when I'm sitting there like face to face, it's not a com that conversation which is an important I never do like at church on Sunday or whatever. Like it's me going to coffee or us having a converse a conversation on the phone. Um one of the things I do I think it's on the the form is to say what is their um tell me about their classroom they're in and And what special services because that tells you a lot. You know what I mean? Like if you have a kid, oh he's in regular class for all but thirty minutes of a day, and what like I don't mean to put your like oh Okay, you know. Um but if you have oh they have a one on one aid, then so tell me about the one on one aid. What you know, how do they help? Um, you know, how long do we have whatever. So just try to there's a lot of questions you can ask around that that will give you the answer to that. Is there anything that we need to be aware of? Tell me what was like one of your hardest experiences. with him, you know, in your old church or out in public. And I will just say this, I mean I'm not like but just like any other parent, you have parents that know they should tell you everything 'cause it's gonna help their kid and then you got other ones that are like, I don't I don't want you to know anything bad about my kid and which is disastrous for the kid, but um but usually I think in whoever's a teacher your teacher. Um when I I asked a lot of questions about what their school is like. Um because to for me that tells me a lot. Those questions are beautifully phrased. Tell me what is the most difficult experience? Or tell me about your child's classroom. Not is your child aggressive? Yeah. Yeah. Those are open questions That allows the parent to decide what to share. Yeah. And then also um that Swessy you said that because also you'll see how it's worth I just hope somebody But like it was the mom trying to say that when she gets upset she just shuts down and you can't move her. You can't but like and I was reading it and I was like, okay, she's this is her telling me that like she's one of those kids that won't move. Like, you know, once she's done, like she she won't move. Um and so um so that I mean she's new boat like so that mom I would be like, hey, you know, I noticed that can we just call me more about that. You know, a lot of tell me more about that or yeah. Mm-hmm. Because it's hard because you need to know if their kids are aggressive. Especially when they're kids in the In Sunday school with a bunch of other moms that like don't want anybody touching their kid. I mean my kids have hugged people and the moms have been like that autistic kid hugs my kid. I mean it's yeah, it's yeah, it can be Really hard. Um that's and that goes back to fear. Yes. Yeah. Um we ha and so um and so that oh yeah, that's important. Okay Uh one of the things I did is so I went to every Sunday school room. So I went to every Sunday school room and I when we started Keystone and talked to the kids um about what my job was and what I was doing. and how um uh the the kids um that I worked with, you know, um they had a pal with them and I let them put on the orange thing. So I did go and talk to all the other classes and then I had a meeting with the um nursery what's called some beams or so I had a n with the nursery teachers, not all of with the nursery teachers, I had a meeting meeting with them specifically about the four kids they had in nursery and gave them all of the information. So that is helpful. I think that's very helpful. And And one of the beautiful things about inclusion is the effect that it has on the other children in the classroom by um exposing them to people who aren't Right. Reducing fear and anxiety about differences. Absolutely. So you have paved the way uh to inform the other children about what And like you said on here, predictability and schedule is so helpful. building some predictability. Yeah. And I mean the teachers are like really but there's F grade two, like, oh my gosh, you're gonna put that kid in my class. Um and so but like I talked to the kids really shortly I go to I I talk to the teens. Um they're my volunteers. I talk to them. I actually went you know what is really I don't know if you guys have an elderly community or like Sunday school class or something but are like elderly something clubs or but like um it was very interesting to go talk to them about Keystone because their perceptions and their experience was so different And so it was so interesting the ones that were like, Oh my gosh, what what we can't have them not in a me way, but just in a the ignorance thing. We can't have them here. And then the ones that were like I've been thinking that we should do that for 50 years. Like it was so interesting to talk to the older um oh I know I was why did I talk to them? I talked to them because that was a way to get my some of my pets. was to go talk to that Sunday school class. Because that was those were like perfect people um to do that. Um for the volunteers for the house, if you have um it I think it's hard it's gonna be hard to initially recruit them. Do you find yourself like matching the pals to the kids personality, demeanor, if they're if they tend to have problem behavior, some people can manage that, some people can't. Um Do you find that that's hard because you're already tight for volunteers? How do you manage those groupings? Because they're people, right? Kids, I might be really great, but this will be a good thing. Right. And people do, like I believe it or not, like medical when a child has medical issues, I I'm very like I'm very upfront with the moms. Like I'm not I'm not I don't know, you know, I always have a nurse that's VBS, whatever, because I just can't do that. But um my first group of volunteers, I mean it's you it I just hand picked. Like they were kids I knew. Um I knew they were sweet kids. I'd you know seen them at VBS, everything like that. Um and I did try I do try I didn't This was a mistake I learned. A mistake I learned was you get more girl volunteers than boy volunteers, but you have more boys in Keisto. Because boys get identified earlier because they act out. Um and so um that's true uh true I'm not just saying it, but um uh girls end up getting being worse. in the long run, but yeah, um because girls are sneaky. But um so um you want I didn't do this at the beginning. I put some of the boys like a third or fourth grade boy with a uh sixteen or seventh grade seventeen year old girl that was lovely, but then when he was in fifth grade or sixth grade and he he had autism and started yelling out body parts, then it wa I wanted a boy pal to speak into it, not her, you know Because she's like, I can't say whatever. Um and so um I would try to be careful, even when they're little, if you can um to have boys with boys, girls with girls. Um Um, so I try to do that. I do try to like I had a couple kids that came to me and said, Oh, at Mount Hebron I'm a buddy. They have buddies, you know. in public school. Right. Um most any kid that's been in public school has been in a a class with ch kids with special needs because of all the inclusion. I mean I don't mean to be mean but it's like your homeschool kids in your Christian school kids that like are more clueless. But um so I do try um like if it's a wheelchair, I know this sounds sexist, but like I try to make sure it's a boy because we are hill, we've got this tremendous hill they have to go up for everything. Um if my teens, so I have teenagers, that's the class I teach, um, all of my pals are adults in there. Um because they just they can be difficult. And I don't want to put a teen in a position yeah to to do that. Um now I have young adults in there because I want them it to be whatever, but like so um um With my teens, they have to be adults. I do try to do like for my teens, I have um four boys and a girl, but I always have a girl helper 'cause I have one girl girl. And then I have the boy helpers. I have taken, it's usually high school kids or adults, but I I've taken like two eighth graders that like I I knew they were just wonderful. kids, I I took them. Um like you said with the aggressive behaviors like the little girl now that said she got bit like I'm not but like she's just a tough little thing. She plays sports. She can laugh things off. We knew she was going to get kicked and bit and she I knew she was someone. Also if you have teenagers helping you like know their parents. You know, do they have pay the kid might, but is the parent gonna be mad that, you know, um whatever. Um so yeah, I do like but right now I'm really desperate for volunteers because of COVID and so right now I'm probably just like I think right now I'm actually gonna put like two girls with a boy because I I don't I can't not but um Yeah, I do try, but often your vol I don't know, but like often your volunteers like they don't have any experience at all, so like it's just kind of a free for all. Yeah. Good question though. Any other questions? Yes, yes. Sorry if you've already answered these questions, but uh your sign Like how do you identify families with special needs within your church body? Okay, that's a great that wow, that's really good. Um we do still have a few families that like we all know that there's an issue, but the parents just um don't acknowledge it so we just um we just have to let it go. Now one of the things that you Usually like when I started um with we I I started with the families we had that it I don't mean to be but it was obvious like they had Down syndrome or like the mom had said they had also something like that. Um then as people started cutting the new people um like they came because of Keystone. Or at our children registry desk, you know, where all the kids go and get the number on Sunday morning or whatever. Like I I started with there was a a sign there that said, Keystone, our new ministry, if your child has special need tell us and we'll introduce you to Tanya so that when parents came and they had to, you know, everyone has to register their kids for whatever, um the deck sign was there so people would be like, oh we have a kid what's special. needs. Um so a lot of people just come once they see the signs, then the thing is there. I've had sometimes people will be like, oh my neighbor's kid has special needs. You guys have like a ministry Here. Um but um if you have a uh this is if you have like a kid that everyone knows this kid has a s has a problem. But the parents haven't come to you. Often it gets to the point where the Sunday school teachers are like, we need help. This is not working And then I the I we have a meeting with the parents and I sit I'm in there and the parents in there and the teacher's in there and then I'll ask the whole the hard questions. Because the Sunday school teach teacher shouldn't have to like um shouldn't have I mean you should get paid if you're gonna like tell a parent I think there's something wrong with your kid. Um you know I had never put the adults and so then in that meeting when the Sunday school teacher shares her concerns, I would be like, well has school has school talked to you about any of these things? You know, and nine times out of ten they'll be like, oh well he has a 504 plan Or um you know, or yeah, or maybe it's a kid we're divorced and he's like this every Sunday 'cause he comes back from death. You know, there are things. One and but um you can't You can't like I have so we have somebody right now who's like a staff kid and th the poor little kids just so being Keystone and everybody um is like Tanya. Um but I just know that they are not able to to say that so I think the mom just helps her every week and so you know that's okay. I mean I'm here, you know, but um it's hard it's hard for some families. Really hard. Um got away from it. Okay. Okay, yeah. answer that. Um yeah, but they'll um yeah and people will be it's interesting because like I a a boy, like a boy in breakaway like invited his boss because he heard her say she had a daughter with Down syndrome. And like he isn't gonna go to our church but he comes to our youth group and like one of the people that came yesterday, she's like, I'm Justin Roach's boss, and I was like, Oh wow, okay. And so she She's like, we said your church had a special needs ministry. And so I think it's something I haven't said this in a long time in a talk, but I think it's only 11% of churches have a special needs ministry. Really, yeah. It's gotten a little trendy in the past few years. I bet you it took a jump. 'Cause you know how I'm not trying to be but like I don't know, four or five years ago all these shows on T V started with like um special needs kids and stuff so I think it got a little bit um I don't know whatever but um it is very unusual though for um I that's another thing it's very very unusual for a church to pay somebody to do the special needs ministry. But I think it's probably the same way for children's ministry. Like I think like I mean I worked in children's ministry forever, like just as a volunteer, but like um I do know for the usually the people that leave Are either parents of children with disabilities and they're usually volunteers. Because it is just something, you know, that when it starts, you know. You know, it's it's a hard job. It's a h I think even the people at those big churches I was talking about, I I don't even know if they you know, if it's part of their what paid for it. So I was I was very lucky. Um but my church is it's kind of the area. I don't know if there are kind of people here, but yeah. But if you don't like especially when you're starting if you don't have a budget and stuff like that, Amaz on wish list is like really, really really good. Yeah. Are we okay? Can we are we done? I'm so sorry. And you guys can like, yeah, like if you need my number, whatever else, Sarah, you can text me, you can call me, you can email me um anybody's invited to come see Keystone and to all just pray inside. Uh Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this time Lord. Thank you so much that this church, Lord, has a desire, Father, to reach out to This population that often gets overlooked, Lord. And I just um pray that you just bless this ministry, Lord, that you just um that you just bless each person in here um as they prepare to maybe start this adventure, Lord. And I pray for the leadership, Father, that um everybody's able to work together, Lord. And thank you for the um time that you've given us here tonight. Amen.