Well good morning everybody. Welcome on this Sunday morning as we gather with God's people and God's church As we enjoy fellowship with each other, as we rejoice Can God our Father? He rejoice in God the Son Who is our Redeemer and Savior, no Son God, the Spirit, who indwells us, who steals us for that day That we shall see our Savior face to face. So let's come with prayer. Okay, um so we've seen that There are several what we might call centers of textual criticism that developed in the early centuries To standardize the text, the Greek text that we have today Because as people began to make copies of the biblical documents, they would inevitably introduce errors into the into the text. Now some of these would be corrected soon thereafter. Some of these would be made. Perhaps a few generations into the Um but but but um Christians realize that soon there that that that um that there were more and more variations. And so these centers of X of textual criticism began to Study these variations and come up with a means of ascertaining what the original text was Now now we've we've we have seen several. There is the Al Examria of Al Exambrian text type Focused on Egypt. That's a geographical reference to Egypt. And then there's the visiting Which focuses more on Asia Minor, the eastern part of the Roman Empire. Those two are the main ones. Um but then that but then there are uh other ones. There's the Western. Text type. And then there's also the obsarian text type. But um these four Um are the ones that are rec recognized, although I think some may list a few more. Now, the visit one is the most common. About eighty percent of the manuscripts that we have today are of that type. Um this one is going to give rise to what to what we know as the um um Texas Texas Recepts or TR Um this is a received text. And this is the this is this is the foundation for the Protestant era translations. Martin Luther trans translated the Bible into German with using this text type. William Tyndale translated the Bible into English with this text title. And during that period of Reformation Others translated the Bible into their own native languages in across Yu Yur. There's there's the Dutch, there's the Belgians, French, many more. As they were doing this, this text type was relatively unknown. So that would be dug up that would be discovered sometime late. And um this text type Is the foundation of what we call the critical text. And that's the foundation for most modern translations. So we have these four, and although some may wonder why we have four different ones, you know, who's right Well they'll they're all products of textual criticism. They're all products and and the various Centers had different ways, means of determining what the correct text must have been. So that gives rise to variations among these types. But we should not think that because there's variations, that our text is in doubt In fact, it's these text types gives us confirmation that we have a very good text because all four of these agree, you know, ninety Five to ninety-nine percent. Most of the variations are my minor, misspelled words, transposed words Um mis field words, um things that really don't matter No matter which text type Christians used, we all believed in the Trinity. We all believed in the resurrection of Christ. We all believed in You know, doctrines that we hold so dear. But there are some differences, and we're going to look at some of them today For example, let's look at the biggest one. Mark chapter 16. If you can re go in your Bibles to Mark 16, I want I want to show you something. This this variant, this what we call a long Indian mark, is found in the visiting documents It's not found in the Alexandrian menus. Script. And if you look at And um after verse 8, you'll notice it in your Bible this there's a note. Uh it it it could be a footnote or something else, but It says some of the earliest manuscripts do not include chapter sixteen, verses nine through twelve twenty. You will notice that in your translation that the that the translator has bracketed verses 9 through 20. So he's telling you that these verses do not appear in some of the earliest manuscripts. They do not appear in some of the best manuscripts Now, just because they're missing from the Alexandrian text does not mean That it's just that the text that that this text is not original. It just means that it's missing. But now you have to ask yourself, why is it missing? So now we have to go into other criteria to de to to determine if the long ending of mark is there or if it's been added some other way. Um in So another one I said the long ending of Mark 16, verses 9 through 20, which you will see in the King James Version. It's not found in many of the oldest and best Greek manuscripts, such as Codus Paticanus and Codus Sinatus. Also, other translations do not have this long ending. The Syriac translation doesn't. Many of the Armenian and the Ethiopic translations do not contain this long ending. Instead they end Mark with verse eight Okay. So that's more evidence that Mark that Mark nine through twenty is not original It's not found in the early manuscripts. It's not found in many other translations. But that's not cr but that doesn't necessarily prove it. But we also have other evidence. Some of the early church fathers, such as Clement of Alexandria, Origen, and Scippian, show no knowledge of this long ending. So if the early church fathers don't recognize it, then that gives us a little bit more evidence that this ending is Just a variation. It's not original. Also, some manuscripts that do have it mark it off as a variation. It's been that is they say it's been added to the text some other way. Also, if you look at the Codex Washington It has actually multiple endings to this chapter. Okay. So all this gives us some doubt as to whether this text is original or not. But that's still not enough to really for us to to decide. Um so there's other uh other evidence too. Um And I said in number two, careful two students have made a serious study of the transmission of the biblical text, would virtually all agree that verses 9 through 20 are a gloss. That is It's just an ad an addition. It's not original. A later uninspired swivel scroll addition appended to the original inspired text. Indeed, these last twelve verses indicate bear the marks of an attempt to cover up a perceived imperfection That is, the gospel seems too early in early and rather abruptly, and that the section does not really fit the style of Mark. And that's from John MacArthur. Well, for example, John MacArthur points up points out that that there were 18 words in this passage that did not appear elsewhere well in the book of Mark. So that's one more evidence. You know, such as this title, Lord Jesus, in verse 19. So then the Lord Jesus, after he had spoken to them, was taken up into heaven and sat down at the right hand of God. Mark doesn't use that term elsewhere. So is it original or is it not? Most scholars will tell you it's not. But The translator doesn't take it out. Instead, the translator gives you the option of judging for yourself, is this text original or not? Now, because there are some critics of this critical text that will complain that the critical text takes out verses. But that's not true. It the critical text only marks certain verses as somewhat doubtful. You, as a reader, can still judge for yourself. Like for example, look at verse 8 in Myrrh. And they went out and fled from the tomb, speaking of the women, for trembling and astonishment had seized them. And they said nothing to anyone, for they were afraid. Okay. Is that the ending of Mark? Mark's gospel? Well apparently some people think that And the in the ends rather abruptly. And yes, that does, but is that Wrong. I mean Mark does treat his text as somewhat abrupt. He's you know you know you know you know he he keeps the action The action rises and it climaxes and that's it. Because if you look at verse 9, it says, now when he rose early on the first day of the week, He appeared first to bury Magdalene, of whom he had cast out seven demons. She went and told those who had been with him as they mourned and wept. But when they heard that he was alive and had been seen by her, they would not believe it. So does that text continue the book of Mark? Well it does seem to be rather there seems to be abrupt change between verse eight and nine. Because verse nine begins now when he rose early on the first day of the week. So that's That's that's a com that is an abrupt beginning of this passage. And um also Notice in verse 12. After these things he appeared in another form to two of them as they walked as they were walking into the country. They went back and told the rest, but they did not believe them. Now who now what's that a reference to? Could that be a reference to Christ meeting the two disciples on the road to Emmaus? And that's in Luke Um so that seems to be added from loop. Because why would you include why would Mark include that if he did if he gave no other these Because supposedly Mark is the first gospel with it. So again, that's one more reason why most biblical scholars would tell you that this long ending of Mark is not original. But the translator still still still gives you the choice to judge for yourself. So that's one difference between the Texas receptor, the visitine, and the critical text or the Alexandria. Um are there any questions about this passage in Mark Yes. So I kinda forgot my timeline as which gospel got written first, so Mark was written first. Luke was written later. Someone decided to flip out a little piece of Luke and stick it in the back of Mark is the I guess maybe accepted theory or something along the way. Yeah, yeah, tha that is generally the accepted theory that someone decided, hm This gospel ends abruptly. That's kind of let's kind of smooth out the ending. So let's take bits and pieces from elsewhere and kind of pass them in. And And that's the advantage of of these four schools of textual criticism because yes someone could add something to it, but when you've got all these Copyist, checking things out, verifying everything, those additions are quickly noted. So because we have These four centers of textual criticism, such errors, such additions can be noted. And so we know it today. So so so again, all of this gives us more and more confidence That we have the Word of God. Okay, um, let's um go on to the next one. Now the next one Now again, there's some question about the originality of the long ending embark. That's why most that that that's why all translations will just go ahead and include it and just tell you that it's probably not original. But there is one variation that we know Positively, that it's not original. And that is if you go to 1 John chapter 5, verse 7, I'm going to compare the King James Version with our modern translation. And again the King James Version is based upon the TR, the Texas Recepus. The King James Version has this in verse 6. This is he who came by water and the blood. Even Jesus Christ, not by water only, but by water and blood. And it is the Spirit that bears witness, because the Spirit is truth. Now verse 7. For there are three that bear record in heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost. And these three are one. And by the way, I made this italics just to just for emphasis. It's not a talics in the King James Version. And verse 8, and these are three that bear witness in earth, the spirit, and the water, and the blood, and these things are three in one. So that is 1 John chapter 5, verses 6 through 8, in the King James Version. Now, in your modern translation, it is this. This is the one who came by water and blood, Jesus Christ, not with the water only, but with the water and the blood. Verse 7 And it is the spirit who bears witness because the spirit is the truth. Verse 8: For there are three that bear witness, the spirit and the water, and the blood, and these three are in agreement So notice that verse seven in the King James Version is missing. Okay. This tr this variant uh has a name to it. It's so faint. It's so well known. Um and it is called back in back in I the um coma Yoamanium is a technical term for this variation that's found in the Texas Receptus but it's not found any place else. Now this variation has no textual support in any Greek manuscript except for eight of them, which all date from the Middle Ages. after 1215. And these contain a passage in what appears to be a translation from a late recension of the Latin Vulgate. Which is not the Latin Vulgate has issued by Jerome. That is. This is also not found in a Latin Vulgate written by Jerome. But in some copies of the Latin Vulcan you do see it. But it's clearly a variation And again, none of the church fathers quote the passage, which which by would which by the way would have been a a very clear defense of the doctrine of the of the Trinity against some of the heretics of those early first centuries who said that Christ was somewhat less than God, such as the M C C or rehenience. Um has so not and was not found until about the fifth century. As part of an epistle in the Latin Fathers in North Africa in Italy. So this was added some time later. Now, how did it get in into the King James verse? Okay, here this is basically what what happened. This Texas Receptus is based on some menus grips. The foundation of this is a bunch of bunch of Um of a manuscript. But not too many. Maybe twelve. And surprisingly, this passage, this verse was not there. In any of these manuscall quits. So with Erasmus Built wrote his Greek text back in fifteen sixteen, his first edition. This verse was not there in the Greek menus. But someone complained to him Saying, why don't you include this one verse? And Erasmus said, I'm not including it because it's just not there. I've done my research I've looked at these menus clips, and it's just not there. But Erasmus um Didn't really want to um defend his choice all that much. So he said this just to just to satisfy those who who um brought up this one verse. And he said, look, if you find this verse in any Greek menus script, I won't I will include it. Well, what did these guys do? They gave him a Greek manuscript with this verse in it. As if it was made to order. So Erasmus reluctantly put that verse in to his to his um Greek manuscript. Because of that it made it made its way into our early Partisan era Translations, including the King James Version. But we know today and that this verse is not original. And so the King James Version followed Erat Mrs. Um followed Erasmus's Greek text on the basis of a single late and doubtful way witness all the weight and authority of all the other Greek manuscripts. So no wonder Geisler next can say the inclusion of this variant breaks almost every major canon of textual criticism. And A. T. Robertson adds this some Latin squad caught up Scipion's exegesis, wrote it in the margin of his text And so we've got into the bull gate and finally into the Texas Receptus by the stupidity of Erasmus. So that's why this one verse you'll see it in the King James Version. You won't see it in your modern And we should also point out this Yes, it may have brought some support to the doctrine of the Trinity, but you don't need that verse to defend the doctrine of the the Trinity. There's plenty of other verses passages that will teach us the doctrine of the Trinity as we see it today. So are there any questions about that variation? Okay I guess I'm not understanding why they're so pressed about putting it in. Um, is because like you said, the Trinity was after the Trinity clearly supported consistently throughout. So why yeah, I guess I'm not understanding they pushed back so much. Why they put it in? Yeah. Because There were some people who thought that verse was a defense of the doctrine of the Trinity. It's an easy defense. But yeah, it could be an easy easy defense, but it it's not original. Um so So they challenged Erasmus to put it in because they wanted that person. They wanted an easy way. Yes. And you know, um and just just because you yeah, I mean and it no it's it's Yeah there were th people who kind of wish the the Bible would say something, um easy and make it plain. Um that's not always the case We have to look at the whole text and not just one verse. Often. You know. A dark. Okay. Now, um there's one other variation in number ten, and that is in Luke twenty-three. When Jesus says from from the Roman cross, Father forgive them, for they know not what they do. There are some manuscripts that do not have that in them in in the in the text But the longer wind reading, that is the text itself, does have support from the early church fathers who at times seem to wrestle with the idea that Jesus is absolving The Jews on the one hand, but it still seems to wrestle with the idea that the Jews are unrepentant So we can conclude that this omission is probably something happened in the second century by those who thought they didn't want Jesus Forgiving the Jews when the Jews were unre repentant. Because at this time Christians and Jews were not friendly. Um they um they debated each each other The d the the Jews despise the Christians because Christians were saying Jesus is a Jewish Messiah. And they're Jews and you know They don't recognize a messiah. So this omission Um doesn't mean that the text is not there. We know from other manuscripts and from other means that this verse is there. This is a true text. Because it now this points out One thing. Would we determine whether a text is original or not? Um it's not just we we we we we just can't look at the text and say, well, it's missing here and therefore it's not or it's Uh it's it's more than that. We have to look at the evidence and we have to look at uh evidence from two types There's the internal evidence of the text itself, and then there's the ex external no evidence The external evidence is concerned with three things: phonology, geography, and genealogy. Chrono Genology, that is the date of the text type, rather than the date of the menu script And that essentially means that there are some text types that are that are deemed more reliable. So if something is missing from the Lisandrian text type, it has more weight than if it was missing from the Byzantine text type. Because scholars will tell you that the text type is deemed more reliable. You know, part of the reason is it's an older text type. Also, it's the geography of the text of the manuscripts that is If you have if this text is in various manuscripts all over all over the place It's then it's much more likely to be original than if it was than if this text were in just a few manuscripts that are geographically isolated from everything Thing else. So it's not just the text type, it's also the geography of this text type And the geography of where this variant is. If you see this variant all over the place, then likely it's it's its original um If it's just one or two manuscripts or or or even the majority of manuscripts within a limited geographical area, that gives some reason for doubt. No so is the genealogy of these manuscripts, that is If you see a variant in one manuscript that's also in the parent manuscript, that's also in that parent manuscript, it carries much less weight Then if it's in manuscripts that are that do not have common p p parence. Okay. So this is so this is a look at the distribution of the variant. And the external evidence emphasizes the reputation of the text type. And for better or worse, the Alexambian text type is more reliable The visiting text type is probably the least liable. Also, the internal evidence You've got to look at that transcriptional evidence, that is the habits of the horizons, no so the intrinsic evidence, the habits of the authors That is, you know how Paul writes. So if a variant shows up and it doesn't seem to be something that Paul would write Then it gives weight that it's a variant. Or if you happen to know what the copyists tend to do Um that gives you some that that will give you some evidence as to whether the variation is original or not. That is There are some of these copyists who like to copy from memory. So they'll they may copy a whole passage, not even looking at the at the text, but just copying it from them But we know other copyists do it word for word, or litter to letter. And so those who copy it from memory. You know that they t t tend to have more more more variation. So the external evidence tends to be more objective. The internal evidence must also be, but the internal evidence must not be ignored. I mean, just because someone does copy from memory They don't do it all the time. Yes. Um that's a very good question and we don't always know. That is correct. Um but But there are cases in in which, yes, we bill do copy this. Um they may have annotated their see with it that that they they may have written their n name for ex for example. Um they may have a certain writing right eating style that we that that that that that we know hey this person who wherever he may have been copied these items Um where has someone else copied something else? And so we can look at what an individual Right copy and then see what mistakes they tended to make If we like only have one copy is that to see variations. Um just copying several manuscripts. Is that like one scenario? Yes, I mean you yeah. I mean you you I mean in the in in this case you would need several samples Right. You would if you just do one copy copied one manuscript, you would not know. Now I'm going to quote someone from a technical journal article. I think this is the journal of the Evangelical Society. He wrote this about this passage, Father, forgive them for they know not what they do. Is that original or not? He's going to claim it is original. And this is his summary. The external evidence for Luke 23, verse 34, is far from conclusive. So he's saying looking at the geography and the chronologically um mim material that's not can It's not that's not conclusive. Because he's saying both the short and the long readings are found in every text type, including the important Alexandrian witnesses. That is, he's saying, if you look at all four of these text types, you're going to find this this passage, this text, missing in some At least manuscraps. So you so you s so you so you so you so you you just can't look at the geography But then he's saying the short read the short reading, which is the reading without Jesus saying, Father Forgive them for they know no what they do. Um that is supported by a important later second or third century papyrus But a good number of the second and third century fathers testify to the long readings. That is, the early church fathers did write down in their commentaries In the sermons, this quote of Jesus, Father, forgive them for they know not what they do. But it's missing in some of the of the of the documents. Then he says intrinsic probability, which is the habit of those who copy. Suggest that the prayer belongs in the text of Luke. Because the prayer matches Luke's preferred way of addressing God. It's it's it resembles that of Luke's account of the Lord's Prayer. And also, it resembles Stephen's prayer for his killers without having a single word in common. Then he says the link between ignorance and mitigated culpability images the motif running through Luke and F. And basically what he's saying is Look, if you look at what Stephen says to when he was was b was being ex executed And it matches what Jesus said on the cross, but the two are totally different, so you so you just can't have one copied from someplace else. So what bate so basically what all that means is that this prayer of Jesus is original, even though it's missing in some of the menus. Yes. Well, can you yeah, can you expand a little bit on Luke's preferred way of addressing God? Um well uh sure sure sure sure that the have you go to the to to text its itself. Luke twenty three verse See verse 34. And Jesus said, Father, forgive them for they know not what they do. And that is when when when Luke addresses These prayers it's always in it's always in the pup um pub. Um it's not God or its um it's um um it's It's in a more um it's um it's in a i intimate form. Well has someone who would add that text might say something else. So like in Luke eleven three when it's the Lord's Prayer he says Father. So Right. Yes, Ron. Uh the in internal evidence or intrinsic evidence you said that's Analogous to the sort of writing from memorization. Well that's one example. One example. Uh but uh I think the point I'm trying to make is It's more likely that if you're breaking from memory, you forget something, you don't spuriously add something. Um Unless you memorize it wrong. Well yeah, you can easily memorize something wrong. You can easily just say, well I'm going to paraphrase it Okay. But now in in this case it's not going to be a a problem of myth of writing it from memory It it it it's probably the case in w in which some Christians said, you know Um I really disagree with this text. Why is Jesus saying, Father, forgive them for the no no no no know what they do when All around us are Jews who hate us and who will not repent. So so they um so so they may just um take it out or just leave it out because they they think that maybe Jesus did not say say that because if he said that certainly they would repent Um so it's more of of this um this is a preconceived idea that a copyist has brought in rather than saying, well I just forgot to do it Yes, Ricardo. So it's a comment this to me what you described is is is a is the bias that um is entering into Um the copyist, okay. So I'm a Christian, I stood up like Jews. Okay. Okay? Just like Jonah. Right. That's right, Jonah. Right. So a copyist. You know, he he doesn't want to write something favorable about his enemy. Right. He's not he's not fighting from God's perspective. And I and I think like today he's still do the same thing. So he we want to approve a sort of parts why it was But we don't have an explanation. Right. And so I I I I I always have a problem with um yeah. Right. But you don't have to Right. So you know what you describe to me as you know one person bias I I would like this, we don't we don't want to put this in. And it's as simple as that, it's man sent. Yeah, right. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yes it yes yes it is a case of of bias. Now again um most vari variants are small John chapter 1, verse 18 is a smaller example. The Textus Receptus reads the only son. Um that's that's what's been translated into the King James Version as only begotten son. However, older Greek manuscripts, aleth B, C, and L read the the only begotten God or the well um or the only God. Um and A. T. Robinson states that this earlier reading is probably correct and that likely some s So I changed the reading to make it look like the like the John three sixteen passage. The word homogenei means unique or one or only or one and only and we'll turn we will we will we we we we will return to this translation at a future time So that's why in your modern translation that verse will mean only God. rather than only son that you will read in the King James Version. Now, there is actually one more major Variation caused by a difference between the critical text and the Byzantine text Go to the Gospel of John, chapter 8. This is the account, the story of the woman caught in adultery. You note that in your translation, your Bible, that versus Um from chapter seven verse fifty-three down through verse eleven that that text is bracketed Or footnote. In fact, in my trans translation the E D M D M C T E F it gives it gives us a footnote. The footnote is some manuscripts do not include 753 through 811. Others add the passage here or after chapter seven verse thirty-six or after verse or after chapter twenty-one verse twenty-five or even after Luke twenty-one verse 38 with some variations in in the text. So so so this text when it's found it could be anywise It's usually in John. Now the question is, is this text original or not? Now this one is maybe a bit more complex, a bit more difficult to judge than the long ending mark. And I'm going to give you some examples, some let's let's try this one. Yeah. Is this text authentic? You know, some say yes, some say no. Um and again the translation gives you the option. You can judge for yourself. The trans translation does not take the the text out, but is it authentic? Well, number one, the text isn't consistent in style as the rest of the book. Um it doesn't read like John in the book of John, in the Gospel of John. There's If you look, if for those who know Greek, you can look at the text, look at what this passage reads, and see, well It's um not written by John. I mean you don't you don't have to be a you know high school English teacher to to know that this text could have been written by someone else. Um But that doesn't exactly mean that it's not original. It just means that John, you know, used a different form of his writing for this text. I mean that's possible. But also the text doesn't fit in the context of the book. If you look at chapter 7, verse 52 It says, they replied, Are you from Galilee too? Search to see that no prophet arises from Galilee. And then you have they went they each went to his own house. But that seems a rather abrupt change because in ver in verse In chapter 8, verse 12, it says, Again Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but have the light of life. Um that so that appears to be a much more appropriate Transition. Um so again th that that's like some Biblical scholars will tell you the text doesn't fit the context. And again, some manuscripts face the text in other places. So it's like this text is looking for a context. Again, the earliest and best manuscripts omit the text. Other manuscripts market has a variant, and they question it's its authenticity. Um reason number six is is rather interesting. None of the early church fathers commented on the on the text, even when they were commenting commenting on the book of John. They just left any mention out. Also num number seven, some believe that the story existed only in or tradition it was later added. That is this is actually not written by the apostles, but it was a just something that the Christian knew because they talked about it. And then sometime later someone added it to the t Text. And some also believe that some crybe actually removed it early because it seemed rather lenient. on alma un almo un ad doctory. Um yet They could have re removed other um other texts too, like the woman at the web. So all of these are Things to consider as we contemplate whether this text is original or not. Yes. Yeah. So how d how does that fit in with the the text um the Alexandrian text which you said are considered both Bible? Um Jen generally this passage is missing Fund from the outs like saying went t t text. Okay. The what? John said then uh until then. Oh oh um John chapter eight Um e the heaven. That yeah that that that that whole passage is is in your Bible is bracketed. So the question is, is this text original or not? Um you know, it's rather hard to believe that someone made she made made made made this thing up. Um yeah it's also kind of hard to believe that that that there's so that it it's missing so many places And it's found in found in other places too. I mean there's nothing in the text that is contradictory to the rest of the It is consistent with Jesus with how he stopped what he did to to come to save those who are lost. So but again, uh each each of us can form our own Judge. Let's do that. Are there any questions about this passage in John? But I'm sure we'll Well, I'm sure when Gabe reaches this text he'll tell us more more more about it. I just have one other question. Um this in terms of the the timeline. So we see in Alexandrian text it wasn't there. When did it start showing up? Well Well it's it's um it's not that it that it just shows up right away. Um it um It is found in s in some of the manuscripts in each of the text types, but not all of them. Um so we can't judge as to when it began or or or when it be first began to to appear It it did begin fairly early, but that doesn't necessarily mean that it's original or not. Okay. So what's your conclusion? What's my opinion? Um I am much more confident that this passage in John is original than I am then then I am confident that the long ending of Mark is forward. Um I I'm one that will go for the authentic authenticity of this account of the woman caught in on in a d de factory. Um But I do know there are some who who question it. And you know I know that they they may have good reason. I'm not going to judge someone, you know, just because of what they think about the about about this one passage. I thought you were leaning the other way because a lot of your arguments were kind of going against it. A lot of the arguments do go against it, yes. Um but none of them are Or um you know, you know you know m you know, maybe argument number six is the is the most serious one. Yeah. But I have it but but because you know because you know I I don't read all of these academic journals, so I so my res research on this issue is somewhat limited. Okay. Okay. So we walk talked about a bunch of variants today. Um And um but uh but I would just conclude that the existence of variants variants Um that's actually a reason to have confidence in what we have. Because We don't have all of this evidence that we can go back to and yeah there's some doubts in s in some places But none, but even if we took out this passage in John, um, you know, it's not going to change any of uh doctrines of the faith. So now next time we're going to look at the transition translation of the Bible into into English. We're going to examine John Wycliffe, who translated the Bible into Eng into English from the Latin Vulgate. We're going to go on to William Tyndale, who was the first to translate the whole Bible into into English. And we'll go on to the other Bibles, the Coverdale Bible, the Bishop's Bible, the Geneva Bible, and then the King James Version Bible. Okay, so let me pray.