Okay. So um I guess during the months of September and October we're doing messages on sanctification. Um I think Pastor Lee first talked about just kind of um how sanctification works, the process of sanctification. Pastor Gabe talked about the means of sanctification, which uh after I asked uh Bruce to speak last week. He wanted to talk about the means of sanctification, but he uh kind of applied it to uh the you know kind of things that have been going on in his life over the past year. And my topic today will be the Holy Spirit, his role in uh in our sanctification. So I think we have one or two more messages on this. Rich topic. So today we're going to speak about how the Holy Spirit will help us in the process of sanctification. I think it'd be fair to say that the Holy Spirit is the m most misunderstood member of the Trinity, and that's why I was saying with uh you know your video, it it related to um you know just kind of some of the mystery aspects. I mean the the Trinity itself is is is rather mysterious and yet you know as we understand things in the New Testament we can look back in the Old Testament and see the members of the Trinity acting in in various times in various ways. So um but uh I think there's a lot of misunderstandings, most particularly about the Holy Spirit. So what are some of these misunderstandings? First one I would say is some view the Holy Spirit more as a force. and impersonal energy that empowers us in our lives as Christians. But the correct view is to see the Holy Spirit as one of the members of the Trinity. He is someone who can be grieved. If you look at Ephesians 4. 30, it says, do not grieve the Holy Spirit. He can be lied to. In Acts 5. 3, we see the example of Ananias and Sapphira, and just as they were about to meet their end. They are asked, why did you decide to lie to the Holy Spirit? So a thing or a force can't be lied to, but the Holy Spirit can. Insulted in Hebrews 10, 29. Acts 7. 51, he can be resisted. We see him actively praying on our behalf. I'll be talking about that later. But um the idea that that um He's a personal member of the Trinity, and one of his roles is that he prays on behalf of believers and in most particular prays with respect to their sanctification. And you see that again in Romans 8, 26 through 27. A second area I think that the Holy Spirit has misunderstood. or undervalued. Um sorry. Uh the the the other aspect of understanding is that he's undervalued. A lot of times people, you know, they they um understand the notion of of you know how Christ came and and uh the work that he did on this earth. Um You know, we uh of course think of the Father, you know, uh we see him acting either throughout history, and yet um a lot of times we think you know that the Holy Spirit is uh is is is kind of like an add-on or or something like that. But um we might make an error if we undervalue the work of the Holy Spirit. But I think more often we see them overemphasized. Um a lot of times you'll see churches that are named, you know, the Holy Spirit Temple or You know, it's it's like you hear them talk and and every every third word is about the Holy Spirit. Um we can we can err in that direction as well. So How can these either the undervaluing or the over-emphasizing how can these be a problem? If you ignore or are unaware of the spirit's role in your life, you will not be able to receive the benefit he wishes to provide. But on the opposite extreme, so much focus on the Holy Spirit and His work. if the if you overemphasize, then he takes a preeminent focus in your mind. Jesus made it clear that all members of the Trinity are co-equal. But in terms of the roles that they take and their focus, the Spirit's focus is to bring glory to the Father and the Son. The Son's focus is to bring glory to the Father. Any church or ministry that is all about the Holy Spirit has turned this on its head. If you look at John 5, 30 to 32, or John 15, 26, does anybody have a Bible they could look up of John 5, 30 to 32 and uh Once you get it, just let me know and you can start reading that. I think we'll see this. Yep, John five verses thirty-two. Sorry, thirty to thirty-two. John through that? Yep. Verse 30, I can do nothing on my own initiative, as I hear, I judge, and my judgment is just, because I do not seek my own will, but the will of him who sent me. If I alone testify about myself. My testimony is not true. There is another who testifies of me, and I know that the testimony which he gives about me is true. Okay. And if somebody could find John fifteen twenty-six. So John fifteen twenty-six. Yep. But when helper comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, Spirit of Truth, who proceeds from the Father, you will bear witness about me. And you You also will bear witness because you have been with me from the beginning. So that kind of uh shows us You know, Jesus was was making reference to, you know, his role in bringing glory to the Father and and testifying truly about what this fat what the Father has done. And as Johnny just read, you know, we're talking about the Holy Spirit when he comes, you know, that that he is uh you know basically pointing uh attention to the to the Son and and both the Son and the Father. So Um certainly mysterious things and yet uh and it's uh I think uh you could draw a parallel, you know, you look at the marriage relationship. You know, a lot of times people have a problem with you know this notion of a wife being submissive to her husband and yet in a way you see this pictured you know, the members of the Trinity. They're coequal, they're of equal importance and and value. They're all God. And yet, um uh in terms of their roles, you know, it's uh much like the husband and the wife, you know, uh the wife's role is is very important and God ordained And yet, you know, she is to subordinate herself or be submissive to her husband. It's not because he's better or more wonderful or anything like that. It's just that that's the order that God has has uh ordained and um it's it's the way things work as as God designed them. And uh you know I think you can get into endless debates about that. But um that's uh that that in a way is a similar picture. So but before I get too far off on that, um what does it mean? to be filled with the Holy Spirit. So that's the idea is how to be full of the Spirit and sanctification is the title. And so I I figure it'd be important to look at this notion of being filled with the Spirit. We look at Ephesians 5. 18, it says, and do not get drunk with wine, for that is dispers dispos dissipation, I'm in trouble with that word, but be filled with the Spirit. So this passage is talking about what controls you. It says, do not allow, in this instance, wine to affect you in a way that leads to drunkenness. But rather allow the Holy Spirit to fill you and take control of your life. To the extent that we are filled with the Holy Spirit, we will be led in greater sanctification. So some people uh you know they they believe that, you know, as as a believer you should never you know touch a drop of wine or or anything along those lines, but but this is clear in a sense that where it talks about using wine in such a way that you're you're drunk or that it it completely controls you um and uh it pictures in the same way rather than that, to be filled with the Holy Spirit to allow the Holy Spirit to control you. So and then I I find in Galatians 5 a very helpful passage that speaks to how this works. So Galatians 5, 16 to 25. I'll go ahead and read that. Galatians 5. 16 says, But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not carry out the desire of the flesh. For the flesh sets its desire against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh, for these are in opposition to one another, so that you may not do the things that you please. But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. Now the deeds of the flesh are evident, which are immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enities Strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, disputes, dissensions, and factions Envying, drunkenness, carousing, and things like this, of which I forewarn you, just as I forewarned you, that those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness. Gentleness, self-control. Against such things there is no law. Now those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. If we live by the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit. So in this passage we see a very clear contrast. um to the uh if we allow ourselves to be controlled by our flesh, you know, all these uh this long list of immorality, impurity, sensuality And the contrast of this notion, we can even call this the the these are the fruits of the Spirit. Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, these things will fill your life if you if you are truly filled with the Holy Spirit. And um it's uh this idea of walking by the Spirit, walking uh we're we're living in the Spirit, it's the idea of if somebody looks at the pattern of your life, it's it's something that becomes you become characterized by. And um it it's saying if you can look at your life, somebody can look at your life and they can see that your life is is characterized or dominated by either this group of attributes or this, then it's an indication to the to the level of of you are being filled with the spirit. So, again, as I said, the verses in verses 22 and 23 are commonly known as the fruits of the Spirit. I believe if someone is characterized by these traits, you will have found someone who is filled with the Holy Spirit. It tells us that the desires the Spirit has for us are diametrically opposed to those of the flesh or our natural inclinations. Further, I believe to walk in the Spirit is to grow in the process of sanctification. So I think each of us, you know, uh before we were believers, before um we had experienced salvation We might look at our life, you know, five years ago, ten years ago, whatever it was before you were a believer, and we should see from that moment to now, we should see change. And the the change that that takes place is evidence of the process of sanctification and um the w spirit's work in our life. So So I believe what I've covered so far describes our response to the Holy Spirit. We are commanded to be filled. And as we obediently respond to that, the Spirit will work to fill us. So what are some things we can learn about what the Holy Spirit does for us? First, I'd say um with the coming of the indwelling Holy Spirit, we are promised a helper. I think some translations describe the Holy Spirit as a comforter. It comes from the Greek word perakletos, which Literally means para means to call, I mean to uh alongside, and playtos means call, so it's the notion of calling alongside and the idea for assistance. So a helper, you know, if you if you need someone to uh to help you, um they'll be right there alongside to get to give assistance. John 14, 16, Jesus said, I will ask the Father, and he will give you another helper, which literally means another of the same kind. That he may be with you forever. So pericletos or paraclete literally means one called alongside, and it's one who comes to our aid. So what does Jesus say about the Holy Spirit? John 16, 7 says, But I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away, for if I do not go away, the helper will not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you. And he, when he comes, will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. Concerning sin, because they do not believe in me, and concerning righteousness, because they go to the Father, and you no longer see me. And concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world has been judged. So through this passage, it's clear that one of the roles of the Holy Spirit is to convict of sin. As we are in the process of sanctification, the Holy Spirit convicts us when we do sin. 1 John 1, 9 says, if we confess our sins, He is faithful and righteous to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. The idea of confession here, the Greek word is homologo, which literally means the same word. And so what we're doing when we confess is we're saying what God's saying, to agree with God about our sin. So secondly, in terms of what the Holy Spirit does, says the Holy Spirit prays for us. And in some ways I find that surprising. You know, it's like one of these things I would naturally think of. Um, you know, but it it's pretty clear. I think a lot of times people misunderstand where it talks most about the uh the you know, the spirit praying for us. I think a lot of times people get mixed up about who's the one who's doing the praying. But Romans eight twenty six and twenty seven. It says, in the same way the Spirit also helps our weakness, for we do not know how to pray as we should. But the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words. And he who searches the hearts knows the mind of the of the spir uh knows what the mind of the spirit is, because he intercedes for the saints according to the will of God. I've heard uh And I've had talks with people. My parents are Pentecostal and sometimes we talk about whether all believers should or shouldn't speak in tongues. And they'll point to this verse and say, see this is the groaning. You know, it is like, yes, but It's the Holy Spirit is the one who's praying and it has nothing to do with tongues, I'm sorry to say. But uh but it's this idea what's seen in this passage is That when our prayers are imperfect, we know that there is one who's praying for us. whose prayers are perfectly in alignment with the will of God. And uh that's a that's a comfort to us, especially, you know, when we're In you know, this this idea we don't know how to pray. You know, sometimes we're frustrated. We we're trying to figure out, Lord, I want to pray in a proper way, I want to ask for things that are in accordance with your with your will. And yet we can be completely encouraged knowing that the Holy Spirit is praying on our behalf and in a way that is perfectly in with uh with respect to God's will is perfectly in alignment. So So this passage says that the Holy Spirit knows our weakness, He knows what they are, and He desires to help us. Our minds are often distracted, confused, and out of step with God's desires The Holy Spirit, with a perfect understanding of our needs, prays in perfect accordance with the desires of God on our behalf This is an area that I can honestly say I rarely thought about until, you know, I was just kind of going through this. But when we realize that one of the roles of the Holy Spirit has is to intercede or pray on our behalf, that should be such an encouragement. as we feel weak or overwhelmed. When we heard the gospel, someone presented the gospel to us the first time or perhaps Somebody had an ongoing conversation with you. We heard the good news and we heard that our sins could be forgiven, that the penalty for or the weight of our sins that we had it uh incurred could be wiped out Those of us who have received that gift had felt often we we feel the weight of the guilt about being removed. Even to the extent that you have not felt that true believers have, in fact, known that the transaction of their sin guilt has been transferred to Christ. and that his righteousness has been transferred to us. Thank you. Um truly. Middle one. Thanks. Ah, there we go. So this idea of our sin being transferred to Christ's account and his righteousness being transferred to our account is commonly known as a great exchange and truly it is Um it's the way, you know, when when we're told be perfect as I am perfect, um that that uh no sin, you know that that Anyone who has any sin on their account can't be in the presence of God. We think, well, I have sin. And so this notion of how we can be made righteous By accepting uh the the sacrifice that Christ did on our behalf, we can have all our sins, past, present, and future, taken away and be in the presence of God as a result. So Um, I think that's uh one of those things that, you know, as we we I I think right after salvation a lot of times people feel this relief of all my sins have been forgiven, but it's just this notion of you know, kind of the ongoing notion that we have been made w right with God because of what Christ has done. So um But I would imagine that many initially miss another aspect of what happens in salvation. For the first time, you have the ability, with the Spirit's enabling, You have the ability to resist sin. And the song that I chose today kind of pictures that in the first verse. It says, Rock of Ages Cleft for Me. Let me hide myself in thee, let the water in the blood, from thy ribbon side, which flowed, be of sin the double cure. Cleanse me from its guilt and power. A lot of times when we're singing a hymn, I I I found many people they don't like hymns when they first come to faith. They hear them, oh, these old dusty, stodgy things But uh as they learn theology and they start realizing, man, the words in this in the you know they teach so much and uh they they grow to appreciate hymns. So um These last two lines, be of sin, the double cure, cleanse me from its guilt and power, the notion of the double cure. Yes, we were cleansed from our sin. That's pretty easy to understand. We come to Christ realizing we need salvation because we've sinned. But the idea that we have been cleansed From the power of sin, for the first time you have the ability to not sin. And I think that's what it's talking about here, the double cure. So So the double cure, two things that happen at salvation. Our guilt is removed, and the power that sin held over us also has been taken away. And it's not that we behave perfectly after that. It's just that we've we come to recognize that with the Spirit's help we can overcome sin in our life. So Alright, well I have a couple questions for your discussion time. Actually a few questions. Let's think about these First, what conceptions have you had, what misconceptions have you had with respect to understanding the Holy Spirit So maybe some of those ones where I was talking about where we undervalued or didn't really understand the Holy Spirit and didn't feel terribly motivated to Or maybe you were in an environment where they overemphasized the work of the Holy Spirit and it kind of became, you know, the uh you know just kind of the end all, you know, as we we talk about his role. Um were there any misconceptions that you had and maybe you can discuss that. Second, um what are some ways that we can quench the Holy Spirit? In 1 Thessalonians 5. 19, it says, do not quench the spirit. So we can talk about what does that mean? You know, the idea that that um the work that that the Holy Spirit's trying to do in our life that in any way we can dam dampen that or diminish that. So the idea is what are some ways that we can quench the Holy Spirit? Third, what are ways that we can walk by the Spirit? In Galatians five twenty-five, it says about walking um by the Spirit. in a way that allows the Holy Spirit to aid in our sanctification. So that was pretty much it. So I'll go ahead and close this in prayer. Father, we're thankful for your Holy Spirit. We're thankful for the work that He does in our life. And just pray that that uh we would desire to um to grow in our sanctification with the help that he's giving us. And we're just thankful for this time again as we can discuss these things. Pray all these things your name, Amen. Thanks, guys.