Scriptures to John, the Gospel of John, chapter fifteen. We look once again at verses seven and eight as we continue Part two of our message on prayer. Prayer. Answered prayer. Fruitful prayer. Prayer that brings glory to the Father. After teaching the vine and the branches, Christ went on, if you abide in me And my words abide in you. Ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you. My Father is glorified by this That you bear much fruit and so prove to be my disciples. The central thought of the verses is not hard. We said it last time. It's pretty easy to see, isn't it? Abiding in Christ Having his words abide in you, abiding in his teachings, that is, results in fruitful praying And fruitful praying results in glory to the Father and strong evidence that you're a true disciple of Christ. There it is. It's pretty straightforward. It's pretty simple. It's just hard to apply. It's hard to continue to believe and to be consistent with it. Last Lord's Day we talked about the conditions for praying there at the very beginning of verse 7, right? If you abide in me, that's the first condition. And my words, my teachings remain and stay in you. That's the second condition. And really they're tied together as one. Then you can ask. So we said last time that it's very important that our response to the Word of God, in general, yes, to preaching of the Word, but to the reading of the Word. To uh our response to what we're taught in classes, to the the good biblical books that you're reading. I know how it is today, you catch sermons online, you know, in the car and all the rest of that. But your general response to the word should be one of reception, of growing and accepting. And accepting of course means there's correction involved in that. You change and that shows If that's your general response to the word, that's a very good indication you are a true believer. You're not just saying you're a believer. It's not just in your head that you believe facts about Christ But you know you believed in him in such a way your life is attempting to follow him. Not perfectly. You stumble many times, you fall You're ashamed of the way you behave. You don't always act wisely, but it is the direction of your life now. You are following Christ. And you prove that by your abiding in his teaching. So if you would like to have a fruitful prayer life, those are the conditions. And of course, they grow over time. And the more we do that, the more closely we abide by Christ, the more we will grow in our prayers. We'll leave the conditions for praying behind and move on secondly to the invitation to pray. This is Jesus' invitation to his disciples. It's so short, it's so simple, it's so clear. But I'm not gonna race through it because I think we need to hear it loudly, understand what he's saying. It's right there in the middle of verse seven. Where he says, ask whatever you wish. And there it is. Ask whatever you wish The thing with preachers is we can figure out how to take the shortest phrase in the Bible and make it hours long. We can. We really can. But when you have something like this, I bet even you could, just thinking through how to apply this, right? So you're now in Christ. How did you get in Christ? You're there by faith. You're staying with Christ, which is the proof that your saving relationship to Christ is genuine. Your faith is genuine, I mean, and so you're saved. You're abiding there. You're not leaving, you're not departing, you're staying put. And part of that is you know you're waiting for Christ to come in the clouds with power. That's your hope. That's what you live for. That's what you expect to happen. That's one day what you're you're gonna you're gonna see with your own eyes. You believe that is true. You're waiting for that. You're orienting your life towards that. You're abiding in Christ. And in the meantime, you're trying to let His word fill you. A lot of other messages in the world. You're You don't want to believe those, you want to believe the message of Christ and his apostles, New Testament teaching. In that condition, Jesus is saying here, you are in a very good position. You are in a very blessed position. Nobody in the world's going to tell you that. That's why you have to listen to your Savior to really understand this The one who abides, you and particularly you are invited by Jesus. Because you're one who abides, because his word is in you, you are given an invitation. Pray. Ask. Ask whatever you wish. This is not an invitation to people who are not abiding, to people who are not listening to the word and letting it richly dwell in them. This is not for them. This is for you. This is a particular promise for you. Not just anybody can pick up the Bible and read this and say, This is a promise for me. No, you have to meet the conditions. And if you do, it's for you. Why should you be dedicated to prayer? Because Jesus gave you an invitation to pray. Ah, life is so simple. By the way, I say these things to myself all the time. Like how why does it take so long to let these simple truths just sink all the way deep down in, right? Why should I be praying? Because Jesus invited me to ask. Hmm. So simple, isn't it? Jesus loves me, this I know, and uh he told me to ask and I would receive. Not heavy doctrine here, guys. Jesus put a tool in my hands. He put a tool in the hands of the disciples that night. He said, This is what's going to happen. I'm going to be leaving. I'm going to be departing. But you're not going to be in a bad condition. The Holy Spirit's going to come. I'm still going to be with you. And I'm going to give you the opportunity to pray. You can ask whatever you want. I'll be gone. You won't see me, but go ahead and ask Well, that tool's been given to every disciple. It's like heaven's gates were opened up to us as Christians. There is now authority and power in your words as you look up to heaven. And you think about God there, and you talk to Him, there's now authority and power in what you say. How come? Because some prosperity preacher said so? No. Because this verse says so. Ask whatever you wish. Wow. So use prayer. Use it. It's been given to you. Use it. Don't sit on it and say, well, next year I'll get to that. Well, when my life gets a little bit less busy, then I'll get around to a more faithful prayer life. No. When's your life going to stop being busy? I thought that was going to happen a while ago. It doesn't happen. You know, if you're too busy in school, in college, and you don't have time for prayer life, then you're going to be too busy later. You're going to set a pattern for your life, you see. Use the gift. You do want good things to happen in your life, do you not? Imagine God promising you things and you could have them, but you don't get them because Well, you're too busy trying to fix your life your own way. Does that really make sanctified sense to your brain? You really think it's going to work out well that way? I mean I'm just supposed to warn you, right? That's not very wise. God has good things he wants to give to you. Is he lying? Is it for someone else? You want good things, you want lots of things to happen, you want to be used of God. You just don't understand. You can get more. You just aren't asking. You're just not asking. You're not asking properly, maybe. Ask, by the way, is not a profound word here. There's nothing deep. This is a very common word for asking. There are even different kinds of words for asking. This was the most common. I te'o. You know, and I would say this, you know, we we praise God, right? In some of our prayer, we worship, praise, lift up, adore God. And we should. And so a lot of our prayer, and we're told in the Bible, is to give thanks, also, right? And then sometimes we're just supposed to confess sins in our prayer. But please notice how important asking is too. Here Jesus is instructing, remember the last night before he leaves, and it's not a huge pep talk on how to worship or sing a song properly or anything like that. So I'm asking. This is what you're gonna need. I'm helping you to know something here. Ask and I'll do it. And he repeats this throughout the entire discourse. So we will be coming back to this theme over and over again. So he's instructing them. To ask, and that's the prayer that he's focusing on here. So important. In fact, if you just look back to chapter 14 and verse 13, we did it last time, but I want you to see it again. Notice that there Again, the part of prayer that he's saying is, Whatever you ask in my name, that will I do, so that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it. Ask, ask, ask. You see? He's concerned with that I'm going to leave you down here on earth, but the work of the church, the work of the kingdom of God, has to go forward. How's it going to go forward? Is it automatic? No, you have to. Ask. That means that sometimes churches aren't built and then evangelism doesn't happen and the work is held back and the monies are not available because the people aren't asking. There's so much work in the kingdom of God to do, and so much of it can be accomplished by prayer. And much of prayer is asking. God wants us to ask. And ask with these specific promises in mind. Lord, you said, so I'm asking. And he doesn't want us to give up on our prayers. We're going to talk about asking here a little bit more. What does it mean? If you ask, you say, well. I asked, but I didn't get it. But ask means ask and keep asking. Persevere in your prayer. There's a lot of parables about that too, right? Don't give up in your prayer. So you ask and then poof it should happen. No. That's not necessarily the way it works. We see all kinds of different requests in Scripture as God dealed with different people in different circumstances and we see that God is very complex and how he works in different people's circumstances is amazing. Sometimes he stretches it out, sometimes it's instant. David asked for victory in war, but a lot of the time he had, he had to hide in caves and things like that, you know. But then he eventually got the victories, right? And sometimes it was instant. Hannah asked for a baby boy. Remember his name? Samuel? And she got it. But in answering that request, she said, I'm going to give it back to you. I'm going to give him back to you. Samson. Everyone says he was so carnal. But one of the most dramatic answers to prayer in all of the Bible is a prayer-Samson offer. He picks up the jawbone of the donkey, kills the thousand Philistines. And he knows all that power came from God and he looks up and he says, God, did you give me such a great deliverance to have me die of thirst? He was just exhausted about ready to die of thirst. And God broke the ground open and water came out. Gulp, gulp, gulp The church at Antioch was praying about the whole mission of the church, and the Spirit of God spoke to the church, set apart from me Barnabas and Saul, unto the work which I have called them, and they were sent off to go to Crete and then into the southern Turkey area. missionary trip number one of Paul comes back and then there's a two and a three and the spreading of the church happens because they asked. Paul writes in Colossians 1 9, for this reason also since the day we heard of it, we have not ceased to pray for you And to ask that you may be filled with the knowledge of God's will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding. There's a great request. John 14, 16, just a little earlier in this context, Jesus said, I will ask the Father, and he will give you another helper, that he may be with you forever. Isn't it interesting? that having the Holy Spirit during the church age happens because Jesus practiced what he preached and he asked the Father to give something to us. Remember back in John 11 when Jesus shows up a little late? Lazarus is dead now. He's supposed to come early, and Jesus delayed four days. Remember that? And Martha says, Lord, if you'd been here, you know, my brother would not have died. But then she says, Even now I know that whatever you ask of God, God will give you. There it is. I know you ask, and God will give. Asking with the word and the heart. Of course, Christ had perfect faith and perfect understanding of God's will, so she had that confidence in that. Sometimes our asking is for small things. Small things, small stuff of life. That's maybe not so bad because uh a lot of life isn't just the everyday and uh we shouldn't feel bad about asking. Those little God taking care of little details in life I think shows that He He knows that you're there, He knows what you're going through, and you can ask for little things and God can do that. Young mothers, you know, you pray for patience and joy as you serve the little ones at home. That's good. That's uh maybe it seems like a very big thing to you, but in the scope of world affairs, that's a small thing. Others may pray for help with a test. You've got something coming that's making you nervous. You're asking God, please help me with it. A business meeting. Finding a friend, maybe that's a little larger request, and you're asking, I want to find a friend. Recovery from an illness, I always pray a lot when I'm sick. A lot. I mean a lot. A lot of it's complaining, it's not faith, and so I have to get corrected. But our prayers must not rotate around our needs only. Now I know you're gonna amend this, but I I the thing to do is to monitor your requests. How many of my requests are beyond me? And how many of them are just about me? How many of them are just about the immediate presence? Someone's sick, we pray. Which we should. But our prayers have to transcend. Our asking has to get beyond our little world and it has to go out. See You can't travel every place and preach the gospel, but you can travel every place as you pray, spiritually speaking. You can be there with them in prayer and pray. So does that really work that way? Yes. How does that work that way? I don't know. I I have no idea. I pray for the missionary in Spain and uh good things can happen there, and so can you. So you can help people in Spain. How about that? Isn't that neat? That's wonderful. It's powerful. I don't know if you believe it. The disciples in this context were not really thinking about praying for a sore throat. They were, in this context, about to be left by the Lord with the Spirit coming, and the entire worldwide spread of the gospel was going to land on the shoulders of these eleven men. So now you know what they'd be asking about. God help. They were going to be persecuted, thrown into jail. If there were going to be any new churches to grow and spread, it would have to come from them. If someone was going to hear about the gospel in the hostile Jerusalem crowd, it was going to come from their mouths. Ask, they were told. Churches are going to start through your ministry. Lives are going to be one to the kingdom. Workers for the church are going to be gained. People are going to mature. The spread of eternal life really was in the balance then. This was the business of Jesus Christ. This was the work to which he called them. This was the priority for the new covenant age So, from the context, this promise of Christ was really not for small things. It was not primarily for asking for a good seat at the ball game. Steve. A good deal at the store. Oh Lord, I just gotta get a good deal. For your husband to remember your birthday. It's a nice thing. It's not really primarily about that. You've got to get out and beyond that. You can say that, but you've got to get beyond that. By the way, that's why we encourage praying with other people. Because when you pray with other people, you're like, oh yeah, I forgot to pray for that. Oh yeah, we should be praying for that kind of thing, shouldn't we? Oh my, that person's really thinking about missions. How come that doesn't enter into my head? Because you're not thinking about missions. That's why you pray and lose God, because it can help you think about missions, right? And it helps you get going. When our thoughts and our hearts are filled with Christ's teaching, we start thinking like Christ. There's a lost world out there. There's churches that are suffering They're families that are falling apart. The devil is working. There's spiritual warfare that needs to be done. Pastor Allen's going to be preaching on spiritual warfare in a few weeks. This stuff is real. It goes on. We have to pray. We have to fight with prayer. We have to be alert in an attitude of prayer. It's all over the Bible. You know, R. A. Tori's famous quote, he says, Pray for great things. Expect great things. Work for great things. But above all, pray. Just make sure you're praying. What are the things that keep you from praying? What are the things that keep you from asking? Here's some ideas. Jot them down. Or just listen until it's the one that you know and then jot that one down that it applies to you. Staying up too late at night. Yeah, let's just let that sink in a little. And then you don't get up in the morning, oh my, I just don't have time for prayer this morning. Coming to church late. Oh yeah, we got some of you today. Blame it on the snow, I know There's a prayer meeting over there. Right over there every Sunday. It doesn't go anywhere, doesn't hide, it's right over there. Join 'em. How about this? Anger and bitter feelings in the home. That keep couples from praying together. Men, when's the last time you came to your wife, took her hand, said we're praying together? You say, but I'm embarrassed. I don't know how to pray as well as she does. It doesn't matter. Just pick up a verse and say something about the verse, talk to God, begin to learn. And then start meeting with other guys and learn how to pray. Don't let pride keep you from learning to pray. There's distractions, right? Yeah, I know you need to be responsible, pay your bills, do a good job in the workplace, but those monetary pursuits can keep you from being serious about a prayer life. Not using your uh opportunities to pray when they're given to you, the mission cards, the prayer sheet that we pass out. Frankly, sometimes it's just laziness, right? Sometimes you don't pray because you don't think some people are like, well, I don't know what to pray about, I don't have any needs. I mean, what would I pray about? That's because probably you're healthy and you have the money that you want and you forget that all that could be taken away from you, A And B, there's a lot of people that don't have that. You could be praying for them. And C, what about missions and evangelism, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera? What's there to pray about? I think maybe the number one reason we don't pray is you don't think it'll make a difference. Mm-hmm. Well if I pray, will it really make a difference? Life goes on as it always does, whether I pray or not. That is not true. That is not true. That's what the devil wants you to believe. If that's what you think in your head, you're not listening to Scripture. Lusts in the heart, throw water on the fires of the Spirit. When you start having affections to want to pray, and you start to really want to get into the Word of God, and you sense this is something that's not from you, and all of a sudden you're excited about those things. Just a little bit of lust just throws water on all of that. Now you're all about you you and your comforts and what you want and takes it away. Being out shopping all day, out running errands all day can kind of saturate your mind with that. If you're not careful, you don't stay alert, and all of that takes away the desire to pray. John Bunyan said prayer will make a man cease from sin. Or sin will entice a man to cease from prayer. Martin Luther said, if I should neglect prayer but a single day, I should lose a great deal of the fire of faith. I bought one of those radio-controlled helicopters from my son. It's for my son, but I play with it, you know how it is. And we we enjoy flying it around, dive bombing Sue and the girls and having a good time with it. But every once in a while the battery begins to die out and it just won't lift anymore. It just keeps getting lower and lower. And we're like, look out, it's coming down. And that's how our lives are when we're prayerless. And we don't understand why we can't get going sometimes because we're prayerless. There's no battery charge, there's no energy. So the Lord is urging us to pray. Ask. Can you picture Jesus saying that? Ask. Why aren't you asking? Ask whatever you wish. That's a wide open prayer promise. Ask whatever you wish. Whatever you wish. Well, that's for those who have the word abiding in them, so what they wish will be in line with what God wants. Let me say this. It clearly does not please God when men don't ask. Do you remember a king named Ahaz? He was given a wonderful promise in the Old Testament. Isaiah 7. 11. Ask a sign for yourself. Sign means miracle. Imagine ask to do a miracle. Oh, this is good. I'd take like five weeks to try to figure out what miracle I'd want to see. You know what I'm saying? Ask a sign for yourself from the Lord your God. Make it deep as Sheol or high as heaven. I mean how many people get that opportunity from God, right? That almost is like a genie dropping down next to them. Ask whatever you want, whatever it is. But Ahaz said, I will not ask, nor will I test the Lord. God was not pleased with that. He said, Well, then the Lord Himself will give you a sign, and it was the virgin birth of Jesus Christ. He wasn't pleased with his king that didn't ask. Just look uh forward a little bit at verse 16 in chapter 15, if you would. You did not choose me. Verse 16. You did not choose me, Jesus said, but I chose you and appointed you that you would go and bear fruit, that your fruit would remain. So that whatever you ask of the Father in my name, He may give to you. There it is. Whatever you ask of the Father in my name, He may give it to you. Looking forward, just go to chapter 16 and verse 24. It's all throughout here. Until now you have asked for nothing in my name. Ask, and you will receive, so that your joy may be made full. And then we could throw in the statements in the uh Gospel of Matthew. Ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock and it will be open to you. If you then being evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give what is good to those who ask him? Matthew 21, 22. And all things that you ask in prayer, believing, you will receive This is what Paul says in the benediction in Ephesians 3. 20. Now to him who is able to do far more abundantly beyond all that we ask or think. According to the power that works within us. Wow. We've only begun to ask, only begun to believe. 1 John 5, 14. This is the confidence which we have before God that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests which we have asked from him. That means we know it even before it gets answered, we know it's coming. He's not promising to gratify your flesh. He's not promising to make you rich He's not promising for your little kingdom to grow. It's about you entering into the king's work and then asking in that conjunction, believing beyond where you are It doesn't have to just be the way that it is. It can be different. And it's not because you're not asking, or not persevering in your asking, or asking and not believing, see People say that prayer doesn't change things, it changes you. That's not exactly accurate. It does change things, and it changes you. It does both. Here's some guidance of things you can ask for to be more fruitful. And this is just general prayers. You have your own more specific ones. Pray for the open door of evangelism for our church. The church to work together, leaders in evangelism ministry, opportunities with open door for evangelism where people are listening and hearing and getting saved. Pray for that Pray for the gamma smaller churches that are getting started for them to take root for their pastors and the pastors wise to be careful so that those fledgling churches don't fall apart but they remain Strong, pray for them, intercede for them, pray for missionaries to gain an open door of ministry where they are, to finish the training that they need to so they can be ready for their families as well. Pray for the leadership training in this church. Pray for the purity of the leaders Pray for leaders not to get discouraged. Pray for the spiritual help of those in your small group. Go around go around the room and remember every single person that's in your small group, pray for them by name. And then ask them how things are going. Pray for them that way. Be faithful to that. You say, I don't have a small group. Get in a small group. Have a group of people that you're praying for, that you're giving yourself to. Pray for the men to leave their homes with love for Christ's sake. Pray young people will realize that they can have a great calling, and some of them will be called into mission service. But by all means, ask. Ephesians 6. 18 says, with all prayer and petition, pray at all times in the Spirit, and with this in view, be on the alert, with all perseverance. And petition for all the saints. There's four alls in that verse. All prayer, all times, all perseverance for all the saints. It's a lot of prayer. It's a lot of alls. Okay. That's asking. Third, the guarantee for prayer. The guarantee. This is the last part of verse seven. Yes, we're still in verse seven. Ask whatever you wish, and here it is. Here's the promise, here's the guarantee, and it will be done for you. Oh, this is so simple. This is a Bible promise. It's a Bible promise to disciples. It guarantees Christians that when they ask, as their hearts are filled with the word, whatever they wish, God will do it. It's given to us collectively, but it's also personal. Not just anyone's prayers, yes, as we pray together as a church, as we have prayer meetings, but also when you are praying by yourself. It will be done for you. Can you personalize that text? It will be done for you. Bill, Tony, Rod. It'll be done for you. Scott Steve, Bruce, Brian, it will be done for you, Jeff and Jason. That's you. You're a disciple. Personalize that. Angie and Sharon, that's a promise for you. Gina and Sarah, that's a promise for you. Think about it. Tracy and Amy and Karen and Judy, Martha, Yolanda. And yes, you too, Nazarene. That's a promise for you. That's a guarantee, actually. How good are guarantees? Yeah, right. It's not gonna work that well. I know the product's not gonna be that good. Everyone proclaims their loyalty and what they're gonna do to help and this and that. But God's faithful. What does it mean that God is faithful to you? Here's what we wrote in our doctrinal statement. God is faithful to all his promises and covenants. His word is absolutely reliable. His character is completely dependable. His promises of blessing are always fulfilled. His warnings of judgment are real, apart from repentance on the part of those who are Warned, they are always carried out. His predictions of the future always come true. Faithful. One great benefit of abiding in Christ is answered prayer from a faithful Christ. This obviously is meant to encourage us, to motivate us to pray. I don't know of a better motivation than this. I don't know how people can walk up to a Buddhist temple, for example. And you see one of those little prayer wheels with all the prayers written on the cards and they just take the handle and they just kind of turn it. They're told that that's just as effective as talking and praying. They just turn it a few times and said ten thousand prayers. And that I don't that's not praying I mean talk about skeptical. What kind of a god would listen to mindless prayers? Confidence comes from knowing who you're talking to, what he's promised, what his character is, and he's there and he loves you and he cares for you and he's powerful and he's all wise and he's Listening to you right now, his ears are wide open, and you got his word in your heart, and you've got faith, and now you talk to him and say, God, I'm asking you. And you're confident. You're confident. Succinct guarantees and promises throughout this whole discourse. Chapter 14, verse 13, again, he says, I will do it. Here it says, it will be done for you. Chapter 16, verse 23, he will give it. Ah too difficult understanding that promise. You know, sometimes people say, you know, the Bible's hard to understand. Not this part. The problem is not understanding the promise, the problem is believing it, practicing it, seeing the value of it. I know that faith in prayer is a problem. It's a problem for me, it's a problem for you. For some of us more than for others. And for just about all of us, we struggle to believe at some point. We really do. Be honest. Be honest. You struggle to believe God that when you go and pray, what's He really going to do? But when prayers are answered, it deepens our faith. When you pray for courage, and courage comes, you understand God worked, and that encourages you to keep praying. When you pray for endurance through a trial, So that you can learn and you grow stronger through the trial rather than it wilting you, you know God is at work. When you pray for one of your children through the years and you see them come to Christ and it's answered, you're confident you want to keep praying When you pray for a church plant and it actually emerges, you realize that God can do great things. You pray for reconciliation with someone that you don't think you can stand to be in the presence with them, and then it comes about you understand that God can change the very emotions in your heart. Wow, God did that. I can pray more. I'm gonna pray more. But please notice in this promise, Jesus does not say, and this is important for your faith, he does not say how fast the prayer request would be answered, right? It doesn't say it will be done for you that day, that hour. It says it'll be done for you. He doesn't even say how it would be done. We know the who, it has to be God in Christ, right? He doesn't even say that, but we know that. How's it going to be answered? We're not told. When's it going to be answered? We're not told. We're just told the outcome, the guarantee. It will be done for you. Well what's the order in which that's going to happen? He doesn't tell you. He doesn't promise that. See, it's very important you get this So that your faith can increase in praying. Otherwise you're going to say like, this is the way it ought to work, okay? There's Joe. Joe's unsaved. I'm going to pray for Joe now. Lord Lord, save Joe. Amen. Thank you for hearing me, Lord. You said ask. It'll be given to you. I'm expecting a phone call from Joe any minute, at the latest, by midnight tonight. And that's our concept of the promise. And when it doesn't happen, we're like, see, it doesn't work, work for Peter, Paul, not me Well, of course, God may do that. There are some immediate answers to prayer, but most of the answers to prayer are not immediate. They often come slowly and after much earnest prayer. It says in Luke 6. 12 that Jesus, he didn't lack any faith. It says he He went off to the mountain to pray and he spent the whole night in prayer to God. That must have been some persevering requests. The whole night. Eight hours? Eight hours of prayer? Well that's diligence from the Son of God, asking the Father for things. Colossians 4:2 says, devote yourselves to prayer. So there's a devotion there, right? Keeping alert in it with an attitude of thanksgiving. So you keep alert, you keep saying, Thank you, God, and then you wait earnestly with expectation. The Lord tests and tries the hearts and the motives of his people. By not answering your petition right away, God is not saying that he's uninterested. He's not saying he's not capable. He's testing you. How badly do you want that request? What kind of a father gives a kid instantly what they want without getting them to think through what they're asking for? In Psalm 142, 1, it says, I cry aloud with my voice to the Lord, I make supplication with my voice to the Lord. That wasn't a two-second prayer, and it was over, slap, and then an answer came. Job 6. 8, oh, that my request might come to pass, and that God would grant my longing. He's longing, and he keeps longing. Psalm 55, 1. Give ear to my prayer, O God, and do not hide yourself from my supplications. Do you hear earnestness there? Why do you want what you're asking? What's your motive? You remember the request that uh John and James's mother had of Christ, Lord grant that these two sons of mine sit at your right hand and your left hand. And what did Jesus say? You don't know what you're asking. Are you able to drink the sea? When you ask for something, there are other things attached to that. I mean there's a lot of other things attached to that. You might not be ready for those other things that are attached to that. And so there's got to be a delay because he's a loving Heavenly Father and He's got to get you ready. We want a zigzag pattern to answer that thing. Maybe way over here. And then way back over here. And then you end up at point B. It's not point A, point B, it's over. God's wise, he knows. I like a Romans 1:10 where Paul. Paul is a good prayer life. And he says this: always in my prayers, making requests, if perhaps now, at last. By the will of God, I may succeed in coming to you. He had been praying. He wanted to come to Rome. No, you gotta go here. No, you gotta go there. No, you gotta go there. Now, finally, this was the time that God. Yes, so what Jesus said was true. Ask and it will be given to you Took some time, other work for Paul to do before he got to Rome. Example number one, I just want to work this into you a little bit. You pray for a job. But no job comes. God makes you trust him more. You don't want to do that. He wants you to do that. You have to learn a lesser lifestyle first. Why? Because there's blessing in that. So no job comes. Well, God's not hearing my prayer. Yes, He is. He's working on you. Example number two. You pray to have a friend, and you go out, go to a social, nobody likes you. Don't laugh, that's hurtful to people. And then what they find out is God's trying to teach them why nobody likes you. And it's not your bad breath. It's the way you talk to people, the way you interact with people, the way it's about you, or your overbearing in the relationship. And God says, you want a friend, deal with the character. I'll give you the friend. So it gets worse. You ask, and it gets worse. What's the point in asking if it gets worse? I'll just keep my mouth shut. Because God wants you whole. See? Showing you your character You pray for a ministry to go well. I did this, I was at another church, this is like uh twenty years ago, praying for certain ministries I'm all excited about, and all just flopping. Like just flopping. It's like God says, what's going on? I'm like, I'm here. Other people in the church don't want to minister. I want to minister. I mean I'm here. Give me whatever. Just put it on my love doing that This is not working, that's not working, people not coming out to this. I'm like, what is happening? Maybe I'm not praying enough. I pray more. Still nothing. God was trying to get my eyes up and beyond. He's calling me into the pastoral ministry. He's trying to get me to look at larger things. I was focused on smaller things. God didn't want to give what I was asking because he's going to give me something what? Better, better for his kingdom, better for development of my gifts. And so off to the master's seminary I went. You pray for better communication with your wife, and then you get in more fights. Say Pastor, that prayer thing doesn't work. Oh it works. It works. You don't realize there are lots of issues that are uh that need to come out. You don't want to deal with them. You just want to smile, say, sweetie, let's just always hug and forgive and Let's just move forward. And that's like what about the twenty-five offenses that have happened over the last few months? We gotta work through why you're like that. Or what about your non-verbal communication, the way you you say to her with your body that you're not really all that important to me? You gotta hear that. And then you're gonna get better communication in your home. Example number five. You pray and someone you want someone to listen to the gospel. You're faithful evangelists, you're out there speaking. And you try this person, this person, this person, no one's listening. Sometimes it's hardness of heart. Don't be discouraged with that. But maybe the Lord's teaching you something there too. Maybe he's trying to teach you to be more gracious in the way you talk to people. You'll win ears better. Maybe there's some needs that they shared with you and you ignored and went right to the gospel and didn't think about You can show the gospel in love by giving them and helping them with their need, then talk to them about the gospel. Maybe there's some hypocrisy in your life. They've seen it and they don't want to listen to you. Maybe it's just them, and so persevere in your prayer, but make sure of those things. Yes, God will do it, but He will do it in a more complete and higher and complicated way than you right now understand and are asking. In this, he's teaching you how to ask better, more according to his word, you see. So, what happens when we have total silence from heaven? Well, it could mean that you have silence from heaven and God is not answering your prayers because you're in sin. And you want God to ignore sin, but there's this stubborn fact about God, he is holy. God does not hear you because you're presently disobedient to him. You're in a sexual relationship outside of marriage Or before marriage. You're pushing the boundaries with that. You know you're flirting with it. You ought not to be doing it. And now you're asking and God's not answering. Or you're asking, but you're doubting God. You really don't think He's going to listen to you. You doubt Him. Be honest. You doubt God. And that's why He's not going to answer. Maybe uh you're setting a bad example at work. You're cutting corners, taking liberties. The boss said not to do something, you're doing it, you're sneaking, and your prayers are hindered. Speaking of hindered prayers, isn't that what Peter talked about with husbands? God will not hear your request if you're not treating your wife with kindness, right? Well, I keep praying for this sin problem I have, and I keep praying to be able to manage my life better, and I just don't get any answer. How are you treating your wife? Or silence might not mean that. Silence from heaven about your request might mean that you're going to have to wait for some of those reasons we said before. He's going to answer it, but there's There's waiting. Maybe the waiting has to do with spiritual warfare. He wants you to engage in the battle more. And as you engage more, you understand the forces in this world That are against righteousness and he wants to mature you more. He wants to get you out of the way you were praying five years ago. He wants you to be a deeper inner intercessory uh saint for the rest of the church, and so you need to learn there's spiritual battles. You need to be more aggressive in your prayer. You need to linger longer. If our Lord had to pray all night, what about us? Or silence from heaven might be that actually God is not silent. He actually did answer your prayer, but your eyes aren't looking at it. This one's the one that happens to me. Ah, the people aren't listening, Lord. They're not obeying, they're not changing. Well, what about that person over there? See what's happening in their life? Yeah, but that's just one. Well what about the testimony you heard over here? Okay, that's two. Not that he's talking to me. I mean these are thoughts that come in my head. It's like God's working. He is working, but sometimes we don't see what he's doing. Or silence is there Because God is going to work out the answer to that prayer when you get more serious about it and start doing the things you're supposed to do in conjunction with the answer to that prayer. You see, you need to be active in doing something to show that request means something to you. Lord. Show me which job you want me to have, which school you want me to go to, which man you want me to marry. What are you doing to look? Are you busy? Are you working? There's an anonymous writer. He said, prayer without work is like an empty wagon. Lots of noise, but no load. Some people are talkers, but it's empty. Their lack of work shows they really don't mean it. But when the prayer is answered, there's joy in answered prayer, and we're going to close with this. There's a joy in answered prayer. More than anything, it is answered prayer that inspires us to more praying Psalm 28, 6, blessed be the Lord, because he has heard the voice of my supplication. He's excited. Psalm 116. 1. I love the Lord because he hears my voice and my supplication. You ought to have a request That you could share with someone else in church saying, you know what? I have an answer to prayer. Here it is. You have a prayer testimony. Do you have one? Could you give one this morning? You ought to have one. Are you ready? Prayerlessness, of course, happens as people get worldly and distracted, and that leads to more prayerlessness. But when you have answers to prayer, that leads to more prayer, and you want to pray more. I'm going to close here with a quote from E. M. Bounds. on his great work on prayer. Leave you with this thought, and we'll have to go to part three next time. Unanswered prayers are training schools for unbelief. An imposition and a nuisance and impertinence to God and to man. Answers to prayer are the only surety that we have prayed aright What marvelous power there is in prayer. What untold miracles it works in this world. What untold benefits to men does it secure to those who pray. Why is it that the average prayer by the millions goes a begging for an answer? The millions of unanswered prayers are not to be solved by the mystery of God's will. We are not the sport of his sovereign power. He is not playing at make-believe in his marvelous promises to answer prayer. The whole explanation is found in our wrong praying. We ask and receive not because we ask amiss. If all answered prayers were dumped into the ocean, they would come very near filling it. Child of God, can you pray? Are your prayers answered? If not, why not? Answered prayer is the proof of your real praying. And then he goes on. The mere act of praying is no test of our relation to God. The act of praying may be a real dead performance. It may be the routine of habit, but to pray and receive clear answers, not once or twice, but daily, this is the sure test. And is the gracious point of our vital connection with Jesus Christ. And so we have a promise from Jesus Christ. If we abide in him, and he abides in us, wonderful things will happen. What to say the fourth point, the results of prayer, to next time. We're going to pray and then uh Pastor Lawson is going to come. And lead us uh in the Lord's Supper. We'll have a hymn and then Pastor Lawson will come and lead us. Father, we pray your word would be pressed upon us. The lack of faith and confidence we have in your word might Cause us to seek more faith from you, that you will deepen us not just individually but corporately to pray zealously and with faith, asking great things from you, that we may see your power and your glory at work And that you will challenge all of us in our prayer lives to ask the way we ought to, Lord. We have prayed it in Jesus' name, looking forward to your work in our hearts. Amen.