Well welcome this morning, this Easter morning, Resurrection Day, that we will gather as God's people in the congregation of the saints. That we may worship him in spirit, in truth, that we might have true fellowship with each other, encouraging each other That we may all grow up into maturity in Christ our Savior who is risen, and because he is risen, we will also rise from the dead. Okay, so so far we have discussed the principle of inspiration That is, all scripture is God breathed, inspired. It comes from God. He's the source of it. It does not come from man. It's not the ideas of man. And God revealed it to us through his prophets, spokesmen who spoke for God. And God revealed to them using their personalities, they're literally styles. Um his word written down exactly as God intended it to be And God has passed that word down to us generation after generation. The original manuscripts we do not have, but what we do have are copies of copies And these have been given to us by those who have gone before us. God's Word, it was recognized to be God's Word, it was preserved It was copied, passed out from church to church as time went on. And the books that we have today is what we call the canon of scripture. Those books recognized by the church to be authoritative, to be written by the apostles or their associates. Um so so but I just want to review all this to talk about seven misconceptions about the canonization of the New Testament. Okay. Um Playing number one, um can um constructing the cannon was a late idea and imposed by power plays That's what the Catholics claim. They claim that in the somewhere in the three hundreds and four hundreds that the church councils met behind closed doors and they argued and debated and and um about which books to include and and not which books were the canon But as we have seen, that cannot possibly be the case because the believers of the early church, the first century church, they expected new books because it was a New Testament, a new covenant And the covenant required copies of books. Each party would be given a copy. And the panic grew organically and early. The church recognized these books written by the apostles. They received them as God's word. Furthermore, they It was grown organically. That is, these church, these books were recognized as they were written, as they were received. For example, when John wrote Revelation, he would write it to seven particular churches in Asia Mai or Turk or present-day Turkey. And these churches, when they received This message, they recognized it as being from the apostle, being from God, and so they would read the book in the worship service. They would make copies and they would pass them out out to nearby churches. And so as these books were copied, passed out to churches. That's how the word um how that's how the Bibles that's how these books were were recognized by the early um Christian community. These books were recognized long before these church councils began to meet. So that's misconception number one. Okay, miss misconception number number two. Your New Testament authors did not think that they were writing Scripture. That is they they claim that it was the church itself some time later that sort of came up with this idea that, hey, these books are We will identify these books as from God. However, the authors were fully aware that they represented Christ. They spoke with authority. They spoke as God spoke to them. And the church recognized it And these books have inherent authority from Christ and not infused authority from the church. And if indeed it was infused authority, that would imply that the purpose of these books has changed. And Paul again would say has that all scripture is God breathed. So Paul suddenly recognized These writings as authoritative. Okay, misconception number three. Early Christians disagreed over which books comprise the canon. Um well let's make note that there was no literary chaos There was no chaos in the first century, there was no chaos in the second century, or or even during these church councils, there was no chaos. Um at least twenty-two books of these twenty-seven were recognized very early as being authoritative from from Christ himself. There's only a small number of books um that were seriously debated and it's probably because these books were not widely circulated Um the smaller books um would not have been widely as well known as, say, the gospel counts. And also let's note that God gave Scripture to normal historical channels. That is, he gave them to people who copied the books and distributed them throughout the the the throughout the Rome in I mean and Umpire. And so let's just note that these Christians who received these books, they were willing to die for these books. They were persecuted, so they had to know which books were from the apostles. So they had to know which books to die for. The fourth misconception is that there was no canon until the fourth or fifth centuries. However Let's just look at look at history. Look at this early church fathers in the second century. They cited these books. In fact, by the end of the second century, every book was cited. Um it was already a functioning canon. Even though they may not have called it a canon, it was still a canon. Origin lists nearly all the books in a message that he was preached from the book of Joshua. Now so let's let's also note that the canon is not defined by a list of books. Um the canon is is defined upon b upon which books were recognized by the early church as being from God Oh and by the way, this is not in the document originally that you see, but but I did post these on on the on the website. Yes, Ricardo. I don't understand what you mean. Um Joshua slide any. Origen preached a method, a sermon from the book of Joshua. And during this sermon, he mentioned all of these books. I'm not sure how he got into that topic, but that's what he did. Okay. And this was long before the church councils. Okay. Okay, misconception number five. The New Testament Apocrypha books are just as valid as the New Testament books. However, the Gospels and the Epistles were written by the Apostles or their associates in the first century. Later second century books were not accepted. And most of these books were written by the Gnostics. And of course they would be soundly rejected. Okay, misconception number six. The New Testament of books were just as popular as the New Testament books. However, if you look at the citations from the early church fathers, their apocrypha, what we might call the apocrypha books, they were actually relatively seldom. Cited. By and large, the early church fathers cited the books of the apostles. Not these extra Apocrypha books. And then also finally, the New Testament books were chosen by the church. However, the church never saw itself as picking books. The church only recognized what was already affirmed. That which had already had the voice of Jesus. These books were cited already by the church long before these church councils. Now there were there were some books that were questions. Like for example, we we mentioned that 2 Peter was questioned because there was some debate about is it actually from Peter? Because some people say if you look at 1 Peter, if you look at 2 Peter, there is some differences. And yes, there are some differences. However, there are also some similarities. Okay Larry, can you clarify when you mean the church as in the Church Universal, not to be confused with the Catholic Church, just some clarification on your use of the church? Oh church, yes. Church In my sense, is the church is the region-wide church represented by these by these church councils. In the third century and in the fourth century. This was long before the Roman Catholic Church Okay. Now here's here's an exam question. It's a simple meeting. My question is, in each typically in your Bible, the um editor may have a book introduction. Telling you a little bit about the book, you know, who wrote it, its purpose, its themes, its outline, things like that. Now, in my father-in-law's Bible, I started a book introduction to ecclesiastics. And this Bible goes back. And so my question is if you were to to reach to read this Would you say that it could be true? It might be true, or there's no way that it could be true. So here's what this book introduction says. This book reveals serious reflections on the meaning of life by this witch Jew named Kolida. Near the beginning of the second century BC. The author, impersonating Solomon, explains that he left no stone unturned in his effort to discover the meaning of life. The weight of evidence points to a date much later this follow. Could this be true? Okay. Um why would you say I don't think so? It was four hundred years of silence between Old Testament and John the Baptist. Okay. Okay, yes. I mean because we're looking at this rich Jew, whoever he is, um, living in the second century BC. Um in The editor of this Bible assumes that the Ecclesiastes was actually not written by Solomon, but much but written in much Later. However, this second century BC is in the middle of this period of prophetic silence silence, which the Jews recogniz And they would not say that anything written during this period is part of the Old Testament canon. Also, could this be true when he says here, a striking characteristic of the book is found in the frequently recurring fluctuations between despair and assurance. This can be explained on the ground of subsequent interpolations. That is the edit. That is this person actually sort of inserted additional things. A pious Jewish thinker in the day was attracted to this book and interpolated some of the disparing conclusions with others of a more orthodox nature. summarize it. It I mean he goes um he goes on but but but but but but this is the summary. So so this so the editor of this Bible is claiming that Ecclesiastes Is actually edited in that some person actually inserted things that were more orthodox Now could that be true? Okay, again, flatly, no. Because these books were not Modified. They were not redacted. Um they may have been rearranged Um sus in the quilt may have been changed at times to modernize it. But these books were held as scripture by the Jews, and they would not have modified it. Okay. So let's go on to the notes. Um okay I I I think we're on page thirty-seven So let's um let's talk about the divine preservation of scripture. Okay, we have seen That God has acted directly and actively in giving us scriptural truth through inspiration. He did it through the apostles, and their autographs were inspired and errant. Exactly as God intended it to be. The Bible is God's word, which he gave us through his chosen prophets. And apostles, so they wrote exactly the words that God intended this to have. That is, the original autographs are without error And large portions of it came with authenticating signs and miracles. Now the question is in number two. But does God guarantee the transmission of Scripture down through all the preceding centuries so that we have today the inherent words of the original autographs Does God, who ensure that the original autographs were inerrant, also ensure that his words are protected through the very, very human element of transmission? Because now we go from inspiration, which is God Himself, to transmission, which is people. So now we consider the doctrine of preservation. That is the acts of God by which He has preserved through the centuries, the written record of his special revelation for his people. Now, if inspiration is a miracle, and it is indeed Preservation is more providence. So there's a difference between inspiration and preservation. When we talk about the doctrine of inspiration or the doctrine of preservation. One is a miracle, that is God acting, and one is a pro is is providence, God acting within history among people. Now, so number three. Now we consider the doctrine of preservation that is the acts of God by which He has preserved through the centuries the written work of His Fresh rev revelation for his people. It begins with the specific instructions that he gave to his people to preserve it. It includes The providential way in which God has kept his word by the diligent efforts of human agents through the millennia It began when it was originally written, and it's continued through the time that has it's been gathered into the collections of canonical writings that we see today. That is, God would give his word through the apostles and the apostles, through the prophets and the apostles. They would write it, write it down, They would deliver it to the people. The people would receive the word, recognize it as has his word. They would preserve the word Like in the old testament, they would they would they would they they would preserve it in the holy place tabernacle temple um and then they would make copies because The manuscripts were perishable. They did not last all that long. So they had to be copied and copied again. So now let's Note here. Scripture certainly does have a teaching on this subject. For example, Psalm 119, verse 89 states Forever, O Lord, your word is firmly fixed in the heavens. The phrase firmly fixed denotes something set in place in a lasting way such as a pillar permanently placed within a building when can restrocted So note here that God's word is fixed in heaven. It's not on earth, implying that God is a permanent and perfect record in heaven of his inspired written revelation to man. So God knows what his word is, even if we may question it. Likewise, Isaiah 40, verse 8 speaks, The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word about God will stand forever. That is, Scripture is eternal. And what that means is that it's God's word delivered to us, and we are responsible for it. Generation after generation, all people are expected to abide by it, including us. And it will be fulfilled. It will be precisely fulfilled. That's what God means when it says the word of love of God will stand forever. If God has said it, it will be fulfilled exactly as God intended it to be. And also noti Notice this. When Jesus said in the Sermon on the Mount, for truly I say unto you, until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot will pass from the wall, until all is accomplished And Jesus is saying this, that the Old Testament law, every part of it will be fulfilled. And not anything will be left undone. Exactly as God intended. Even an Iota or John, even the smallest mark of of a Hebrew character. That will not pass away. That would that will not be changed. Now that does that doesn't necessarily guarantee that what we have today is Without any change in jot and titles. So the Yoda refers to the yod, the smallest letter of the Hebrew alphabet. The dot describes the smallest of a pen that would distinguish one letter from another. That is, you know, we we might think of the mark that's that would separate the English O from the the letter Q. So do we have heavily preservation down to the smallest pin? Well, yes And no. It will be fulfilled. Yes, it will. But does it apply to copies that we have? Well, in some sense You have to nuance this. Some sense, yes, because God certainly did call for careful diligence from his people in preserving the text. That is, when sh when the people received the text, they were responsible for Reading it, understanding it, obeying it, and passing it on down to the next generation So even those in the next generations, even though they they they they were removed one generation or more, they were still responsible. And so the people were responsible for preserving this work. And also God gave repeated commands for his people to not to add or take away from his work. Such as Deuteronomy 4 verse 2. Therefore it's clear that what God said to his people through the prophets was exactly what he wanted to say. The people were cowboy to obey all of it, but also to preserve it to the very letter And remember the autographs were on perishable material, so copies would be required, and then copy the copies would be required. So it would be essential for God's people to exercise extreme caution, care, not only in the process of interpreting God's word, but also in the process of transmitting and translating God's eternal word So there's a responsibility to us to preserve the word And that includes both hearing it, obeying it, and teaching it, transmitting it to the next generation Now the question is, since we don't even have the original aut autographs about God breathed scripture or even A copy of the original autographs. Um we only have copies of copies Many of which have various omissions of the complete text and variations from other menus graphs. Oh and and by the way I d uh I just want to say a menu gopt it's just a handwritten document. So we would have menus clips up to the time or or or a little bit beyond the invention of the printing press. And I think right about right now there's about five thousand or so manuscripts Code scripts that are known and have been copied and that are known and have been cataloged, most of which are incomplete Some of which are just fragments, some of which are in horrible shape, some of which may only have a verse or two, or partial verse Um so that's what we have. So with all of these menus code grips that are in varying degrees of deterioration, how can we context That's the question for us. So we enter the discipline of textual criticism. Now, the term criticism does not imply that we are criticizing or rendering judgment upon the Bible or the text of the Bible. It's grammatical since the term refers to merely the exercise of judgment. We are looking at these manuscripts and we are forming a judgment. And the term implies making discriminating evaluations among textual variants found across the ancient manuscript That is, if we see one manual script, and we see a second second one, we notice that there's a difference between the two. Because again they'll copy. And again, those who copied it, we can trust they did the best job they could. But they were human. They didn't make errors. So when we see a difference between two menus grips We have to make a judgment. Which is the correct reading. Now, textual criticism can be applied to any ancient document by Bible or or otherwise. But it's gen it's generally commonly used on the Bible because we have so much of the of the Bible. Uh I mean there are other ancient documents, but those are pretty few in, you know So if someone really, really wants to make a name for himself in this field of textual criticism, he's gonna look at the Bible. And let's just note that the number of fragments that we have, or the number of manuscripts that we have, they far exceed anything else. found in the ancient poor work. If we look at the S S A D M C T T Odyssey Um Illy Ed, you know, Odyssey we find very few copies. If we look at Um see Judas Caesar's d depiction of his wars, again, there's actually very few copies. But if we look at the Bible, we have many of these. Now so the so the question is, what do we do when we find a difference? Like for like for example First Corinthians chapter thirteen, verse three, from the ESD, Paul is saying Well back, let me just begin with verse 1, 2, verse 3. If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am become a noisy gone. Or a clinging symbol. And if I have prophetic powers in understanding all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith so as to re remove knowledge, But have not love, I am nothing. If I give away all that I have, if I deliver up my body to be burnt, but have not love, I am nothing. That is, if Paul could say, if I have all the gifts, anything anyone ever wants, tongues, um, faith, um Um everything else, if if if I have all these gifts that you all desire But if I have not love, I'm nothing. So in verse 3 it says, I'll repeat I'll write, I'll we'll repeat verse 3 again. If I give away all that I have If I deliver up my body to be burned, but have not love, I gain nothing. Now, um in the ESV you would note that there's a footnote. In the third note describes that some manuscripts say, deliver up my body to death that I may boast. Um so what does that mean when you see something like that in your text? Well Um some manuscripts say, if I give up my body to be burnt, and some manuscripts say If I give up my body that I may boast, and in fact, if you read the NIV The innovative trip set says give that reading. So now, why is there a difference? Well, English translations differ because they are translating different Greek words. Some manuscripts have a word for boast, and others include some form of birth. The terms look similar in Greek. No. I don't know Greek. Most of us don't know Greek. So how do we know this? Because other people do know Greek, and so they tell us. this. Um and hopefully we can find someone who we can trust in this area. Um so which word is true? Is it burn? Is it boast? So did Paul have it? So what did Paul and so the question is, what's Paul's intent? What did Paul have in mind here? Did he have in mind being burned in martyredon? Did he have something else in mind? Well, the question the answer is it it depends it depends upon where you look, which manuscripts you think are more reliable. Now the earliest manuscripts tend to support boast. I say tend to because it's not universal. But we must acknowledge that burning was not yet a form of persecution when Paul penned these words or even during the first century A. D. So what did Paul m really mean when he said if I give up my body to be burned? That that's something that Paul typically doesn't talk about. Um it's it's not common for Paul to say that. Now that doesn't imply that That that that was not his intent. Again we have to make a judgment call. So So Perhaps Paul seemed to go beyond the surrender of entire material fruit to the point of selling his total person into slavery to be able to give even more material substance to those in need. That is Um is it burn or is it boast? Well we could look also at the internal evidence, that doesn't write us normal style, the sort of mistakes the later copyists commonly made in the copied text. In this case, Paul never mentions burning any place else, but he often speaks of boasting. When it comes to what errors the copyists might make We might ask if these two words look like each other, and they do. We're told that they do at least. In fact, there's only one letter difference and if they could easily be mistaken by someone not as careful as they should be. And yes, that's true. Um those who copy um they might look at the word Look at at what they're writing, write write it down, but make an error. And they may not catch it. Now sometimes someone else copying the scripture later on might say, hey, I know that's wrong, so I'll just copy it back. And that's and that also happened. Course of the course the course the problem is those making the correction could even make an additional error So that's why we have variations, periods. Because during So see if also sometimes when we make a judgment call, well there's no easy solution. So you have to consider all the textual evidence, all the historical evidence, all the linguistic evidence. And you still have to make a judgment call on that. So however, whichever one you prefer Let's just note that it doesn't really change the meaning a whole lot. It's not going to change any of our doctrines of the Christian faith. So let's so when we talk about casual criticism We have to note that textual criticism does require a few things. It does require documents, a collection of documents. Whether they are whole menus squares or fragments Or even quotations found in other other other other sources, because we have sermons preached from our early church fathers So we so we can look at them and say, well, what did they think was a true reading? And we can also look at commentaries because they wrote commentaries back then. We can also look at their personal papers, see what See if they made any any allusions to that text. And so we want to, oh so, so once we have all these copies, well what do we do with it? We need to have a plan, a a theory, and a methodology to use these materials to reconstruct what we believe Our judgment, what is the most accurate reading. And not only that Not just tackle the problem of what's the most accurate reading, but we also have to have to have to uh understand when these other variations occur in why. Um because some some of these we can date pretty well. Others we can't, but we can know just by comparing document af at after document Manuscript after manuscript, we can detect when these errors came in and how they were copied by by later copyists. So in getting reevaluate these variant readings in light of textual evidence theology in in a I'm I'm I'm I'm in history. Now, let me give you one more. Let's go to the book of Acts. And I want you to see see this. Now that's chapter 8. I will have to come um come back to um to that one later on So again, the primary sources of the scripture are handwritten manuscripts. These are the main ones, usually written on animal skins, papyrus, and sometimes thin metal. And due to natural decay, most of the surviving ancient men's new scripts are fragmentary and difficult to read The running itself is prone to tear, subject to damage such as due to moisture, smudging, soil, and burning. Human error and editorial tampering within the copying process also are factors for the many existing variant readings that we see today. So there are many secondary sources such as translations into other languages, quotations used by both friends and foe of biblical religion, and evidence from the early Text. But these secondary sources also suffer in some ways similar to what the primary manuscripts are that is Well we have are copies of copies. So textual criticism is also called lower criticism. To distinguish it from something else called higher criticism. Now what's higher criticism? Well, when scholarly judgment is applied to the genuineness of the biblical text, it is classified as higher criticism, which concerns manners of date. style and authorship of the text. That is, they th they they they think, did Paul really, really write Romans? Um did Romans actually come originate from the first century? Ma could there have been more than one author? Um now today higher criticism has often been hijacked by liberal Theology to discredit discredit the body. And c more conservative voices are generally ignored For example, liberal academic scholars have long espoused a late date to the Old Testament. That is, they claim even that the Old Testament was primarily written by a group of still unknown redactors, perhaps no earlier than the Babylonian exile. That is, they they they would even say Moses, the Pinate, all those books were actually written much, much later in time. Because that they claim that Israel had no written, had no writing prior to this period of time Now of course they're wrong. They they've been proved wrong time after time again, but they don't change their minds. And so these higher critics were denying much of the historicity of the Old Testament. That is, they w they say it's myth. It's fable. Um it's all made up. And even in the soup supernatural elements, the all of the miracles They claim, no, that's all legend. And so they would deny predictive Prophecy. They would say all these prophets were written after the prophecy You know, so sort of say that the Bible is written after the fact. Now of course they were wrong. They've been told that time after time again. And They would also deny most of Paul's author authorship of most of the Pauline epistles. That is, they they would say, Paul's not smart enough to have written all those books. They would also say that the Gospel of John and the book of Revelation were written by, were not written by the same person. Again, they would deny authorship, they deny dates, they deny prophecy. So so that's higher criticism. Uh that's distinct from lower criticism, which is textual criticism. So therefore I'm I'm I'm going to use this term textual criticism um um I'm in I'm in this class. Now as we talk about manuscall scripts and copying and variations, I do just just want to um remind you of a few terms This I'm I'm going to use the term recension several times, and basically it's a critical revision of a text incorporating the most plausible elements found in various sources That is, it's an update to the to the to the um to the text. It's not a new text. It's not a translated text. It's a it's an update And then a and then a gloss is a brief explanatory note or translation of a difficult or technical expression usually inserted in the margin or between the lines of a text or manuscripts. That is, when we when we when you look at these documents, these texts, you will see footnotes You will g you you will see well not quite for footnotes but but they would have things written in the in the margins or even between the lines. And those are notes Explain um why something was modified or why something was with Within this way. And then a codex. It's it's it's a book. It's a handwritten book. In fact, the New Testament documents may were were written as a codex. It's it was a new technology and Christians used it. So let's talk about now the manuscript. Of the Old Testament. Okay, so let's look at the Old Testament. This term you will see quite often if if you read the literature about textual criticism, the Mesoretic text, or is often abbreviated MT That's been recognized as a traditional and authoritative text of the 24 books of the Hebrew Bible, what they call that Tanakh. And that's for nearly 1,500 years. It is the basis for most partisan English translations, such as the King James Version, the NIB, the English Standard Version, and the NASB. Your Bible is um is translated from the Meshitic text Now what is the Meshric text? Well the Mesoric describes from the Temmonic Sinners in Babylonia and Um Tiberius, labored for to reproduce. as far as possible the original Hebrew and Aramaic text of the Old Testament. This work of editing and copying the pre existing manuscripts continued from about the sixth century Through the eleventh century A D, that is from the five hundreds through the thousands And during this time, these Jewish holides had a near monopoly on copying the Hebrew Now, earlier manuscripts scriptures have been written but with consonants only That is, there was no virus. And the reason for that is it's easier, faster to copy. Also, Typically, you would not have your own copy. If you wanted to know what did God say, you would go to the to the synagogue, to the temple or tabernacle. You go to the Levi or the priest or the rabbi. You know what whatever you may have had in those days, there's where you would go Because there'll there'll be someone there who could read. And he knew as he read these read which consonants to add to the m to to the words because, you know, he had read it so many times, um, he did not need the vowels because he could just look at it, recognize it, and cite, and recite it. almost from memory. Okay. So the reader would have to recognize the word, include the correct vowels as he spoke. So the Methic scribes they came around and they decided, well, what is what's the probability that we could even lose words because we just don't know how to pronounce them anymore. I mean that's a that's a very valid concern. So what they did was they put in the file markings So now the Hebrew text had the vowel markings. Um so that The reader would not have to have everything memorized. Now, these scribes they were diligent. They were experts. They were the professionals. They were the perfectionists. They checked every word, indeed every letter, with care while noting the differences. I mean they counted words, they counted letters, um, they would have some type of a type of unit of text. And they would make sure when when w when they're done copying it that it matched exactly what they would think it should be. They would count letters and words so that everything would add add up. To make sure that they did that they did not add something or omit something or change something. And um so in so even if so and when they did find a mistake Which they often wouldn't do, I suppose. Um they would discard it, typically by burning. Now, what this means is that what we have of the Hebrew text are actually very few manuscripts. But the ones that we do have, they're good. And I'm uh and later I'll I'll show you that what we have are the New Testament manuscripts Well, they're not so good, but we have many more of it. Okay. And so there was almost a superstitious reverence for the Bible amongst these Mesoritic script. Um it it's it's parent. I mean they had the ritual of topping followed by strict religious rules. I mean just imagine, I mean just think about how many rules they the Jews have about, say, processing meat. Just to make sure that it's quotient. Well, they had all that, all those rules and more when they were copied. Um and it would dictate even the writing surfaces that they would use, the ink that they would use, I mean I mean everything, even the size of the columns That was also dictated by strict religious law. Now the earliest Mesoretic text that we have And it dates to about a thousand AD. So again, why is there such a scarcity of of these menus? Well, these again are these are handwritten, which means the service is perishable. Um because they'll they'll they're used and read, they don't last long. They they don't they just don't put their manuscripts under a glass cover in a museum. No. They they um they they they they touch it, they unwill it Um they read from it, um, they pass it around, um, and so it does uh eventually get torn um and wear out. And when it does wear out, they were they were typically Also Let's think about how about those manuscripts that were in the temple Back in the s back in the days of David and Solomon, going up to the time that the temple was First by the Babylonians and then by the by the by the Romans. Could there be manuscripts there? Because that's where they were kept Well, not likely, even though I s I I I suppose they could still be found one one day, because again, look at Jerusalem. It's been built up and torn down many, many times. So the chances of having a manuscript survive all of that beating would be Would would would be very improbable. Okay. So that's why we don't have early manuscript because they were all torn up And also that the Jewish laws that govern how you copy and how you use these their texts require that any manuscript aged beyond use had to be Typically by burial um or what or supposed by see by burning Um so scribus so so so so the Messonic scribes they dis they destroyed any manuscript that did not meet their Standard, including the pre-existing manuscripts from which they had begun their work in the sixth century. So all of those manuscripts that that they used to begin their work, they're gone And fact that in fact there's actually one family that's sort of credited with a good bit of the work. The Ben Asher family. For several generations through the 8th, 9th, and 10th centuries, this family played a leading role at And the oldest manuscript is the Codex Perianus, which dates about eight 895, attributable to Moses bin Asher, this manuscript is Poshra containing the former prophets and the latter prophets, not what we call the rights. But uh complete manuscript, the Olipto Codex, named for the for the for the Olipto monastery community that guarded it for nearly five centuries is attributed to most to uh to an Aaron bin Moses, Ben Asher, and dates to about A. D. 900 Tori Now Olippa, a city in Syria, once had a thriving Jewish community. It's wiped out. Nineteen forty nine, nineteen forty-seven, um all the Arabs rose up and just expelled the Jews. If they were not killed, burned their burned the property, burned their synagogues, and so during this time, during this civil war, um that manuscript was Damage. So um and today outside of Israel in the Middle East There's no Jews. Well, I'm going to stop right here. Um are there any questions? Yes, wrong. No questions, but I'll make a statement. I don't know if you got some of your material from I don't have enough faith to be an atheist, but They were describing the textual criticisms of like Julius Caesar and the Odyssey and basically they were saying, you know, uh Julius Caesar was written about 900 years after the supposed event And there's like seventy or two hundred. Same thing with Odyssey. Right. Hundreds of years later and like maybe seventy copies of it versus Five thousand plus of the the New Testament. Yes, that yeah, that that that's one important point is is that the oldest manuscripts that we have of the New Testament they date pretty early within Perhaps 50 years of when the original autographs worked. Um but if i if if you look at say the um Care Odyssey The earli the earliest hobbies that we have have date centuries after they were written. So So so we so that so we have a confidence that what we have matches very closely with what was written by the apostles. Any uh see questions? Okay, well uh the let me pray.