Well welcome on this day um as we have seen that has the as Christians began to to um um witness to evangelize and has a gospel is was was spread out throughout the um Roman Empire that um it was necessary for people to begin copying the books that were held has as Those from God Himself. And as more and more copies were made, um it became apparent that there were some differences among the copies. Um I mean people were careful as much as they could be, but mistakes would crop in, some of these would be corrected. Some of them would take a few generations to correct But there would arise eventually some of these centers of textual criticism, such as in Such as the Byzantine text and the Alexandrian text and the Western text and the Caesarean text And all of these centers of textual criticism were meant to take all of these manuscripts that were available And they come up with a text that that was probably um um or original. As much as the scribes and the scholars could detect Um now as we go forward in into time um there were um some Some um some some notable things would uh would would occur. For example The text type in Egypt, the Alexandrian text type Would be halted in the early centuries primarily because, one, the Egyptians stopped speaking Greek So they stopped us producing Greek manuscripts. And also, around the year six hundred or so, Islam came through Egypt and they destroyed churches they just essentially w wiped out Christianity down to just bare bones. Um And these manuscripts were kind of lost in time until more recent times And then the church began to translate the Bible into other languages And one of the most notable ones is the translation of the Bible into Latin. And this was done by Jerome around the year 400. And he was at first criticized for doing that because of this one thing. He he translated the Old Testament From the Hebrew text, whereas most Christians insisted that their text was a septuagate. Because they spoke Greek. And there was this, of course, this divide between Judaism and Christianity, and the two sides were not really friendly. So Jerome's translation was at first resisted But eventually it would be accepted. And and by and for in for the Western church, no, I mean Rome and everything west of Rome, um That was the official translation of the church for well over a thousand years. Uh so you're saying uh Jerome instead of translating from the Greek, which was a translation of the Hebrew, he went to the original Hebrew to translate. Okay. Yes he did. Okay. Um because as time went on, Christians became less and less familiar with a Hebrew. There were not so many people who knew Hebrew who were experienced in that language. Um and so the Latin Vulgate Would be the translation of choice, the Bible of choice. In fact, it was even held in higher esteem by the Church of the Orties and even the Greek New Testament Now, when we come to near the reformation period of time Um there there were there was actually very little of the Bible translated into English. Of course back then it was mostly Old English or Middle English. But all the translations of the English Bible prior to the work of William Kimbale were done from the Latin text. The Latin Vulgate, and these were primarily partial translations, mostly the Psalms and the Gospels. Almost nothing else was in English. Um I mean these in and there's a few surviving many squifts um such as The Lindesperna Gospels, which date back to about the year 950, and this had, of course, the Gospels. And this manuscript is now in the British Library. Of course, even if you saw it and could and could look at it, it would be very hard to read it because it's in the old Anglo Saxon um old o ol I'm older English. And for us That's practically a foreign foreign foreign language. But now with the disintegration of the Roman Empire in the West, the medieval church in the supporting State, government put a damper on translations of the Bible into the vernacular languages, such as English. Latin was the only official recognized translation Um and the biblical message was be we would be presented to the laity primarily through pictures and paintings. And preaching and poems and devotional pair of phrases. Only certain portions were available in English. And you know, there were various people who translated portions of the Psalms and portions of the Gospels. But even these copies were reserved for the monks. You and I, the common people, if we wanted to hear the word of God, we would go to the priest. Because the Catholic Church, and as time goes on, this Catholic Church, this universal church, would become more and more Roman in the West. For for example, and they looked with great suspicion upon a layperson reading the Bible. And because he could study it for himself, he could interpret it for himself and to the organized hierarchical local church um That was frowned upon. In fact, the French Council of Tolice and in the year 1229 had actually forbidden the the the laity to read the Bible, whether it's in the recognized Latin Vulgate or in a translation in the in the vernacular languages. Non-Latin translations were eliminated. Of course, most people, even even if even if they had the Latin Bulgate, could not read it. And um this was even before Pope in but even before this, Pope Gregory the Seventh. And this dates back to the um to the year um say say s say say say about you know ten of eighty-five, he attempted to stop the s The circulation of a symbolic translation, saying this, and I quote here, for it is clear to those who reflect upon it That none without reason has it pleased Almighty God that Holy Scripture should be a secret in certain places, lest, if it were plainly apparent to all men, perchance it would be little esteemed and subject to disrespect whether they might be falsely understood by those of mediocre learning and lead to error So that was why the church did not want the common people, you and me, to read the Bible. If we wanted it interpreted, go to the priest, go to the church, listen to the Pope. Now this anti-translation field is in contrast to the wave of translations in the first few centuries. Latin Copic, Gothic, Syriac, Armenian, Georgian, Ethiopic, Arabic, and Sharic. But as for the Western Church, only the Latin was recognized. And again, there were attempts to translate some of the Bible into English. The Old English and the Middle English, but very little was translated. And even those, even what was there was reserved for the monks So now we come to the time of John Wycliffe, Oxford scholar John Wycliffe. He w was educated as a as a priest. He knew the Latin and he wanted to translate the Bible from the Latin Vulgate into English. In fact, this would be the first translation of the Bible into any European language John Wycliffe is known as the morning star of the Reformation because Wycliffe saw the church as being corrupt. Um and he believed that the way to prevail in his Struggle against the abusive authority of the church was to make the Bible available to the common people. So that they could read it for them for themselves and interpret it for themselves. So they would know how to have a personal relationship with God through Christ, apart from any Ecclesiastical authority. Now he was a religious advisor to the court of King Edward III. And at this time, um he was kind of protected by the from the Pope Because the English were at this time rather rather trying to distance itself from from from from the Pope and so they protected Wycliffe. And even though The Bishop of London and the Pope of Rome demanded that John Wycliffe be tried for heresy. The English king protected him. Why was Wycliffe so despised by the Pope? Well, Wycliffe had this dominion doctrine And basically that says that God is the source of all authority and he delegates the authority to Man, he de he delegates certain authority to the hate on secular matters, and he delegates the authority to the church on sp spiritual matters. And human rulers exercise this delegated authority only on condition that they serve God faithfully. Otherwise they lose the right to rule. Hence, if the church leaders fail to live pure and blameless lives, the state is authorized to seize them of the property. And so the The British Crown liked that because again most of the wealth was invested in the church. So there was money to be made here Also, Wippers challenged the church's principle that only the church theologians and the priests alone could properly interpret and read the Bible. for the laity. Also, he r he wro he wrote a book out on the church, in which he defined the church not in terms of the ecclesiastical authority of Rome. but has has an assembly of the of the elect. Um and um that those Predestined to salvation and chosen by God from eternity past by the grace of God. Hence the church is is spiritual and invisible, with church with Christ as the only and true head. The church on earth is local and is field with both the elect and the non-elect But the Pope himself could only be the best at the head of the outward visible church that resides in Rome. That is, the Pope has no authority outside of his own little church in Rome. He also challenged the teaching of substantiation, or transubstantiation. And so he began this process of translating the Latin Vulgate into English. Um and he um had a team working with him known as the lawlords. And it's a term of Territion. These this this was given to them by their enemies, by the by the church. And they became persecuted. They no longer had the uh the protection of the British Crown. And a new law was passed that heretics can be burned. And who's the primary target of this new law? It's the loans. And so they survived underground um and but they they still managed to translate the Latin Vulgate into English. And of course they would have to make numerous handwritten copies Um now John Purby would um help Rycliffe and produce the revisions in eighteen thirty-eight. eighty eight and thirteen ninety-six which used English more naturally. Since Wycliffe had often kept a lot in Vulgate word order, even when it hardly made any sense in English. And about 235 copies of this Bible survive to this day, all handwritten, because the British press had not yet been embedded. But the church would fight back. So several years after Wycliffe had passed away, the church authorities dug up his grave And burned his remains and threw the ashes in the river. Because that's what they do to those who were who opposed their teaching. Now, the Wycliffe translation is really a read translation because you know the the um Hebrew and Greek um or are translated into Latin and Wikil translates the Latin into English. So it's really not technically a translation Now the first translation is by a man named William Kendall. And this man was fluent in six different languages. Um and um he he was skilled in linguistics And he would learn Hebrew and Greek, even at a time when the study of Hebrew was still in its infancy. of the of the scholars of his time William Candell was probably the most proficient in Biblical Hebrew. Now, why is this important? Well, in the previous century from William Tyndale, two events happened that that had a profound impact upon Western Christianity. Number one, it's the fall of Constantinople. By the Ottoman Turks. And many of the biblical scholars fled Constantinople and went west. They took their Greek menus, so it's called closed crypts. And so the Western Church now had These new menus in Greek and Hebrew, and they began to study them Now, Tyndale's desire to translate the Bible into English is exemplified in what he said to one of the church clergymen who opposed him. If God spare my life, he would say, ere many years I will cause a boy who drives a plow to know more of the scriptures than you do. Um and he was sort of in need of protection of God because translating the Bible was still illegal. Well, so how can he do that? Well, um he so he what if what he's Because he had this desire to translate the Bible into English, he he went to the Bishop of London for commission. Because he would he because he would would need that. And he believed that he could get permission because of this. The Bishop of London was good friends to a man named Erasmus. And Erasmus had just published a Greek New Testament. Erasmus had spent several years studying Greek Until he was one of the best in the Western Church Church. And What he wanted to do is he wanted to compare the Latin Vulgate with the Greek. And so he printed the The Bible in two languages. One one one page was the Latin four gate And he compared that with the Greek text to make comparisons. Um And this Greek manuscript, this Greek text that he Produced would be the basis of several translations after him. Now, the Bishop of London was good friends with Erasmus, and so Tyndale thought that he would get permission. But the bishop got suspicious because he perceived Tyndale as being Protestant. He disliked Protestants. Um so he frankly said, No. So what was Tyndale to do? Well, during this trip to London Tyndale was preaching at a church and this cloth merchant named Monk heard Tyndale preach and offered to fund the project And so for the next year, Tyndale stayed in London and developed his plan to translate the Bible. Yet he could not do so in London or any place else in England because they knew who he was. If they found out, he'd be dead So he decided to go to Europe. The primary reason is that in Europe no one knew it And even if the church authorities decided to track him down, it's going to be hard to find one person in all of Europe. So he so he decided to go to Europe, even though Europe was mostly Catholic, but still no one would know him from anybody else. And he chose to places that had that had access to a river that floated to the North Sea because what he was He was going to do he is he was going to produce these fibles and he was going to smuggle them in um into England by way of ship So he would need access to a report and also access to a printer who is willing to print. Because because again, printing the Bible is also illegal. But as we shall see, there's money to be made. And when there's money money to be made People like print printers are going to go for it. Um so he would he he he would need A printer in also a access in also access to good paper. When you say printer, do you mean hand copy print or like Gutenberg? Oh this is now in the age of the printing print. Okay Right. This is um um no more hand I've had um um no more handwritten menus go to us now. I I yeah I did feel to too much to to mention the the second great thing that happened for Western Christianity and that is Gutenberg invented the printing press So now printing was big business now. Um now um In these fibers would sell initially for for about a year uh uh about a whole week's wages. Take for a moment to think to sort of imagine your weekly wage. Okay, that's how much a buy was going to cost you And surpr and people were willing to buy buy a bike. Now they later as they got more efficient, the cost would drop But it but they were still relatively ex expensive, but people were willing to buy them Now, church authorities did discover this underground circulation that tried to confiscate every ten-dale Bible they could find. Because what What Tyndale did was he took his Bibles, or or the printer took the printed Bibles, and they hit them in bells of cotton. And they would ship him back to England, and those who were receiving these bells of cotton would then would would just take out the Bibles and then um and then start handing them out Or selling selling them, I mean. And all these Bibles were sold out. And but the church authorities labeled the purchase of these Bibles or the sale or the distribution or the possession of this Bible as a serious crime. So they would try to buy up all these copies if this only provided more funds for Cindy to produce more buyers And the Bishop of Rome even sent out spies with the task of locating Tyndale, having him arrested and brought back to England. But this proved difficult because Tyndale kept a very low profile. He lived off the grid. Now this is a book by Steve Lawson on William Kendall, and you will notice up on the front cover there's a portrait of William Tyndale. But this portrait, Tyndale did not set for this portrait. This portrait was done many years after Tyndale had passed away. That's how low a profile William Tandell kept or tried to keep. He made sure that no one could recognize it And now the church authorities decided to disquit William Tyndale. In fact, this guy, Sir Thomas More He wrote a thousand-page book trying to discredit William Tyndale. I mean, he called him all kinds of names. Imagine someone writing a thousand-word book to do um t to discredit you. You know who would read it? Who would buy it? I'm I'm not sure. But um about that but but but that's what they did in those times. If you wanted to When in argument, you would slander someone in this call all kinds of names Now, William Tyndale moved to Antwerp in early 1534 as a guest at the Border Palace of Thomas Poise An English businessman sympathetic to the Protestant cause. Here Tyndale worked out his revision of the New Testament and began translating the historical books of the Old Testament. Here he also met a man named John Rogers, who served as a chaplain of this English house, this English boarding house. And who through Tyndale's influence became a loyal supporter. And Rogers would also contribute, would also compile his own Bible called the Matthew Bible in fifteen thirty-seven after through the martyrdom of Tyndale So Tyndale was busy translating the Old Testament in the safety of this boarding house in Antwerp. And the church authorities still could not find him. But then something happened. And um there was this English business businessman had to pay off a large debt And so he has sent all this money to back to England, back to him London. He sent it by way of his son. Yes, his son's name was to me a mastery kills And this son proved a fool. Because by the time he got to London, he had gambled the whole thing away. All the money gone. Um now, imagine this son In London, um Gamber all his fathers Dead of thought, away. I mean how could he go back to his father? But the Bishop of London heard about this plight And he called this guy into his office. And he made this deal. The deal was that if I'm um if um if um um um if um um Harry Phillips would go to Europe Track William Tyndale down and cause him to be arrested by the by the by the authorities and be put into prison Then the bishop would reach into the church coffers and make good on the dead That is pay off the debt. And Harry Phillips took the bait. And so he journey to Europe And eventually he tracked Will Matendell down. And he became friends with Wilm Tendell. Now, the other businessman in this white house warned William Tyndale, you know, I think you better be careful with this guy. So William Tandale, maybe a bit naive, didn't listen to them all that well, and became really good friends with Harry Phelps. Until one time, the two of them took a walk and they walked right into an ambush. The civil authorities, the soldiers, arrested William Tyndale. And put him in prison. And um he spent eighteen months in prison in a cold, damp cell And remember, this was back when you did not have internal heat. This was back in the European Ice Age. So far. I mean winters winters were brutal back then. In this particular winter, 1535 would be particularly harsh. And then William Tandell was tried. It was a mock mock m mockery. And he was ex executed on October the 6th, 1536. He was tied to the he was strangled with a chain wrapped around his neck and then his body was burnt. And then the executioner, for good measure, even added added gunpowder. So his body was blown up. But his last words were Lord open the King of King of England's eyes. Now at the time of Kendale's arrest, the authorities also Went to this morning house to confiscate all of Tyndale's work. John Rogers, he's a hero. He heard of Tyndale's arrest and he ran back to the 40th house and he gathered up as many of the manuscripts as he could. Before the authorities arrived. And it is with these manuscripts that John Rogers used to publish the Matthew's Bible. Now, Tyndale had also published the by this time Tyndale had already translated the Pinateuc In the Old Testament historical books of Joshua through 2 Chronicles, and also the book of Jonah, before he was imprisoned. Now he had an an associate, Miles Coverdale. He also talked With the translation work. He was not all that proficient with Hebrew or with Greek. But um so he did most of the translation from the German Bible, what Martin Luther had translated, as well as the Latin Vulgate. So Coverdale translation was completed in fifteen thirty seven By this time, Henry VIII, the King of England, had broken ties with the Pope and gave approval to Coverdale's translation, which of course is both based upon The work by Tyndale, whom Henry VIII had condemned. So Coverdale also sent the Copadia also set the precedent precedent of separating the Old Testament from the Apocrypha. Before then the books of the Apocrypha were were um were d were dispersed among the the canonic can canonical books and coverdales Bible, they were all together between the Old Testaments and the New Testaments. And several people did not like that because They saw this as one more step to just getting the apocrypha out. Okay. Historian Neilam states this of Tyndale's translation. It's a fresh and original rendering of the New Testament. Which forms the basis of virtually all English New Testaments until the the the twentieth century, including the King James Version. The subsequent subsequent following of the English language into its floor Corey, most famously in Shakespeare, in the reign of Elizabeth I owed much of its inspiration to Tyndale's New Testament. It would not be going too far to call him the father of modern English. So he's the father of modern English. He's also the father of the English Bible. And you might also call him the father of the English Reformation. Now here are some of the Tin Joe's translation. The covenant name of God in the Old Testament is translated or transliterated Jehovah. Now, how do we get this name? Okay. Yeah, yeah, I I said that In in um in um biblical Hebrew that That the um that it was all consonants. Okay. There were no vowels. And the reader, when he read from the holy scriptures, he would know what word to pronounce So he so he so he would add the appropriate vowels and so read it. Now, at one point in time the Jews stopped pronouncing This covenant name of God. And they would either subject the word Adeni. which is Lord, or they would say the name. And this covenant name in Hebrew is Y H W H now eventually They just now the the reason why they did not pronounce his name, because they felt that if they mispronounced the name, that they would would be disagreeing the name of God. Um uh and um so they chose not to pronounce it but but it did they would pronounce Then they add the knot, which is the orchid. Oh, and by the by the way, in most English translations today, this is rendered as capital O L O R D This thing is capital L small O R D now So when the mesheritic chlorides came along, they put foul markings. And with um two death they want to also because they were they were concerned that people could just lose Hebrew and not know how to pr pronounce it. So that's so that so so so that's what the Mestrid scribes did. But when they got to to the to to this word here, they did not know how to pr pronounce it Because no one had been pronouncing it for generations. Um so what they did was they put the vowels of Adonai into the consonants of this name here. So they get something like like that Now they still did not pronounce the name. They still pronounced the name as Lord or Adenai or just simply the name. So when William Tyndale translated from the Hebrew text, he saw this word here. And he so what he decided decided to do is to transliterate it into In into into English. So we get so we get the name Now actually, to to be precise, there's no reason why You can put these files into into into these continents and create a a map All scholars today would tell you that the proper pronunciation of this name is God way. And um now I w I want to be careful here. I'm not going to say this is wrong. I can respect how it's used. I can um but still everyone today agrees this is the proper name Yaw. So um now what's the um so that's that one. Also Tyndale did one more thing that really irked the church authorities. This word, Greek word, ek I'm seeing equal sea. He translated it congregation. Or assembly. In the New Testament, it defies that the church is a local assembly of believers independent of the current And basically that's what the word means in Greek. It's an it's a congregation, it's an assembly, it's a people called out for a single purpose And most notable, the translation is in simple everyday English. I mean it's simple even for the plowboy. Um and it's very and he used language in such a way that that that it was very natural for English speaking people in in them in that day So this was a revolutionary translation Now it was during this time that a political and religious change was being made. King Henry VIII in Parliament broke away from the English church broke the English Church away from the Roman Church. Now though Henry VIII did not necessarily make any religious reforms towards Protestantism immediately, there were two church leaders, Thomas Craner and Thomas Carwell, that encouraged the king to authorize a translation of the Bible in Um into into um English. And the first Bible was Coverdale's Bible. And that was published in s in Given Support Approval from the King. Also, Thomas Matthew was the pen name of Rogers, John Rogers, another associate to Kindell, he also um um used He also made a translation which which which was also approved by the by the king. Now John Rogers used Tyndale's 1535 New Testament The Old Testament comprised all the texts which Tyndale had translated together with Kobodel's translation for the remainder of the Old Testament and the Apocrypha. Now here's what John Rogers did that was so controversial. He put footnotes in his Bible, 2,000 of them. Some of them rather um um controversial. Um For example, um he would um Make notes that were somewhat anti church, anti Catholic Um it was a very Protestant translation Because the um the Cobra Duis Bible and the Matthew Bible had royal proof, but the notes and book summary reached a such affront to so many groups that Henry VIII decided to authorize yet another translation And he chose Coverdale. And Coverdale, what did he do? He used Matthew's Bible without the notes. This Bible, published in 1539, would become known as a great Bible. Because it's big. Um and um its title page would feature a woodcut engraving That depicts Henry VIII, Thomas Cromwell, and Thomas Craner distributing Bibles to the people who cry out, Long live the King, and God save the King! And a second edition of the Great Bible was published the next year, 1540, known as Kramer's Bible, because it contained a preface by Thomas Kramer. And some further revision on Coberdale's earlier work. And there will be five editions that same year. Now what's interesting is this is that some of these editions had notes from bishops Turnstall and Heath had overseen and pre-used the addition. That is, these bishops had approved the Bible. But what they approved was largely the work of Tyndale, whom they had condemned. Now, as Henry VIII would die in fifteen forty-seven, his son Edward VII would would come to reign. And he was and he he supported the Protestant Reformation, but he did not live very long. In fifteen fifty-three he died Then his sister, Mary Tudor, the son of Catherine of Aragon. Now descended the throne, and she was Catholic to the limit. She um tried to turn England back to Catholicism. Mary Tudor, of course, is known as Bloody Mary. And she earned that title. During her reign, many Protestant reformers fled England to settle in Geneva, the home of John Cowper. One of these reformers, William Whittenham, who was also John Calvin's brother-in-law, completed a New Testament translation in 1557. This would be known as the first English New Testament translation with verse divisions. So now we have verse divisions in a in our Bible. Um And then italics were also introduced to indicate where English idiom required words that were not in the original text. So one more new feature of your English Bible. Now this this Bible would be known as the Geneva Bible. The Jeeva Bible would be the Bible of the pilgrims as a journey to America. It was the Bible of Shakespeare, of John Nolton, and John Bunyan. During the long forty-five year reign of Queen Elizabeth, this I would see nearly one hundred editions. Even after the King James Version was published, the Judea Bible would still remain the most popular Bible in England. For many years. And the notes were Calvinistic. So this was a Bible that Protestants really, really enjoyed But others did not. Many English bishops did not like the Calvinistic tone of the Geneva Bible. So they produced their own revision of the Great Bible in fifteen sixty-eight to serve as a pulpit Bible These revivors, these revisors were better scholars in Greek than in Hebrew, because their New Testament work is much superior to that of the Old Testament. And the resortant bishops Bible was just not the caliber of the Geneva Bible And although the Geneva Bible was a much better translation and much more popular with the English people, the Bishop's Bible would serve as the official basis for the 1611 King James Version. So so we have all of these um Bibles. There's the Tindale Bible, there's the Coverdale Bible. There's a Matthew Bible, there's a Great Bible, there's a Geneva Bible, there's a Bishop's Bible. All these Bibles we now have Plus is also, which I don't mention, it is there's a new Catholic Bible Which which was translated not from the Greek and Hebrew, but from the Latin Vulgate. So now we come to King James. So um sixteen oh four King James I was summoned to the Hampton Court Conference to address a list of grievances against the Anglican Church signed by nearly 1,000 Puritans. The king wanted reconciliation. He wanted both sides to get along. He failed. But during this conference, one of the Puritans recommended that the king authorize a new version of of the Bible for for um for I mean you know C everybody um for um Everybody. So the king liked that because this Geneva Bible, which everybody liked He did deny. And this bishop bishop Bible, which he liked, but no one else liked. So he thought, well, let's get one Bible and then we can be at peace. Because he disliked the Geneva Bible because um the you know there's some notes there that he that really irped him. For example, the Hebrew midwives They were criticized because they lied to Fahrware, but they were commended because they disobeyed him. And the king did not like that. Also, um there was a criticism for King Asa because King Asa did not execute the king mother his King Mother for her id idolatry. And that reminds him that the that that Reminded the king of the execution of his own mother, Mary Queen of Scots, during the reign of Elizabeth. So King James had reason to replace the Geneva Bible. So the king selected nearly fifty Greek and Hebrew scholars on three committees at Oxford, Cambridge, and Westminster. The king instructed them to follow the text of the bishop's Bible. That's going to be the foundation Unless they found that the translations of Tyndale, Matthew, Coverdale, and the Great Bible, the Jeva Bible, were more closely agreed with the original text. They also had recommended to avoid any marginal notes besides those pertaining to literal readings from the Hebrew and the Greek. That is, he did not want any One commending the Hebrew wise because they disobeyed Pharaoh. Because these absence of interpretive notes would help the translation be accepted by all the churches in England. So the resultant authorized version, later known as the King James Version, was technically not a new version or new translation, but a revision of the Bishop's Bible. And the King James Version supplanted the Bishop's Bible, which was no longer being printed in the churches. But it took longer for the King James Version to be to replace the Geneva Bible in popularity. Because initially people did not like the King James Version. Because, well, it's a government Bible I mean, how would you feel if if our government came up with their translation of the Bible? Would you trust it? Maybe. Maybe not. So these Puritans hated this King James Version. And they say, well, we got our Geneva Bible. We like it. It's proven. And we're going to keep that Geneva Bible. So the king decided, well I'm gonna get rid of this Junior Bible. So he made uh He made a law saying after this certain date it's illegal to make copies of the Geneva Bible. So he thought that's going to get rid of the Bible. Well, what did the printers do? Well they just changed the date so that it looks like it was printed before that cutoff date. So um so there's always been ways that people have used to get uh get around laws that that they don't like, I suppose. But some things never do seem to change. By some estimates, eighty percent, maybe eighty-five percent of the King James Version is really just a copy or or post copy to that of Tyndale Um but the King James Version did retain many of the ecclesiastical uh the um on the T be ecclesiological terms Found in the Bishop's Bible. Such has this word Bishop, which in most translations is rendered overseers. Um Now, the King James version has become an enduring monument of English prose because of its gracious style, majestic language, and poetic revisions. No other book has had such a pr tremendous influence on English literature. And no other translation has touched the lives of so many English-speaking people for centuries and centuries, even to the present day. That's from Philip Comfort. Now three editions of the King James Version came out that same year. And many more would come. Now, and changes would be made periodically And in 1769, Benjamin Bainley of Oxford extensively edited the text to produce what has come to be known as a standard text of the King James Version. Those slight changes would continue afterwards. And so from the early 19th century, the King James Version has remained almost completely unchanged Now, one thing I will point out. Okay, this is a King James version. It's not the 1611 version. This is a Basically the seventeen sixty-nine version of Bainley. Now there's about even this It's not like every other King James version. There's a Cambridge version. There's an Oxford version. This happens to be an Oxford version. Um and um so there's different King James versions today. And plus plus I also note that e that even DM DM 1633 editor of this version that that I have has has made some changes two words um from the sixteenth from the seventeen sixty nine version of blindly. Now, um next week we're going to talk about well what happens next. Because although the King James Version is a is a remarkable translation, and for its time a very, very good translation. And It basically it's still yes, even though it's not a vernacular Translation. If English is not what you spee speak And words have changed. Some words have changed their meaning. Um some words have have become archaic. Um So it's not nearly as natural for us to read as as our other modern translations But it did have some weaknesses. It used is used a Mesoretic text for the Old Testament But the scholars had limited understanding of Hebrew. It would take many, many more years to unders understand Hebrew, to gain ex experience in in the Hebrew vocabulary So in our modern translations, we have a gift of several hundred more years of research into these biblical languages. So they had a good old testament text. In the New Testament They had this Texas receptor which is from Erasmus and from in In from C C T T T up Up are the additions of the Greek text And it was somewhat in theory. Because this is based upon maybe a dozen Greek menus clips. And it's also a product of textual criticism. And it does have some issues. So we're going to talk about those next week Well's time too close, so let him pray