Yes, um so today we're going to discuss the authenticity of the Old Testament. And that is, we're going to answer this question. Are we confident, or can we be confident, or how do we know we can be confident that the scriptures that we have today resemble the The original text has been quoted by the province. Well, on page thirty-seven of your notes We're going to talk about the manuscripts of the Old Testament. Number one, the Mesoretic text, which in the academic literature is often abbreviated MT. That has been recognized as the traditional and the authoritative text of the 24 books of the Hebrew Bible, often called the Tinak. For nearly fifteen hundred years by now. Um and that is the basis for most of the Protestant Bible Translations, such as the King James Version, the C C N I V, the M C C E S V, and also D. Nasby. Now this this text is given to us Um Jeff, could you please open the door? Okay. Yes. This text was g given to us by the Mesoretic School Scholars. And they were um they worked out of the Timonic s centers in Babylonia and Tiberias. And they labored as as far as possible to to to um reproduce the original Hebrew and the Aramaic text of the Old Testament. And this work of ed editing, copying the pre existing manuscripts continued from about the sixth century on through the eleventh century. So think think about this as as roughly the years, you know, five hundred two two two Um to the year one thousand. Um and um And throughout this process, throughout this time, these scribes had a mere monopoly on copying the Hebrew scriptures. And what that what I mean by that is that if you were a Jew during this time, if you attended a synagogue, each synagogue would have a copy of the Hebrew. Bible and that copy was the product of these crimes Now um one thing to note also what these mass symmetric scribes did. Was in the past. Originally the Hebrew Bible was written in Hebrew, of course, and it was written in Tartanus. The vowels were not included. Therefore, the reader would have to recognize the word and insert the proper vowels to read it. So these so the readers were Those who knew um knew the text, they've read read it over and over and over again, they could recognize the consonants and assert the proper vowels. by just by just the context of the verse and by memorization and by any other means. Um so um Um so so so what the Mithred Clives did was they recognized that it could be possible that this that the Hebrew text could be forgotten. And if that's the case, then no one could no one could read it. So that's a danger. Um So they uh inserted the files into the t text. And um how this is really um how how this has really influenced our Bible is that in the Hebrew text there's actually three primary names for God. There is this name Am Elhim. Um Elhim. Um and this name in most English translations is Um. It I'm in a given by by by God with an uppercase G. It's also a four now. So it's also it can also be translated. Gods with a small gene. In fact, that's how it's used when you talk about the gods of the other nations. There's the Elohim of the Egyptians. There's the Elohim of the Babylonians. So it's so it's also given by God. The second primary name is the name Adonai. And this is you you usually given by what was an upper face now. But it can also but it's also a floor now. So so it can also be translated boards. And then there's a third primary name. And for the moment, I'm just going to to um give it as Y H W H. And this name in most English translations is given by Lord of all upper case. um to um to um distinguish it between this uh and and i This name here is what you might call a personal name of God. It's a covenant name of God. So, and also sometime after. After the first century, the Jews stopped pronouncing this name What the reader would do if he came to this name, he would actually make a substitution. He would substitute the name Addis or Adonai. Okay. So um so they would not pronounce this name because they did not want to typically the the be a name. What about Jehovah? I will get to that very soon. Okay. Okay, okay. And so what the Mesfakes did, when they got to this name, no one could pronounce this name because no one knew the what the vowels were. So so what they did was they took this name, I'll I'll I'll just say give it right up here. And what what they did was they they sub they put in the vials of Adonai In into the thing, so it would be Y A H O um W A. Okay. Okay, that's what they would do. Okay. So um so now, granted, there is no reason why that should be true. And today colours recognize, I mean there's no debate, conservative In the in the conservatives, in the both agree with this, the proper name should be Yahweh Shall I go? And um Just due to just due to knowing the um the eth et um ethm um etymology of the word the morphology Um things like that. Um so um now um getting to to to the thing Jehovah If you take this name, this name right here, and you transliterate it into English, you will get the name. Oops, I'm missing on this game. Jehovah. Jehovah. Jehovah. Now, now don't get me wrong. Um um um you know I can very much respect the way this name has been used in song and stuff like that. So so so so I don't want you to get Get the get the question that this name is wrong and we should not do it. It's just by tr t tradition that name is that name is with us. So Larry, I think it's important to mention one of the um difficulties of translating these manuscripts Now not in Greek did have vowels, and you told us that Hebrew didn't. But neither one of those languages had punctuation marks. So it was just a string of words. And that also Yes. And it's very difficult. Well yes. Yes. Right. Yeah. So um so again the proper name is Yahweh, but still you we're we're going to see the see the see the thing Um see all over the place and I mean you know music and stuff like that. Um so I so I don't want you to get the impression that We we should just truncate this name and not use it anymore. Um or that we should change our change our songs about it. Um Okay, so I'm now down to um number the letter B number two. The scribes were noted for checking every word, indeed every letter. With care while noting noting noting discrepancies. They counted the total number of verses, words and letters copied within each textual unit, like a page for example. There was no verses. Verses and chapters were added hundreds of years later and they are not inspired They're the original texts were just a string of Hebrew words. Um towards the end of this five hundred year period they did they did add verses on it. What are you saying the verses in chapters? Um does the Jews began to add versus sometime later, yes. Much later, actually. Um No. No So when we date them? the verses and chapters at the beginning. Um I would before before the end of the first m millennium. Okay. I'll I'll look into that button. That's a man-made edition and there's many, many mistakes in chapter divisions and verse, even verse divisions in our Bible. Spoken in an Old Testament. Um but if they're conditioned by man, how could they be wrong? Man is prone to error. Well right, okay. inspired. Yeah, but we don't say that they're inspired. We always so I mean I mean I mean I mean the verses are just a way of identifying that. And to make it easy for us, I think. Yes to make it easier for us. So we can't say it's wrong. Yes, we can. We can find examples where it's wrong. The very first two chapters of our Bible, Genesis 1-1 and 1-2, are divided in the wrong place. in chapters. Um we'll talk about this later, but not now. Okay, but it's but but it's been proven that there are errors in the chapter chapter divisions and even in verse divisions. I would say in our word of God. Well there well I would say in in in in some cases there may be questioned out where we would like to divide the divide divide the chapters in the verses, but you can't say it's wrong because it's And it's just a way of um uh of identifying the location of the text within our Bible. Right. And for that it's good but it's not good for thought purposes. Okay. So yeah, so it's so so again, um they would mark the center of each text in terms of verse, word and and letter. So any future copying errors would be detected. Any manuscript with even one error was rejected and it was typically Typically by p p barrier. So again, the they alm they th they almost had a supertitious re reverence for the Bible. Um And their copying followed very very very strict rules. For example, only they could only use certain types of writing surfaces um and even the column length was regular w regulated So the myths now so the methodic text that we have today is based upon a relatively few manuscripts. We don't have too many of these manuscripts. Um s and not one of them antedates a thousand um A D. Um So the question is, why is there such a scarcity of these main use grips? Well there are several several reasons for that. One is these handwritten manuscripts and but And by the way, by at this time, the only copies were with them. They are they are by the very antiquity and their fragility are very likely to are very unlikely to survive. They just decay over time. They they're prone to rip. and tear get s m get s so soy um get fragmented um and also just just think of this suppose In ancient Jerusalem, suppose in the basement of the Temple Mount, there was this little secret passageway that leads down to a cryptorium. And there you would have lots and lots of Manuscripts. Um would it be nice to have to some sort to s to that for for such a place to be found today? Yes it would be nice. However, Jerusalem is such has been has been d destroyed about forty times since the time of King T David. And so with with all the wars and uh looting and and the flooding and everything else, it's very unlikely that you'll see anything. Um Also does the Jewish scribes themselves Once a manuscript aged beyond its useful life, it was The story, story, story. Um so they did not keep um old copies. Also does close coaster thrive themselves probably Um kids to read all of the previous copies that that the that they had used. They only kept their really, really good copies. Okay. Okay. Um so that's another another reason reason why we don't have too many copies. Okay, on page 38, number four, the Mesodic text owes much to the Ben Asher family. For several generations to the 8th, 9th, In the 10th centuries, this family played a leading role at Tiberius. For example, the oldest dated Mesoretic text manuscript is the Codex Chirides, and that dates about the year eight thirty eight ninety-five and that's attributable to a copy of card Moses ben Asher. And this manuscript is partial. It's not a complete one. Um it contains the formal prophets and in the in the latter prophets. Now, a more complete manuscript is called the Alpapo, Allepo Codex. Codex is, that's a term for book. Um that's named for the Al it's named for the Aleppo monastery community that guarded it for nearly five centuries. And that's attributable to Aaron ben Moses bin Asher. And that dates to about the year 90. And this manuscript was was partially destroyed or stolen or um or looted during the anti Jewish riots of nineteen forty seven. As you recall At that time the UN set up the state of Israel. And there was and there were riots throughout the Muslim to Middle East. And um one of those riots was in was in El Um that's a Syrian village. And that ha that probably had The largest Jewish community in them in the Middle East. Today, there is probably not a single Jew left. So we only have a partial copy of that one. Now the oldest complete copy is called the Linding Greg Codex, and that's often abbreviated in the academic literature as B nineteen A or B nineteen L. This dates to about the year 1008. That's based upon text written by Aaron Ben Moses, ben Asher. And this manuscript is currently in the in the Leningrad, probably the high So um based upon those works we have in the previous centuries some some texts that have been um um granted to us by le leading Hebrew fathers Number one, we have the bibliophra, often called BHK1. We have an addition to that called the Biblical Habraika II. Um and then beyond that time we have another revision called the difficult umbreaker three In more modern times we have the biblical Habraika Studtia in nineteen sixty seven and then and the most recent one and um and I think this one is out yes It's it's called the Hib and Hebrew Quinta. Um so those are the major texts that most translations were used. Um and um for example the Jewish pub publishing society uses the uh bibli uses the biblioth Stu Gotya has a text for their Tanakh that was um released in nineteen ninety-nine. Um and that's a that's a Bible that most Jews would use. Um today. Okay, so we've seen that the Meshoretic text has been meticulous meticulously copied. But the oldest books date back to about a thousand. Um So, and that's and that's about fifteen hundred years after the close of the New Testament canon. So this still is a big gap. So how can we be sure that the Mesoretic text that we have is matches the original text. Well, there are several um um um um notices to If you can say evidences of that, one is we have something called the Samaritan. In uh academic literature um you often see the abbreviated S A M S A M P or S P. And um this now sometime after the post exilic period And I'm looking I'm talking about between five forty B C to the to the through the year one hundred BC, um the Samaritans canonized their own copy of The Bible. And they only included the pin the took, the first five books of Moses. Um then that's their Intel Bible. And um And um this um and primary they don't recognize anything beyond Moses because as you go later into into um into the biblical revelation You had more inboard references to Jerusalem and now Zion. So now this Samaritan Pentative first became available to Europeans to study in the year 1631. So all this time it was just unknown to to Western civil civilization. Um. Now this Samaritan Pentateuch was written in a d in a a distinct derived from the Paleo Hebrew alphabet used by the Jews prior to the exile. It's not the traditional Ashuri script used by the Jews after the exile And so the transmission of the Samaritan Pentateuch is distinct from that of the Hebrew Bible. The two take different Rose um and um now the Samaritan Punitive differs from the Mesoretic text in about six thousand p places. Um most of those most of them are just minor. Um differences. Chiefly in in the in the spelling of words and in in in the differences in grammatical tender Plus there are also some changes that are clearly sectarian. For example, in the Samaritan Pentateuch, there's an addition to the Ten Commandments, and that addition refers to the command To build an altar on Mount Garrison, on which all the sacrifices are to be offered. So that's that's certainly not in the Hebrew Bible. Now, when was this Samaritan Pentateuch when when when was I when when did it Diverge. Well, some scholars claim that the Samaritan Pinatok existed in the third century BCE based upon nearly 2,000 agreements between Um the Subtuagent and the Samaritan Pentateuch against the Mesoretic text So what's the significance of this? Well, it might mean only that the Samaritan Pentateuch and the Satubigan each use physical transmission styles. And furthermore, that there are three recensions of some very old text. That is, it might mean that the Samaritan Pinate used simple grammatical constructions as a This as a subtugant, since both scholars since some sch scholars suggest that the Samaritan Pentateuch is much later then uh toughen. That is what they're saying is that the Sumeris impinitive sort of um used The used us that the Samaritan Pinegent used the Satubigan as a framework. Um now in his commentary This is a a new a new in in international commentary on the Old Testament. Um Gordon Um Wayne War Um wrote his on on um Leviticus and he says this nonetheless one has been established for the Pent for the Pentateuch, the um MT Mesaric Text must be much closer to the Richer text than the Samaritan Pinatech and the Satican The Mesoretic text has much more archaic orthography. morphology and syntax than the old Palestinian text, um, which is that of the Samaritan Pentateuch and the Settuagan. Indeed it has been argued that the old Pellestinian text is a century BC modernization of the original Hebrew text, a modernization that the Mesoritic text has largely exp Excited. And what that basically means is that this author's claimed that the mesh text is more authentic uh because it seems to be more archaic and it's the language. So it's closer to the original t text than either the Samaritan Pinate Or this Septuagint. Now, the New Testament writers who use the Septuagint would sort of reject the Samaritan Pentateuch as being non-authentic. I mean, the Samaritan. Rejected all the prophets after Ma after Moses. We also note that Jesus went to Jerusalem. He went to the temple in Jerusalem. He never did go to Mount Garrison. Okay? We also note that the certificate doesn't contain the sectarian additions to the the Samaritan Pinetor, such as that additional command concerning Mount Garrison. So that that gives us some indication that the Meshritic text that we have today um is is authentic compared to the Samaritan Pentent, which has taken a whole different course And in tr in transmission, but we can look at the two and we can see that that there's a lot and lot of similarities. There are if there are some differences But most of those differences can be explained by they're just minor in they're just changes that the Thriftons made. Okay. Okay. So that's one support for the Methrate test. Um Okay. Another support in number seven is that there are is that there are archaeological confirmation of the historical details of the biblical documents, even to obsolete names of foreign kings that have been unknown for centuries. centuries until the unearthing of lost historical artifacts. For example, Daniel chapter five, there is this king named Beltechar. For centuries no one could could know Who is it who is this guy? He's not listed. Um he's not known. And um but in recent years, um More artifacts have been uncovered and now we know who he is. Um Another significant archaeological find is at Messata. And we have documents from the Pharisees and the Zealots, and those will date from the Roman conquest. And that's in about A. D. 70. And um there are fragments of such books as Genesis, Leviticus, Deuteronomy, Psalms, and um Ezekiel. So if we look at those books there, we see that there's a very, very close resemblance. Um so again, one more evidence that the Mesorite text is off is all pinning. Now, our talk about uh SIP2 again. So let me um um talk about that a little bit more now. The Satuiquant, often abbreviated, often denoted in the academic literature as LXX, was a Greek translation performed during the third and second century. centuries BCE BCE in Alexandria, Egypt. And it was supposed to be done by a team of seventy That's why it's designated LXX. Now the translation itself is rather uneven. Some books are translated very much word for word. Some are Well that's just call it dynamic. Paraphrasing. Um the Pentateuch itself is pretty much word for word But other books are much less so. Like the like some of the um prophets, like um like a Daniel Um it's um it's very uh it it's a very loose t t transl t translation. So this So the Satogate was probably not what you might call a project. There was um done by committee. It was probably done by a group of people over a long period of time, each differing in his ability and its method of t transmission. Now, but still, even though this septuagin is um not a a very even trans translation. It still introduced Hebrew theology into Greek. So in that way it it is a it uh helped. Um and um in the Satugan itself was recognized by all Jews, um even Jews in Palestine. Writers, because everybody's spoke Greek. So they use the certificate. Now on the whole, the certificate closely parallels the Mesoretic text. And I said it parallels because again, we're talking about two different languages here. Um right. Um so it it it includes common style of idions And if if you're comparing books that are pretty much translated almost lit literally. And so in similar fashion has a Hebrew text, so the Satugin has also seen various recensions throughout the centuries. Because again, the Sat Satugin has a manuscript Is it is it has its own um hi um I mean history. It's also is going to be being copied and copied and copied down through the ages. Now, when Christians began to use the Satugant, the Jews didn't dropped it. They just discontinued to use it. So they created their own, they own, they they um retranslated Hebrew into Greek. Um there w there was a um a um in in In in the in in the second century there was a Jewish week translation done by Aquila. Um it's a in and it's a very literal translation of Hebrew. Um short shortly after that. That there was another revision done by Theodosian. And a short time after that, there was a translation in more idiomatic Greek by Semacchus. So you have those three trans see t t translations into Greek. Yes. Quick question before you go Do is there any documentation as to why the Jewish dropped um in the fourth cent or third century? Why did it drop the uh Setugian or whatever it is? Okay. They they they dropped the Satugan because we Christians were u using That's basically the only reason why if you really like If you might imagine what what what would be the greatest archaeological find of all time in terms of manuscripts scripts, well I would say one of the top font um candidates would be this old testament bible, which is called it called the um it That was by umrigent of um Alexander. And this would be the biggest Bible ever, I think. Um it was It was six columns, three columns on one page, three columns on um on on the next page, and it was a It was a lead young translations of six First column a Hebrew the Mesoretic text. The second column was a Hebrew transliter transliterated into Greek characters. The third column was the text of Aquila. The fourth column on the next page was the text of Semacus. And then the fifth column was his own corrected subtuagent. And then the sixth column was a text of Theodosium. So those that was the six columns of this one Bible. So you can just imagine how big this thing was. Um and if we had it today, it would be a treasure probe. Um, but we don't. Um yes, question? Yeah, that's I don't know if you know of the US uh discovery of a tablet in the Mount Elam. The course tablet that said back two thousand years ago Um it's it's very current. Uh that the cost says Yahweh cost, cost, cost uh dated back to the time of Moses. Since uh you know at the S was saying that both authority, uh the Hebrews were intelligent to write the text at that time. So that this proves everything. Um well again, there are people today who will claim that the um Bible was written in all kinds of ways. Um and they w and there were trivia all kinds of kinds of fines to prove this or dispro d disprove that. Now we will We we will soon um get to get to the to the Dead Seas Covers Coros. Um Okay. So this Bible, um I wish we I wish we had it too today but we don't. Um it um it um was a victim of the is of the Islamic um two movements. Um and um um so the only surviving aspect of this book is a Syrian re-translation of um origin's fifth column and that dates to about the year sixteen Um but um origin of Alexandria um did um did um give us a good foundation in textual criticism. Um he was probably the the foremost textual critic of his time. Um okay. So again, um this is um Um one more evidence of that we have a good Good um um um um text. Um Number ten. Now consider the Dead Sea square. Now these were excavated from the quadrum case near the Dead Sea between the years about fourteen uh uh up about nineteen forty seven and nineteen fifty six. These cross in fragments of Which were initially discovered by Bedouin shepherds and would now number in the thousands date from the third century BC to um to the um to the first century CE. And here we have about eleven caves in which are found fragments of of of um every Old Testament book except Esther along with other religious books and documents used by the Ethine community. Um that's a Jewish sect which inhabited this region um until the Roman conquest. And we have a collection of about 980 manuscripts from this case, but most of them are fragmentary. And these documents include Hebrew, Aramaic, and Greek writings. And along with the Old Testament books. There are several pseudo-pigwipha books, such as the Book of Enoch and the Book of Jubilees. There are also several commentaries, Thanksgiving hymns. Aramaic paraphrases and several sectarian works governing the community life of this group of Jews. Now one significant Aramaic paraphrase or or also called a tarum, is known as the Genesis Apocrium. That's a free working of jet of the Genesis Tories in the tales of the patriarchs. Now, most of these documents are held by the State of Israel in the shrine of the book at the Israel Museum. Although, of course, the patriarchs Palestinians also claim Cantro. So some Now some of these manuscripts um some manuscript manuscripts were obviously looted. I mean there's a vast antiquities trade Some of it okay. Um but there's but there's a lot of um looting. Th the there's a lot of money to be had here. Um so um so again there's some there's probably some manuscripts that are the others lost. And um and certainly some of these case were already very looted Um before the before they were ex excavated. So what's the s so so the significance of this discovery is that we now have manuscripts that are dating nearly a thousand years earlier than we had before. Documents that are now just hundreds of years after the close of the New Testament canon. And the general conc conclusion from looking at these Dead Sea coros is that the di is that the is that the overwhelming evidence that to the fidelity of the Mesoritic text. There appears to be very, very little change. And even if we look at the changes Bill Minor. None other other than fact talking. And besides these that are found in Qatam, there are also other caves found near Bethlehem during um that are dated to the second Jewish revolt. in the year 132 to 135. Included here is a s is a squirrel of the minor prophets, Joel through Haggai, which closely supports the Meserite text. Again, another confirmation. Now one of the best known finds at Mr. Adam at the Dead Sea Scrolls is a complete text found of Isaiah, found in Cave Number One. This parchment sc Which is labeled by the academics as one Q I S A. One being the cave number, Q being the quadnum, and ISA being Isaiah, it measures nearly 26 feet in length. And dates to about um dates to about the year one twenty-five BC. Okay, so that's old. And and and it's complete. And if you look at the text, it's identical to the mess text, almost letter for letter for letter. Or letter four letter. There's a few changes, but again, they're extremely minor Um and also what's what I think is most significant about this Isaiah Manuscript is that you have the whole book on one. There's no indication that there's any division among the among the chapters. And so that discounts thus the the um the um um what the liberals claim that Isaiah was written by more than one person. Um and um and again uh so there's a a treasure trove of documents there and basically it They sh th that's one more evidence that the Meshretic text that we have today is is very much very close to the original. Also, another witness to the ancient Hebrew Old Testament text is the Aramaic Targens. Very dynamic, paraphrase, translations in the common language of the people which began to appear in the in the first century BC. The translations included explanatory glosses and often bold reinterpretations of the text according to the theological biases of the time, to relate the Bible text to contemporary life in political circumstances with a preponderance towards allegorical interpretations. Initially the religious leaders would not consider these as authoritative But gradually the Jews would include these Aramaic targans as part of their public readings up to the 10th century CE. So the translations have limited value. um for use in textual criticism. But they do add to the mass of evidence that validates um the Mesoretic t text where where we can use them to To look at the text um again a very, very close match. Um So on number 13, here are the basic principles of textual criticisms. criticism that has div dived out. One is The basic text is the message text because of its careful standardization. Some weight is also given to the by reason of its age and basic faithfulness to the Hebrew text. And that also carries significant weight No so the Dead Sea corros by reason that the text is nearly 1,000 years older. We also have other translations, Aramaic, Syriac, Topic, Greek, and Latin translations that add into direct evidence for acertating the early Hebrew text. So again, we have a very good Text. Now um but what happens when you when there are d differences. Typically on the reading that best explains the rich the origin of other variants is um is um Knowledge of typical scribal errors enables a textual critic to make an educated decision on the sequence The disciplin is also the most controversial and subjective, for two scholars can come to a completely different conclusion based upon the same evidence. It comes down to who has the most believable. to a story of who changed the text and why that text was changed. Um and basically what that means is that Is that um is that we can compare the differences, come up with some explanation as to why there is a difference. Sometimes we know why, sometimes we just has to to make a guess. Um but that gives us some some weight as to what is what it is what was the original intent. Okay. And number C, the shorter reading is preferable because the scribes would frequently add material in order to solve style or syntax problems, but would seldom abridge or convince material. That is, if you have two variations, the most probable one is the is the shorter one Um that's that's what most textual critics would say. Um Now it's it's not always the case, um but but that's a but that's a general pr principle. Um Also, the more difficult reading is the more likely to be the original one because scribes did not intentionally create more complex readings. That is, a scribe would not intentionally make a reading more complex, more more difficult to read. Um but they would often Maybe um um simplify it. Make it more readable. Um And also variants that match similar passages are suspect. That is copy it had a tendency to correct material on the basis of similar material elsewhere. That is if you have if you have two verses um in two different parts of the Bible. Um and um A a copier might have a tendency to make one passage more and more like the second one. Um you know this is this is um particularly revelent in the synoptic gospels. Because you know you the the the three gospels are different. differ even in in the same account. So a copier might have might, when he's copying, might have in mind something something else. And this and un unintentionally copy that part um some somewhere else Okay. Now um in your Bible um Um in the front part of the Bible there's there there will be some some um prefects That would that would indicate what what the text that the author that the translator used Um right there on C N S B states in the present translation, the latest edition is Rudolph Rudolf Kiff Kiff Kittle's Biblical Hebraica that's been employed for the most recent right. From that's a Kanye Greek Connect languages and the Dead Sea choros. Um so so um that the that that will give you an in indication of um of what the text used by the New King James Version, Thomas Nelson, as his prefix. Um for the New King James Version, the text used was a nineteen sixty seven, nineteen seventy seven edition of the biblical Habraika, based upon the Ben Asher text, while frequent comparisons are made with the Bombag Edition of fifteen twenty-four to twenty-five. The certificate or Greek version of the Old Testament in the Latin Vulgate were also consulted. In addition to referring to the variety of ancient versions of the Hebrew scriptures, the New King James Version draws on the Revolent manuscripts from the Dead Sea Cave. In a few places where the Hebrew has no, it was so obscure that the 1966 that the 1611 King James Version was compiled was compelled to follow one of these versions. where Hebrew textual information is now available to resolve these problems. The New King James Version now follows a New now follows the Hebrew t text. Okay. So so you can just read your preface to your Bible and that and that will give you some indication about about what the translator tr translator used. And even in non-English translation translations, such as the case. A number C I have I have a preface from a Spanish Tran translation and even if you did not know Spanish, you could still make out what the Hebrew text was. A number C. And I'm not going to try that. We that. But I it doesn't matter. Okay, okay. No no I don't have to try it. Okay. Um in la traducción del Antiguo Testamento se ha usado la biblia hebraica en su recentia, en la que se revisa revisa. Okay. Biblica Hebraica Studio Gardensi in which we have revived or or revived uh completely the critical or textual criticism of the biblica hebraica of Kit. Okay. Yeah. Okay, good. Okay. So now so so so so let's so let's look let's go back to the commentary. This commentary Right, see why here. Um how does that Mesoretic text of Leviticus compare with other with other with other sources. Now, again, when we talk about the transmission of the Bible We're talking about the transmission of each because each book Each book has its own heat own trans own transmission process. Um Well, um on Gore Go Gordon Wynn Winham Would say this. For many years it has been accepted that most for that for most of the Old Testament, the Mesonic preserves the best text. That is, it's closer to the original, and fewer mistakes have been made in copying yet than in translating. transcribing the other versions. Translations or versions such as the Sattukin and the Samaritan Pentateuch need to be considered only when the Mesoric text presents an obvious difficulty. This faith in the value of the Meseric text of the Penitic has been vindicated by recent manuscripts to discoveries the namely Dead Sea case and and and also the studies of the the subtle In the Samaritan Penitent. On page forty-three. Among the Dead Sea Coros Nine partial manuscripts of Leviticus have been found which push back our knowledge of the text some eleven hundred years to about one hundred BC. One manuscript from K eleven diverges from the three. At certain points, but none of its special readings is superior to these other versions. Although the merits of the different texts cannot be assessed on the basis of a few isolated readings preserved in the Dead Sea Scrolls. These fragments must be seen in the context of the broader textual t t traditions. When all this is done, the Messianic text is seen to be superior to both the S Samaritan Pinateuch and the in the Sw Slip two again, even when the latter share common readings against the Mithraic t text Yes. Larry, the with the Dead Sea Scrolls, um finding the book of Isaiah almost completely in that one scroll, showing there was one single author. um clearly presented a a a proper I would have for some Hebrew scholars, right? Because you have Isaiah, what we know is Isaiah fifty two and fifty-three in there. Right Which they probably don't like to see that that passage in there, but that that created an issue by by dividing among three authors, they wanted to say it was written separately, but by having this one solid book, did that present an issue for them and the way they like to see that part of the Masoretic text in terms of the revelations that they prefer not to talk about? No. The theory that Isaiah was written by more than one person, um, that really has nothing to do with Isaiah fifteen. Oh, okay. Okay it does. Okay, I did uh okay. Yeah. Right, yeah. Um the Yeah, that's true. It's interesting that that's the book that was found in the Destiny Strolls almost complete with my with clearly some of the prophetic things that were said by the prophets. Yeah, maybe because that's it's different about than you know about you know about Jesus Christ, correct? Yeah. Yeah. Okay, okay. Okay, so so I just want I I'm almost out almost out of time. I just want to c cover Leviticus chapter one verse six just as an example of of a d difference. Consider Leviticus chapter 1, verse 6 has an example. Here the Satugant and the Samaritan Pentateuch use a plural pronoun implying that the priests chop up the burnt offerings. Whereas the Mesoak Text by using using the singular suggests that this was a worshippers text. This could be the wit a witness to different sacrificial customs or to different understanding of the law. This sort of variant is typical of the differences between the Meshitic text on the one hand and the Satugan and the Samaritan Penetook, on the other hand, for the most part that they are slight changes or small additions intended to clarify them meaning. Okay, so that's just one example of why there might be a difference between these t t texts. And um I'm going to stop here because I'm out of time. So let me pray and we can end.