Okay, well this is our last day of the class, and we're finishing up the session on translation. We've gone through inspiration that the Word of God is from God Himself. It's not the work of man. It's not the ideas of man, but it came from God through His spokesmen, through the prophets. Through the apostles and through the biblical writers themselves. And they wrote what God intended them to write And in the original autographs, the word of God is inerrant. It is without error. And that word that God has given to this people that was recognized By the people God has God's word and they preserved it. Um and um as time went on they would have they would have forced had to copy it Um and they made copies and made more copies of more copies and the word of God supposed out among all the churches. But as copies were being made, now they were very careful in how they copied it. Um but you know it's a human process, and so People began to detect that there's big differences. And so various schools of textual criticism arose. To look at these copies, compare them, make judgments as to what the original text should have been And so you have these s schools of textual criticism, like in the Byzantine text type the Alexandrian text type, the Caesarean text type, the Western text types, and there may be a few more. And has the centuries evolved, progressed the the um scholars um began to to um to um record the Greek text And that's what we have with us today. We have the textus receptus that was used in the translation of the early English Versions such as William Kendall, such as the Great Bible, such as the Bishop's Bible, and the Geneva Bible, and the King James Version Bible And that Texas Receptors, of course, was only based upon maybe five or ten manuscript So as time went on and more manuscripts were found, were brought to light. Um other um Biblical scholars began to incorporate those into the text. And what we have today is what we call the critical text. And that's based primarily upon earlier manuscripts that were found that were not available to the translators in the Reformation period. And that critical text type is what most modern translations are based upon, such as your ESV or the NASB or the NIV, other um those so now we um come to well exactly how difficult it is Is it to translate the Bible from the Greek into your language, into your fanatical language, the the language which you speak day by day Well the fact is it's di difficult. It's challenging. Um it's not enough to know Greek Um you can know both the Greek in the language, the s the target language, as well as Lithinistics and you still have to make judgments as to exactly how do you translate from one language to another. Very seldom is there a one-to-one course response. So I think I'm on page 74. So we're going to talk about the challenges and the nuances of translation. Now many English translations attempt to preserve several of the King James Version phrases when these phrases are familiar to English speakers. But biblical literacy is promising. So can we no longer assume that everyone understands the phrase like the children? of of um Israel. You know what does that phrase mean? The children of Israel or the sons of of of I mean Israel. Now we know But many might not know. Does such a phrase refer only to young children or just to male children? We know we the we know the answer, but many do not. Perhaps using the term Israelites or people of Israel would be preferable in our modern translation. But now there were certain terms like Son of Man. It's very Hebrew. But it's very important. And the translator has to convey that meaning to us today. And so the phrase needs proper attention in translating to preserve its Hebrew meaning. Yet this translator still must consider how sun is understood in the receptor language. And it's rather ironic, I think, that The Arabic concept of son is not that much different than the Hebrew understanding. And yet Muslims say that we that they are offended when we call Jesus the Son of God. Now, there are other names, especially names, that are particularly problematic, such as the names of animals. For example, can consider Job chapter 40, verse 15. Behold now Behemoth, which I made as well as you. He grasped like an ox. Now most English translators choose to transliterate the Hebrew word. So that's why we see behemoth in our Bibles. It's a transliteration. It's not a translation. Okay, but that's fair enough. You know, there are many cases in which the translator has just to transliterate the word and let the interpreter, the expositor, tell you what that is. But then they sometimes make a footnote, say, well this is a hip crocodile or a hippopotamus Or some some other creature that we know today. Well, maybe so. But it also may be a creature that is no longer i exhaunt today. It may have become ex ex extate sensitive times And now rare Hebrew words are especially notorious to translate. That's why I said back when we were c considering the King James Version, as it came out in sixteen eleven, the translators had a very good Hebrew text What we call a Methritic text for them. However Um most people were not all that ski skilled with Hebrew back then. Um, you know, if if you wanted to learn Hebrew, well, really the only way to do it is to go to a Hebrew rabbi and have him teach you But then there was this animosity between Christians and Jews. So very few, very few Christians knew Hebrew Now the translators certainly had some understanding of that language, and they did the best they could, but their Hebrew was rather weak But so it will take centuries of research, centuries of additional study. to to become proficient in that language. So let's just can consider one word And so I'm going to give you four translations here. Number one, of this word in Exodus 26, verse 14. And you shall make a covering for the tin of ramskins dyed red, and the covering of purpose skins above. Translation number number two. Make for a tin of covering of ram'skins dyed red. In other words, they had a covering of other durable little. Number three. And you shall make a tent, a covering of tanned ram skins, a covering of goat skins on top. Or, number four, you shall make a covering of ramskins dyed red for the tin, and a covering of badger skins above that. So here you have four different translations of a Hebrew word, which is true. Well, it's actually pretty hard to tell because that word in Hebrew is not all that common. Um, you know, King I think the King I think uh I think n translation num number one was the the King James Version. Um the purpose ski skins. Um You know, that's the best they could do. Um so you so sometimes these words are hard to translate just because they're so uncommon. And also, sometimes and otherwise the prison permissible translation can be theologically problematic if the Hebrew word is improperly rendered. Now going back to Isaiah chapter 14 verse 7 in the ESV, therefore the Lord Himself will give you a sign, behold the virgin Shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. Here the Hebrew word Alma is correctly translated virgin. But when that but when the um revised sh standard version came out in nineteen fifty two It was widely rejected by conservative Christians mainly because of this one verse. Because the RSV translated the word young woman. Now, sometimes that's an okay translation. But it's always an unmarried and a sinned virgin, young welcoming. And when Matthew quotes this verse, He quotes it as virgin. I mean it's part of the angelic announcement. So it must mean virgin in this context. And it's very clear from the gospel accounts that Mary was a virgin when she conceived. In fact, she was a virgin when she gave birth, too. Now, the Greek word for virgin that Matthew used is the same Greek word that the translators of the Septuagint used in translating this very same verse. Now one might argue that the Jews, although they considered Isaiah chapter 14, verse 7 as messianic Did not believe that this woman would be a virgin at cons at conception. So to the Jews, young woman might be a very acceptable Transl T translation because they view their Messiah as a man Maybe a very significant man, you know, but he's just a man. He's not divine. So the translator must be faithful to the doctrine of the virgin birth and so ensure that Isaiah and Matthew are speaking the same meaning. Because Matthew is certainly not guilty of modifying that text So the translator has to consider these very rare Hebrew words and also has to consider the theological meaning When the gospel writer quotes from the Old Testament, he also has to do one more thing. There are these modern material Sheckel, Dragna, Farthing, you know We don't know what those are. So how does the translator translate them into English? The answer is most translators Don't translate the term. They just transliterate the term and tell you in a footnote exactly what this might mean. Like for example this um um this um denarius is a day's wage for day labor And also has as we spoke a little bit about la last week, there's this grammatical gender. Greek has grammatical gender. Okay English does not, but many languages do. And so when the translator translates from the Greek to their receptor language, they have to they have to make it match in gender in that receptor language. If it's A um female object, it must have a female burr. You can't just switch the genders It just will not read well. The people will recognize this sounds horrible. And also Greek has a lot of meaning packed into the verse. Well, has them as in English, not so much so. For example, Mark chapter 6 verse 10. There's a single verb called enter. And that tells us a few things. That those performing the action are the people Jesus is speaking to That there are more than one of them, that the action is viewed as a single event, and that and that it is viewed as something that is yet to happen. So, however the translator Translate this verse or the context. All of that has to be in there. Or implied. Also When now I I I've told you before that the translator will often add words to make it read well. into into into into um English. Or the or there may be some Greek words that are just not And it's less hateable. So they just so they just don't appear. But the translation has to convey the meaning of the author, for example. Um consider Mark chapter five, verse forty one. Um in the in the Y It says this. Taking her by the hand, he said to her, Tolina Kuma. Don't judge me for my Aramaic mimaic here. But and then the and then the writer, Marx, adds this. He adds a translation. Little girl, I say to you, arise. Now that phrase Twali Akuma is Aramaic. It's not Greek, it's not Hebrew, it's Aramaic. And a wordful word translation would be this, little girl arise. Three words. Little girl arise. But note this, Mark adds this phrase, I say to you, which means, little girl, I say to you, arise. Now why does Mark do that? When on the surface it doesn't seem that it's necessary. Well here Mark is translating the meaning of this Aramaic phrase into Greek so that the non-Aramaic speakers might understand what Jesus is actually saying to the young girl. Embedded in these words, little guru arise is an implicit authoritative command. This needs to be explicitly in the Greek to communicate the intended meaning. In this case, translating word for word would not give the meaning of the text in the Greek. So that's why you see this phrase, I say to you. That tells us that Jesus is making an authoritative command. He's raising someone from the dead. And of course, there may be other ways that the translator can give you the meaning. adequately in our English, but this is perhaps where the commentary has to come into view. The translator should communicate the meaning, but no more. And he has to tr entrust the expositor the the commentaries to give you more um information as to what the meeting um is. Also, euphemisms in must be properly identified and rendered correctly in the receptor language. Because sometimes a careless riddling can result if the translator has in mind a view held by a minority of scholars. More often it would be better to translate the text literally and leave the debate to the commentators and the in the theologians. For example, consider this common Old Testament phrase. You shall go to your fathers. Well, what does that mean? Well let's look at some at some translations here. Num number one. As for you, you shall go to your fathers in peace. Here God is speaking to Abraham. As for you, you shall go to your fathers in peace. You shall be buried at a good old age. Translation number two. As for you, you shall go to your fathers in peace You shall be buried at a ripe old age. Number three, as for yourself, you shall go to your ancestors in peace. You shall be buried at a ripe old age. Number four, you yourself will join your forefathers in peace, be buried at a ripe old age. And number five, as for you, you would die in peace, be buried at a ripe old age. Now, you would you would You would notice that there are three different views concerning this phrase, you shall gather to your fathers, the similar phrase, be gathered to the to his people Number one, the phrases indicated belief in immortality. This is the most common view. But another view is that the phrases are mu euphemisms for death. And you see that In in M trans in um M translation number five especially. As for you, you would die in peace, be buried at a ripe old age. In number three, these phrases indicate a package of waterfall burial. That is a common tomb. That is God is telling Abraham that he's going to be buried in the tomb of his father, wherever that might be. Now the fifth translation, which is the NLT, has for you, you would die in peace, be buried at a ripe old age. is the only one that indicates a euphemistic interpretation and reduces it to you or die. So the door shut for into any other interpretation. That is, if you're going to say this phrase, you shall be buried with your fathers means you're going to die. Well, no more. There's no more you can read into that. Now, the first view, the immortality view, has support. Number one, Abraham had no fathers in his grave. His father was buried someplace else. There was nobody in that tomb. Only his wife, Sarah. Also, Jacob was also told, you will be buried with your fathers. But Jacob was was died in Egypt. He had no other people in Egypt with whom to be buried. And yet he breathed his last, was gathered to his people. And also Yahweh told Moses that he would be gathered to his people in Numbers twenty-seven thirteen and yet No one knows where he was buried. Also, we know from Hebrews that the patriarchs they believed that God would resurrect them from the Dead. They did believe in resurrection. And this view is also consistent with God saying to Moses, I am the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Several generations after these patriarchs had passed away. You know, he used that when he was speaking to the Sadducees, because the Sadducees did not believe in resurrection But Jesus said, well God is the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, even though and then he said, well, God is the God of the living, not the God of the Dead. Now scholars agree that family tombs were common, but that these phrases are not referring to the use of a common tomb. So this phrase, you shall be gathered with your fathers, has to be communicated to in that receptor language. It can it just cannot mean you will die. Also, some words or phrases might be redundant or assumed to be redundant and unnecessary in the receptor language. For example, this phrase, he opened his mouth and said You know, if someone said that we'd w we would um um pause to think about, you know, what what does that really mean? You know you don't you don't say that today. You don't have to say that. It's totally unnecessary um today. Um And yet, the translator needs to be very careful about omitting words that he thinks are redundant. For example, consider Genesis chapter 19, verse 24. In the King James Version, it says this, and the Lord reigned upon Sodom and Gomorrah Brimstone and fire from the Lord out of heaven. Now I should also point out that when you see Lord in uppercase, that's the covenant name of God, Yahweh. Okay, the TSV. Then the Lord rained upon Sodom and Gomorrah, sofold and fire from the Lord, out of heaven. The legacy standard version. Then Yahweh reigned upon Sodom and Gomorrah, sulfur and fire from Yahweh out of heaven. And then the Jewish um um publication society. Um then the Lord rain down So forth fire on Sodom and Gomorrah from the Lord out of heaven. And then the E-R-B. And the Lord rained down fire and burning sofall from the sky on Sodom and Gomorrah. And the last version, the NJB Then Norway drained down on Sodom Ingomoral, brimstone fire of his own city. Now you will notice that that last translation is somewhat different. From the among others. The translator assumed that the phrase from the Lord out of heaven is rather redundant. So um so the covenant name of God only appears once. In that verse. And also for for the um um C C C C R E B, I d I just notice that. Um These last two are somewhat um omit a phrase that they consider to be redundant Now so note that the first four transl translations, um these these four right here Um, record the name of the Lord Yahweh twice in this verse. The last two transformations omit the second occurrence For some movie because that assumed to be redundant and unnecessary for proper English windowing. That is, in English Is it really necessary that we have that last phrase from the Lord out of heaven? Well that's that well let's see. Um but the second occurrence of Yahweh vinifies him as out of heaven. I mean I mean I'm go Go go go back to the to these verses. King James Version it says at at the end of the verse, from the Lord out of heaven. ESV, from the Lord out of heaven. Legacy standard revival. From Yahweh out of heaven. The fourth one, from the Lord out of heaven. But could this verse give us a hint? I mean, a small hint? That there are two persons named Yahweh. Maybe, maybe not. However, could there be two persons named Yahweh here in this verse? One on earth In one above and could this be a little hint Of the Trinity. Well, perhaps so. You can be the judge But if you had those last two translations, you would never know. So that's why it's important for the translator to be really, really careful about assuming something has redundant because Yeah, it might it might not be necessary to render the word properly, you know, in the language But it could also overlook in important coffee. Now, read it. The two translations that omit this phrase. They're not being anti-trania. They're just assuming this verse has nothing to do with that doctor. Um I mean they're not going to d to deny the the doctrine, um, but because Though you may weaken the doctrine by obscuring certain passages, that's not the same as denying the doctrine. There are plenty of other passages in the Old Testament that give much stronger support for the doctrine of the Trinity. Well that's consider one more Verse. James chapter four, verse five. This is also somewhat difficult to tr translate. King James Version. Do you think that the scripture says in vain? The spirit that dwelleth in us lust to envy The New King James Version. Or do you think that the scripture says in vain, the Spirit who dwells in us earns jealously? You would notice that is uppercase. The Nas B Or do you think that the scripture speaks to no purpose? He jealously desires the spirit, uppercase s which he has made to dwell in us. Or the ESP. Or do you suppose it is to no purpose that the scripture says he yearns jealously over the spirit, small s That he is made to dwell in us? Or the NIV? Or do you think that Scripture says without reason that he Jealously longs for the spirit, he is caused to dwell in us. So which of these Translations is more correct. Well, let's see. One challenge, of course, is the word spirit. It comes from the heat from the Greek word pneuma. And that can have a variety of meanings. It can mean s spirit as in the s spirit of man. It could be s spirit as in the spirit of God, the Trinity. It could mean wind, it could mean breath. Okay, the context will tell you which it is. Now all these translations correctly recognize the probable meaning. It's spirit. But is it the spirit of man? Is it the spirit of God? Um the um New King James Version or the Nasty point out that it is the definitely point out that it's the holy species spirit. Um The b the others like the King James Version and the ESD indicate that well gives you the choice. The Spirit of God or the Spirit of Man. You know, they they um they put it all they put the S in lower case No. Um I think in in in i in the King James Version, um um That the the references to deity are not uppercase So spirit here could be spirit of God, it could be spirit of man. So when the King James Version says, the spirit that dwells in us, lust to envy, Is it our own human spirit or is it the spirit of God? Now, if if you look at the New King James Version in the NASB, Both translations assume Spirit is the Holy Spirit spirit spirit. Because, like the New Kings version says, the Spirit, uppercase S, who dwells in us. Earns jealousy. So spirit is in uppercase, and that word who dwells in us So the Spirit who dwells in us earns jealousy. That is, the Holy Spirit earns jealousy. Now, the English Standard Version says this. Well, do you suppose it's no purpose they said? earns jealously over the spirit that is made to dwell in us. In that case, the the translator Says that the spirit is your actual spirit because he says the spirit That he has made to dwell in us. Um that um the NIV makes it all a little bit um g gives you a little bit more choice as to which it is because he says he jealously longs for the spirit, he has calls to dwell in us. Is that spirit? your spirit or is it the Holy Spirit Spirit? Well w how do we judge? Because The translator is telling us, look, you've got to make the choice for yourself. Right. Okay. Well, here's here's the And here's the problem. It's not exactly easy for us. Um Because, for one thing, this primary challenge is this phrase, long unto in thee. What does that mean? Well, Greek scholar A. T. Robertson labels this A difficult phrase. It's just it's just plain difficult. And the question is, does this phrase go with God as a subject, as in the English Standard Version? Or does it go with the spirit of man as the object, such as a King James Version? Again, there's debate. Although many newer English translations favor the spirit of man has the object. Okay, so We're kinda left to wonder. Yes. Uh I find it interesting that NASP, um where He, I guess is referring to God, justly desires the capital letter spirit, where God and the Spirit are one, I don't see why they would be jealo he would be jealously earning the spirit. Right. Wh where the others, if it's the spirit of man, yeah, he with Jill's the year uh human square. So I I I find that now to be interesting. I I don't follow the reasoning behind it. Yeah, yeah. And And and so your comet gives favor to spirit as being the spirit of man. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, and but even on the New King James It's just the spirit who told us urine still asleep. It doesn't necessarily say what these urine is urine still asleep for. So I can't see that as being a valid implementation translation of that NASDAQ follower. Okay. Yeah, and and I think most modern English trans translations go with the spirit of man Because one might hopefully ascertain the meaning by examining the quote. Because here James is quoting. But what's he quoting? It's not so clear because he's not quoting a particular passage. He's only quoting a summary But even that, what's he quoting? Well, that's hard to detect, but perhaps it's a very, very loose quotation from Genesis chapter 6, verse 5. Then the Lord saw the wickedness of man that was great on the earth, and that every intent, the thought of his heart, was only evil. Continually. If you look at that verse, then you would have to conclude that the spirit is that of man. But again, just as no single verse can be properly interpreted apart from its context, it's also true that no verse can be translated apart from its own context. Contrast rules indeed, but there are still cases of honest differences of interpretation. But the translator must still be honest with what the text says and leave the nuances of interpretation To the commentaries. In this case, the King James Version has the best translation fitting the context. Here. Um is that and it's called best because go go going up here it's shorter, it's simpler Now it it says it's the the same thing as the uh as your ESV. Um but it says it much simpler And so that's can that that that's considered the best in translation. Now it may not exactly Now, but to understand it properly, sometimes you need a little bit more, which is what the M ESV has on his. has got given to us. Um I I had this last section in this this this next to last section and trans translating this what is called the tetragrammaton, the four words, the four letters, Y H W H. And uh I'll just let you read it because I hope I haven't touched this before. But only to say that this corporal substitution lord It's a dynamic equivalent because it represents an attempt to reproduce in the reader an identical response of Jews who've made a substitu Who made a substitution to avoid mispronouncing this name Yahweh? But the real question is, did Abraham speak this name? Did David speak this name? Of course they did. And so this name Yahweh, which so so the translator has to be careful Let's be honest with translating this word Yahweh, YH, W H in the Hebrew. Because there are some places in which that name is significant. And you see them throughout your Bible. For example, in the Nazbi It reads, The Lord Yahweh says to my Lord, Adon, set at my right hand until I make your enemies a foot store for your feet. Here you have a communication between the members of the Trinity, God the Father, speaking to God the Son. And both names of God are used, Yahweh or Lord, or in upper case, and Adonai, which is Lord Um in lowercase. Okay, let's end by translating Psalm twenty-three one. In the Hebrew, Psalm 23:1 has four words. Yahweh, my shepherding one. Not do I lack. Now, the Jerusalem Bible renders a literal English translation in seven words Note the present chance. Yahweh is my shepherd, I lack nothing. Notice first and tense, the psalmist speaks of current experience. God's care for him is ever present, is not just a past experience, is not just a future hope. This is present reality. Now many English translations render that second phrase has a future tense Like for the King James Version, the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. But the intended meaning is not radically different from the present tense. I mean the future chance can legitimately express present reality with xiao, indicating determination or promise, although most often this occurs in the second person or third person. Nevertheless, English thesis has a has an implied present chance. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. We treat that as a present chance. At this very moment I shall not want. Or I lock or in the or in the Jerusalem Bible, I lock nothing. Now, the Te V changes the second phrase, I have no lack, in into a positive. The TV says, the Lord is my shepherd, I have everything I need. So you go from a negative, I have no lack. To a positive, I have everything I need. Now, should it be should it be a negative? Should it be a positive? Well, perhaps the meaning doesn't really differ all that much in our language, but the phrase I have everything I need Could indicate a boasting or self-sufficient demeanor. Now, we don't interpret that that way, but some mind. But particularly those who are influenced by the prosperity costum. It's quite it's quite one thing to say I don't lack Than to say I have everything I need. Because when I say I have everything I mean need, I mean it's right here. I know it. I'm depending upon it And I'm safe because I have everything I need. Whereas I have no lack means I'm dependent upon God. So maybe the translator is perhaps driven by misguided concept that it's always better to use a positive statement rather than a negative. Yet scripture is full of negative expressions. I mean just think of the Ten Commandments. I mean, only two are expressed in the positive. Um so let's not let's not so let no one accuse Scripture of of being unable to communicate Correct. Now, the LB translation says, because the Lord is my shepherd, I have everything I need. Again, it's a positive But notice that because. So we structures the verse in case that the relationship relationship between the two has. But this is not Hebrew poetry. Now, there's no essential harm in being in this being done. The meaning is still discernible. But it does obscure the original simplicity. It's Hebrew poetry. It's supposed to be short and concise. Um now when they came out with a new version they put it back. Um they removed the because You know, so that's this that's this note. King James Version has a lot of weight. Because, you know, when a translator is going to translate into an English You know, he's willing to look at the King James Version because people are familiar with it. And if it reads well, if it suffices Well, he's not going to to deviate from it too much because some readers will say this is not the King James Version And so they will reject it. So but but this no doubt like languages themselves Have both sophistication and flexibility. There's often more one more than one way to say the same thing, although each might might have its own emphasis And hence might have a slightly different meaning. So the translator has to be careful Even if he has a has a has an option of more than one way, he has to look at each of those ways. And and think about well How is this going to be read in that receptor language? Does it convey the meaning of the biblical writers? And then uh last thing is English has this connecting verb to be, whereas many languages, such as Hebrew, do not. So the verb to be must often be supplied, but this addition does not compromise literal translation. It's just a way of making it read well. in our language. So in summary, this is a quote from feel comfort is not merely wishful thinking He says this. Finally, it must be said that although there are certainly differences in many of the New Testament menus. Not one fundamental doctrine of the Christian faith rests on a disputed reading. Frederick Kenyon, a renowned paleographer and textual critic, affirmed this when he said The Christian can take the whole Bible in his hand and say without fear or hesitation that he holds in it the true Word of God handed down without essential loss from generation to generation. throughout the centuries. And let's just note that we have a variety of good translations in English Even the King James Version was a good translation, which time is still worthy of consideration. The work of textual criticism since the King James Version has given us a very good Greek text But even with all these improvements, not one Christian doctrine has been altered. And also let's note that textual prison, by its very nature, gives us diminishing returns. And we should not expect any future surprises. Even if someone should find a whole treasure of ancient manuscripts We can be pretty certain that they're going to read this exact same way that we have it in our text today So you have in your hands a very good translation of a well preserved text. Yes one is that to say or I think any future translations but say fifty years from now We're probably translating to English of fifty years from now as words semantically change to better uh address the people living in the future. It's the Lord has it be heard by that time. Well yes, yes, I mean uh I mean a translation has to be with revised doing periodically. I mean because uh because words change in meaning, words change in use, some words just become obsolete Um some words may change their meaning. Grammar may change. Um and in the common language of the people may change as well And so there's always a need to revise. Oh, I will point out one thing. One um um indicated to to me last week that in the Geneva Bible In Isaiah chapter 9 verse 6, there are five names, not four. That's also true in the King James Version, because there's a common between wonderful And counsel. And you see it primarily in the Messiah. So the question is: is there five names Or is there four names? Well not just that verse, but there's like you know, twenty, thirty-some names for the Lord, so Well yeah, um yeah, but I'm I'm saying in that one verse there's four names or five names. Okay. Now with all due respect to the Messiah, I I think Messiah is a is a is a majestic piece of music. If you just look at the way Hebrew poetry is, we have to say there are four names. It's not it's not wonderful and counsel. It's wonderful counsel. But that but but but that's no reason to change them Non Messiah. Okay. So no other questions, I'll close in in prayer.