So welcome on this day. Um last week we began our discussion on the principle of inspiration. Um that word inspiration has it is used by Paul in 2 Timothy chapter 2 is that all scripture is inspired. That is It's God breathed. It originated from God. It came from God. Its source is God Himself. It's not a human understanding. No person, no matter how how gifted he is in in thought would have come up with it. With any part of part of it. Um also I don't I I want to add a little bit more on um last week about the transformational power of the word. Um I mentioned um Second Peter chapter w one and if you want to you can go to that a passage because I want to say a little bit more about this passage. Um you know I mentioned last week from chapter from verse 20 and 21 that Peter says, but know this Notice first of all that no prophecy of Scripture is a matter of one's own interpretation. That is, it did not come from you, it did not come from me, did not come from any person, no matter how gifted he or how famous he has been. Um it was not made by an act of human will, but men moved by the Holy Spirit Spoke from God. Now, if you go back up in the context, Peter is discussing this in reminding the people that he actually Witnessed the transfiguration of Christ. I mean imagine that. Witnessing the transfiguration of Christ. He was there. An eyewitness. And um so verse sixteen he says, For we did not follow cleverly despised tales, but we made known to you the power and the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, because he saw Christ is glory. Um you know. Um but we were eyewitnesses of his majesty. And he was an eyewitness here. But when he received honor and glory from God the Father, such an utterance of this was made known to him by majestic glory. This is my beloved son, with whom I'm well pleased. And we ourselves heard this utterance made from heaven. And we were with him on the holy mountain. And so in verse nineteen, and so we have the more the prophet prophetic word made more sure. That is, this word that you have before you is even more sure than Peter's eyewitness of that transfiguration scene. His word is more real than even our experience. Why? Because the word actu I mean Think for a moment, what caused this transfiguration speech? Think think about that for one moment. Um because um verse 18, so we have the more the prophetic word made more sure to which you would do well To pay attention has to a lamp shining in a dark place until the day dawns and the morning star arises in your hearts. That is, in a dark room, if you turn on a light, you look to the light. light. You just naturally look to the light. Well what's the light in a dark room? It's the Word of God. So you look to the Word of God, because the Word of God is is is going to give is light. And it's the word of God that caused that transfiguration because back in the Old Testament, um I I no I you know I I um I did not we we we we call this for this reference, but um um it says it says in the old testament this is my beloved son with whom I'm well pleased. Um it was the fulfillment of that prophecy And that caused this transfiguration scene to occur. Just like it caused the baptism scene of Jesus to occur. And um so this is the transformational tr power of the word of God, that its word is true, it cannot be broken. Um And so that gives a a little bit more flavor as to what we actually mean by the word inspiration. Work. or more literally, God breathed. We also saw last week that Moses wrote scripture and it was Recognize that Moses wrote Scripture. He wrote the law. He wrote the first five books of the Bible, the Pinatec, the five books. Um and those books were Recorded and stored in a holy place. And then on page eight of your notes, we'll begin there. We also saw that Joshua wrote down. what God commanded him to do so. He was a prophet, just like Moses was. He was a spokesman for God. He received revelation from God. Words from God. He recorded them. The people recognized his words as the words of God. His book was also added to That collection that Moses begun. Um and then um and so now I'm down to I think I'm n I'm on number seven. Um Samuel, well he's a prophet too. He's a spokesman. And we see in first Samuel chapter ten, verse twenty five, that he also wrote. Then Samuel Told the people the ordinances of the kingdom, and he wrote them in the book, and notice this, he placed them before the Lord. Um the w the phrase place it before the Lord indicates that Samuel added his writings to that collection of books comprising what we call today the Bible, those scriptures, which back in those times were the books of Moses, the book of Joshua, and now the books of Samuel. So we see so we so we so we begin to see there's a prophetic line beginning with Moses to Joshua and to Samuel Okay. Um and number okay, so so you see these books being recognized, they're being placed before the Lord. in a holy place, they're collected together, they're preserved, um, they're being copied generation after generation. Um What happens if the message is destroyed? What happens if someone could could come in and take the books away Take the words away. And number eight, what happens when the message was dis store, store, store aid? Well we can look into Jeremiah chapter 36, verse 27, and find out. The Lord says, then the word word of the Lord came to Jeremiah after the king, and this is J Jehoiakim, had burned the skoro. That is, um, in the words that Baruch had written written at the the dictation of Jeremiah, saying, take again another square square row and write it on all the formal words that were on the first Which Jehoiakim the king burned. That is, God gave the words again. And Jeremiah Jemiah was also a prophet, a spokesman for God. And that's true for all the other the prophets too, like Habakkuk. You know, he wrote down what the Lord had given him Him in Habakkuk two chapter verse two we read Then the Lord answered thee and said Record the vision and and scribe it on tablets of the word One who reads may run. So again, we we we see a secession of prophetic voices here. Now, so we see that the prophets were the spokesmen for God. But now, even if a man was not a prophet, he could still have the wrote of a fun of a prophet such as David the David the King. Um so they they may not have been explicitly called a prophet in the Old Testament. But David, of course, is credited with at least half of the Psalms. And also notice that that um David that the Psalms are an example, a very clear example, that the words written um I mean they're not identified. dictation. You know, some what David wrote, he wrote it out of his heart, out of it of the anguish of his soul. um or out of the praise of his soul to the um to the Lord. But though he was writ writing him has uh ha has he was living out these did these experiences, it was the Holy Spirit that was guiding him along so that we have um David Starts recorded for us just Just the way God wants us to have it. So um so David is credited with with um most of the of the Psalms, and yet he could say in Psalm In Samuel chapter 2, Samuel chapter chapter 23, verse 10, the Spirit speaks to me. His word is on my tongue. So this is a another indication that that um what David received it came from the Lord. Um not in dictational form. But it but nevertheless, notwithstanding that, it is the very words of God. Because, you know, for example, in the New Testament, it often expresses what is written in Scripture in the Old Testament as this is what the Lord says. I I mean David wrote it down. Um it came from David's experience, but the Lord said this. Okay. Um you know, so Saul Solomon, yes. uh saw Solomon. He also received visions from the Lord. First King eleven, um verse nine. Um We know that Solomon receives a vision. And um in the in the no going back to Numbers chapter 12, verse 6, if there is a prophet among you, I the Lord shall make myself known to him in a day. dream. Okay. So Solomon also wrote scripture. Um although we don't necessarily consider him to be a a prophet. But he was a spokesman for God, and he did have this role of a prophet, as a spokesman for God. And um And also Solomon's history was written by prophets. If you look at 2 Chronicles chapter 9, verse 29, we read, now the rest Of the Acts of Solomon from the first to the last? Are they not written in the records of Nathan, the prophet? And in the prophecy of the the Shilamite and the divisions of Eda, the Seer. Of course, I mean Seer is just another name for prophet, concerning Jehu. Hoboam, the the son of Nebat. Um so the books that we call 1 and 2 Samuel, 1 and 2 Kings, 1 and 2 Chronicles, those were written by Prophets. And um and also going back going up back to the New Testament, Jesus clearly identify Daniel as a prophet. In fact, Daniel was a prophet in two ways. He was, he not only wrote the words of Scripture, he also prophesied. I which is usually what prophets do they prophesy of events that are in the future. Um and um but we know that Daniel wrote down what he had received. Um Daniel chapter. Chapter 12, verse 4. Has will you, the angel would say, Has will you, Daniel? Conceal these words and fill up the book until the end of time. And so that's the book that we call Daniel. today. Also that say now Jeremiah and Daniel were were titraries. Um Jerab jeremiah would be somewhat older than Daniel. Um But um Daniel clearly identified the writings of Jeremiah as divinely in inspired. For example, if if you um look back Bethesda's go go to um go to go to um of the book of um of um Daniel chapter nine I think that's chapter nine um Maybe it's chapter nine two. It's um look at it. I I've I forgot the passage. Nine two. Oh nine nine two, okay. Nine nine two Um yes. Um that let me begin with verse one. In the first year of Darius, the son of Amhet, uh the son of Amhet She said Oh my um how reason Mohazuros of median descent who was made king over the kingdom of the Chaldeans In the first year of his reign, I Daniel observed, examined, in the books of the number of years which was revealed has the word of the Lord to Jeremiah, the prophet, for the completion of the desolations of Jerusalem, namely that there will be seventy years of exile. So even though Jeremiah had deceased, had passed away by this time. These books, these writings of Jeremiah, Daniel considered that to be the very words of God. So you can see from here that when the prophet finished his writings, they were placed immediately into this growing canon. That the Jews would consider to be the very words of God. Yes. I have a question about number ten. Number ten? the Old Testament writers were all prophets. And my question is about the book of Esther. Which I don't no, I don't believe was written by a prophet, but anyway I would like to know Hope Bible Church's stand on Esther being the only book in the Bible that never mentions the name of God. Also, it was the only one of the old testament books that at least a segment was not found in the Dead Sea scrolls. All the others were, but not Esther. Um in just a few weeks we'll talk about that book. Oh good. Oh Okay. Yeah. It it it looks like it's overlooked because we're going through the whole Old Testament, but that's just never mentioned. I'm going through um I'm I am covering um the principle of um C C C C C T inspiration now. Um we'll talk about the canonization, the second part of the class. No, I'm talking about inspiration of the whole book. Bible. Right. Um and uh but we're talking about that book of Esther, how you know um how that book was recognized. Uh in just a in just a in just a couple couple coup couple of we weeks. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Um you know, so this notice so going back to page nine. Number number sixteen now. The inspiration of the prophetic books is clearly evident with the familiar phrase, Thus says the Lord. I mean this thing occurs three hundred and fifty times. Um and then there are not only the just the phrase, Thus says the Lord, there's also other simpler phrases that basically mean the same thing. So maybe four hundred hundred times you will see some indication that these words that you read today came from God himself. Yes. So I've told you. But I'm not really sure about it. It seems to me that the prophets uh were really referencing each other. But when Jesus quoted scripture, he always said it is written. He never said um like maybe Maybe when he says Moses, talks about Moses. But he's not saying Jeremiah said, Isaiah said, you know, these are his own words, right? So he's just saying it is written. He's not calling them other people's words. Um That that the well well in fact all of the new test t testament writers do that too soon. to some way. Um you know some some sometimes the the author is named, sometimes like a the like a Isaiah um or um or David. Um or Daniel. Yeah, yeah, or Daniel. Sometimes not. Um but whether the author author is named explicitly or implicitly, just by saying, Let's says the Lord, it means the same. Yeah, Matthew twenty four Jesus said and Daniel the prophet. Yeah. Yes. Matthew twenty four fifteen. So going on to number seventeen. The Jews kept an official history of the prophetic writings. Non-prophetic writings were excluded from those preserved with the sacred collections started by Moses. There was a continuity of prophets. adding his book to this ancient sacred collection. This continued through the prophet Malachi. The Jews recognized that after Malachi This prophetic secession ceased. And with these years of prophetic silence continuing even up to the time of the first century A. D. and of even Even and of course some Jews recognize John the Baptist has a has a profit. And they were right. Um and some people re some of the Jews recognize Jesus has a Prophet as well. Now and of course Jesus is the ultimate um prophet the elder the ultimate spokesman for God because he is the exact representation of the invisible God. Um he is um and um because he's the son. Um and now doing so so what we see is just you know beginning with Moses that there's a collection of um books that he wrote, namely in in the in the case of um of uh Moses is J G J Genesis, Exodus, the the the Redicus, Numbers, and I'm T Deuteronomy. And then Joshua would come, he I mean he would write his books there. Those would be added. So now you got six books at the time of Joshua. And then Samuel would come. He was right. Probably Thango did. Oh, okay. Okay. Um so Thingu wouldn't see why his post. And each of the prophets would then add their books till finally there was a book of Malachi. And has each prophet wrote his book? They would be added to that sacred collection. And the people would recognize these books as the words of God They would be preserved. Um they would be they they would be copied um and kept. Um and um now After Malachi, people recognized that there was no prophetic voice. Now, there were other books written during that time. Namely in the Yafaba books. But these books, though they may have some historical significance, maybe some religious significance, they were never recognized as the words of of God. So so so so so now that's that's an important concept to for us to recognize. This is After Malachi there's this period of prophetic silence. So the Jews are not writing more books to add to what they have. So um in also one other thing to them to add. When Moses wrote his books, they were called the law. The law. The Mosaic. Now, all the other prophets, when they wrote, they'll call it carts. And basically what the prophets do, boil boil it down in a very short nutshell. The prophets remind the people of the law. They remind the people of the blessings of keeping the law. They remind the people of The of the consequences of not obeying the law So so so so that's why we say that the Old Testament is is the law and in the prophets. Because all the prophets remind the people to obey The law. So um so so and so so so um so on number nineteen I said there are probably two only two divisions of the old testament. That is the law and the prophets. One of the books would later be grouped into a third section called the Writings. These books would include, say, for example, Job, Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, and the Song of Solomon. These books might be identified as those written by authors, but not the other thing. not prophets by occupations, such as by the by the by the prophets by gift. David wrote, for example, half the Psalms. David wrote much of Proverbs, most of the books of Ecclesiastes, and the Song of Solomon. That is, though these books were here when the people preserved the book. the writings, they were at liberty to rearrange the books. And so they um they would um they might take take um some s some some some books and would be in this um listen has in this rearrange the sequence of books. That's what that's what I'm studying. Because that's not changing the content just by re just by rearranging um how they are written. For example, um you know all of the minor prophets, what we call the minor prophets, the the the um twelve, that's actually In the Hebrew, one book, not twelve different books, as we see it today. Now there are s there are some books that that that are not specifically oh in possible I should also also add this. Most of the books um are written by by um written by the prophets. We know the prophet's name. You know, Isaiah, for example. Jeremiah as another example. Now there are several verbs that we don't really know who wrote them. But the inspiration is based upon the authoritative teaching of the book. For example, the author of Job is unknown. But the inspiration of this book can be based completely on its authoritative teaching. That is, indeed, the writer actually quotes from God himself. Beyond that, for Um the Lord mentioned Job when he speaks to Ezekiel concerning the certainty of the coming judgment in Ezekiel chapter 14, verse 14. So the Lord says, even though these three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job were in its midst, by their own righteousness they could only deliver themselves. That is John is saying, I'm going to send judgment against these people, and even if there's no and Daniel and Job right there in the midst of the of the city. Um They could only say themselves. You know, this is a reference to, say, Lot back in the in in the days of Genesis. You know, A Abraham kept asking the Lord, you know, if there's fifty righteous, would you save it? Yes. Forty-five? Yes. Forty down going down to ten eventually. But has it turned out? out there's only one per righteous person in that whole bunch. And when he left, there was none. Um but God is saying the wickedness of this people is so great, even if there's three even if there's three of these three Giants of righteousness, they can only say them say themselves. But then how do we know? Now we know the righteousness of Noah very clearly. We know the righteous righteousness of Daniel very clearly. But how do we know the righteousness of Job? Well, Job's only mentioned in the book of Job. We have no other record of Job in the in the Old Testament. Um so that implies that Job is certainly an inspired book because if they if if we um did not have the book of Job, there's no way we way that we could understand this see this word from God. Um so this gives us some level of of confidence, a whole lot of confidence of facts, that this book is inspired. It's God breathed. We may not know who wrote it But there's very, very good reason to believe that it belongs there. Yes, do you have a question? Well, yeah. I heard I'm not sure about this, but Job was written before the law. Um Job the oldest um Well well well the the Book of Job is certainly placed chronologically probably before most of the writings of writings of um Of um Moses probably Job is probably somewhat contemporary to uh to um C T A C Abraham. Um this year I'm in Pastor Gaysford reading chronological through chronologically through the Bible. Job comes between Genesis ten and Genesis eleven. It's that early Yeah. Oh, but it's well it's a little bit more than that. Yeah well isn't maybe maybe it's eleven and twelve, but I'm almost thinking it's ten and eleven and twelve very early in Genesis. kind of distinguish between when the book occurs, when when when the narrative occurs and when it was written. But it has to have been written you know unless it's seriously inspired somebody that later in time was completely given this revelation Yes, that's right. Yeah. Or written by him himself. Right? I mean there's some reason why they say think it's not written by Job stuff and I I forget the reason I don't know. Well yeah, I mean I mean i it it could have been written by Job, it could have been writ w writ the it's written by someone else. Yeah. Um yeah. Um okay so Go going back to um number twenty-one. Ruth. Let's look at the book of Ruth, for example. Ruth is a book that doesn't necessarily claim to be at the Tatas, but the book does have a significant picture of this Kinson. Redeemer. Additionally, the book records the genealogy leading up to King David. The book certainly was written during the time of the monarchs and would be under under the prophetic authorship if it were to be be well if it were to be accepted, that is, it's it's written someplace around here. But but but let's face it, if this book were not written by prophet it would not have been accepted. It would not have been there. Um and um um and by Jewish tradition, which might be true, uh Um the book of Ruth w was written by S Samuel. That's what they claim. Um and it's probably a sober safe claim. Um in fact at one time Ruth was actually part a part of judges. Um so um and the rabbis would consistently read this book. Um so he so he so even though a book we don't particularly know who wrote the book um there's other other other evidence that we can say and affirm that the book is is inspired There. Okay. So we talked about the Old Testament claims for inspiration. Well, how does the New Testament affirm that? The New Testament, we refers to divine authority of the Old Testament has a whole. I mean that's a uh we we can certainly say that. And scripture or the plural scriptures is a common title used to identify the Old Testament. Jesus answered the Pharisees and says, said this, Has it not been written in your law, I said You are gods. If he called them gods, to whom the word of God came in the scripture cannot be broken, do you say of him whom the Lord sanctified and sinned? into the word world, you are blasphemy me because I said you I am the Son of God. So here Jesus quotes from Psalm 82 verse 6, which speaks of the judges of the land. So he's so so in this particular case he's referring to the old all of the old testament has the law. Even the what what did David wrote in Psalm 82, verse 6. Now, the word raw usually refers to those five books of Moses. But here in John 10, Jesus just use uses the term law to designate the whole of scripture because he calls it the law and then um later on he says he calls it Scripture, which is the Old Testament. So here and also Paul uses the term law as quoting from Isaiah twenty-eight verse eleven. In the law it is written by men. of strange tongues, the lips of strangers, I will speak to this people, and even so they would not listen to me, says the Lord. So again, Paul is quoting Isaiah But he calls it the law. And also going back to Matthew 21, verse 42, Jesus said to them, Did you ever Did no did you did you never read in the scriptures the stone which the builders rejected, this became the chief cornerstone. This came about from the Lord. marvelous in our eyes. Again, covering the Old Testament. The Brians in in Acts chapter 17. Um compared what Paul was teaching to the Old Testament. And and it says here, in Luke says here, now these were more noble-minded than those in Thessalonica. They received the word with great execution. e of ego ness, examining the scriptures daily to see whether these things were so. Again, the scriptures would be the Old Testament. Also the New Testament also uses the phrases Word of God and the Oracles of God to designate the Old Testament. Um, Moses said, Honor your father and your mother, and he who speaks evil of a father or mother is to be put to death. But you say, to the to the he's referring to the Pharisees now. Man says to his father or his mother, Whatever I would have helped you is corporate, that is to say, it's given to God. You no longer permit him to do anything to his father or his mother. Thus invalidating. the word of God by your tradition which you have handed down. And you do many such things as that. From Mark chapter 7. Notice here the authority given by the phrase, for Moses said This is also explicit confirmation of the Mosaic authorship of the law. So here Jesus was confronting the Pharisees and saying, hey, you guys, Permit this man to donate his wealth to them to the tabernacle and so that he won't have to give anything or provide anything for his p p p p parents. And thus you violate the commandment, honor your father And your mother. The Word of God, again the Word of God, is living and active, and sharper than any two-edged sword, and piercing as far as the division of soul and spirit, of both joints and marrow, enable to judge. the thoughts and the intentions of the heart. It's transformational. Um it's precise. Um it cuts down to the very heart, the very soul. of your being. It judges. It knows all. Nothing is hidden. And um in terms of of our tr the transformational power of god of God, it takes us and it transforms us, causes us to be born again from above. We are now justified. All of our sin placed on Christ, his righteousness imputed to us. Um and um and um Um uh you know, all of that sin is y'all dealt dealt with. Um in um um And it brings it brings conviction to. Um um um whatever is hidden in the recesses the dark recesses of your heart, God knows it. And God can we'll bring it out. Um in um I mean that's the word of God. It's living. It's not just it's not just some some dead writing of a dead man. It has transformational power. Also, and number three, the um New Testament designates the Old Testament as the law and the prophets, or Moses and the prophets. Matthew chapter 5, verse 17. Do you think that I've come to abolish the law or the prophets? No, I did not come to abolish the but to fulfill. Again, the law and the prophets. Prophets. Acts chapter thirteen, verse fifteen. After reading the law and the prophets, the synagogue officials sent to them saying, Brethren, if you have any word of exhortation for the people, then say it. Um Jesus in number s in look number C says this Jesus said to them, Oh foolish men and slow of heart to believe in all these all the to believe in all that the prophets have spoken. Was it not necessary for the Christ to suffer these things into his glory? beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he spreading to them the things concerning himself written in all the scriptures. Okay. Okay. And also the New Testament uses the phrase it is written fifty times in reference to the Old Testament. For example, um when Jesus was confronting Satan and the devil. Desert in the wilderness. Each time Jesus began, it is written. When quoting from the book of Deuteronomy. Um when he was expurging the money changers and the money lenders and and everybody else who was doing business industry and in the temple area, he would say to the Then it is written, My house shall be a house of prayer, but you are making it a den of robbers Luke chapter 18, verse 31. And he took the twelve aside and said to them, Behold, we are going to up to Jerusalem, and all these things which are written through the prophets about The Son of Man will be accomplished. This is ample support for the thesis that the Old Testament has a whole, is divinely inspired, and the prop prophecies concerning the Messiah were under divine necessity of fulfillment, even down to the last individual detail. And again, um Paul would write in Romans chapter three Three has it is written, there is none righteous, not even one. Um there is no one excluded from that. Okay. Now, the New Testament also refers to the divine authority of the individual sections of the New Test oh of the Old Testament. Not not just a whole is inspired. But each of the individual pieces are inspired. And sometimes they are listed as the law, the prophets, and the right. writings. Although it's not always clear as to what the writings are. Um but um um the law, the books of Moses usually designate the Those first five books, what we call the pen that took. Um has in Galatians chapter three, verse ten, for as many as are of the works of the law are under a curse. For it's written, Cursed is everyone. one who does not abide by all the things written in the book of the law to perform them. Okay, that's a reference to Moses. Up here. And now the Sadducees, they denied the resurrection because they believed that Moses wrote nothing about resurrection. So Jesus, when he confronted them, brought them right back to Moses. Moses. In Mark chapter 12, verse 26, it would say, But regarding the fact that the dead rise again, have you not read in the book of Moses how God spoke to him, and this is the most solemn event in Moses' life, I am the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob. All three of which have passed away at at this time. And then Jesus says, he is not the God of the dead, but of the living. You are greatly mistaken. Greatly mistaken. And Philip found Nathan, Nathaniel, and said to him, We have found him of of whom Moses in the law and also the prophets wrote. Jesus the Nazarene, the son of Joseph. From Luke chapter chap chapter twenty six we see we he we read, but all of this has taken place at the scriptures of the prophets may be fulfilled. Now the writings itself is not a New Testament term. There's a biblical case for a twofold division, that is the law of Moses and the prophets. That is, the prophets would be would be Joshua through Malachi. But sometimes you you you might see the see a semblance of a threefold division. For example, in Luke chapter 24, verse 44, Jesus would say, These are my words which I spoke to you while I was still with you. That all would These things which are written about me in the law and the prophets and the psalms must be fulfilled. Here Psalms would be Maybe a representative of the writings, of the wisdom literature books, but certainly so because certainly Psalms contains myth in it Prophecy. That's why we c that's why we can still consider Psalms to be a prophetic book. Um And also the um New Testament cites the majority of the Old Testament books. If you if you read through the through the New Testament you'll see that most of the books are quoted in from the Old Testament. In fact, the Jewish historian Josephus, who we lived The generation after the earthly ministry of Jesus, he was a Pharisee, educated as a Pharisee. But a Jewish Pharisee. He wrote a a book called Cauld Called Against I'm C Afrighum. And basically in this treatise he would make fun of of the Greeks because He would say, those Greeks, they have so many books of history that they all contradict one another. Um we Jews We only have twenty-two books. And they all agree. And so that that is a clear reference that there's twenty-two books of the Of what we call the Old Testament. Now, now, of course, they do number those differently. For example, I mean, all twelve minor prophets are one book. First and second Samuel is one book. Kings is one book. First and second chronicles is one book. Ruth is a part of Judge Johra. So so if you do the math, the thirty-nine books that we s see to to today, in the days of Josephus Those were twenty-two. Okay. Um and so of those twenty-two books, at least twenty of them are quoted. Um only Esther, which we'll get to very soon. In the Song of Solomon. How much time do I have? Five minutes, okay. So we see that the Old Testament is divinely authoritative. Very often we see this phrase, it is written. The U Testament is imperishable. For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not a niota, not a dog. shall pass from the law until all is accomplished. Not a single pin mark. It is infallible. It's unbreakable. You don't break it, it breaks you. Um Old Testament is in on C T T errant. Your word is true, Jesus would say to the to the Father. In Psalm nineteen verse seven, the law of the Lord is perfect, that is it's without blemish. This perfect denotes also that pass over over land, too. So it's without perfect, it's without blemish. It is historical it it is historically reliable. Jesus affirmed the historicity of some of the most disputed Old Testament passages, such as that regarding Adam and Eve, which is a very real issue today, of Noah, of course another really real issue too today, and of Jonah. Of course, Scripture doesn't give us a g a complete history. It's not a a hi it's not a historical um narrative of great of um great detail, but when it does speak about history It speaks truth. Um it's embedded in history. God's revelation is embedded in our history. It's also scientifically accurate. Um Yeah, Jesus would say, Have you not read that he who created them from the beginning made them male and female? Another real issue too t t today. Of course Scripture doesn't use modern scientific jargon Um but when Scripture speaks about matters of science or other things on other topics, Scripture speaks truth. In the old Testament has all Supremacy. To religious leaders, Jesus would answer in Matthew chapter fifteen, verse three. And why do you break the commandment of God for the sake of your tradition? And for the sake of your tradition you have made void the word of God. God. Um so it has supreme authority. Okay, I'm going to stop here and we'll pick this topic up um next um We can about the inspiration now of the New Testament. Okay? So this is um closing prayer.