Okay, um last week we covered several of the modern translations into English The emphasis of these translations was twofold. One, we have an updated text. of the Greek New Testament, what we call the critical text. Also, there is this emphasis on translating the Bible into the vernacular language. Um that is in in the language that people speak day by day, the marketplace language. Now we've seen that there are two texts that we have. One card the the um Texas res see resectus all the um or the t for short. And then we have the critical I'm text. Um or the or the C T for short. Now on the Texas receptors We have the King James Version, and we also have the New King James Version. On the critical text, we have faith. I'm see basically every other translation for for for for example the um C T T S D Dynasty and also the NIV. And many, many more. Now, let's ask ourselves what's the real difference between these two here? And the basic answer is They're very, very similar. Ninety percent similar, ninety-five percent similar Um and the differences and and there are some, there are min m many Um do not impact any of our Christian topics. You'll find the Trinity in both You'll find the resurrection of Christ in both. You'll find the sovereignty of God in both. However, there are some who insist on one as opposed to the um T T T T T T T T other Now I just want to point this out. With all this technical criticism that we have, And again, both of these are product of textual criticism We have today a very, very good understanding that we have the original text spoken by God to the prophets. Very, very closely. And um so we can defend the Bible very, very well against Islam against the academic skeptics. Now, here's the problem. Some people try to do to defend a translation Like King James Version. But that's the best. That's the perfect translation. That's what some people try to prove. And and and it and it's gonna fail. Because with with all this textual criticism, all you can say is King James Version was a good translation. It was the Word of God. It was not perfect. And so I I want to um um begin with this Um summary of of this conflict between the two. So so that we have some basis to sort of make our own judgment. But before we begin that, I just want to finish this one last section about the legacy um standard version which is put out by master seminary is again based upon the mass beef and The editor, Abner Shaw, states, has we translated each verse of scripture. We had the joy to confirm that indeed the NASB is a window into the original text, which means it's very, very close. It's not perfect though. It has to be into the original text. It has a constant type correspondence with what is written in the original languages. We are also able to enhance this accuracy by having the translation better reflect the grammar of the original and by having even more refined consistency throughout. So that's the that's um that's what they found when they examined the NASP. And that's it and and that's their I and that was their philosophy in translating this legacy. But there are some differences. Part and he says and part hey part of this was translating the term duos consistently has slaves. Duos is the is a typical Greek word for slaves And in the Matthew and many other translations, it's sometimes rendered otherwise. Sometimes it's it's rendered servant or bond servant. And um also another thing that they did was they instead of using The typical word um Lord for the covenant name of God in the Old Testament They went back to Yahuwah just to differentiate that name as opposed to any other name of God. See, see um for example uh Abner Shaw states, indeed our God is not some generic deity, but he is but he is distinct from any other God and Yahweh is not Baal, he's not Moloch, is not Allah So that's that's some of the changes that they made for this legacy standard pile. Again, not much difference But that's what you would find in most modern translations. Yeah, there's some difference in in translating philosophy. But if you have a typical version like the ESB or the MASB, um there's Um you you you you can be very certain that yeah you have before you the Word of God Okay, so so let me um um here this is a file that I posted on the Hope book. Um Yeah. And that is I I want to address address this question why are s why are proponents of the text that we satisfied Namely, King James Version, why are they critical of the critical text? Because there's a movement within Christianity that claims one that the TR is accurate. In the sense of giving us a correct Greek text. And also that the C R, that also that the C T It's an inferior and corrupted text that should be that should not be trusted. Okay, so this is a claim. This is a this is a challenge um to to the Bible. Because these people who claim King James Version is The best, accurate, the really indeed perfect translation, they will criticize, they base their claim upon criticizing this critical text So they're called King James only. And there are many churches that that that essentially are King James Version only. And they now let's say some of them are so much King James Version only that they will reject. this, the New King James Version. Because what is the New King James Version supposed to do? Correct the King James Version So so they will reject the King New King James Version even though this based upon the same Greek um Text. One of their criticisms of the King James Version is that the King James Version will put in the footnotes where the critical text differs from the from the from from the Texas Receptus. Because be b because again, King James Version claims Critical text and any other other version version based upon that text is is corrupt. Um and now again I I don't want now don't don't misinterpret me. I'm not criticizing King James Version This King James Version is a good translation. It was. I mean, first time it was a remarkable translation. It's serious. However, there are words in the King James Version that have changed meaning. Um there are words that we just no no longer use because English has changed. So And they insist that God has promised to preserve this word accurately throughout all time. Therefore, when the King James Version translators created this King James Version That it has to be accurate because God promised it. So that's their claim. Now, here are some things that we need to can can ki consider. One is, as I've already mentioned, the our doctrines that we believe. They're found in both. You know, the critical text hasn't removed Trinity or anything else. Um also if you read the King James Version You will follow very well with it with anybody else who's reading from another version. Sentinesses are basically the same, nouns are the same, verbs are the same Conversations are the same. Um verses are are m are identified the same. It's same. Okay Um now contrary to what Team James Burton advocates emphasize The critical text hasn't removed any verse from the Bible. Now they have put they have marked As to text that are deemed um not supported by early or frequent use in the youth in the first few centuries Uh for for for example we've always we have oh um um also you know we we've um talked about this verse in in um Um in our X uh where chap where verse thirty-seven is missing in the ESV It's minting there because that verse, verse 37, and Philip said, If you believe with all your heart, you may. And he answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. That one verse It's not attested in the earliest earliest or best menu. And therefore, um many modern versions will bracket that verse or put it in a footnote. And that's what King and that's what the ESV does. Um it's there in the Bible, it's just in a footnote. Now even And again, most changes between the two are minor. In fact, if if you could actually look at the text If you knew Greek, look at text side by side, you will find pages and pages of no differences whatsoever. And even the two major differences, like the long Indian march It's still in the critical text. It's just footnoted. It's and in the modern translations, you you'll still see it. It's just bracketed off to tell you that that those that that that that that long Indian mark is probably not original And you can make your own judgments as to whether um you believe that long Indian mark is original. Same thing with that passage in John chapter eight, the story of the woman taking in adultery Um that text is not tested and very many men use close close quick Um front front um um um in in those um early centuries Sometimes that text is in someplace else. Sometimes it's just missing in t entiers. Um But again, you can make your own judgment. Now uh I also want to now to to me the most critical Um item between these two is this. The Key James version I'll say, I'll repeat it again, was a remarkable translation. And it still is, but it's not a vernacular translation. We don't speak King James Version English. We don't speak Elizabeth English. English has changed. Um for example, many of the for example the present tense Verb endings of the Lithuanian English, such as sayeth, are opaque. In fact, even when the King James Version was published in 1611, those Verb endings were going out of Eve I'm I'm even back then Also, these second person pronouns, thou and yi, those all are now archaic. Now, King James Version advocates will say, but we love those endings because it separates singular person U from floor U. The pronouns that begin with T like thou and thine, those are singular, U You can just just look at the word and know that it's singular. Pronouns that begin with a second person pronouns that begin with a Y, like E orum, um, or um, done. You yours, um those are plural pronouns. Um now modern English, even though it's not it's not retained those, it still has some means of differentiating in the context when the word is singular or plural. Most most of the time. In fact in fact this is well while by sometimes you may even want to consult the King James Version, you know, you may have heard Gates preaching in um say one of his sermons, this pronoun you is plural. And you may think, well, you know, he knows Greek. He knows. But you know, how do I know? Well, one way you can know is look at open up your King James Version and see, does the pronoun begin with a T or Y? Um for ex um see for example, Luke chapter twenty two. Um Jesus says to Peter, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan has desired to have you. That he may sift you as wheat. That's from the King James Version. Now we know pronounces begin with why is floor. Um hence what Jesus is saying is Satan wants all of you. To Sith has week. Not just Peter, but all of the disciples. Yes, we know what happens to Peter, but the other disciples, they don't have any easy And then Jesus says, But I pray for thee. Again, Peter is um Jesus goes from speaking to Peter as a representative of the disciples to now he's speaking to Peter as him alone. He says I pray for thee for it that thy faith fail not. When thou hast converted, strengthen your breath. That is Jesus is particularly praying for Peter and when Peter is has has repented and is reconciled he used to Strength, strength, strong, strengthen his brethren. That is to help the others too. Okay. So that's just one one um thing about the Elizabethan English that that is somewhat useful today. Even though let's just note this Even though the pronoun is you, and we don't know whether it's single or plural, sometimes it doesn't matter. For example, when when uh when the biblical writer says You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your mind. Yes, he's speaking to it to all of us, but each of us has to obey individually. Now some words have changed, or have changed their meaning, I should say. 1 Kings chapter 18 verse 21 In the King James Version, it reads this, and Elijah came unto all the people and said, How long halt you between two opinions? If the Lord be God, follow him, but if fail, then follow him. And the people answered him, not a word. Now halt. How long halt ye between two opinions? Well what does that mean? We think halt has stopped it. That's not what it meant back in King James Version 6. The verb means to limp. So that's why in most modern versions, like the ESV, it says Elijah came near to all the people and said, how long do you go limping between two different up opinions. If the Lord is God, follow him, but if they'll then follow him. The people did not answer him a word. So now I'm sure most people if if if they just you know read the text and didn't really pay much attention to it, just just something to check off on a daily Bible reading, that they would miss out. But if you want to exegete the text, it's hard to do that in the King James Version because that word has changed. So you have to now explain to everybody why it's really not heart, it's length. Um again another one, Daniel chapter three, verse sixteen Daniel, it says here, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abinnego answered and said to the king, Oh Nebuchadnezzar, we are not careful to answer thee in this net. Now, um well what does that mean? Um it's not what we would mean today. Um The uh whereas in most English translations today, like the ESV, it has Shadrach, Meshach, and Abinigo answered and said to the king, Oh Nebuchadnezzar, we have no need to answer you in this mat matter. Again the the um Hebrew word is the same And the King James Version translators translated it correctly, but the word has changed. Now, I should point out the new King James Version does update some of these words, but not all of them. Another one. John chapter 14, verse 2. In my father's house, says the King James Version, are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. Mansions. Does that mean we each have an individual mansion in heaven? Well, the word mansion once meant rooms or dwelling place. I mean, think of it, we are in the father's house. You would not think of houses as being part of a house or being within a house, but you would think of rooms as being in a house or dwelling places in a house. So the mansions is a correct translation for the King James translators, but that word mansions has changed. It's meaning. And that in um mansions once met rooms of willing places, but that definition is now octave When we think of mansions, we think it has a big, luxurious house. Um no, it's And the King James Version translators would have interpreted it as just being a little dwelling place. And there's many, many more. Hello. Yes. I think uh if God says Banshee, monkey is function. Because um God is not a human being to lie. And if He's given us, He has given us uh everlasting life She can also be better with shape. Why would she say, hi! It's not for me. Well, to me, this is my mind Well well certainly what we have in the heaven above is something much more greater than we can even imagine here on earth. Um and um think think of that. But also think think think think think of this. Why would we need a mansion I mean it's not it's not in the rain. Um you know, so um also But then we just look at this one. This is a word that has completely gone out of English usage. Romans 13, verse 13 King James Version says, let us walk honestly as in the day, not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chain bullying and wantonness, not in strife or envy. This word shambling, what does that mean? You know, we don't use that word today. Um, but it's a word for sexual information. sexual in um in mum the tea. And that's what Our new how our modern English versions render that same word. Now Also, I've said before that there are textual variants that are within the King James Version. For example, there's this passage in First John chapter 5, this verse. Where it says, for there are three that bear record in heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost, and the three are one. We know, I mean this is this is there's no debate here among academics. This verse is not original And we know how it got there too. Erasmus was creating his Greek text. And that verse was not in any of those Greek manuscripts. It's only found in a few Latin Vulgate Menus clos co yep. Um and um it only got in the Texas Receptors because He challenged someone, look, if you can find me one Greek manuscript that has this text, I'll put it in. And They created one exactly for that occasion. And so we know this verse came in through Erasmus. And he um you know as great a man as he was, as great a Greek scholar as he was This is one time that he that he um came up short. Also There's also um also look at Ephesians chapter 3 verse 9. The TR has a minor variant reading And the King James Version translates this verse as And to make all men see what is in the fellowship of the mystery, which from the beginning of all the world has been hidden God who created all things by Jesus Christ. The word fellowship Um that's there because in the Texas Receptus that word is koinia It's typically translated fellowshep. And that's exactly how the King James Version translators rendered that work. However, that's not the word that's in the Greek manuscript. Even in the text as we step this This is found in maybe one, maybe at most two manuscripts, and the King James translators went for the minority reading even in the text as Receptus. But all modern translations When does a word as plan as an ESV or administration or stewardship or dispensation So the so like for example the um ESV says, and to bring to light for everyone that is a what is a plan of the hidden, of the mystery hidden for ages in God who created all things. And I'll do I'll do one more. Because I don't I I I don't want to be the labelist more than more than than necessary. Revelation chapter sixteen verse five The King James Version says, And I heard the angel of the water say, Thou art righteous, O Lord, who art and wast, and it shall be, because thou hast judged thus Okay. That's a variant. All modern translations render the word all holy one, who is and who was. For you have brought these judgments. Okay, so we see words have changed. We see that there are there are um there are um Um there I'm d very interesting that we know much more about today. And also um There are some passages in the King James Version that are rather awkward. For example, Acts chapter 12, verse 4. The King James Version says this, and when he had a apprehended him, um him is P Um Peter, he put him in prison and delivered him to four quarterions of soldiers to keep him, intending after Easter to bring him forth to the people. Now, this word Easter is just out of context here. They did not have Easter back then But the word is the same word that's translated pastel. And I'm not sure why in this one particular place the King James Version has the word Easter. Um it should be passover. Okay. So so in so in so in summary The TR does have some issues, um and also There's more than one version of the TR. There's multiple because again, many people have worked on it, tried to fix it up correct it, updated it, and they all had their own individual versions. And so you you have these these versions floating around. But now the one s significant di difference between the Texas receptors and the critical text is The text that's precepts has no footnotes, no marginal notes, it's just the text. The critical text has footnotes and marginal notes to it to indicate where the variants are. So you can see for for yourself, if you knew Greek Which passages have variants and where those variants are. It will tell you what manuscript are known to have had them. So that if i if you were to translate the Bible, you could um pick up the text And not just look at what's above the the line, but if you wanted to, you could go b below the line and judge for your for you for yourself what you think is the correct text. Yes, sir. Just a quick uh review. So Texas Receptus and Critical Text both are collections of original scripts. It's just that the group of people were deciding what was the proper original one to put in the collection of Texas Receptus or Critical Text And so it's the original languages, it's not translations, it's the original writings or a copy of original uh languages. It is a text of what they believe to be the to be the to be the original. Now I should point out there is no manuscript that matches a Texas Receptors perfectly. Because the text that we accepted is is a combination of manuscripts. Likewise, the critical text. You know, there's no manuscript that matches the critical text But it is but but still the text is there even if it's whether it's above the line or or below the line. You know, so I'll p point out the Texas we separate does have one advantage. Well among many is that in the fourth century since the King James Version we have a great deal more knowledge An understanding of the biblical languages. Our understanding of Hebrew is better. Our understanding of Greek is better. I should say the understanding of academic scholarship is better enough. It's not my own Understanding that's better. Um for um for example, Randy or Shop rule. Well watch that Well, this was discovered, analyzed by a person named Granville Schott. And what he determined is that in any language, whenever you have a um A combination of two nouns that are joined by an additive conjunction like and And the definite article precedes the first noun, but not the second noun, then both nouns refer to the same person. And um I'll just give you give you an an example about about how this is makes the text clearer. For example, Romans chapter 9, verse 5. In the King James Version it says, Whose are the followers and of whom has concerning the flesh Christ came? Who is over all. God blessed forever. Amen. Now if you look at that first, You might think that there are two different persons here. There's Christ or God the Son, then there's God or God the Father. Both are mentioned in this verse. However, this is the grand sharp rule. And and it should rather be translated as in the ESV to them belong the patriarchs and from from their race, according to the flesh, is the Christ who is God over all, blessed red. So this verse specifically identifies Christ as God. This and so contrary to the King James only advocates who say critical text has removed the Trinity, in this case it's it's um made it more clear In an in another example of Titus chapter two, verse thirteen Looking for that blessed hope, says the King James Version, and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior Jesus Christ, who gave himself Again, you might read this verse and think that there are two people here: God or God the Father and our Savior, Jesus the Son of God. However All modern English translations, such as the ESC, window this at first, waiting for the blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior. Jesus Christ, who gave himself. Again, this specifically identifies Jesus, the Son of God, as God Himself. He is divine. He is one with the Father in essence. Now, this critical text Comes from college. Um two of them are Witcount and a court. These are two Anglican ordained Priest who labored countless years together to come up with a text Um that that they thought would be that would correspond to the original autographs. Um and um now some of these advocates would say these guys are Somewhat less than orthodox. And they they bring all kinds of acquisitions against these two guys. Um and it's slant. It I mean uh this is no other uh other way of of saying it But even if some of the charges are correct, and they list ten, fifteen charges against these guys, um, but even if some of these charges are correct Um that doesn't imply that the text is corrupt. Because They know Greek. They know what the text says, and they're going to put it down exactly what the text says. Um and the but basically most of these people who work on this critical text, I mean, they are orthodox Christians. You know, just like we. And um even if there are some who have widely different beliefs as we do You know you know, their opinion is is is gonna be cloud clouded out by it by um everybody else. I mean because you know it's it's a committee Effort. No, it's not going to be one person's viewpoint on on the text. And and I should say We are blessed by some of by these academic scholars who know Greek, even if they are not Orthodox, because they spent their whole lives Studying Greek. And they know Greek. Um and they can tell us what these Greek words mean. And I should also point out that yeah this critical text is a result of textual criticism, but so is this. So again, if you want to claim King James Version or any other translation as perfect It's going to be a losing argument. Um well what what we should be advocating proclaiming, knowing, um, apologizing that we got a very good Bible Okay. Irrespective of what translation we may have in our hands. Now I should I'll point out one well one more thing. I've told you a couple times, the differences between these are minor. They don't affect any of our topics. But I do want to point out one difference that is somewhat Um well not quite major, but but um um but somewhat in um important and that is Let's look at let's look at Revelation chapter five, verse eight and ten. Okay. In this passage In Revelation chapter 4 and 5, there is this worship service. And John the Apostle is called up in the Spirit, and he sees us. And he sees the throne of God. And around this throne he sees all these other Things. For example, he sees these four living beings, four living creatures, however you want to to um translate that that word. And around and also he sees these twelve elders on the twelve thrones. And in it and then he sees his two large groups One is in is the uh is the enjoy horde. Um and then there's this whole group of the redeemed saints You and me. And um and then he sees the Son of God, Jesus himself, coming to approach the throne And to take from the Father's hand this book, this horo, and then They sing the songs of praise. Now most Commentators would tell you that these four living beings, these four living creatures are angelic. Because, I mean, they have six Wings. They are very much like the Sheubin. And um so they are angelic. And they are bright and they are the beings that are that are closest to the throne of God. And so, however, there is a variant. And you and you notice this in the King James Version The King James Version will say, and when he had taken the book, the four beasts or the four living creatures or the four live living beings, the four Twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb, having each one of them harps and golden vials of odors, which are the prayers of the saints. They sung a new song saying, Thou art worthy to take the book, to open the seals thereof, for thou wast slain And has redeemed, and here's a pronoun, us to God, by thy blood and out of every kindred and every tongue and people and nation. And has made, and here's a pronoun again, us, unto our God, kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth. Now, so this is a song. And it's sung. And um it's sung by these four living creatures, four living beings, four beasts, as in the King James Version. And notice that it says, and thou hast redeemed us To God. Now, let's note this. An angel would never say that. Angels do not are not redeemed Bees. They never fell. So an angel would not sing us. So now So if this were the if this were original to the text, this would this would be reason reason reason to challenge The accepted view that these four living beings are angelic. Now Your modern translation says your ESE will say this. And when he had taken the scroll, the four living creatures and the 24 elders fell down before the Lamb, each holding a harp. and golden bowls of four of incense, which are the prayers of the saints, and they sang a new song saying, Worthy are you to take the scrobe They opened its seals, for you were slain, and by your blood you ransomed people for God from every tribe and language and people and nation, and you have made them a kingdom and priest to our God, and they shall reign on the earth Again, this is something that an that an angelic being could think. Okay. Okay, so so so so again I I'll point out though I s though I constantly say all these variations are minor There are some that are somewhat more than just minor. Not that they change Christian doctrines, but they may challenge or change our interpretation of the t t text. Okay. Are there any questions Now any of this I know I've said a whole pot, but um Okay. Okay. Well then I am going to go back to to here and we're going to pick up now a principle uh um something um about the biblical language about the bible translation So we see that there's been a whole history of Bible translations from the very beginning of time, almost. Yeah, I mean no the septuag, translation of the Hebrew Old Testament, um and then has a new test test test testament error arise, there's trans translations into the binatical languages of um Aramaic, of Coptic, of Syriac, of um And many more. The most significant one is the Life in Vulgate by Jerome. And that actually becomes the official translation of the Bible for the church for many, many centuries. I mean over a thousand years until the time of the Reformation. Um when there's a resurgence of interest in the in the original languages, caused by one that the Islamic o o overthrow of So um so of Constantinople um and where were the Western Church No, no, I'm sorry. The Eastern Church, those scholars who had possession of these Greek manuscripts, they came west. Um and then you have Erasmus with with his Texas receptors and that that is blossomed into a whole host of vinequarter languages, not just English, but every other language. And and is still going on today. But the point is that New Testament biblical writers wrote in a common Poine Greek language of the common people It's distinct from the Attic Greek, you know, the Greek of the philosophers, who prided themselves in perfect Greek. And Quinate Greek is simplified in both form and style, and yet still maintains a flexible yet unsophisticated language. Twinet Greek, the language of the Bible, it's the marketplace language. The language that people speak day by day Also, Biblical Hebrew is nearly identical to the commonly spoken language of the average individual, as shown in the many recorded conversations. Um that's what people s if they knew I'm I'm Hebrew. Now the one somewhat m minor Difference is of Aramaic. You'll find that in portions of Daniel and also Ezra. It's the royal Aramaic, a business, of government business and contracts. And it should not be surprising because Daniel in Ezra served as government officials. Then this royal Aramaic is distinct from the Aramaic spoken in later periods of time Indeed, this shows that these books were indeed written in the Babylonian period, in the early Persian periods, contrary to the claim made by the liberals that Daniel was written several centuries late during the And again, the reason is because Daniel prophesizes of things in the future. And so in so liberals claim that Daniel was written after the fact. So the question is why translate into the vernacular language? You know, why don't we just keep King James Version? It's a good translation. Um it it it had though blood doctrines. Why? Well, one of the most important principles that most biblical translators follow is that the translation is is in a vernacular language, a language actually spoken and understood by the people. Why? Note this. When trials of faith come to you You're going to call out to God for help. And you're going to call up call out to God in your own language. Right? You're not going to use Elizabeth language to do so. Even if English is not your mother tongue, you're probably going to use your mother tongue. If if you really want Feel that you You know, if you want to communicate with God, you're going to do so with your mother tongue. Even if you go to some place and you learn a a new language and get fluent in in that language You are probably going to still use your mother tongue when you pray. So you want a translation in your mother tongue And the Bible has a history of that. In the early centuries, Christians translated the Bible into a multitude of languages. But then there arose a period when the church leaders hindered the magical translations resulting in a divided church, because you had this Latin bulgate for it for example. You know, the priest and the church leaders knew Latin, but you, the common people, did not. And you would have to trust the priest to tell you what the Latin Vulgate said. Because you you you could not read it your yourself So scripture was restricted to a high Latin, a most incomprehensible language to the laity, who received only a modest sense of meaning from the priest. So how did the Reformation arise? Well it was through the expedition of Scripture expressed in the vernacular language of the people originated from educated academic clergy, but only when they exposited the text originally written in the common language of the people That is, Martin Luther translated the Bible into German. William Tyndale translated the Bible into English. That's when people could read the Bible for themselves, and that's when the Reformation really, really began. And um William Berwick said this and I'll just close with with this. Leaders of the Reformation believe that God never intended his word as a property solely of the clergy. The Bible confirms this truth. In the Old Testament, the Lord demanded obedience from the people, not just the priests In the New Testament, Christ spoke his parables and taught his doctrine to the common people of Israel. He did not confine himself to the temple in order to teach only the doctrines of the Mosaic law. Because God wants you to understand what He said. You as an individual. And I'm out of time now. So next week and the following week we'll finish this session on some principles of translation So let me close with prayer.