Broken as we um consider how we how we got our bite from the time that God inspired His prophets, his apostles, his people, that they would record The very words of God for us, not just for themselves alone, but for all generations to come. Inspiration is a divine process. Um it the words The word of God that originates from God Himself does not come from man. No man ever devised within himself. What to write as what we see today. Um it is God breathed Inspired by the Spirit of God Himself. And prophets reported what God spoke to them, and those writings were kept They were um copied generation after generation by the people of God. And from from that time to this time here. And now we may ask ourselves, well The original autographs are inspired, we know that. But we don't have those autographs. All we have are copies of copies. And how do we know those copies represent what God originally inspired through his prophets and the apostles? Well, last week we considered the traditional, the authoritative text of the Old Testament, what we call the Meshoretic Text. This text has been handed down to us. Um it's it's it's it's um been a very it's it was copied very meticulously. Um there were a lot of rules and regulations that the copyists would follow. Um and um The mythic scribes themselves working in two centers, Tiberius and Babylonia, they would Um take the ancient text, the Hebrew text, and they would um copy it Um and they would add the vowel markings that that which was not there previously. Um and um they To ensure that they copied it precisely. I mean they followed these various rules, like they Would for example count every let letter, every word in some textual unit Um and keep track of that. And so if they would copy something and it was found to be lacking, um not Correct they would then destroy it and top you the gate. Um and um now the um the the oldest copy that we have of the Meseth text is the Lindley Gregg Gregg Codex. Um and um that dates to well about the year 1000. So I mean that's good. That's a that's an that's an early manuscript. Indeed. However, it's still almost fifteen hundred years after the close of the Old Testament canon at the time of of Malachi in about the year four hundred BC. Do we have anything closer to that? Well yes we do. And it's not basically anything else, it's it's that we can compare the text, the Meshritic text, um, with these other ancient documents to ascertain whether the text, whether the Meshritic text um has been changed or how much it's been changed over these years For example, we have something called the Samaritan pin and the took. And in the act academic literature, you often see the term S A M P This document is a copy of the Old Testament Pinateuch, the first five books of the Old Testament. Now we might call it a bootleg copy An unauthorized copy. Um but sometimes after the Jews came back from the Babylonian exile. The Samaritans separated themselves from the Jewish community. And they took their they took a copy of the Hebrew Pentateuch for themselves. Now they didn't make changes to it. Um And um you know you might recall that when Jesus encountered the woman at the will in John chapter 4, that she began to argue with him And I'm just going to pick this up from John chapter 4, verse 19. The woman said to him, Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. Now how did she actually perceive that? Well, Jesus began to talk to her about eternal life, about future Blessings from God. So she knew in some way Jesus was a prophet. Um and but but she wouldn't but she had this point that she wanted to um Tell him, our fathers, that is, our Samaritan fathers, worshiped in this mountain, referring to Mount Garrison, and you Jews say that in Jerusalem it's a place where men are to worship. So she was she she was going to point out that we Samaritans we worship at Mount Garrison. You Jews, you go off to Jerusalem. Who's right? Um and so this Semaritan Pinatoc is modified. Um there is A lot of changes, but not everything has been changed. So we can compare the Mesoretic text. With the Simerson pen pins that took. And we can see that surprisingly There's not a whole lot of change in the Methodic text um text. Yes, there's about six thousand change changes. But most of them are pretty min min minor, you know, uh misspelled word, um you know, things like that. Um So but surprisingly, so the submerged Pinatook actually gives credence to the mythic Text. And and and it gives um credence especially in this way because because we know the Samaritan Pinator um dates to the time before Christ in the intertestal period. So let's take the mesmeric text back Back a thousand e years. Now, granted, the symmetric pinture has its own Transmission. Um, you know, of course of course it's copied too. Um and how do we know it's been copied? Um I'm correct. Well we don't. However, if you see that look at the at their changes, there's not really a whole lot of changes, so it's pretty So we can be pretty sure that that um that both of them haven't really been changed too much over the pat oh over the next succeeding. Okay. Likewise, we can look at the the two case. That's often abbreviated LXX for 70 This is a Jewish translation of the Hebrew Bible into Greek. And that was also done during the intertestal p period. Now, granted, it's Greek. It's not Hebrew So you can't make uh you know word by b word for word kimp. Comparison. However, you can make edge educated guess guess about how what the Hebrew must have been had the Subtucan when the subtucant trans translated the translators did the work. And if you look at the Swittuagant compared to the Methodic text Surprisingly, it's not that it has it there doesn't seem to be a whole lot of changes Okay, so that's one more witness to the Mesorite text. Also um there are the targets Um those are best the um Hebrew text translated into Aramaic by the Jews. Now this is a somewhat limited um use in making a comparison because the air make is very, very loosely t translated. But it does give some evidence that the Mesoritic text hasn't really been changed all that much. And then finally finally we can look at the at uh at the um coron um code. Toss it away. This is a Latin translation by Jerome. And this dates to about 400 A D. Um now granted it's a translation from the Greek Primarily that sept. Primarily that septuages. However, Jerome did reference the Hebrew Mesoret. Did Reverend did Reverence Hebrew text um um um so so uh so so again we can Make comparisons and see that there's really not a whole lot of change. Okay. And then finally, um in the um beginning in in the late nineteen forties and in the early nineteen fifties, we have these documents Um, found near the Dead Sea These documents would date to up to the time of the Roman conquest in A. D. 70. We believe these that these doctrines that were found were used by a certain separist Jewish group. which we call the Essines Washington and and these um this group of people um um they they um had their own community um surrounding the um dead sea and um and f in it in this case um were found several ancient main uses call course colour Um such as um in um um in we know that Almost every book in the New Testament has been found in some form here, except for the book of Esther. Now most books are only fragments Um fact in fact really the only book that is is in complete form is the Isaiah. Text. And if you compare the Isaiah text with the Mesh Mesh Mesoric text, there's hardly any difference. Um and um so those are the five witnesses That takes a myth theoretic text back over a thousand years. And if we so so now we have documents that are that we know to be only a few hundred years after the close of the Old Testament canon. Now, granted, we can't compare everything. in in in the Methodic text. In fact, on page forty three, I want to pick pick up the notes from here and Um I I just want to um look at number three. Oh, and but and by the way, I did find out yes last week that That the pages um are somewhat formatted a a little bit different. So so so when I page say page fifty throrty-three, it might be your forty-two, it might be your forty-four. Okay. Every Old Testament book except Esther appears within the Dead Sea Scorrow manuscript evidence. Many of these are just fragments. Victor Hamilton in his commentary on Genesis states this. The translation in this commentary is based on the text in BHK and in BHS. Both of these are based upon the text of the Linding Greg Public Library Manuscript B19, written in A. D. 1008. Unfortunately, we do not have major findings from quantum on Genesis. The Aramaic Genesis Apocrypham Accepted. And thus we're not able to compare much of BHK's and BH BHS's Hebrew text. Based as it is on manuscript from the Middle Ages, with a Hebrew text within a millennial earlier. And basically what he's saying here is that if you look at Genesis, Well there's not much to compare. Um we just don't have that evidence. Um but we so so so so so we can't so Like a book with with Genesis, we can't compare it with the Dead Sea Scoros, but we can compare it with the subtulicate. Um and then um on item number four, Victor Hamilton knows the state that the Meshitic Text And the Sattuigan have only minor differences in Genesis. Here are some of the identified differences. And number eight, some differences are due to contextual harmonization. For example, in the Mesoric text of chapter 2, verse 2. It reads, God completed his work on the seventh day, but has for the Septuagint it's translated on the sixth day. And then he says, perhaps the translators wondered how God could have created his work on the seventh day when he did when he did no work at all on that day. Okay. So that's a minor difference. It it doesn't say that the myth mess methodic text is changed or um it just says that we don't know. Number B, at several points the septuagent place replaced a rare word with a common word. For example, of this in chapter 15, verse 11. Speaking of Abraham. When speaking of the birds of that the Mithraic text says this, and Abraham drove them away. Now if you look at the Septuagint, it reads, and Abraham sat down with them. Okay. Um so again there's a difference in the translation, um but again it's it it's pretty minor But that just gives you some of the differences between the Mithraic text and the subtucat. Now the most serious differences between the Mesraic text and the Satugan is the chronological assistance in chapters 5, 8, and 11. Um because if you look at the um dates, at the um ages, at the numbers, there is a slight difference. Um Um and then also a number five, let's go back to Isaiah for um here. The Isaiah Hebrew text in the Dead Sea is near identical to the Mesoretic text. John Oswat In his commentary on Isaiah, the Parisi Septuagint in the Dead Sea corose and states this. The most significant textual variations occur in the Septuagint. Those in the cis in the Satukin are frequently suspects because they appear to be often to be attempts to smooth out Or to reinterpret difficult passages in the Mesoretic text. Since most of the Mesoretic text readings are not simply impossible, and therefore themselves And therefore not themselves subject to corruption. One must reject most of these subtuans as secondary. So he's saying that in this case the Mesoretic text appears to be to be the closer to the original Uh but there is a few cases in which if you look at the Hebrew text it's going to be in the Mesra text it's It's um um uh most translat most translators t today will will go with uh Dead Sea's scores. Number six But in Isaiah 21, verse 8, a modern translation seemed to look at the Dead Sea Corose. As evidenced by the King James Version, which reflects the Mesoric text, and the NAS B, which reflects the Dead Sea. The word for lion in the Mesoric text appears to be a corruption. For example, the King James Version states this, and he cried, a lion My Lord, I stand continually upon the watchtower. I set in my word whole nights. The Nath be says translated this way. Then the outlook called, O Lord, I stand continually by day on the watchtower, and I'm stationed by night at my guardpost. Okay. So so the word lion appears to be a to be a corruption. So that's just one example that modern tr how modern trend trend tr translators would sort of deviate sometimes from the mess theoretic t text. Okay. But again, you know, it's my it's minor. That's uh that's not going to change any anyone's p p p theology. Okay. So uh so uh so um are there um are there any further questions about the old um about the transmission of the old testament? Okay. Well about these meritus. Uh are they still Are they still living today or that that society disappeared? The Mithrex? No, it's uh Samaritans. Um there are some Samaritans still, yes. Um a few. few hundred I think in Israel. Close to the Christianity. Yeah. I think it's what a few hundred. Yes. Right. What religions did they identify? I think the Samaritans most of them never became Christians, so the Samaritan Jews are still there, just a few other Yes. Yeah. Okay. So let's go on to the New Testament. Now we've seen that the integrity of the Old Testament text was primarily evidence established on the fidelity of the transmission process. And that's later confirmed um by the findings at the Dead Sea. Now the fidelity of the New Testament is not so much on the copying process So those who copied the New Testament were not nearly as meticulous as their Mesoretic counterparts But primarily it's on the mut multiplicity of the extant menus. Oh yes. That is, when when we look at at the manuscripts of the Methodic test There's actually very, very few of them. Now, they are good. There's hardly any variation. In them. Um but now for the New Testament um We that fidelity is based not on the trans on on the copying process but more on Just the fact that we have a whole bunch of them. Many, many of them. Now, they are somewhat poorer in quality. That is, they show more There we go. Um so um so how do how do we determine The transmission process of the New Testament. Well, basically, there are three sources There's the Greek manusclips. There's the ancient translations And the citations from the early church pubs. So those are the three primary sources that we have. Another factor for the fidelity of the New Testament, number two, is that we have manuscript evidence that appears relatively soon after the apostolic age. Indeed, from the very threshold of the second centuries. That is um There's not a whole lot of time gap between our earliest manuscripts of the New Testament and that in that first century age in which they were written. Well what has one might claim from the from here that we still have several hundred years gap. With the New Testament, we don't have that. We we we have we have we have documents that are very at the very threshold. There's not a whole lot of time gap between the original autographs of the New Testament in the s in the copies that we do have. Now, the New Testament was written in a formal printed style known as Antheals. And these are mostly uppercase Greek characters, alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and so on, with no spaces between words. And the trans in the pronunciation in the punctuation was somewhat variable. There were some, um, not a whole lot. Um Um so those are all our earliest um main scripts. And sometimes after the sixth century, once you also gradu were gradually replaced by the men miscuels dock manuscripts that were written primarily on lower case letters in a with appropriate word breaks along with more defined um deep de punctuation. Okay. So we're going to begin with the unseals. We're going to move on to the minus minus minutes schools. Now, there are basically three primary time types of menus. Yes. There's the preparus manuscripts. These date primarily from the 2nd and the 3rd centuries when Christianity was illegal. made illegal by Nero. And these were and these were this material was fairly cheap. Not so much cheap in cheap in quality, but just but but but just a debatable. Um and so The Christians would copy their main music on Um now we have to date approximately a hundred and forty of these manuscripts. The earliest of which is what is called the John Rylands fragment. Um containing portions of five verses from John's Gospel and dates to about a hundred and twenty-five So that's not very far after John would pin his gospel. I mean we're talking less than 50 years here. Um now um now um um the um um no Scholars will cat catalog these in and give the and give and give them a number. Um first one, cat catalog would be Would would be defined as P superscript one and then P superscript two And so on. Up to about I think it I think the current total is total total is one hundred forty. Now in the act in the academic This is a joy with C D C D symbols. And most of the time the P is not an English modern P. I mean it's a Gothic P. Um so um by convention the parade manuscripts are labeled with a Garthic black black letter P with a superscript in number in denoting the sequence of being catalogued. So this John Ryland's segment is called P fifty two. Okay. Um Oh, so um in the and then we also have the Chester Betty And those are three main manuscripts purchased in the 1920s by Chester Betty and by the University of Michigan from a dealer in Egypt. Manuscript P45, which is a second-century manuscript, contains portions of all four Gospels in them Acts. Manuscript 46 is an early 2nd century document. It contains almost all of Paul's epistles in Hebrews. And manuscript 47 contains Revelation chapters nine through seventeen. And I w want to point out that in all of these manuscripts, what we actually see is just a portion. I mean none of these all are a complete copy. And number four on the next page, the Bonbert paper is a set of four Um from P seventy-two up to P seventy-five. These were purchased in the nineteen fifties and the nineteen sixties. And this set dates from about the year 200 with portions of the Gospels of Luke and John. Another noteworthy find is the oxy rhinchus papari, and these are thousands of fragments. Some of some of them very small fragments that were retrieved from an ancient rubber sheep in Oxy Rycus, Egypt, around Just see just just around nineteen hundred. And some of those fragments are big enough um Um that can be seen. Um and so these so so these also contain portions of the New Testament. Now the Untio manuscripts dated from the fourth to the ninth centuries would be written on vellum or parchment. Um this is a a more durable um be better quality service. And now beginning with the ninth century to to through the fifteenth century, that's uh that's up the time of the printing press. You had the minus minus good manuscripts. Um and these were um um Um these are written on a modified cursor script. And these are generally generally available of poor quality. than the unsiels. That is, they show more variation. Now, there are several what we call the great unfortunate And these documents we believe originally could contain or once contained the entire Greek text. And these are chiefly of what textual critics will call the Alexandrian text type, and we'll get to that soon. You have first of all you have the Codex Badacanus and and then the um academic literature it's designated B This is perhaps the oldest of the Until manuscripts. You can date that to about 325 or so. Um this was unknown to the West until the uh until the year 1475, um when it was cataloged in the Vatican Library. So they had this document, but they just did not know w know that they had it. Um un until fourteen seventy-five. Um this codex contains most of the old testament That is the which we that is the substitute again. Most of the New Testament and the Apocrypha with some omissions. For example, Hebrews chapter 9, verse 14, from that verse to the to the end of Revelation, that's missing. And also noteworthy is that the long ending of Mark is missing, is omitted. And part of John Mark was missing, I was looking that up at that the Great Commission appears in a section of Mark sixteen, fourteen, three. Oh that's interesting. They don't know why that's missing from that house. Okay. Right. Okay. Right. Then we have the next great UNCIL is called Codex Sinatus. And that is designated by the Hebrew letter Alaf. And that is a Vellum Greek manuscript that also dates to the mid-fourth century. Now though portions of the Old Testament are missing, the Codex contains the entire New Testament, along with the Old Testament Apocrypha, the Epistle of Barnabas, and the Shepherd of Amhermos. And this codex was discovered by German Count Tischendorf in 1859 on a visit to the monastery of St. Catherine at Mount Sinai, Egypt. And most of this codex is is today displayed at the British Library. So if you go to to the British Library, you can see this thing. Because I should say most of these documents you can actu on you who can uh view copies on online. And um and um um Count Dis Tischendorf will see him again. Um So this is the second of the great Uncil manuscripts. And then you have a third one, Codex Al Ex. And that's designated by A. So we have a Um Alaf um whether that's a that that is there's a thing we just call or A B and A and B. Okay. So the um the Mcodex Alexandrinus dates to about to about the fifth century and contains most of the Old Testament And most of the New Testament. And this codex is named for Alexandria, where it resided for a number of years before it was brought by the Eastern Orthodox Patriarch Sarah Lucaris from Alexandria to Constantinople in 1621. And it was later presented to King Charles the First of England in 1627. Um and I believe this is at the British big museum. So and then we have the next one, codex if we sweep this. Receptive we script this unless they're dated by by C And this contains portions of every New Testament book except for 2 Thessalonians and 2 John. And the codex perhaps originated in Alexandria in the fourth century. Now this manuscript This manuscript originally had the text of the Bible, but then someone recycled the pages. They have washed it and wrote over it. And they wrote a bunch of sermons by a Syriac father named Ephraim. And um so this manuscript would stay hidden For a long time until it was discovered Um it brought to Italy in the year in about the year 1500 and various copyists, various textual critics, various um scholars noticed that it had been recycled and began to um study the un underlying text that had been hidden. And um But it was actually Count Tischendorf who actually was able to read the text that was there. And um so he so so then we have so then he could he could reconstruct the text that had been that had been erased. Somewhat imperfectly, of of course. And today it's in the National Library at Paris. So um can I ask is so this count was pretty much traveling around, maybe searching for these You might call him the classical version of um of uh uh um uh uh of um in the inner jumps. Yeah. Yeah. Um Yeah, but yeah, he he he did travel. He did come up with a lot of manus. Yeah. And we'll see him again. Um there was just a curious, so what time period are we talking about when he was able to you know that he was you know, be able to reconcile um this in eighteen hundred, nineteen hundred? Mid eighteen hundreds. Yeah. Well what's amazing that is got got sovereignty, you know, preserved. Yes. You know And that's the amazing part of it. To me. Yes. Uh it ends no what and that be got for you know song to serve that just for that purpose. Yes. That's right. This can I add this one more thing to what Larry I don't air Larry. Larry number two. Apologetic comment. I'm sorry, Worldview of Telemedia, the you know last two days, right? So it was to show some of the clips that uh the you know the organizer did with ordinary people, you know, on the street. often a lot of opposition to Christianity come from the oh the Bible is so unreliable, it was written so long ago, written by so many people. But you know, things things a little bit compared to other ancient documents, you know, whether it's Homor Homer um or other ancient writers, Bible is far more manuscript, far long lasting even the process of preservation. So if you consider that fact You know the Bible is far more reliable than any other document than people just choose to disregard it. Right. Right. Right. Yes. Okay. So One other significant until your manuscript on number six is the Codex Washington Washington Pff Timonian that's that's d designated W. Um and it dates to about the fourth or fifth fifth century. This document was purchased by Schauers Feuer in 1906 from a dealer in Cairo. The manuscript contains the four Gospels, portions of the epistles of Paul, except for for Romans, Hebrews, And from the Old Testament, it it contains the books of Deuteronomy, Joshua, and Psalms. Now this codex Is notable in that it contains not only the long ending of Mark, but also it contains an extra long ending of Mark. Um and um it's actually at the Smithsonian Freer Gallery of Art. In Washington DC. Okay. So those are the A summary of the great Uncil manuscripts that we have. Now you will notice that most of these, if not all, are from Egypt. Alexandria or primary south of Alexandria. So you might wonder Why are these why do we have s these documents from Egypt that have remained unknown From to Western scholars through the Middle Ages that have only surfaced over the past few hundred Over the past few centuries, although not in time for our earliest English translations. And you are and plus you might wonder why these manuscripts are considered so good. And also why we don't have many more of these. Manuscross clips. So that's so these are these are questions to th um um to think about. And uh number two, but first let us consider the process of copying difficult manuscripts and why there would even be variants. Now, manual manual copying a manuscript does tend to introduce errors or ping, ping ping Such as misspellings, transposition of letters or words, omissions, additions. of even a whole phrase and so on. Well, um part of part part of it is that there's a tendency for any text to deteriorate even Because even the best of occasionally made errors in copying a t text. Even the writing surface influences the quality of the final product. Now, some of these might be caught later and corrected. But even when they're being corrected, the copyists could still make additional errors. So it's a s so copying is error-prone. I mean just by its very nature. The second thing too that we need to recognize is that when we're speaking of copying the Bible Don't think of someone as copying has a as say beginning with the book of Genesis, copying everything to the end of Revelation. Typically they would copy books at a time. I mean, not all would be copied at once. Um, not all would be copied by the same person. Um each book would have its own Transmission process. And um so it all so all these books had their own unique history. of textual transmission and have been preserved with various levels of um of um accuracy And so I mean because you know some some books are just more common. The Gospels are would be the most common. Um and um Now, in the second century, I think I'm on number four, in the second century the written text and the oral traditions existed side by side. That is The people who did the copying, they heard the apostles speak. They um they have heard the text being expounded week by week. Um there was this written copy, but there's also what they heard in sermons, um in by word of mouth things that were not Copied down. And so these this oral tradition and this written tradition existed side by side. And therefore A copyist might be prone to rely somewhat on his oral memory. Um and ignore um the written copy um when when um when he was writing it down. Um you know if I were to say give you say say a book or the book of John to copy word for word on paper. There's probably sections that you've you know you have heard it preached many, many times, so you could just write it down without even looking at the Text. Okay. Um I mean that's good that you can remember it. Um not so good if you want to copy it though. Um Um and um so so so again some close hibes might have a tendency um to um h to adjust what to copy to other um and um also Those who were doing the copying of the Bible would also be copying other other th other things as well. Um and so um um So what errors they make in one place may exist may they they may repeat somewhere else when they're not supposed to. Granted, they copied it reverently. They knew they were copying God's word. I mean, they were being persecuted by it for it. So we're not going to end to do something some error intentionally when Um when they're willing to die for it. Um but um But there were some who were not so careful, probably. I mean, because you know they're cr the for the early Christians Their scriptures were being confiscated, burned. Um so they made Made copies frequently and um over in the cop in I had the use of other cheap and cheap mm hmm Material at times. Um so it was multiple copies of the same scripture? Um taper I'm simply when the early Christians made copies, um once they finished one copy they may make one more copy. Right, they would uh they would want to pass it al pass it along, yes. Um yeah. I don't know. Now So these um Christians they frequently saw the sacred writings in danger of being confiscated during intense periods of persecution. But now, even though they were untrained has collides they held a high view of And number six, now we've talked about these methodic All right before how they meticulously worked. Um The Christians were were, you might call it, much less meticulous. But that doesn't mean they that that that they were careless Okay. Um they did have Jewish practices in mind because again many of them were Jews So they knew how the Jews copied their text so they would employ employ these same techniques. to copy the cushion text now. And besides that they they were also copying the s copying the certificate. Um so um so now there is evidence from the very beginning that these People who made copies, I mean they did have standards in in um in procedures. For example, all of the early papari show that these early Christians who copy the text used special abbreviations to designate divine titles. Called the nomina sequera, such as Jesus, Lord, Christ, Father, etc. So this writing system presupposes that there were standards even from the very beginning. The establishment of the practice would not have been left to to the whims of some of either some single community or some individual copyist. Now so they were careful. I mean I I'm I don't want you to I don't want y you to have the opinion that they were less careful than these Jewish. I'm copyist. Um They they did the best they could, um and um and they knew that they were copying God's word. Um Um now um but as copies began to be spread out, it became obvious that There was some variation. Um your the Bible that you had in your church would be different than someone else's church. Okay. Um Um even if you had the same books, there would be some variation. So there rose a variety of methods to standardize the text as more and more variants appeared. Because people began to see there's variation here. So what um and so um each became more or less identified with a text type by textual critics in more modern times. And so in the New Testament textual criticism, I want to talk about four primary text types that have been identified in the past few hundred years. Although a particular manuscript itself may have more than one text type. There is this Alexandrian text type. And that's primarily associated to all examples of Egypt. You have this Western text type. Um which is um um primarily um centered around um um Anti Antioch, I think. You have this Byzantine text type, which is of course centered around Constantinople. This visiting text type would also be called the majority text, or the traditional text, which underlies what is called the textus receptus Or the received text. Most many scripts are of this type. Perhaps 80% of the meet of the minuscules represent this Byzantium Text. Which is somewhat less common. Now, there's a little bit of geographical significance here, but again, it's not completely geographical. Okay. Um those collides in Alexandria they had they They communicated their work throughout the Roman Empire. There were trade routes, well established commercial ventures. Um so there was A lot of communication. Yeah. And I should also point out that these text types, that's that's an invention of the um textual critics maybe around uh mid seventeen hundreds Um so it so this this anti so this post-dates, you know, King James Version, um Reformation, okay. Now, as early as the year 200, Christian subscribes in Alexandria for the first to attempt to recover the best text. Primarily by comparing many such manuscripts. For we know that there is a thriving Christian community. Of multiple churches in Alexandria. In the region south as early as the first part of the second century. And this region was not isolated, they opened both communication and commerce with the remainder of the Roman Empire. Now these scribes were influenced by the great academy of textual criticism that had already been at work preserving other ancient documents, such as Homer's Iliad. And I'll just close with this quote from Zunst. He says this. The Alexandra correctors strove in ever repeated efforts To keep the text current in this sphere free from the many faults that have infected it in the previous period, which is the first century No. Which is which is which is which is which is which is which is the second century, I mean And which tended to crop up again even after they had been marked as postporeus. These labors must time and again have been checked. By persecutions and confiscation of Christian books, and counteracted by the continuing currency of manuscripts of the older type Nevertheless, they resulted in the emergence of a typist text which served as a norm of a text far superior to that of the second century. Even though the revisers, being fallible human beings, rejected some of their own correct readings and introduced some faults of their own So what he's basically saying is that these Christian textual critics produced a text um that is much cleaner. than had been circulating in that during that early second century Um and I'm out of time now, so we're going to complete this next week. Um so let me um um