So welcome today as we enter our final week of How We Got the Bible. Well this is the year two thousand 22 and just think for one moment. Five hundred years ago, there was no English Bible. Um, there was English. but no Bible in the language. And there was a hostile environment. The word translating the Word of God into English or for that matter any vernacular language was strictly forbidden. It was illegal. But there was a man by the name of William Tyndale who had a vision for translating the word Word of God into English. He had to leave England to do so. He could not just work in his office under the shadow of the church. So he lived for U. S. and lived basically incarnito off the grid for the next twelve or so years of his life. And in that time he learned Greek. He learned Hebrew. In fact, he became probably the most um proficient sch scholar of both Greek and Hebrew in Europe during all of that time. But he did translate the New Testament and he had it published in Europe and the books were was smuggled back to Great Britain and bells of cotton and um and they were well received. Every book was sold. nothing left on the shelf. But the church also heard about this. And they began to confiscate the books, burn them, and they also began to hunt him But um kind of say translating the New Testament, he began with the Old Testament, um beginning first with the books of Moses, Genesis through Deuteronomy. Um And then when those books were were finished and published, he began to work on the next group of Old Testament books, the books of Joshua through 2 Corinthians. Chronicles. Chronicles. And then those books he never saw published. He did finish finish them. He also finished the book of Jonah. But he was betrayed by what he thought was a good friend, um and he was arrested by authorities in what we now call Netherlands. He was imprisoned for About eighteen months before he's put on trial, the charges translating the Bible into English. But during this time there was a great political change in England. King Henry VIII um began to divorce divorce himself from the Roman church because he wanted to to divorce his wife. And um Parliament went along with them and they and then they sort of sort of broke away from the Catholic Church. Now they eventually became Protestant Church, but At that time, King Henry VIII was Catholic. He intended to stay Catholic. Um he was slain both Protestants and Catholics who rose up against him. Um But during this time he was persuaded by his advisors to authorize a translation of the Bible into English. English. The person showed was one of William Tyndale's colleagues, Miles Coberdale, and he published his Bible about the time that William Tyndall Tyndall was being tried and executed. Now he was not near as proficient as William Tyndale. He had actually translated most of the Bible from German and Latin. But the T also authorized a saint version and that became known as the Matthews Bible. John Rogers, another close acquaintance with William Kindle, took William Kendall's work, the New Testament, the Pinateuch, the historical books, and probably the book of Jones as well. And he um add he took those books and he added whatever was left out of not Coperdere's Bible. He published the Matthew's Bible and soon thereafter a third Bible was authorized. In this in this case Miles Coverdale came back and and published his great Bible. Um it's basically Matthew's Bible without all the footnotes. Um because the king hated those footnotes. Many many of the other more controversial, and there was also sort of Calvinistic as well. So in a matter of two decades Things have changed quite a bit. Now, um we'll of course kings rise and they fall, as it is with King Henry VIII. Um and um he died. His son, um, Edward the first reigned for a brief period of time. He was he was about nine years old when he became king. Um But he died of tuberculosis soon thereafter. And the third, and the next monarch was Mary Tudor, otherwise known infant. infamously has bloody myth because she was Catholic, she was very, very much Catholic, she hated Protestants very, very much and so she executed Probably about 300 Protestant leaders during his during her five-year reign. Um, some of those Protestants, of course, left England. They fled to Geneva. And some of them then created another version of the Bible called the Geneva Bible. And Um so and then so we have that Bible plus another version of the Bible came out called the Bishop's Bible because the bishops just did not like Tim Doe's Bible or Matthew's Bible. was a Covert Bible because again it was Calvinistic and they wanted the ecclesiastical langu language put back in like like the office of bishop. So then we have the Bishop Bible and the Geneva Bible sort of sort of can sort of compete. The people in general liked the Geneva Bible because it was much better translated. The bishops of course like their own bishop's Bible. So then after the reign of Elizabeth The next monarch was King James I. And he was persuaded to authorize another version of the English Bible. this would become known as the authorized version, or we know it primarily as the King James Version. And in this this version was not a new translation, it was a revision of the Bishop's Bible. Um but but with quite a few changes. And um but still with all of that ecclesiastical language inserted. like bishop. So then gradually the King James version became wide square the uh It surprended the Geneva Bible eventually. And um and although some people just did not like the King James Version, eventually some most Most of the errors, most of the of the of the limitations were worked out over the next centuries until we have today what we call the King James Version, which is really a revision or revision made in about the mid seventeen hundreds. Now, during all this time, um the King James Version was was basically the main version throughout English speaking people. Um there were certain textual critics, certain biblical scholars to begin to work out the Greek text and to improve it, yes. Before you leave the King James as a child I grew up with the King James which had the schofield notes. But I wonder are the Schofield notes Calvinistic like the earlier notes. Um well I um actually I grew up on the King James Version in a Schofield Reverend Bible, yes. Mm-hmm. Um the notes are Put there by a man named C. I. Schofield, a very well-known biblical scholar and teacher. He's most famous for his notes on discipline. Yes. Um I think they're somewhat Calvinistic. Um but they were excessive. A lot of the earlier versions because they were not Calvinistic. Yeah. Yeah. CI um you know for me um um um what I noticed about CI Isa Schofield is on the very first page of the Bible in Gen Genesis chapter one, he promotes the gap theory. So then that sort of uh that sort of But um he was Yeah, and if you would look for your old TV thick house. She was a violent eye. I didn't see that. She she was a mother of um Samassa. She was a mother of Samassa. So she was a character actor. She was a character actor. Okay. I knew that that was kinda interesting. So during all this time the um biblical scholars were trying to improve the Greek text. Um sort of remove the variations that document them um and uh make educated guesses as to what the original text actually was So at the end of the 1800s, it became it it it was just time to have a new English translation. based upon an improved read t t text. And the first one of course was the um to was the English sp standard T version. No It's it's not the English English word. It it's it's some if it's the English revised version. Yeah. Don't teach too many names that almost are alike here. The English revised version. Which is actually an authorized revision of the King James Version. And then another one that came out is the American Standard Version. American Standard. Would wait. But yes. Americans standard for good person. So those are the two that sort of are the are the two main early new um trans. Both of both of them of course are good. Um neither of which surpanted the King James Version though. And um so what yes the uh the American Standard version is uh uh the new American Standard Version, is that a revise or it is a revise. Yes it is okay. Yes. Um yeah. And so um So again, um now there are several new trans teach translations. I also want to talk a little bit about um another type of translation. It's called a paraphrase. It's actually a misnomer. Just consider a paraphrase has a translation. And you just have to judge it as to whether it actually reflects the The Victor t t test. Um and I'm right now on page fifty eight of your or fifty nine. No, I'm on to where Yep, yep. And I'm talking about what is called the Good News Bible, which came out in nineteen seventy six. Again a a very popular Bible at at that time. Um and um it was intended not as a translation but has a paraphrase which means that it that it's gonna gonna reword that d d the t t t text. Of course, you can't really reword a text that's not in um English. Um so again, it's really a trans translation. And um it's um based upon a linguistic theory called dynamic equivalence, even though um I should say that Though paraphrases are dynamic equivalences, not all dynamic equivalences are paraphrases. So I don't I I I don't want us to have a somewhat negative view of dynamic. dynamic e d dynamic equivalence. But a paraphrase sort of goes to the extri. In fact, it's really an interpretation. I mean it might be a good interpretation. Um and sometimes then they even get the text really good. Um because even a very poor trans translation it it's it's it's it's it's going to get the text right sometime, hopefully. Uh Um so the so the Good News Bible comes out. Again it's not a text for Bible study. Um in fact in number two I said the Good News Bible translates the covenant made of God has Lord. It makes no distinction between the names Yahweh and Adenai, which all trans all really modern trans trans translations will tell you when the name is Yahweh or when the name is Adani. And um the um translation of John first John chapter two, verse two, which is one verse that I tend to look at when I'm looking at a new tr translation. Now how does that tran translation do on that verse? Well, here it says, and Christ himself is the means by which our sins are forgiven and not our sins only, but also the sins of everyone. Again it's it's a it's a it's a not a it's it's not a false test statement. It's true. Uh However, it's not really what John meant. John identifies how exactly Jesus is the means. Jesus made satisfaction. He satisfied the justice of God he kee and he consumed the wrath of God. Um that is Jesus made satisfaction. Um he is not merely the sacrifice, but he's both the sacrifice Not just the sacrifice, but the one and only perfect sacrifice. He's also the priest that offers this sacrifice. Now Um another verse I w I want to take a look at is Isaiah chapter seven verse fourteen. In the Good News Bible it says this, Well then the Lord himself will give you a sign, a young woman who is pregnant. would have a son and name him Emmanuel. Now that smothers the teaching of the virgin birth. Um I mean it it it it just confuses it. total. Um and I'm not sure if the trans translation translators just did not know Hebrew or he j he just did not believe in the virgin birth so he wanted it it to be something else. Um So so that verse is not translated well at all. Um now there are there are actu actually several other the I'm see paraphrases that that ten And again, all of these translations are going to have one thing in common. They want the text, the biblical text, in everyday English so that everybody can understand in their own language and their own way of using English. And so that's true with both translation And also these special translations called paraphrases. But some translations, some paraphrases, go even beyond that. They want to drive the translation down to to minimal English. This one translation called the Basic English Bible. It purports to use just 1,000 basic English words. to translate the Bible. Um now how they can do that I don't know. Um and I assume that that I I assume that excludes names. Um because Yes. Uh I yeah I remember very well the the Good News Bible in the late seventies and early eighties. It was the first time I've ever seen a Bible that was had a contemporary cover. They have like new newsprint, this is news, they had sea bible. And it was even the printing was different. Whereas you know, you see the Bible in church and the pews were very the King James. Right. First time I remember seeing I remember seeing a lot of them in the late seventies, all over the place we were handing out the contemporary covers that didn't look like the Bible. That's right. And that was very much it's almost like the marketing. Or trying to get people to look at it differently. I remember people handing them out like in airports. Yes. The Good News Bible. The little version of the New Testament. Yes. That's how people would hand them out. If you were trying to hand out the Bible outside kind of the confines of going to church. Right. Yeah. I just remember that vividly when you talk about the Good News Bible, I realized that. Yes, that's right. I mean I mean t I mean see publishers do what they can to market these bios. If it if they can market it so that it Cancel. That's what they'll do. Let's give them a little bit of credit. Well yes, that's right. They were trying to get people to read the Bible. Yeah. Sure. Yes. I just wanted to just add from my perspective so I we I I understand the uh the the fidelity are just so you know, we honor yes it's valid as Bible word by word, you know, word for word translation. But at the same time from my perspective, so I sometimes compare not just the Bible but certain text from English text to Korean translation. I kind of see that how they done and when you are I often come across the text when you're trying to do word by word for word translation from English to Korean, it doesn't make any sense at all. So I do understand if the purpose is the goal is to get people to read the Bible and understand it. And sometimes you do have to um add that I guess kind of um you know I guess more ordinary language that's easy to understand. Right. They were going for a different audience than the people that sit in church and read their Bibles from the pew. Yes. Then that has some merit to it. And I should point out going back to that going back to William Tyndall his number one goal was to create a Bible that even a cowboy can read. Or would read you we want something or wood read. Right. But but then doing that though we wanna make sure that there's no compromise inside what exactly just like I I I just looking back at what you mentioned here when um Isaiah seven fourteen that you wrote here based on the Buddhist Bible, that's just not it. And even though we know we want people to know the read It's just it doesn't say well that way. It's just not it. But it's also part of like uh this is like you have the children by right, you know we know that is not you know, really uh thorough, right? But it's like planting the seed or holding the seed as planting, right? Is you know Right? And then God will you know increase, right? So basically that's what we really want. We want to plant a seed. Yes right. Hopefully that seed that's planted is found. That's right. Once that seed is found and planted, then God will do the rest. Right. Basically that's it. Sometimes you know we get caught up, you know, and doctrine has not sounds. And then and um and and also th i i if you for instance fence, you know, they have very strong food on their kids, right? So the parents are being tort. incorrect doctrine or somebody that's teaching you has been taught you know incorrect doctrine and now they teach somebody else. You don't go out the ripple effect, right? Yeah. And so then they'd be teaching someone else and so basically, you know, you just want to make sure that, you know, whenever you know So uh someone agreed won't be or receiving something that's sound sound doctrine, plant that seed and hopefully God, you know, if they choose to, he wouldn't preach. Yeah, right. Yeah, and and in fact that just brings up one more point. Teaching a Bible lesson to children. Of course you're going to paraphrase it. Yes. But but also going to add a little bit more because you know from your reading in your resource that these things that you want to see act to see adding are probably a part of the story. But but here the point. When you p when you're paraphrasing to young children, you know what you're putting in. When you're reading a paraphrase in the Bible, you really don't know what what the translator has just put in just because of of what he thinks it may have been there. Okay. That's where the sermon comes in, really? Yes, that's right. I mean and again a translation is a translation. Um it's not an interpretation. Um, you know that goes with interpretation. The interpretation goes with your normal day-to-day Bible teaching. Okay. Um and again I'm I'm I'm I'm just see briefly going to talk about the Liv Living Bible, which is another very popular um Bible that that that came out in I I think it was came came out in nineteen sixty two. Again, some people thought this was somewhat too interpretive, but again, a paraphrase is going to be interpretive. And um that's just that's just the Nature. Yes. Yes. Um when I was a teenager I was a very popular biological teenager. Everybody had a funny. Okay. Yeah. So now let's go to the new international version for a moment. Um this version um actually was at one time What have still is the most popular translation among Christians. Um it was actually uh and this is actually a new translation Um it was um basically um intended to replace or to or to cut um what is called uh revise standard version. They were actu the translators actually wanted to to revise it. But the National Council of Churches re refused to let them do it. So they came up with with a new translation. And this translation um goes by dynamic equ dynamic equ equivalence, but on the conservative side. And fact is sometimes it's even better than us modern word for words, patience. Um but again, you know, it it's a very popular Bible. Representation has been somewhat marred when they try to come up with a new version called the NIVI. New International Version Inclusive. That is one of the sex things? Yes. And and they got a lot of criticism for that. Um However, you know, but truth be told, a lot of these modern English translations, as they are being revised, they're sort of looking at that. Some are changing the language. Some subtly, some very gently, some more drastically. Um and so um so again if If if you want to to um look at a translation as to whether it reflects the word of God, we not only have to go by the name of the version, but also by the date as well. So I I think I'm back on um on page um the um sixty one now. Okay, so we so we um at the new international version which which um to by the um to by the way I did use that new international version version version was several years. Enjoyed it. It was a No it it was pretty good it good in most places. Um but but but I will tell show you this. Um and this comes with dynamic equivalence. When I when I did Bible memorization. I kept my King James version nearby. Um the King James version was a whole lot simpler to memorize than that NIV. Actually, um as a Bible teacher I have to say and and I I found this chart that and I've given uh Maria copies. I think I gave Larry copies to give to us, but why you like a word-for-word translation for Bible study so you can study what the Greek word was or Hebrew and what the author meant. But for reading, which is an entirely different thing, for daily Bible reading is not Bible study. The NIV is very good. In fact, it is recommended as like the first Bible you would get for children. It's written on a fourth grade level, which I'm not putting it down because every newspaper and magazine in the United States is also written on a fourth grade. So it's just a common reading Bible. It just depends on your purpose. And I have copies of both because daily Bible reading is something entirely different. But you have to keep in mind When I see in the stores the NIV study bible, it makes me laugh. You you can't have it's it's an oxymoron. How can you study from something that doesn't ha give you the words that you can look up? So that's that's all that that is. It's not say that these other things are bad. They're very good for certain purposes. But keep in mind if you want to do a serious Bible study, you need a word-for-word translation. on to number thirty seven, called the New King James Version. Now it was pretty came out in nineteen eighty two. Um again um this um the old testament text is based on the Tistutot edition of Biblical Hub from Habraika based on the Ben Asher text and that with comparisons between the Sisatukent and the Dead Sea's. And the revisors of the New Testament were convinced that the New Testament textual criticism had followed a wrong path over the past century, and so they chose to use the majority text or the in text, which is which is the the text supported by by the majority of unknown manuscripts which diff how ridiculous on the testus receptus employed in the original King James Version. That is what what they're saying is they really dislike this critical text. They wanted to get back to the original text, the King James Version, howbeit with some updates. And um and so they they felt that this path, this journeying on to the critical text, um that did raise some questions for them. Now, as it turns out, they made over a thousand chain changes to the King James Version based upon the Greek New Testament test. And um now now again, um though they questions that critical text, you know, um they had they did have a point. That majority tax was not all that bad. Um and um so but but that but that was their um um method of tr translating. And then they said, and then on number C, but the reader is assured that the textual debate does not affect one in a thousand words of the Greek New Testament. So furthermore, no established doctrine is called into question in any doubts about the correct reading of this or that t t t text. The Christian can approach his New Testament with confidence. So basically what What's the thing is is that um is that um even if you question the differences between the majority tax and the critical text. Look at all those differ differences. All of them are relatively minor. It's not going to change any doctor. Now, it may change um how you interpret the t t text in in some verses. Um but it's not going to change any doctrine. Um so that's their that's their reason for going back to the majority t text even though they made changes to to the the majority text anyway. They also replaced the Elizabeth Elizabethan English of the King James Version with contemporary American English. But it preserved to a large extent the King James Version elegance of style was not so apparent in other twentieth century um translations. And number E, in the preface, we read the real character of the A B or authorized version does not reside in it in its archaic pronouns or verbs or other grammar forms of the of the seventeenth century. but rather in the care taken by its scholars to impart the letter and spirit of the original text in a majestic and reverent touch tile. But I might always also add is that is that no notice how they mention Elizabethan Elizabethan on English. Well, that's not seventeenth century. That is sixteenth century. Um so so so even when the King James Version came out in sixteen eleven, in some cases its language was already dated. Um why? Because they used heavily the previous versions like Tyndale and even the Geneva Bible has And then they um added a few more features not present, not practiced, back in sixteen eleven, like quotation marks. Um you won't see the equipment. See those in the King James Version. And capitalized pronouns having a divine reference. Again, that's something that you would not see in the original King James Version. Now, one thing I do like about the King James Version, and this has nothing to do with how it's read or or um But that they also um added um pr pr p pronunciation tips for names. Um my gum, C C C accent. on the on on the on on the s syllables and and it and it did and it did break the syllables down. Um yeah. Now Let's talk about the NASB and the ESV and time remaining. And again, with additional manuscripts being found in advances in textual criticism by nineteen In 1959, there was a need to update the American Standard Version of 1901, the American Standard Version of 1901, whose popularity was waning. So the Lochman Foundation published The New American Standard Bible, which is the NASB, beginning in 1963 with the New Testament, and 1971 with the Complete Bible, with a goal to adhere as closely as possible to original languages of the holy scriptures to make the translation in a fluent and readable style according to its current English usage. Again a goal that most translation try to try to achieve. So again, the NASP had the reputation of the as one of the most most accurate English tr tr translations. It kind of it also has a reputation of being somewhat difficult to read. And that's sort of and that could be a trade-off between word for word exactly and some in the in the adding in a little bit of dynamic d d dynamic equ equivalence to to make it read well. Um in a in S in Messi actually used s uh a single column format, not the double column format of the original nineteen oh one edition, but they were quickly change that back to a to a double column format. And again with the case of so many revisions, the translators came up short in meeting the objectives, and so additional changes were appropriated in the following years. For example, the translators originally proposed to follow the 23rd edition of the Nestle in all them text, but they changed to follow the Texas Receptus, which is old. Okay. So a major revision was offered in was had was issued in 1977. So now the 1995 edition edition is a significant revision and follows the twenty-sixth edition of the Nestle Nestle and Allen text. The translators replace the opaque, second person pronouns, you know, the, thou, die. with modern pronouns. Okay, so um now they came up with a new edition in 2020 which which is a little bit more controversial. That is, they began to use gender inclusive words. Um for example, and I have Philippians Um chapter three verse one. In the nineteen ninety five edition. Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things again is no trouble to me, but it's a safe God for you. Okay. I mean that's a a fair t translation. The twenty twenty edition uh revision has this finally my brothers in Sisters, rejoice in the Lord to write the same things again is no trouble for me, but it is a safeguard for you. Okay, so notice the change. From brethren to brothers. in sisters. Um and you also note that and sisters is in attics, which means that it's really not there in the test. It's just been added to make it read well into uh um into I mean um You see st the English. But but again, you know, it's it's a it it's a fair transl t translation. Um even though the word for brethren and the word for brothers is often two different di two diff diff di diff different Greek words. Um but now let's look at Psalm nineteen, verse five. In nineteen ninety-five it has this Which ha is has a bridegroom coming out of his chamber? Rejoices has a has a Strong man to run his course. The now the 2020 edition has this, which is like a groom coming out of his chamber. Chamber, it rejoices like a strong person to run his course. Now, this change is somewhat um questionable. Um, you know, why did they make this change? Well, let's just say this. A bridegroom, of course, is is a man. It's a man who is either going to get married or is is or soon already m married. But he's a man, a male. It's always bridegroom is always male. Okay. Um and now Well, but what's grim? Well some people say, well, you know, that could open up the door for you know same sex marriage. Um and so a groom is not nearly has so groom could yeah, most of the time it's male. Um but you know some cases um it could be interpreted as female. Because But they also changed this uh other other pronoun, the the this other word from man to person. Now why do they do that? Satisfy the feminists. Well yeah. That's right. To satisfy the feminist No sinist. But the but the but they also say rejoice is like a strong person to run his course. But what didn't didn't that they change that pronoun? Um so uh Um and what would you change that pronoun to? Um they they Yes. But but again, proper English. They or their is is a poor pronoun. Um person is singular. Um so so so again some people would question that translation. It occurs elsewhere. Yes. I mean that's just a bad translation. It is a masculine noun. Yes. And if you trace it throughout the Old Testament, it's used of it's almost always used of um mighty warriors. And it's used of Boaz. Yes. So how do they handle I guess I have to go look it up, but how do they handle all those cases? Mighty persons? Yeah, I I'm not sure what to what they do, yeah. Remember. Oh, but This is so hard. That wasn't helpful at all. That was a sidestep on purpose. Right. But that's just how insidious this The feminist movement is very interesting. It's about control as well. You know, uh the feminist movement, you know, or or any translation that is opposite of you know Wassau, it's about control, not want to be language over, you know, control. because remember you know uh we as Christians and and and the scripts we live by a different standard and when we don't when we don't want to live by those standards we do what? We twist. Right. And that's what's happening. Yes. Yeah. question. Yeah. So with this trend that is going on now, uh, from nineteen ninety five to twenty twenty there's a change. Um with in in words. So that's uh what twenty Twenty five years ago. So in the next twenty five years or twenty years when they come up with another the war will you look like. And then my my my other thought is our children. So we are privileged to we have this Bible, the old ones like the one that I'm reading now, we have this bright woman, not woman So then the next generation they're probably not gonna be living this one, they're probably gonna be reading in twenty twenty or twenty thirty or the and so then the message the have the same compromise. Yeah. Well yes. I mean I mean that that that's a good point. I mean a lot of these modern trans translations are going for this more general inclusive language. But not all of it. So there was always going to be some trans translation that that's going to book the trend. would not do that. That's nothing but Satan himself still doing the same thing he did in the beginning. Right. Yes. And that's and that's still happening. Yes. Right. Okay. Okay. And again um um the NASB is often compared with the English standard version, the ESE, which some of you have. It's published in 2001. It is based upon the revised standard version. Now n now now again what the English Standard Version did was they went back to the National Council of Churches to ask permission to use I think the nineteen seventy one edition of this Bible and because they wanted to sort of take out what they may call the de-Christianizing influences of that Persian. So that's how we got the English standard version. Again, um it may not be as l l literal as a NASP, but it does have a repetition. of having improved readability. Now with that in mind, we had to go back to to the master's seminary. Um the Masters seminary has recently come up with a new version, what they call the legacy version. And I um this one here the the Lagos East Standard? Good. So I will. Now this one you're you're gonna see this one you you you're gonna see a little bit um this one's gonna be different. You will notice that it's one column Which is somewhat um different. But there's also no put notes. Um no cross references, no marginal notes. Um And there's no chapter or book introductions. Occasionally there's there's a paragraph note. Um um and um and also um what Jesus said is not written in red. It's just black of text. Also another thing is there's no maps. No maps. There's no concordance. Um in um So it's not meant to be a study Bible per se, maybe a reading Bible? Well perhaps so. But um umly Bible. This this year is based upon the NASP, the New American Standard Bible. Um, and basically it has two major changes. The word often translated bond service number thirty-nine legacy standard. Yen the new testament. Um in the Legacy Standard Bible it is tran translated slave. Also In the Old Testament, the word that what you often see has the covenant name of God, Lord, all in upper case. The Legacy Standard Bible will will will denote that the covenant name of God. So those are the two major changes. And it and there's a few other changes, but they basically go by the nasty. The nineteen ninety five version, right? The nineteen ninety five version. Yes. Nothing but very true. There is no gender inclusive language. Hilarious so Mark fifteen versus nineteen twenty note that this isn't a to the most uh um uh most of the things oh they they they will bra bracket it off. They bracket it off in that yeah okay Well, um let's see anything else. Okay. So now we come to a summary. So what we've seen throughout these thirty five hundred years of the Bible being written, copied, canonized, transmitted, copied again, over and over again, translated into the all of all the languages is this. Um this quote here from Philip Comfort. Um finally it must be said that although there are certain differences in many New Testament manuscripts Not one fundamental doctrine of the Christian faith rests upon a disputed reading. Frederick Keenan, a renowned paleogra, and textual critic, affirmed this when he said the Christian can take the whole Bible in his hand and say without fear or hesitation that he holds in it the true Word of God, handed down without essential loss from generation to generation throughout The centuries. Okay. So that is an affirmation that that we have the text um that is very, very close to the original both in the Old Testament and in the New Testament as well. And we get and again we have a variety of now a very good English trans Translations, you know, you know, you know, no, you know, it's even the King James Version is still good. I mean it's it's um um um and so the work of textual criticism since the King James Version that's giving us a very good Greek text, but even with all of these improvements, not one Christian doctrine has been altered. Again we we we should also note that textual criticism itself is going to give us diminishing returns. You know, they'll you know, unless someone finds a big treasure trove of ancient manuscripts um there's not a whole lot of new stuff to work with. And the variations, the variance, the changes, the differences, you know, they've been documented, they've been researched, they've been debated. Um and um and so what all that means is you have before you in your hands a very good translation. Yeah. And so it's up to us to read it. Stud. Obey it. Amen. Well, we are out of time. Hope you enjoyed that in Larry. That's right. Yes. Yes. So I do hope you and you enjoyed this class. I enjoyed it very much too. Thank you, Larry. Thank you. We appreciate it. Okay, so um so that's so let me close with close close with a prayer. Our Father, our God, we love you. We love you because you first loved us. We love you because you have revealed Reveal yourself to us. You've given to us your word that's a treasure that's precious to us. And Father, help us to read it, understand it, obey it. It help us to teach it. Help us to use it to comfort one another and encourage one another and to exhort one another to love and to into into good works. We thank you, Father, that your word is God breathed. It does not come from us by the women man. Um it's from you. You are the source of of the whole text. And Father, we thank you for the men and the women who have gone before us, who have lived lives of faithfulness, who have who have lived the lives reflecting your word. We'll live the lies teaching your word. We'll live the life keeping your word. And Father so Father we we stand on the shoulders of giants before us. Also to be found faithful that we may pass your word to the next generation. And Father, um praise be to you. Amen.