It's a beautiful time of worship. Praise God for that reminder of the greatness of God, his glory. To love and adore him. As we're going through the Gospel of John, you're hearing messages that have to do with coming to faith in Christ, and some of you may think the application is just not there for you, but you And I have uh been having this happen to myself too. You need to learn to love Jesus more as you see who he is and meditate on the greatness of his person Religious warnings largely fall on deaf ears these days, wouldn't you say? Maybe in part it's because of all the false alarms that have been sounded. We all know Mr. Got It Wrong Camping. Proclaimed the end of the world last weekend. The skeptics had fun with that. He was not the first date picker, and he won't be the last. The doomsayers who arise with loud and confident predictions are quickly discredited when the doomsday comes and goes and there's no doom. So who should be worried? The Bible warned that there would be ears that are dull of hearing, warnings of the coming of the end of the age. In 2 Peter 3:4 it warned that in the last days people will mock and say, Where is the promise of his coming? Two thousand years. Come on. But the Bible does warn about end times destruction. It does, repeatedly and often. If it's true, there should be a lot of warnings about it. Since it's true, there are many specific warnings about the end of the ape. 1 Thessalonians 5, verses 2 and 3. For you yourselves know full well that the day of the Lord will come just like a thief in the night. While they are saying peace and safety, then destruction will come upon them suddenly. Like labor pains upon a woman with child, and they will not escape. There's another warning that's not heeded all that much anymore. It concerns not the end of the world, but maybe something some people can believe in, and that is the end of their lives. It's a little more evidence, I think, for that. Graveyards, hospitals, and things such as these. The warning is what will happen to you after you die, for you will die. You tell people today that they'll they're in danger of going to hell, to judgment. And they are convinced the loving God would never do that to them. You remind them that they have to receive Christ to be safe with God. And they act like they have all of the time in the world to make that decision. You tell them God is wrathful, just look at the world. Look at what's happening here. Why else do we die? There is wrath, there is punishment for sin. And they say, despite all the evidence, they believe in a different kind of a God, hoping maybe what they believe in could change reality. You ask people if they want to get saved, and they say, saved from what? I'm fine It is because that warning about what happens after death is not heeded We hear our Savior amplify that warning in John chapter 8. Dr. MacArthur, when he preached from this, entitled his message, How to Die in Your Sins. That was a tough message. I'm going to be a little more positive and say how not to die in your sins and try to look at it from the positive side. Really, the passage explains both. Let's read it. John 8, 21 to 30. Then he, Jesus, said again to them, I go away. And you will seek me and will die in your sin. Where I am going, you cannot come So the Jews were saying, surely he will not kill himself, will he? Since he says, where I am going you cannot come? And he was saying to them, You are from below, I am from above, you are of this world, I am not of this world. Therefore, I said to you that you will die in your sins. For unless you believe that I am He, you will die in your sins. So they were saying to him, Who are you? Jesus said to them, What have I been saying to you from the beginning? I have many things to speak and to judge concerning you, but he who sent me is true. And the things which I heard from him, these I speak to the world. They did not realize that he had been speaking to them about the Father. So Jesus said, When you lift up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am He, and I do nothing on my own initiative. But I speak these things as the Father taught me. And he who sent me is with me. He has not left me alone. For I always do the things that are pleasing. To him. As he spoke these things, many came to believe in him. Well, here is another typical debate passage between Jesus and the Jews. The themes in this passage are going to be developed as the chapter continues to go on, the paternity of Christ, who is his Father Christ's origin, Christ's destination, Christ's identity. Really it's all about the identity of Jesus. Who is Jesus? What is he here for? Why can he come to the temple and make these startling claims? Is he really whom he seems to be claiming to be? But it's also about the Jews, for they are constantly described by Jesus as the opposite of Jesus. Their Father is the devil, Christ's Father is God above. Their origin is from below, Christ's origin is from above. Death and sin is the warning about their destination, while Christ will ascend to God the Father and travel a path they cannot go. Really, the passage sounds similar to what we looked at back in chapter 7, verses 33 through 34. If you glance back there, therefore Jesus said, For a little while longer I am with you than I go to him who sent me. You will seek me and will not find me, and where I am you cannot come. Similar statement, but here the warning is even stronger toward them It is here in the context of Jesus' declaration that he is the light of the world. Anyone who follows him will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. that he, the light of the world, is right in issuing a warning to anyone who will ignore that light, turn away from that light, and not follow that light. That light is about to disappear. He was about to go. He was about to depart. What would happen to those remaining when the light was gone? They should take full advantage of Jesus while his light was shining. However, clearly they were not, as many today don't. They don't take advantage of the light we have here in this country. Here, men and women have shed their blood on all kinds of battlefields throughout the world so that we could be here and proclaim a gospel and have freedom of religion and worship and come to church and they're not riding their bikes and their motorcycles and playing golf And they don't take advantage of it. Well, same thing with the Jews. Here Jesus, the Son of the Living God, was among them, and they didn't even take advantage of his presence with them. It's so sad. In the words of John 3. 21, these Jews did not come to the light for fear that their deeds would be exposed. They loved the darkness. And so they remained in the dark. But we need to come to the light so that we can understand. We need to understand what is the way of escape from judgment. To make sure that none of us, not one of you, not one of you, would die in your sins or in your sin as the passage talks about. And if you're confident your sins have been forgiven and you're in Christ, that you would understand the urgency of telling people the message of Christ so that others would not die in their sin. There are two vital truths, I think, in this passage we can gather and learn from. First is the warning, and second is the way of escape. The warning is in verses 21 to the beginning of verse 24, and then it kind of transitions there into the way of escape. We have the warning, and we're glad we weren't left with a warning. We were left with a way of escape. So let's look at the warning. Verses 21 and following. Then He said again to them, I go away, and you will seek me, and will die in your sin. Where I am going, you cannot come. Now remember, all of this is still in the temple in Jerusalem. It's still during that feast of booze. It's still on the heels of his claim. I am the light of the world. That went along with the candelabra at the feast there we learned about last time. Notice the verse says again, which continues the discourse from verses twelve through twenty. When he goes away, they will seek him, but they won't find him. Because when he goes away, they will not be able to follow him. That is, they won't be able to travel the path that he is going to travel. They're only going to have him around a little while longer. Remember, it's Just six months away now from the time of his departure when he knows he will come during the Passover, he will be killed. He's well aware of that. He knows when he comes back up to Jerusalem that he will be delivered over to the chief priests and the scribes And they will kill him and he will rise on the third day. He makes all of those predictions over and over to his disciples, and even they are slow in understanding it. But Jesus is aware, he knows his impending death, he knows what hour it is, he knows what's going to happen. And he knows that they're going to look for him. I don't think that's to be taken in a positive way, seeking him like someone seeks to follow God or seeks to come after Jesus. I think it says that they'll seek him, but then they'll die in their sins. That means they're going to be unconverted and die. They're going to lose their opportunity. That's a bad state to be in They will die in their sin. Sin there is in the singular. Did you notice that? Some think that means a particular sin, like the sin of unbelief, because they refuse to believe they'll die in their unbelief. That's possible. It's more likely it just means personal sin in general. It's generalizing their sin. Their unbelief is included. Their other sins are included. It's sin in general. You'll die in a state of sin. Later in verse 24, notice he uses the plural, you'll die in your sins, so the distinctions are not to be heavily emphasized. I think here he likely means not a particular sin, but in the category of sin. In other words, you're not going to die in forgiveness, you're not going to die in Christ, you're going to die in sin. You're not going to die in righteousness, you're going to die in wickedness. You're not going to die in safety, you're going to die liable to the sins that you commit. They will die in a state of sin. And then all the consequences that come from dying in sin. In their sin, in is the Greek preposition en and it relates to the sphere in which they will die. Here is the environment in which they will pass into the next world. You can think of illustrations of this. Someone might die in the sphere of battle. He might be battling and he might go out into battle, and how did he die? He died in battle. We're celebrating Memorial Day. We know the great battles in the Pacific, for example. The great battle at Okinawa or Guadalcanal or Iwajima. Tens of thousands of American soldiers. Japanese soldiers died in those battles. They were killed in that environment. They died there. Someone might die differently. They might die in water. They might drown. And the environment of their death is water Another might die in a fire in a building with a terrible way to die. Another might just die quietly in bed as they succumb to a sickness That would be their environment in which they die. But Jesus speaks of a worse environment to die in. To die in your sin. Not someone else's sin. Your sin, sins that you've committed. That means that you're not forgiven of your sins. There's no forgiveness. You're liable. You're guilty. You carry all of that into the next life, and you have to pay for that. Like tar sin is, stuck to you, can't get it off. All over you. Like poison that permeates you from the inside out. It defines who you are. You are in sin and sin is in you. To die in sin, people, is the worst possible thing that could happen to you or to anybody What Jesus expresses here is the worst thing. It's miserable. It's an unending condition. It can't be mitigated. It can't be comforted. It cannot be eased at any time. You know how you feel when you hear someone that you love has cancer. You're like, Found out so-and-so has cancer. Feel terrible. What can I do to help it? What pain are you going to go through? Here someone had a heart attack and they're in the hospital and they're struggling for their life, and you think that's terrible. They lost their job is bad. Someone might have had a divorce and it's heart-wrenching. Or have a child die. What could be worse? And I heard the testimony of a man, you know these testimonies in Joplin, Missouri, or the tornadoes that came through and there was a guy who had a young, I think he was three year old and a one-year-old boy, and both the boys were taken and gone, and he was just He was just crying, you know, this was my buddy, this was my little buddy, and he's gone. These are these are terrible, terrible things that happen in our world. But that's not the worst thing that can happen to somebody. Even that man had hope. He had hope to see his boys again in the next life. The worst thing is not to die. The worst thing is to die in sin. See, we're already, if we're unconverted and unforgiven in this world, we're already under the cloud of divine wrath. It already hovers over us. It's here. John 3. 36. Remember that? He who believes in the Son has eternal life. He who does not obey the Son will not see life. But the wrath of God Abides on him. It's there already over him. It's not fully expressed, but the displeasure and the wrath and anger of God is already over the unbeliever. And so when he passes in that state of sin, he passes into eternity with that cloud of wrath over him and ready to bring the rainstorm upon him. We're already judged. Human beings outside of Jesus Christ were already judged by God. They already have the death sentence upon them. So when they die, they just slip right into eternity in the same condition they are in now: adulterers, thieves, covetous, liars, fornicators, worshippers of false gods, idolaters. Those who love drunkenness and reveling, personal lusts that they live for, the love of money, disobedient to parents. Dishonoring of God-given authorities. They're in their sin that they love. They live in that realm of sin. And God has judged it. God has rejected it. God has condemned it. Dr. MacArthur succinctly writes, by refusing the light of the world, they doom themselves to the eternal darkness of hell. Hell's a fire that burns dark, it's the outer darkness. Kenneth Gangle amplifies this truth, a longer quote. He writes: To die in sins means to die with the burden of one's own sin and its penalty enforced by a righteous God. Jesus talked about hell here, although his listeners never comprehended that illusion. It is interesting that Americans believe in hell, he writes, two to one over Europeans. We think we have a dark here. But the percentage of people who believe in hell is much greater in this country than the percentage of people who think there's some possibility they will end up there. Human perception tells us that God made hell for Gingis Khan, Adolf Hitler, Edi Amin, and Pol Pott. Regular people who merely lie, cheat, and abuse their children cannot possibly be that bad. Somehow God will work out a plan to sneak them into heaven in spite of a lifetime of sin. This passage tells us that those who refuse the light will end up in eternal darkness, and there is no escape. You know, I think not just the warning of what will happen to someone if they die in sins, but also There's the the allusion here to the fact that there are glories to come for all of those who follow the light and are in Christ. And they will miss out on all of those glories. Sometimes people don't make decisions by threat and by pain. They they they they think about what they'll miss out. Well Jesus speaks of the glories that he will have They can't come to be with Jesus. They can't be with the Father, who's the source of life and health and joy and peace. They've rejected the sun, so they've rejected life. They've rejected eternal life with God in His presence. There will be happiness forever. There will be forgiveness. There'll be togetherness. There'll be unity. There'll be understanding. There'll be truth There will be confidence, there will be light, there will be blessing and honor and glory and security and enjoying one another and enjoying God forever and ever and ever. The party will never end. And they'll miss out on all of that. When Paul thought about all of the trials he went through, including stonings and shipwreck and floggings, he said, you know, the trials of this present age aren't even worthy to be compared. To the glory that's going to be revealed to us. You're going through a lot of trials, but it's really going to be small and dinky compared to the massive weight of glory you're going to experience forever. They're going to miss out on all of that because they die in their sins God, can we change our mind? We'd like to come on over there and enjoy some of that stuff now. It's too late. It's too late. They're cut off. They're cut off from everything that's good. They cling to their sin. They got their sin. They thought their sin was so wonderful. They wanted to keep getting drunk and they wanted to keep practicing their sexual immorality and they loved their lies and they wanted their own personal pride, so they got it. They got it all for eternity. And they didn't get Christ. What fools Here the Jews are standing in front of Jesus. How do they respond to this warning? Well, let's look at it. Verse 22. The Jews were saying, surely he will not kill himself, will he? Since he says, where I am going you cannot come? This is the wrong way to respond to the warning. That designation the Jews usually means in the Gospel of John the leadership of the Jews, but here it seems to be a bit broader. Many of these Jews have come to believe in him, at least in some sense, by the end of this discourse, so it seems to include them. Once before they mocked Jesus when they said, Where is your father? He talked about the father being the witness in the last passage. He said, We can't see him, where is he? And they mocked him. Now they're mocking him again. See the Jews believe that if someone killed themselves, that is, committed suicide, they were damned forever. They had no chance. They would receive the worst of all judgments from God. So if Jesus was going somewhere where they couldn't go, maybe what he was going to do is kill himself because they were the children of Abraham, seeing they couldn't possibly follow him into Damnation. Oh, how smug and arrogant they are. You go out after hearing a sermon like this, maybe tears in your eyes, you see a sinner out there, the sidewalk in the park, and you say, I don't want you to die in your sin, and they look at you like you're a fanatic and they make fun of you. Same spirit in them that was in these Jews. It's arrogance, it's smug arrogance. It's the only place they think they couldn't follow Jesus. Oh, this is completely the opposite character of the Lord Jesus, who is so humble of heart. He didn't kill himself. He went to the cross, not to commit suicide, but to lay down his life as a sacrifice. And there's a world of difference between suicide and sacrifice. One is as selfish as it can be to escape and to control one's life. The other is to say, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit, I'm laying down my life for the sin of the world One is pure love. John 10, 17, for this reason the Father loves me, Jesus spoke, because I laid down my life so I may take it up again. So the warning is given, and they don't respond very wisely because of their pride. And so next, Jesus. Repeats the warning and amplifies it. He steps it up. Look at verse 23. And he was saying to them, You are from below And I am from above. You are of this world. I am not of this world. Therefore I said to you that you will die in your sins. There's plural. Let's stop there. Well that completes the warning. Not just die in sin, but die in their sins. It's personalized and particularized now. You don't have one sin, you have a group of sins. Your life is filled with sin. These were religious people. These are people who read the Bible. These were people who tried to practice the law. He calls them sinners. By the standards in America today, these might be considered the best of people. He said, You're sinners. You've missed the mark with God. You've disobeyed the commandments of God. You're in iniquity. You don't measure up to God. You'll die in your sins. Not even a debate about whether they're sinners. This is a divine punctuation mark, an emphatic warning. I think these are some of the most sober words in all of the Bible. They wouldn't listen to them though So Jesus has to make this contrast. I and you. You are from below. I am from above Above. What does that refer to? Heaven, right? You want to know why you should listen to me, why you shouldn't mock, why you shouldn't turn away from listening to this. I came from heaven, I'm from above. Back in John 3. 31, we read about this: He who comes from above is above all. He who is of the earth is from the earth and speaks of the earth. He who comes from heaven is above all. You know, people from the earth speak from the earth. That's philosophy. They start with themselves and end with themselves. They don't have any idea what truth is. Jesus comes down from above and he speaks to us from what he knows. That's revelation. That's scripture. That's above philosophy. That's above human education. Below, by the way, doesn't mean the underworld or hell or Hades, but this planet below heaven, this fallen planet that God and heaven are in sovereign control over. They, these Jews, like you and me, are from below. This is where we originated. Adam was taken from the dust of what? The ground, right? The earth. And that's where he started. He originated from there. First Adam is from the earth. The second atom, Paul says, is from above. Man was not in some spiritual form before he was born on earth. Like the Mormons teach, a bunch of spirits out there that are multiplying, and then the spirit comes down here and inhabits a body. That was not our origin. Passage says so. We're from the world. We're from the earth. We're from the ground. We're limited. We don't come from the galaxy somewhere way out there. That's human arrogance spreading more lies. We started from down here. It's also, by the way, refutes reincarnation. We did not pre-exist. We had an origination that was here in this earth. The second part explains the first part. You are of this world, I am not of this world. You could just already hear some people are into aliens and into some weird kind of hermeneutic imposing that on the Bible and say, Ah, Jesus said he was an alien. I am not of this world. It's interesting how people take their glasses, put them on, and see things through that. A twisted evolutionary alien hermeneutic, we might call it. But not of this world and above refers to heaven. Not a more advanced race evolved on a distant planet. Jesus is not a Superman. Superman couldn't handle Kryptonite. Jesus is greater than Superman, as we're going to see. The Bible teaches that heaven is the source of all things, all of creation, all of life, all of truth. And Jesus came down from that land, the land above. But the Jews from below they didn't have heaven's perspective. Again, this reminds us of Jesus' conversation back in chapter 3 with that great teacher of the Jews named Nicodemus who couldn't get this either. And Jesus had to tell them in chapter 3, verse 12, If I told you earthly things and you don't believe, how will you believe if I tell you heavenly things? You haven't figured it out. When I start with earthly illustrations, how am I going to tell you about what I know from heaven, Nicodemus? And you're the great teacher of Israel and don't know these things. And it goes on to say, No one has ascended into heaven but he who descended from heaven, the Son of Man, a designation that he used of himself back there and also in this same passage. Jesus was warning about dying and sins because he was from above and he knew what was true. You can count on the words of Jesus Christ. He knows what he's talking about. He is the authority on the subject. There is no greater authority. If you want to know about escaping, dying from sins, listen to him. He's telling you right here. Dying in sins, as we already said, is a terrible, terrible thing. What happens to a person who dies in their sins? They have no way of loosing themselves from their sins. No way of getting it off of them. Their status at the time of death, the heart stops beating, the brave ways are over, the spirit leaves the body, it's fixed. It's over. There's no changes after that. I remember a relative of mine saying, Well, if I'm wrong about all this Jesus stuff, I'll just believe in him after I die. I'll figure it out then. So your chance, your chance to believe is now. Don't be intellectual and smug. Believe. Surrender. Give it up now. He knows you don't. It is appointed unto man once to die, and after this comes judgment, not a second chance. Not Disneyland. Not a beautiful light. Oh, it's a beautiful light. I go off into death. You know what the great white throne judgment, that final judgment of all the unbelievers in Revelation 20, that giant throne that Jesus will sit upon? Do you know that the people there are judged for the deeds they did in life only. Nothing about what they did after they died. Well I see you've reformed your life up here in heaven. I see after a thousand years of burning, you finally got the message. There's no consideration of anything done after death at the great white throne judgment. In fact, if you follow that through, the rich man in Luke 16, same thing with his evaluation. Let me be cooled. No, this is how you lived in your life, remember? There's no discussion of reform, there's no discussion of a second chance. In Romans 2, it's the same thing. The deeds that were done are the bad deeds done in life. And based on that, a man, a woman is judged. See, dying in sins leads to automatic and irreversible judgment at death. Death is the deadline When someone dies, they slip into eternity, stained forever with iniquity. They are beyond regeneration. They'll never be born again. They'll never be a new creation. Their sins can no longer be forgiven. All hope is lost They must spend all of eternity in pain and torture for their sins. And they're plenty. The justice of God and the holiness of the Holy One demand a payment, eternal retribution. When is the day of your death? Ah, preacher, you're just trying to get us scared. Well then tell me what the day of your death is. You don't know, do you? You'd be a date predictor on that be wrong. Well, I'm gonna die when I'm 83. See, I'm gonna what's gonna happen is I'm gonna grow up and I'm gonna get this nice house, and then I'm gonna. What is the day of your death? You don't know. So why would anyone hear this warning and delay to receive Christ? What? What a fool. What a fool. For all we know, someone could die this very week. And God is giving you this warning today to make sure when eternity comes, you don't slip into eternity irreversibly condemned. It's a scary thing, but it's a true thing, and it needs to be heard. Fortunately Mercifully, amazingly, this is not where it ends. There is a way of escape That's the warning. Now we go to the way of escape. How do you escape dying in sins? It's simple. It's wonderful. Listen. There's one way. There's not two ways, three ways, four ways, multiple ways. There's one way, one way only, and it's a wonderful way. It's a way that's open to you and me It's a way I pray God will help you to hear and listen, and maybe some that you go and talk to will listen. It's a blessed way. It's a way of being released from all of your sins. Whatever those sins were, wherever they were, no matter how bad they are, no matter how much they bother your conscience. No matter how much someone hates you for doing it, there's a way of escape. It starts in the second half of verse 24. For unless you believe that I and he, you will die in your sins. That word, unless, is the way of escape. It's a word of mercy, and it's very important. It means there's one exception, one way out. Ian May, unless that's exactly what it means. It's a wonderful translation. It's the same construction that was given back in chapter three, verse three, when Jesus said to Nicodemus, Truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. One way and one way only, one exception. John 6. 44, the same construction. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. That's the only way. John 6, 53. Truly, truly I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in yourself. Here's the exception. It's unless, unless you believe. Because unbelief will leave you in your sins, but belief will take you out of your sins. Belief will rescue you. Again, we have to say, just as a side note, just like last week, this statement refutes the error of universalism. You must believe, or you will be undelivered and unsaved. It also refutes the idea of a second chance. You must believe before you die. There's an unless, and you have to believe now. It also refutes the idea that belief in anything is fine and bandy with God as long as what as as your belief is sincere, as people say today. Believe whatever you want to believe, just be sincere about that. No, for you must believe in Jesus, not someone else The object of your personal confidence, the object of your faith is just as important as your believing. Particularly, you must believe that I am He, Jesus said. You must believe that I am He. Now, a technical note. It must be noted, and some of you are looking probably at something in your study Bibles there or seeing the italics with the word he, and you're going to notice that that word he is not in the original Greek. Do you see that? So literally Jesus declared, unless you believe I am. That just blew me away when I was reading this. There is no he. Ego, I, a me. I am. I, I am, sympathic. Same construction as in verse 28. I am. Same construction as in verse 58, where Jesus declares, before Abraham was born, not I was, I am. Before Abraham was born, I am. It's not good grammar. It means something. And they picked up, they finally get it at the end of the chapter. They don't get it here, but at the end of the chapter, they pick up stones to kill them for blaspheming and claiming to be God. Listen, I think this passage proceeds and unfolds this meaning that Jesus is declaring this I am in an absolute sense here. You must believe I am. I am who? I am. Say what's that? That's a reflection back to the name that God gave to Moses from Exodus chapter 3, verse 14, when Moses was like, Well, would I go back and I'm going to tell them I met God in the wilderness. What's your name? What name am I going to give him? He said, Tell him I am who I am. I am who I am. I am the everlasting, eternal, self-existent one. No one created me. No one thought of me. No one invented me. I wasn't born. I didn't grow. I am always who I am, go tell him I am, sent you. Maybe even more directly, Jesus is referring to several prophecies in Isaiah's. book about the servant of the Lord, who is identified as the Messiah, and whom in the Septuagint, the Greek translation of the Hebrew Old Testament, renders the I am he also in the same way John does here, ego a knee. For example, in Isaiah 41, 4 Which reads, Who has performed and accomplished it? Calling forth the generations from the beginning. I, the Lord, am the first, and with the last. I am He, or in the Greek, I am. Same construction. Or in Isaiah 43:10, you are my witnesses, declares the Lord, and my servant whom I have chosen, so that you may know and believe me and understand that I am Before me there was no God formed, and there will be none after me. Absolute deity. Same in John Isaiah 43, 13, even from eternity I am, and there is none who can deliver out of my hand. I act, and who can reverse it? There's no competitor with God. Isaiah 43:25. I even I am the one who wipes out your transgressions for my own sake. And I will remember your sins, not remember your sins. I will not remember your sins, but I get that right. Also Isaiah 46, 4, Isaiah 48, 12, and others. So they had to come to a place where they realized this 30-year-old Jew in the temple was not just another man from Nazareth. He wasn't just a nice prophet speaking something good. He wasn't just another rabbi gathering around a few disciples. He wasn't just a phenom. This was God come down The unique Son of the living God, the only begotten one, the divine servant of the Lord, the Messiah of Israel, God in flesh. They had to see him as deity and all the implications that go with that, which there are many Just like John has been teaching us in the gospel, Jesus is the bread of life. If you want life, eat them. Because if you don't eat them, you have no life in yourself. Jesus is the light of the world, follow him. Because if you don't follow him, you can't see anything, you won't know truth, you won't be able to follow. The correct way. You'll steer off the path. You won't have any light to guide you. You must see him as the Messiah, the Christ, the Savior, the Lord, and all of the other titles that have been given that go along with his deity. He is one and the same essence as God the Father Almighty. Listen, you can believe in Mary and you will die in your sins. Mary can't save you and won't save you if you refuse to trust in her son. Mary trusted in her son for her own salvation. That's why she's in heaven. You trust in her, you have a misguided object, you die in your sins. She can't intercede for you, and even if she did, God wouldn't listen. You can believe in Muhammad and do the five things he told you to do. He did nothing to help you escape your sins. Nothing. In fact, he died. That's it for him. Now I'm afraid some terrorists are going to take me out. Nah. We're an American. Praise God for those that gave us this trio. Amen? You can believe in yourself and die and find out you were the biggest fool. Well I'm just uh I'm just a captain of my own destiny. You're not in control of your heart pumping You can believe in mankind. How great mankind is. You really believe mankind is that great? Man dies in their sins, they can't help you. You could believe in technology and science. I don't know any machine or medicine that can take your sins away. You can believe in other gods and lords. All of them died in their sin. You're going to follow them? There is no other way. It's Jesus. This is not an empty threat. This is not chicken little. This is not a fanatic doomsayer This is not a discredited date predictor. Jesus predicted that the temple would be destroyed four years after his life. It was destroyed. This is the one who rose from the dead and predicted his resurrection. This is the one who came down from heaven that knows everything. If you don't believe in Jesus as the eternal God, you will die, and you will die in your sins. This, Jesus Christ, and faith in him is the only way of escape, and it's available. So why do you need any other way, anyway? And all the rest of the passage really just clarifies that. And I know I'm gonna run out of time Let's go as far as we can. So they were saying to him, Who are you? They're a little dense, aren't they? Who are you? Well, that's the right question. At least they're beginning to think that direction. It seems by the end of the chapter they're gonna get it, but it'll prove their unbelief. Well, Jesus answers this with uh kind of two parts: a shorter answer and a longer answer. The shorter answer is there in verse 25. Jesus said to them, What have I been saying to you from the beginning? I love that answer. I Jesus is always loving, so I don't think he's impatient here. He's just pointing them back. I think if I had said this it would have been impatience. Are you kidding me? How many times did I have to say this to you? Shit up in a chair and listen a little bit better next time I quit this miserable job. This was terrible. No one ever listens. This actually may not be a question, it may be a statement the way the wording is, they're not sure. Just as I told you from the beginning, it might be what he's saying. In other words, pay attention to what already has been spoken, what already has been preached, what already has been done for you. Pay attention to it all. I'm not hiding my identity. He was providing a consistent testimony in a way that anyone who was drawn of God would notice. Listen to his words, look at his deeds, notice his character. They already knew enough. They'd already been told enough. And they were responsible for what they had heard, just as you are responsible today for what you have heard. People today have been told and told and told. You can turn on the radio anywhere in this country and hear, well, you hear heresy, but you also hear the gospel. You hear them both. They have to listen. God is so patient. The second answer is a longer answer, and I'm going to give it quickly. Verse 26. And really to summarize this whole answer, he's saying basically my entire ministry is connected to the Father. Who am I? Everything about me is connected to the Father. I have many things to speak and to judge concerning you. Verse 26. But he who sent me, that's the Father, you see, is true. And the things which I heard from him, these I speak to the world. And they did not realize that he'd been speaking to them about the Father. I've been given the Father's words, I'm doing the Father's will. Everything about my ministry and my testimony is connected to the Father. If you want to know my identity, it's tied to the Father. So my teachings must be received as a father's teachings. This isn't an option. God hasn't sent his son to some people and sent another prophet to another people and sent a third way. This is his son. He has to be listened to. This is the Father speaking to the Son. Very similar to John 5, where Jesus said to the Jews, then truly, truly I say to you, the Son can do nothing of himself unless it is something he sees the Father doing, for whatever the Father does, these things the Son also does in like manner. Look, I have many things I could teach you and judge. I'm not going to get diverted by those things right now. I've come to deliver the Father's message. You should be listening. And yet in verse 27 they still don't get it. Their lack of perception is truly amazing. They're not grasping that he's talking about the Father. Oh, we teachers and evangelists have to be patient. Verse 28, so Jesus said, When you lift up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am Remember that he's not there. And I do nothing on my own initiative, but I speak these things as the Father taught me. You say if Jesus is God, why did he have to learn and be taught? Because he also was a man and he took on human flesh and he learned as a man. Verse 29, and he who sent me is with me. He has not left me alone. Oh, that's a beautiful statement. We can preach a whole message on how the Father did not leave the Son alone. For I always do the things that are pleasing to him. Why did God the Father never ever leave Jesus alone? Answer, I always do the things that are pleasing to him. I never sin. What an amazing statement. Hebrews 4, he was tempted in every way like we are, yet without what? Sin. Never sin. Never once. He always did the will of the Father. You and I can say maybe sometimes we do the will of the Father. We cannot say always. Jesus said always. Lifting up the Son of Man here refers to the time where Jesus would be lifted up on the cross for all of the world to see the sacrifice of God made on behalf of the sin of the world. Remember way back again from chapter 3, verses 14 and 15, Jesus said, As Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so the Son of Man will be lifted up, must be lifted up. So that whoever believes will in him have everlasting life. There he is, hanging up upon the cross. Believe. Look. See, and believe. They hoisted his body up on that cross outside the city walls of Jerusalem for all those passing by to see, and as he hung there, many laughed and many jeered. But he said at that time the truth would come out, and many of them would come to understand, and they would know. Listen, one purpose of Jesus hanging up on a public cross was to be public testimony, and everyone would come to understand the fulfillment of prophecy, would understand the character of God. And would come to know Jesus was truly of God. The same cross that was a cross of offense to the Jews, a stumbling block to them they stumbled over not to believe in a crucified Messiah was the same cross that revealed the greatness of God to other Jews. And Jesus said, many will know then. That means many are going to be converted after that point when I die on the cross. Many Jews after the crucifixion and resurrection would come to believe in Him then. Are we just fast forward to Jerusalem and Peter's sermon on the day of Pentecost, and 3,000 souls and more are saved. He proclaimed Jesus crucified and risen. And thousands more as he continued to preach, and others preached, and the message spread, and tens of thousands of these Jews who were obstinate and did not believe came to faith. And I just want to go back to that statement that Christ made. He who sent me, that is the Father, is with me. He has not left me alone. You'd think it'd be lonely to be Jesus. He was abandoned by everybody. Even his disciples ran when he was uh arrested. But the father was with him. When he was twelve years old, he was in the temple. His parents came looking for him and he said, Didn't you know I had to be about my father's business? He was fully aware the father was with him. Fully aware. Back at chapter 5 in John, he was saying I only do what the Father shows me. He was fully aware the Father was there. Those long nights in prayer we prayed all night long. What did he pray for? Hours. He was fully aware the Father was with him. When he went to the Mount of Transfiguration, there the Father testified to his deity and showed his deity from the inside out as he'd shown and the Father was with him. When he was in the garden and Peter and James and John had their bellies full and couldn't stay awake, and he came back and said, Would you stay awake with me? And he was praying alone, and his sweat was like drops of blood. The father was with him. To send an angel to comfort him. When he was in his trials, he testified to Pilate, You would have no authority over me unless it had been given from above. And he knew the Father was with him. The only time, the only time, the only time you know the Father ever abandoned the Son was hanging on the cross, and the sky was black, and the sin of the world was on his back and on his shoulders, and he cried out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? A sin offering, to be slaughtered, even the father turning his back upon his son at that moment. And even then the father did not abandon him to seol or allow his holy one to undergo decay, but raised him from the dead. You see, Jesus trusted fully in the Father, and so he carried out the work of the Father fully. You and I don't. Sometimes our worship is anemic, and sometimes our service is lacking, it's lackluster. Because we don't believe God loves us and God is with us and God is fulfilling his promises to us. We're weak in faith. And he fully trusted the Father And the Father fully put his confidence in the Son. And because of this, he was able to go to the cross and he was able to reveal God. And he was able to pay the sin of the world. He was able to be that one way to the Father. Well, the power and impact of these words were hard to deny. Verse 30 says, As he spoke these things, many came to believe in him. I can only imagine what it would be like to sit and look into the face of Jesus as he spoke these words. What authority, what clarity. It just must have shaken human souls, the ones that were drawn of God anyways. The word many is encouraging, isn't it? Many came to believe. The word believe is encouraging. Well, don't be too encouraged. Don't get overjoyed with these evangelism results. Sometimes we go out, we evangelize someone receives Christ, we're so excited, only to find out weeks later they didn't continue You want the way of escape from dying in your sins? There's one way, it's believing in Jesus, but you need to know what believing in Jesus means. It's not just in your head saying, I guess that's true. There's a surrender of heart. There's a continuance of trust and faith. Just look forward, and we'll close with this to verses 30 and 31. And we're going to get to this. So Jesus was saying to those Jews who had believed him, if you continue in my word, my teachings, then you are truly disciples of mine, and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. The kind of faith that Jesus is talking about, that gains the way of escape, that saves your soul from hell, that kind of faith is Is a faith that begins and does not end. It continues. And specifically, it continues in the teachings, in the word, in scripture. Someone who says, I believe, and they don't continue in the teachings and continue in the word, their faith does not say You want to be delivered. You want the way out. You need to believe with the humble kind of faith that says Lord, I believe I'm a sinner. I have no way of escape apart from you. Save my soul. And help me to keep believing and to persevere, for I know it'll take your strength to do that as well. And I believe and I'll continue to believe and I will follow you all the way to the end, Lord. You do that. And you have a way of escape. Don't get up out of your seat until you've done that. Don't budge. Don't go anywhere. If you're not sure, don't do it because I said it. Do it because Jesus said it. Make sure in your heart, make sure in your heart, right there, before you get up, before you go anywhere, if someone's listening to this in the recording, before you drive anywhere, before you do anything, just stop. Ask Jesus to be your Lord and Savior right there. Invite him into your life. He'll save you. You'll have a way of escape. And you pledge in your heart, by his grace, that you will follow him and his teachings all the days of your life. Father, give our people faith to believe. Give those that are lost understanding. Help them, Lord, not to slip into eternity in the blackness of sin. Give our people here a burden for the lost. As we see the faces of the lost around us to remember that they're slipping all the time into eternity, and their souls shriek with fear. And they're under the burden of their sins for eternity. And there is no there is no penance. There is no purgatory. There is no hope. There is only death and eternal blackness and pain and shame forever. And we would pray, God, that you would save souls through this word of yours. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.