Okay, um this is day two of our class on how we got the Bible And by the way, I'm open to questions. If you have any questions, just raise your hand and I will try to answer them as best I can. So last week we talked about this principle of inspiration and that is the Bible what we call the Scripture is God's own word. It it originates from God Himself It's not the word of man, but ultimately it comes from God. And it's Transmitted to us through the prophets and the apostles and the biblical writers themselves. There's about 40 biblical writers And they all have this row of prophets. That is, there were spokesman to God. And the Holy Spirit moved them to write God-breathed words. And since it is from God, since he is the source of it, it is true. It will not lead us At the end of our lives, we will not be disappointed that we believed in what God has said. Also the word is in in a errors that is when the prophets Wrote the Word of God, they wrote it exactly how God intended it to be written. Whether it's prophecy, whether it's poetry Um whether it's narrative or any other type of literature It's it is exactly as God intended it to be. Now, but we don't have those original autographs Well we have are copies of copies. In fact, copies of copies of copies of copies. Um so we have Those copies, but how do we know that what we have today is what God intended, what God gave to the prophets Well, we're going to be talking about that in this class. But it's important for us to recognize this principle of inspiration. That is, the original autographs are true to God's word. And so we talked about the inspiration of Scripture that is, God breathed words. God's a source. He spoke through the prophets, and they wrote according to their Style according to their personality. Paul writes differently than Peter. Peter writes differently than John And the book of Isaiah is different from, say, the Psalms or Nehemiah. So all of these prophecies, forty or so men, they wrote as they were moved by the Holy Spirit And they also understood what they were right, at least according to what they needed to know, what that what the original audience intended to hear Now sort of they wanted to learn more. They searched diligently for This prophecy of the coming Messiah. They saw him as a suffering one. They saw him as an exalted one. How do those two um mesh? They wanted to know that Um and God gave his revel gave his revelation progressively. Um Each but each time that revelation was sufficient and necessary for the people of God And we talked about the internal New Testament evidence for inspiration. That is The prophets wrote, they knowing that it was from God, the people of God knew that it was a message from God Very often the New Testament writers, when they were quoting from the Old Testament, they would say, Isaiah said this. Sometimes God said this, even though Isaiah said this Um and you have these phrases like it is written The word of the God, word of the Lord came to this prophet. So today we're going to begin with the New Testament support For the inspiration of the Um Old Testament. I think that's that's where we are. We talked about Ruth the previous time So are there any questions so far? Any and we all have a written copy of the notes if you want to. There's more copies. uh available. So that New Testament support for the inspiration of the Old Testament. So the New Testament refers to the divine authority of the Old Testament as a whole. Scriptural words. is a very common title used to identify the Old Testament. Jesus said to them, and I'm quoting here from John chapter 10 Has it not been written in your law? I said, You are God If he called them gods, to whom the word of the God came in the sc in the scripture cannot be broken. Do you say of him whom the Father sanctified and sent into the world, You are blasphemy, because I said I am the Son of God Here Jesus quotes from Psalm 82 verse 6, which speaks of the judges of the Lamb. That as Jesus was telling the scribes and the Pharisees, hey God called the judges of the land gods, Elohi, because they had the authority of God Well Jesus comes in the authority of God. Too. So if the judges of the land could claim authority By speaking for God, we'll soak in Christ because He's the Son of God Now note typically that the law refers to the books of Moses, but here in John chapter 10, Jesus uses the term the law to designate the whole of scripture. Also Paul used the designation of the law when quoting from Isaiah 28, verse 11. In the law, it is written by men of strange tongues, by lips of of strangers, I will speak to this people, and even so they will not listen to me, says the Lord. So in the law it is written. And Jesus said to them in in part, see Did you ever read in the scriptures the stone which the builders rejected? This has become the chief point of stone. This came about from the Lord, and it is marvelous in our eyes. And that's from Matthew chapter 21. So again, Jesus quotes the Old Testament authoritative And when Paul was preaching to the Brians, the Brians compared what Paul was preaching to the Old Testament. Now these Brians were more noble-minded than those Antheson the Nica. For they received the word with great eagerness, examining the scriptures daily to see whether these things were so. That is, these Koreans recognized the Old Testament as God's word. And so when Paul came and preached, they compared what he said with what the Old Testament said. You know, Old Testament also uses the phrase Word of God and the Oracles of God to designate the Old Testament. For Moses said, honor your father and your mother, and he who speaks evil of his father and mother is to be put to death. But you say to the and he's speaking here to the scribes and Pharisees If a man says to his father or his mother, whatever I have will help you as is Corbin, that is, what Jesus. That is, I'm going to dedicate my inner misheritance to God. And therefore, um there's nothing left for you. Um And so you no longer permit him to do anything for his father and his mother, and thus you invalidate the Word of God by your tradition, which you have handed down. And you do many such things as this. And notice here that the authority given is by the phrase for Moses said This is also explicit confirmation of the mosaic authorship of the law. That is, the ormate skeptics today who claim Moses could never have written the law. He could never have written those five books that we call the Pinate. Um but here Jesus says, No, Moses said it, Moses wrote it down. Um In also, Hebrew chapter 4, verse 11, the Word of God is living, in active And chaffered in any two-edged sword, and piercing as far as a division of soul and spirit of bones and joints and marrow, and able to judge the thoughts and the intentions of the heart. That is The Word of God is living. It has transformational power And is God's word valid throughout all time? It never dies. And then Paul would say this. Then what advantage is the has the Jew? I mean, if everybody is condemned under sin both Jew and Gentile, well what advantage does the Jew have? Well, and what's the benefit of circumcision? Well, it's great in every respect Because, first of all, they were entrusted with the oracles of God. What's the advantage of being a Jew? They had the very words of God. Now, of course They were to share them. They were to live them out so that the other nations would say, wow, that's great. Um quite often they failed though. Um but they still had the words of God. And um The New Testament also designates the Old Testament as the law and the prophets, or Moses and the prophets. And By, for example, Jesus would say, Do not think that I've come to abolish the law or the prophets did not come to abolish the law, but to fulfill it. So here Jesus Jesus is used as a term the law and the prophet Uh and basically what this term means is that The when we talk about the law, that is the books of Moses, Moses gives out A series of blessings and curses for those who who obey the law, blessings. For those who Disobey the law, neglect the laws, there's cursing full of sedation And all the prophets that come after Moses, they remind the people, obey the Lord for those blessings. But if you disobey, if you ignore the Word of God, there's going to be curses Your crops will fail, the rain will cease to fall. Um you there will be pestilences And eventually captivity. And all of these things are found in the in the law The prophets, they they come to remind the people again of what Moses said. And um in Acts chapter thirteen verse five, and after reading the law and the prophets, the synagogue officials sent to them saying Brethren, if you have any word of exhortation for the people, say it. So after reading the law and the prophets And Jesus would say to them, Oh foolish men, slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken. He's saying this to his the his the disciples. Was it not necessary for the Christ to struggle with these things? And then to enter into his into his glory, and beginning with Moses and the prophets, he explained to them the things concerning himself in all the Scriptures. That is, the scriptures speak of Christ. They tell of someone coming the Messiah. And also the New Testament uses this phrase, it is written 60 times in reference to the to the Old Testament. For example, when Jesus was being tempted by Satan in the wilderness after his baptism, gee Jesus would answer Satan each time it is written. Satan would say, if you be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread. Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, Jesus would respond It is written, man does not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. And also, when Christ was cleansing the temple from those who were doing business there. Jesus would say, It is written, my house shall be a house of prayer, but you've made it a den of robbers. So again this phrase it is written occurs numerous times in the New Testament. Luke chapter 18 And he took the twelve aside and said to them, Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem and all things that are written through the prophets about the Son of Man, that will be accomplished. So this is ample support for the thesis that the Old Testament as a whole is divinely inspired, and the prophecies concerning the Messiah would under divine necessity of fulfillment Even down to the last individual detail. And Paul would add, it is written There is none righteous, not even one. Here Paul is quoting directly from the Old Testament. So, read all. Just going through some examples of how the New Testament of the authors in Jesus Jesus himself Addresses the old Old Testament as authoritative because it's God grief. You know, so It's not just the whole of the Old Testament that's God breathed, as in maybe in in a general sense But it's each in the individual section is also God reached. The New Testament refers to the divine authority of individual sections of the Old Testament, the law, the prophets, and the rites. But these parts are not always differentiated within the whole. The law, the books of Moses, usually designates the first five books of the Old Testament as in Galatians chapter 3, verse 10. For as many as are of the works of the law are under a curse, for it is written, Cursed is everyone who does not abide by all things written in the book of the law, to perform them. Also, the Sadducees denied the resurrection. And why did they deny the resurrection? because they believe they believe that Moses wrote nothing about resurrection. Well when Jesus Jesus confronted them, he he brought them right back to their main man, Moses. To the most most to the most intimate personal Scene of Moses' life, his encounter with God in the wilderness at that burning bush. He would say But regarding the fact that the dead rise again, you know, if you believe that they don't rise again, well have you not read in the book of Moses How God spoke to him, Moses, saying, I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. Then he would add, he's not the God of the dead But as a living, you are greatly mistaken. Yes, even the very tenth of a verb Means something significant. Yes, that's the very Word of God Um so d is the resurrection yes. Meaning he didn't say I was the God of Abraham etc. I am. Meaning it's currently it's happening now Because they have been resurrected. That's right. Yes right. Even though A Abraham, Isaac and Jacob died physically way back then, no, they are in they are living now And the and God is still God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. That hasn't changed. Also Philip found Nathaniel. We're talking here back in the book of John. Philip found Nathaniel and said it to him. We have found him of whom Moses in the law and also the prophets wrote, Jesus the Nazarene of Nazareth, the son of Joseph. You know, so from Luke chapter 26, but all of this has been taken place that the scriptures, that the scriptures of the prophets may be fulfilled. So What God spoke in the New Testament, in the Old Testament, is going to be fulfilled. It's authoritatively, it will come to pass. And also, now let's talk about this division of the Old Testament. In our Bibles, typically there's three main sections. There's what we call um the I mean I mean I mean I mean it's historical Books is what we call the the poetry books Now, of course, those terms are relative in some sense, they'll they'll they're generalized. There's lots of poetry in In the prophets. I mean just look at Isaiah. Most of that is written in Hebrew poetry. But um but the right writings what what the what the Hebrews what the Jews would call their books of poetry, mainly like s like Psalms That is not a New Testament term. There's a biblical case for a two-fold division, the law of the Moses and the writings of the falling prophets. Joshua through Malachi. That is, Moses wrote the law, and now the prophets are going to interpret that law for the for the people. And we're going to exhort the people to trust the Lord, obey Him, depend upon Him And there's going to be blessings for doing so. God is able to deliver He will rescue the people. But if you don't believe, if you reject what God has said If you reject what Moses said, this is going to be pretty cursive. And um And we also but as we begin the New Testament, it becomes more or more like a threefold These are are my words which I spoke To you, while I was with you, that all things that were written about me in, and notice this threefold division in the law Of Moses. And the prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled. So there's three divisions here. And this Psalms is probably um used in a general sense for all of those writings, um what the Jews called their writings. Psalms, that but that would also include Proverbs, Ecclesiastes. those books there. So here Psalms would be representative of the wisdom literature books. Yes, but but even here, Psalms contains prophecy. It contains messianic prophecy. So are so so are you clear on what these divisions are Okay. Also, um now of course the New Testament does quote the Old Testament. Both in a general sense, but also specifically, and it hosts the majority of the Old Testament books. The Jews now, the Jewish historian Josephus, was dedicated as a Pharisee He wrote a long book of what we call a polemic against Appia Wherein he declared that in contrast to the numerous and conflicting historical accounts among the Jews, the Jews have just 22 books and no canon, which all agree. That is, Josephus was was was um criticizing the Greeks because the Greeks had their history They had all their books, but those books were contradictory. Um they were not always telling the same thing. So um But Josephus was kind proud of his heritage and said, we Jews, we just have 22 books. And they all agree. Now I should point out this. These 22 books that Josephus referred to, those are the same, exactly the same as the 39 books that we see in our English Bible. Um, because they just counted it differently. For example, what we call 1 Samuel and 2 Samuel, they called it Samuel. What we call Ezra and Nehemiah, they called it one book. And Ruth was often appended to the book of Samuel. Um, so we still have the same books, the same verses. Um Has has the Jews had in those days. Um so they counted it twenty um twenty-two. And of those twenty-two books that Josephus refers to, twenty of them that are quoted in the New Testament. The only books that are not cited are Esther and The Song of Solomon. So we have seen particularly That Jesus taught about the Old Testament that that it that a Old Testament is divinely authoritative. He would say it is written many times You also say that the Old Testament is imperishable. For Jesus would say, For truly I say to you, unto heaven and earth pass away. Not an iota, not a dot, shall pass from the law until all is accomplished. Not even one lift If so, number C is infallible. That is, scripture cannot be broken. It's unbreakable It's also in I'm errand. Jesus would say, Your word is true. In Psalm nineteen verse seven, the law of the Lord is perfect, that is, without to blemish. The word translated perfect describes also the Passover lamb. So your word is true. And so it is It is reliable, trustworthy. At the end of your life, you won't be disappointed in what the Bible says. In the Old Testament, it is also historically reliable. Jesus affirmed the historicity of some of the most disputed Old Testament passages. Such as regarding Adam and Eve, Noah, and Jonah. Of course, Scripture does not give us a complete history, but when Scripture does address matters of history Scripture speaks true. For God's revelation is given to man in In the life of me. It is it is actual history Um it's not just a theological um theological truth um um treatise about truth and knowledge. It's much different than the philosophies of Greece and many other religious faiths. Uh i it is historical, it involves real people, real places, real time And also, the Old Testament is scientifically accurate. The creation account is referenced repeatedly. I mean there are some people, some s skeptics, you know, that will um say Genesis chapter one cannot possibly be true. It cannot possibly have been the way the war began. So they wanted to throw out the creation account. But wait a minute. God claims to be creator all the time. We often hear about God's creation, God's ownership. God's power over all things, God's sovereignty. Um in um Now, Scripture doesn't necessarily use modern technical jargon, but when Scripture does speak about matters of science, Scripture speaks again truths. And the Old Testament also has a ultimate authority, supremacy. To the religious leaders, Jesus would answer in Matthew chapter 15 five verse fifteen verse three. And why do you break a commandment of God for the sake of your tr of your um Tradition. So for the sake of your tradition, you have made void the word of God. So So now, okay, so so we've seen that the old test yes just to clarify on one thing. So sometimes when In the New Testament when it's referring to the law, it's talking about the entire Old Testament and sometimes when it says law and prophets, and it does depend upon the From the context. Um, you know, law could refer to Moses, the books of Moses, or it could be referred to the whole of the old um old testament because so because all the all the old testament is basically Um and um and um n is basically numerous applications of the law The prophets would always remind the people of the law, even as they give new revelation. But that new revelation is still based upon the law. Okay. So we've seen that the Old Testament is authoritative. Well what about the new? Well, the prophets and the apostles and the writers of the New Testament did not hesitate to classify their writings as inspired along with the Old Testament. Their books were revealed Collected and circulated in the early church as sacred scripture. And this is in accordance with what Jesus had promised. that the apostolic teaching would have divine authority. So we see in the Old Testament that when the prophets wrote, they would add their books to the canon. Moses wrote those five books, they were deposited in the in the the tabernacle. To be kept, to be read, to be copied as time goes on. Joshua would would come along He would write his book, he would add it to the book of Moses. The people would recognize it as the word of the Lord And so on. Joshua, Samuel, David, so on. All the way down to Malachi. And And after the time of Malachi, the Jews would recognize that there was a period of what they call prophetic silence. About and did it go on for four hundred years into the time of the New Testament. And during this four hundred years, there's no prophet. So then comes the New Testament. There's John the Baptist. The people recognized him as a prophet, and indeed he was. Jesus would come. Many would recognize him as a prophet. And yes, he was he is the ultimate on profit. So um so part A Jesus would promise his disciples that they would have the direction of the Holy Spirit when he sent them out to preach the kingdom of heaven in Matthew chapter 10. For Jesus would say, but when they deliver you up, do not become anxious about how or what you will speak, for it is shall be given to you in that hour what you are to speak. For it is not you who speak, but the Spirit of your Father speaking through you. So Jesus was going to direct His disciples in this way, the Spirit of God would speak through them Just like he spoke through the Old Testament prophets. And also, Jesus would say to the seventy when he sent out them to preach the gospel in Luke chapter 10, that the one who hears you hears me And he who rejects you rejects me. And these returned and acknowledged that the authority of God on their ministry even over the satanic forces And also Jesus would promise the disciples in the setting of the Last Supper that the Holy Spirit would quicken them, would quicken their memories of those who heard him. When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all truth. And also when Jesus commissions the disciples to preach, to make disciples of all nations, teaching them to observe all that I command you, it is With the truth that Jesus himself had himself received from the Father all authority in heaven and on earth, he would be with them always. Even to the end of the age. This implies that the disciples would write down all that Jesus had commanded them for future generations and that this teaching would be authoritative. That is When Jesus spoke, he was force was authoritative. But future generations who come after him would also have to hear these words. And those words would be recorded by the apostles to be preserved for future generations. Now, the Jews of the first century recognized that the Old Testament was incomplete. Even though there had been no prophetic voice during the past four hundred years. Why is why would I say that? Why why would the Jews recognize their Old Testament as being somewhat incomplete? Well here's What I mean by this, the Old Testament speaks about a coming Messiah. But by the time of Malachi, he had not come. Also, the Old Testament refers to this New covenant. Now, a covenant or testament is a contract between two parties. And that would and that would specify specify the conditions to be met by both parties. Now this contract would be written down, one copy given to both sides. So that they so so so so that both would know what the contract is, what the covenant is, what the testament is Well if there's going to be a new covenant, there's going to be new books to specify what that covenant is So in that sense, the Old Testament was incomplete. Yes, it had its books covering the Old Covenants. Specifying all the conditions. But when this new covenant came, well there would have to be new books. So it's so don't think that the people expected there to be absolutely no new revelation. It was expected that when God began to speak again That there would be new books, and especially when this new covenant came, whenever it came, that there would be new books Um in um like for example in Jeremiah thirty one verse thirty one God would say, Behold, the days are coming when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel, with the house of Jake, Judah. Not like the covenant which I made with their fathers, which they broke. But this is a covenant which I will make. So again, a new covenant will be made And this covenant will come with new books. Now, we note that the books of the New Testament are the only authentic record of apostolic teaching that we have today. The qualification that an apostle must be an eyewitness of the ministry and the resurrection of Christ eliminates any succession of apostles beyond the first century. We note that the apostle James was Martyr. He was not replaced with another apostle. Only Judas was replaced, but this was done on account of the Old Testament prophecy that the office of the betrayer be give given to another man worthy of that office. So with the death of the last apostle John About the year 195-96, somewhere along there, the New Testament prophecies would cease, and hence the writings would cease. So what we have today, these what we call it, these um 27 books of the New Testament, those are the books of the New Covenant. And that is that is the new couple. Okay, so the first church In Jerusalem, in Acts chapter 2, was characterized by devotion to the apostles' teaching. Even Paul, when he received direct revelation from God, went directly to the apostles concerning the issue of circumcision that some Jewish believers were teaching. And Paul freely submitted himself. It was because of a revelation that I went up to Jerusalem after fourteen years of ministry and submitted to them the gospel which I preach among the Gentiles for fear that I might be running or had run in vain. That is, Paul wanted to know Is the gospel that he's preaching, is that the preaching of the apostles? Because he knew the preaching of the apostles, that was the gospel. But what was he preaching? He wanted to know, is that the saint? Even though it had been revealed to him by God himself. Paul is going to check that with what the apostles were teaching. Any questions, comments About that. Okay. So Paul states that God's household That is, the one church is built upon the foundation of the apostles and the prophets. Jesus himself being the chief phono Just don't. This is new revelation since the old since this mystery in other generations has not been made known to the sons of men as it It has now been revealed to his holy apostles, the prophets in the Spirit. That is, the church itself is unknown in the Old Testament. There's no prophecy about the church. It is what we call a mystery Something un something billed, un something covered up in the New Testament, only to be so it could be revealed in the New Testament. So So this church is New Revelation. So there's new books that That describe this new revelation. And also see Paul also lays claim to apostleship in each of his epistles, Romans through Philemon. He concludes Romans with a claim of prophecy. Now to him who is able to establish you according to my gospel, the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery, which has been kept secret For long ages past, and it's throughout the Old Testament, this has been kept secret, but it's now manifest And by the scriptures of the prophets, according to the commandment of the eternal God, has been made known to all nations, leading to obedience of faith. So again, Paul is claiming this is new revelation. It does not contradict, supersede anything from the Old Testament, but this is a mystery revealed through Christ. So so again we're talking about do the New Testament writers c claim that their writings are inspired? That is, God breathed, that is, God is a source. Now, the New Testament writers give imperative commands with divine authority. This is not just, and this is just one example. Paul would say, and if anyone does not obey our instruction in this letter Take special note of that man and do not associate with him so that he may be put to shame. So Paul is saying Obey this. This is not just my idea to to so that you'll feel good. This is not my best idea to see how good we can we can make this church body Paul is speaking with the authority of Christ. He knows it, and the church knows it. Oh, so Paul places his own epistles on par with the New Testament. He exhorts Timothy to teach these things about which he is writing and to give attention to the public reading of Scripture. Scripture to exhortation and for teaching. Here scripture denotes the New Old Testament, but more It denotes what Paul is teaching. No, so let's you know if we go back to that small book of Philemon Um you know, Paul is written to a friend. Um and um now Paul has a an apostle can command Philemon to for receive back and forgive Oananismus for any debt Although in this case, Paul appeals to this co-worker in love. He could command it because he is an apostle, but he forbears that. He appeals on behalf of a friend as a brother in Christ. And also um When Paul instructs Titus to speak these things that he thought and reprove with all authority that no one disregards you. That is What Paul is instructing Titus to teach, Titus can teach with authority. This is not just Paul teaching from you know the from his own understanding Um is not just a good idea. Um it is from God. It is authoritative And also the writer of the book of Hebrews also confirms the apostolic authority derived from our Lord. He would say beginning with chapter one, verse one, God after he spoke long ago to the prophets. In many portions, in many ways. In these last days he spoke to us in his son. That is, throughout the Old Testament, in many portions among Revelation is is Progressive, he gave some revelation to Moses, he gave additional revelation to Joshua, he gave additional revelation to Samuel, and so on. You know all those portions He um he spoke to the follows, to the Jewish nation. But his in his last days, he spoken through His own son. And after it was at the first spoken through the Lord, it was confirmed to us by those who heard God also bearing witness with them, both with signs and wonders, and by various miracles, and by gifts of the Holy Spirit, according to his own will. And that is, how do we know God began to speak again after those four hundred silent years? Well, the apostles were gifted with miracles and with other signs and and and wonders. This new revelation came with divine authority and it's evident because the prophets The apostles could do what no one else could do. That was the confirming sign that this new revelation was truly New revelation from God Himself. Now, of course, when does it cease? Well, the Apostle John, the last of the apostles, wrote Revelation, which is prophecy. The Revelation concludes with this. I testify to everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book, if anyone adds to them, God shall add to him the plagues which are written in this book. And if anyone takes away from the words of this book, of this of this prophecy, God shall take away his part from the tree of life and from the holy city which are written in this book. So Paul so John the apostle is warning us prophecy is closed. His vision has closed. And in by impotation, the whole New Testament is closed. God's not going to speak again through the prophets. The books of the New Covenant They're written. You you can collect them and just like the old Testament books Collect them all together. That's how we get the sixty-six books that we see today. Now we'll talk we're going to talk about Ha well actually how we got 66 books because throughout throughout the past 2,000 years some have suggested well maybe This other book should be included. Well maybe this one book that's in it that that's included, maybe that should be taken out. So we still have that to go at a future date. So the books written by to one church, they were intended to be of value to it for other churches. I mean, just because John wrote this book of Revelation to these seven churches Does not mean that this message is just for those seven churches. No, those what John wrote was intended to be copied And pass out to other the churches. For example, um Paul's right in Colossians chapter 4, verse 16, and when this this led letter has been read among you, have it read in the church of the Odysseans, and see to it that you read this letter from the Odyssea So it's it was very natural when the apostles wrote to these churches, whether it's Phile, Philippi, whether it's Ephesus, or any other church Those who received this letter would read it publicly in the church And then they would have it copied and sent to the nearby churches. And those nearby churches would receive it, read it, copy it, and send it out. So that is a mechanism. By which these letters to these individual churches or these in individual people would be transmitted throughout. The um throughout all churches elsewhere Yes. So I know you just prefaced this that you're we're going to get to it later, but then this letter from Laodicea is not considered canon. That's right. That's right. Yeah, that's that's a question of why. And um Um I mean I mean there are some who would would say that in some cases like in some of these books like like the like the letter to Colossians um some would say that the actually Um di this is the letter from Laodicea. Or the or um or they would say in some manuscripts the name of the church has been change. Now I don't necessarily uh uh go with that. Um But there are some but they're done not just this case, but but but even Paul's letters to to the Corinthians, he wrote two. But actually Um many um b bible scholars would say he wrote for it. And what we have as Colossians has first Quran, first um Corinthians, is is really technically second Corinthians. And in in the letters that we have, what was that we call Second Corinthians is actually Corinthians. So we're so so we're missing those two and this letter to the Odyssey. Um what happened to them um is largely up to conjecture. However, note this just because Paul wrote a letter doesn't necessarily mean that it is inspired. I mean Paul could have wrote all kinds of things himself Yeah. So even if we had those three extra books It doesn't necessarily mean that they are in s in I mean it's spy spice high style Okay, so we so we've seen that this that that what was written in one church was intended to be copied to other churches. Okay. And I I think we will we were seized here for the for until next week. Okay, for this pray