You've probably noticed that people in our country, indeed throughout the world, are divided on moral issues. Morality, of course, has to do with right behavior as opposed to wrong behavior. And divisions happen when people don't agree on what is right and what is wrong. Those controversies inevitably come down to differences about how we determine right and wrong. That is, who sets the rules? Although I'm guessing that most people in this country haven't thought much about it, If you were to analyze their assumptions, you'd find that many of them believe that Morality, the moral rules we follow in society need to be established democratically. That is, if most people believe that something is right, then it must be right. Or at least that's what's right until the prevailing attitudes change. This inevitably finds its way into laws and into the courts. Which is fine for those who hold the majority view, but the minority cry out that you can't legislate morality, that is, until their view becomes the popular one. This approach presumes that morality is not absolute, that is, fixed for all time, but rather that it's relative, subject to change. In fact, people increasingly believe that morality is also subject to variation from one circumstance to the next, and indeed from one person to the next What's right for you isn't necessarily right for me, they say. This gives rise to placing a high value on tolerance. Within a civil society, which essentially means that the most basic morally right thing to do is to allow others to do and to believe whatever they want And the most morally wrong thing to do is to harm or infringe on the rights of someone else in the process of doing what you think is right. Now that that sounds workable, but what we find is that even people who subscribe to tolerance often become intolerant. Of the views contrary to their own, resorting even to name-calling, harassment, and worse. Those with a minority view often claim that their rights, as they call them, are being violated, yet upon close inspection, we find that the basis for the rights they claim Is their own opinions. The state of Maryland is caught up in this as we speak. And the key issue that's dividing people is whether it is morally right. To allow people of the same sex to be married to each other. Those in support of it claim that it is basic fairness and a civil right Those who oppose it offer many reasons, ranging from traditional values to the negative impact that homosexual behavior has on society. But generally lost in this debate has been the teaching and application of the Word of God, even among those who call themselves Christians. You would think that since God created us and designed marriage, that we'd want to understand and follow His design. However, perhaps even some of you who want to follow God's Word approach this culture war, as it's called. By viewing those who support homosexual behavior as the enemy. If so, then I need to remind you from Ephesians 6. 12 that our struggle is not against flesh and blood. But against the rulers, against the powers, against the world forces of this darkness, against the spiritual forces of wickedness in the heavenly places. Indeed, Jesus said in in Luke six, twenty-seven twenty-eight, to love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you. Bless those who curse you. Pray for those who mistreat you. So how would God have us love those who advocate homosexual behavior? How are we to do good to those who support what they call same-sex marriage? The Word of God gives us very clear instruction. Turn in your copy of the Scriptures to the New Testament book of 1 Corinthians. You may recall that the Apostle Paul wrote this letter to the church in Corinth, which he had established on his second missionary journey, staying there, in fact, for a year and a half. After he left, the church experienced many problems and conflicts, so Paul wrote to them to correct both their thinking and their practices. He reminded them in the first two chapters of the saving message of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That it was both simple and the profound display of God's wisdom. Which unbelievers just don't understand, labeling it as foolishness. In chapters three and four, he corrected their own factional attachment to certain church leaders, including Paul himself. Then in chapter five, he began addressing a series of moral problems that had arisen in the fledgling church at Corinth. Now the first was a specific case of sexual sin that the church had allowed to continue Threatening to draw others into unchecked immorality. So Paul, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, instructed them to remove this sin. From the church in obedience to the disciplinary teaching of Christ in Matthew 18. The second moral problem in the Corinthian church that Paul addressed was how they handled disputes. So in the first eight verses of chapter six, Paul scolds them for taking each other to secular courts to get their disputes resolved Rather than settling those disputes themselves in Christian love and godly wisdom. Their fundamental problem in that was that they didn't recognize or take advantage Of the fact that as Christians they were now different from the world's value system. It's not that they wouldn't have any disputes whatsoever, but that their new identity in Christ should make possible Quicker, more godly resolutions that unbelievers wouldn't be able to broker. And it's this distinction between the ways of the ways and understanding of the world. And the ways and wisdom of God that brings Paul to the passage of interest to us this morning. So follow with me as I read 1 Corinthians 6. Verses 9 through 11. Or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminates, nor homosexuals, nor thieves, nor the covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God. Such were some of you, but you were washed, but you were sanctified, but you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. And in the spirit of our God. This passage gives us three important things to understand and do as we demonstrate godly love to those Homosexual people around us. And the first step, then, in loving homosexuals, is this: Know for certain that homosexual conduct is sin Know for certain that homosexual conduct is sin. God's word is clear that homosexual behavior is sin. This verse, for example, says that those who practice it will not inherit the kingdom of God. There are just two kinds of people. Those who will live forever in the kingdom of God, and those who will bear the wrath of God forever in hell. Ephesians 5, verses 5 through 7 emphasizes this when giving a similar list of sinful practices. Saying, For this you know with certainty that no immoral or impure person or covetous man who is an idolater has an inheritance in the kingdom of Christ in God Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. Therefore, do not be partakers with them. The kingdom of God referred to in both of these passages is, very simply, eternal life in the very presence of God. And it's referred to as something that's inherited. Like an earthly inheritance, it's bestowed by our Heavenly Father to those who are in his family. Those who don't inherit the kingdom of God aren't in his family and are therefore subject to God's wrath. Back in 1 Corinthians 6, notice that verse 9 also refers to them as unrighteous. Being righteous means being characterized by doing the right thing. According to God's standard. That's the only basis for true morality. God's standard. So being unrighteous is being characterized by doing the wrong things. It's the person's uh it is the person's ongoing practice Not just one slip-up. It sometimes is called being lawless. This, of course, is not the only place in the Bible that identifies homosexual conduct as sin The law that God gave to Moses made it very clear. Leviticus 18, 22, you shall not lie with a male as one lies with a female. It is an abomination. Leviticus 20, 13. If there is a man who lies with a male as those who lie with a woman, both of them have committed a detestable act. Likewise, the New Testament in 1 Timothy 1, verses 8 through 10. But we know that the law is good if one uses it lawfully. Realizing the fact that the law is not made for a righteous person, but for those who are lawless and rebellious, for the ungodly and sinners. For the unholy and profane, for those who kill their fathers or mothers, for murderers and moral men and homosexuals and kidnappers and liars and perjurers, what and whatever else is contrary to sound teaching. But what does First Corinthians six mean when it refers to homosexuals? You need to realize that the word homosexual is a relatively recent word. There was no direct counterpart in the Hebrew or Greek languages in which the Old and New Testaments were originally written But the practice of homosexuality was clearly known at those times. We already saw that the law of Moses, written in Hebrew, I simply describe the practice as lying with a man as one lies with a woman, that is, a man having sexual relations with another man. The practice was clearly portrayed as a perversion of God's design in Genesis 19 as well as in Genesis, or in Judges 19, as well. The Greek word used here in 1 Corinthians 6. 9 and in 1 Timothy 1. 10, which I read earlier, is A compound word, a male noun, arseno coites. Arsane means male. Coites means bed. So it refers to a male who lies in bed with another male. The context makes it clear that it's a sinful rather than normal practice. So it's clear that it's referring to homosexual conduct. Sometimes this Greek word is translated as sodomite, that is, someone who follows the homosexual practices of the people of Sodom. whom God destroyed in the time of Abraham in Genesis 19. But like the lying with a man as one lies with a woman kind of language of the Old Testament, this Greek word, arseno coites speaks of the activity, not an inherent character trait. So what we see from these passages then is that homosexuality is a central behavioral choice subject To God's wrath. Contrary to what many in today's society would have you believe, homosexuality is not programmed into someone genetically. It clearly violates God's design for human sexuality, and practicing it leads to the wrath of God. So someone is not inherently a homosexual. Rather, one becomes a homosexual by practicing homosexual behavior, just as one becomes an adulterer by practicing the sin of adultery. But don't many people today, including those who practice homosexual behavior, believe that they have always been different in this way? That it wasn't a choice? Well, I'm sure that many of them do believe that to be the case. However, God's word explains why they think that way. Turn with me, if you would, to the New Testament Book of Romans, chapter one, and I'll read verses eighteen through thirty-two. Romans one eighteen through thirty two For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who suppress the truth in unrighteousness. Because that which is known about God is evident within them. For God made it evident to them. For since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes His eternal power and divine nature have been clearly seen, being understood through what has been made, so that they are without excuse. For even though they knew God, they did not honor Him as God or give thanks, but they became futile in their speculations, and their foolish heart was darkened. Professing to be wise, they became fools, and exchanged the glory of the incorruptible God for an image in the form of corruptible man and of birds and of four-footed animals and crawling creatures Therefore, God gave them over in the lusts of their hearts to impurity, so that their bodies would be dishonored among them. For they exchanged the truth of God for a lie, and worshiped and served the creature rather than the creator who is blessed forever. Amen. Continuing verse 26. For this reason, God gave them over to degrading passions. For their women exchanged the unnatural function for that which is They exchanged the natural function for that which is unnatural, and in the same way also men abandoned the natural function of the women and burned in their desire toward one another Men with men committing indecent acts and receiving in their own persons the due penalty of their error. And just as they did not see fit to acknowledge God any longer, God gave them over to a depraved mind to do those things which are not proper Being filled with all unrighteousness, wickedness, greed, evil, full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, malice. They are gossips, slanderers, haters of God, insolent, arrogant, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, without understanding, untrustworthy, unloving, unmerciful And although they know the ordinance of God, that those who practice such things are worthy of death, they not only do the same, but also give hearty approval to those who practice them. Notice that those who suppress the truth in unrighteousness become futile in their speculations. Their foolish heart is darkened to the truth, and professing to be wise, they become fools. Did you notice in this passage? Also, that the text describes three exchanges that these foolish people make, followed by three responses from God. Verse 23, they exchanged the glory of the true God for false gods. In verse 25, they exchanged the truth of God for a lie. And in verses 26 and 27, they exchanged natural heterosexuality for unnatural homosexuality. As a result of these three exchanges, God gave them over to three different things, three related things. In response to them exchanging the glory of God for false gods, God gave them over in verse 24 to impurity in the lust of their hearts. In response to their exchanging the truth of God for a lie, God gave them over in verse 26 to degrading passions. And an ex and result or uh uh as a result of their exchanging in verses twenty-six and twenty-seven the natural heterosexual sexuality for unnatural homosexuality, God gave them over in the following verses, to a depraved mind that sins and condones sin willfully. So, what do we learn? Well, think about these three exchanges. When people first deny the true God. Who created them? They also deny the truth that he reveals to them, secondly. And then thirdly As a result, they embrace behavior that violates God's design, such as homosexual conduct. Let me say that again. When people first deny the true God who created them, they secondly also deny the truth that He reveals to them. So that thirdly they embrace behavior that violates God's design, such as homosexual conduct. Those who do so convince themselves that they're wise. But in reality, they're fools. They're like the emperor who had no clothes. It's obvious to anyone who thinks about it. God gives them over to such delusions, and only He can open their heart to the truth So it's for these reasons that our starting place for loving someone who practices homosexuality is to help them see from the Word of God. That his or her behavior is an affront to God. If we cause those who are caught up in homosexual conduct to believe that it's an acceptable lifestyle Alternative lifestyle, or that they were born with that trait, then we're accomplices to their sin With no desire to see them please God before whom we all will stand in judgment. However, that leads us to the second step in loving homosexuals, and that's this. Know for certain that homosexual conduct is no greater sin than other sins. Know for certain that homosexual conduct is no greater sin than other sins. You've probably already noted from um the the passage we're reading here in 1 Corinthians 6, that homosexuals are not the only ones listed Paul lists fornicators and idolaters and adulterers, the effeminate, thieves, covetous, drunkards, revilers, swindlers And notice that all sin has the same result. The wrath of God. Fornicators is the English translation of the Greek word pornos, from which, yes, we get the word pornography. It generally refers to those who practice any form of illicit sexual behavior. But in this context, since adulterers and homosexuals are listed separately, it particularly refers to unmarried people who have Heterosexual relations with one or more people. It would include everyone from rapists to prostitutes to unmarried couples who lived together prior to or without entering into marriage. In fact, it also does include pornography, and the word perhaps can be translated not just fornicator, but also pornicator. So are you a fornicator? Are you a pornicator? If so, then you're guilty before a holy God. Idolaters are those who worship and serve false gods. The Greek word here carries the meaning of image worshipers, but it's broad enough to include any kind of idolatry. Lest you think that none of us has ever been guilty of this, ask yourselves if you've ever been devoted to anything in your life more than your devotion to the true God. Maybe a spouse? Maybe your career? Maybe a sports team or an athlete. Maybe your relaxation, top priority. Maybe a political agenda. Maybe the American dream. I think all of us have been guilty of idolatry at one time or another, and perhaps some even now. Adulterers are married persons who break their marriage covenant by having sexual relations with someone other than their spouse. Of course, Jesus explained in Matthew 5. 28 that even looking at someone else with lust in one's heart constitutes adultery. How many of us have never done that? The word for effeminate here is sometimes translated soft, as in soft clothing. In the context of this verse, it refers to an unnatural and inappropriate softness in a man to the extent that he takes on more feminine traits than masculine traits. In other words, this is gender confusion. Thieves, of course, are those who steal from others The covetous are those who are eager to have more, particularly what belongs to others. Drunkards are those who drink alcohol to the point of intoxication. The word for reviler basically means a mischief maker. Something I'm sure none of you have ever been guilty of. Someone who causes serious trouble for someone else. Swindlers are similar to thieves, of course, but the distinction is that they steal by use of deception or even force. Now, it shouldn't be surprising to us that most of these nine types of sin are directly forbidden by the Ten Commandments. But notice that none of the people on this list were born with a genetic predisposition toward fornication. Or idolatry, or adultery, or stealing, or coveting, or drunkenness, etc. They became these things by doing these kinds of things And so it is for those who practice homosexuality. Rather, all people have a spiritual predisposition to do these sorts of things. Romans 3, verses 10 through 18 quotes at length various Old Testament passages to make just that point. Verse ten of chapter three of Romans. As it is written, there is none righteous, not even one. There is none who understands. There is none who seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they have become useless There is none who does good. There is not even one. Their throat is an open grave, with their tongues they keep deceiving, the poison of asps is under their lips with uh whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness, their feet are swift to shed blood, destruction and misery are in their paths, and the path of peace they have not known And it shouldn't be surprising when it says, there is no fear of God before their eyes. This is summed up in verse 23 of that chapter where it says, For all have sinned and fall short. Of the glory of God. The fact that all sin incurs God's wrath means that we're not loving homosexuals as we should. If we consider their sin more grievous than any other sin, they're no different from any of us in being worthy of God's wrath. That leads us to the third step in loving homosexuals, which is this. Know for certain that homosexuals are redeemable. So proclaim the gospel to them accordingly. Know for certain that homosexuals are redeemable. God can redeem them, so proclaim the gospel to them accordingly. Notice our very next verse in 1 Corinthians 6, verse 11. Such were some of you. But you were washed, but you were sanctified, but you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit of our God. So, after affirming that those who practice homosexuality or other sins won't inherit the kingdom of God, the Apostle Paul reminds his friends in Corinth That these are the kinds of sins they used to practice. Some of them were homosexual, and now they're not. Some of them were adulterers, and now they're not. Some of them were thieves, and now they're not, and so on. Corinth, of course, was a seaport town in what is now southern Greece. It was a major commercial center, so it tended to be very worldly. And so it's not surprising that the church that sprang up there included people who had all these kinds of backgrounds. But more importantly, Paul reminds them that God saved them out of those lifestyles. Verse 11 uses three key words to describe their salvation. And notice that all three are in the past tense. First, he says, you were washed. Now, this appears not to refer directly to the cleansing of these sins by God, the work that God did to take away their sins and replace them with righteousness. Even though in most translations into the English, the English words here suggest that this is in the passive voice, that is, that it was something that was done to them. The original Greek actually is in the middle voice, indicating that it is something that they did to themselves. It must therefore be a reference to their repentance from sin and their subsequent decision to be baptized as an outward testimony of the cleansing that God had already done in their hearts. Repenting from, that is, forsaking and turning from sin, is a necessary component of true salvation. As Jesus said in Luke 5, 32, I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to what? Repentance. And after he had risen from the dead, Jesus commanded his disciples in Luke 24, verses 46 through 47. Thus it is written that the Christ would suffer and rise again from the dead the third day, and that repentance for forgiveness of sins would be proclaimed in his name To all the nations beginning from Jerusalem. That's the gospel message that Paul had proclaimed to the people of Corinth. And many of them responded in faith and repentance, thus forming the nucleus of the new church in Corinth, to whom he was now addressing this epistle. Now, the second word Paul uses here is that they were sanctified. The Greek word here means to be made holy. To be made holy, that is, to be set apart. From sin. Now, this one is in the passive voice. This is something that was done to them. Normally, we think of sanctification as the process whereby the Christian is progressively made more and more holy as he obeys God's word in all aspects of life. But this is one of the passages in Scripture that speaks of positional sanctification, that is, being set apart from sin for all time from the moment of salvation. Which is a position that becomes progressively more true of our experience as we mature spiritually. Paul uses this same uh uh term in in the same way in his opening to this very epistle in verse two of chapter one he says to the Church of God, which is at Corinth, to those who have been sanctified in Christ Jesus, saints by calling. Notice that he calls them saints. That word comes from the same Greek word for holy as does the word sanctified. Saints are holy ones who not only are being sanctified in a progressive sense, but also who have been made holy before God. Therefore, they're saints. That is, even these Christians, or these Corinthians, were true Christians. In spite of their background, they inherited the kingdom of God by God's grace He uses a third term as well. He says they were justified. Justification is The legal declaration by God at the moment of salvation that a person now has right standing with God forever. Again, this was something that was done to and for them by God. It's what we are usually referring to when we say that someone has been saved. He's been saved from the penalty of sin by God's declaration. So It's clear that God saved people in Corinth who had been involved in homosexual conduct, and in the process, he took them out of that sinful lifestyle. But how could he do that if practicing any of these sins disqualifies a person from inheriting the kingdom of God? Well, Paul explains that this salvation was in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit of our God. In the name of means by the authority and work of Jesus Christ. That is, his death in our place to satisfy God's wrath against our sin. And his resurrection from the dead, proving that he had conquered both sin and death. The Apostle Peter made reference to this in the book of Acts, chapter 4, after he had healed a lame man. And being questioned by the rulers of his day, he spoke to them, saying in verses uh 8 through 12, rulers and elders of the people If we are on trial today for a benefit done to a sick man as to how this man has been made, well, let it be known to all of you and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, by this name, this man stands here before you in good health. And then he quotes from the Old Testament saying that he that is Christ is the stone which was rejected by you, the builders, but which became the chief cornerstone. And Peter continues, and there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven that has been given among men by which we must be saved. Since Jesus is the only one who has paid the penalty for our sins, indeed, he was the only one ever qualified to do so, since he didn't have his own sins to pay for. No one can be saved entering into a right relationship with God apart from Jesus Christ Notice that Paul also says that the salvation was in the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit did the spiritual cleansing from their sin. Giving them new life in Jesus Christ. And Scripture explains that the Holy Spirit, the third person of the Trinity, performs many roles in the salvation of sinners, including Convicting them of sin, of righteousness, of judgment, and also causing them to be born again spiritually into God's family. Jesus referred to this when he spoke with Nicodemus, the leader of the Jews, in John 3, verses 3 through 7. Where he said, Truly, truly I say to you, Nicodemus, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus said to him, How can a man be born when he is old? He cannot enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born, can he? Jesus answered, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit is Spirit. Do not be amazed that I said to you, you must be born again. Since these Corinthian sinners repented from their sin, trusting in Jesus Christ alone for their salvation, God not only washed them from their sin. But he caused them to be born again by the Holy Spirit. So what's the lesson for us? Paul loved the homosexuals and other people in Corinth by giving them a precious gift, the truth about their sin and its consequences. And that the only solution for that sin is Jesus Christ. Likewise, the most loving thing that we can do for homosexuals today is to help them understand and respond to the gospel of Jesus Christ. Helping all who respond in faith and repentance to receive eternal life by God's grace, passing them from the kingdom of this world to the kingdom of God. So, rather than view those who practice or accept homosexual activity as the enemy, ask God to love them through you. In the most important way possible, by treating homosexuality as sin, yes, but like every other sin, one from which people can repent and leave behind. being born again to eternal life by faith in the finished work of Jesus Christ on their behalf. Pray with me now that God would use us to do that for His glory. Our Father, we are in awe of your holiness, which each of us has compromised. That apart from your salvation, we have no ability to come before you But because you loved us while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. You caused us to be born again to a living hope. You give us great desire to proclaim that good news to others. Give us the confidence, the convictions, the love with which to do that. So that others too may enjoy fellowship with you, eternal life in the kingdom of God, and that you would be honored. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen