All right. So this morning I want to do kind of a combo of last week and this week, just because it's hard to really separate them. In fact, even uh Jeff last week was was kind of combining uh with with a little bit uh of of the the the fruit or the rather the thorns of w what we do, how we tend to respond in a simple way and and why, right? With a Y diagram that he showed and then of course the three trees, uh you you really just can't look at just one part of that In and of itself, you have to see the whole thing. So we're gonna we're gonna do that today, and then uh of course we'll have the video, but that'll be a little bit closer to the end. So let's talk about this. So we've been looking at Uh why why do we do I sorry started uh why do we do What we do. Typically when we think about this, when the world talks about why do people do what they do, they they look at the outside. You know, what are the what's the environment What was the upbringing? What are the people around the individual? What are the things that are bringing pressure? And so we've been looking at this tree diagram, these three trees diagram, and and affirming that That we all have heat, we all have the circumstances of life, we all have the pressures that uh apply to all of us. And that's really what is the context for our responses. So we're not denying that our circumstances, our environment, even our upbringing have an influence, but what we do want to say is that they are not determinative. No one can make you uh do what you do. You know, s uh sometimes I hear uh a spouse say You know, I am I'm kind and gentle and peaceful with everybody else. It's just my spouse that I struggle with. You know, that I blow up in anger and that I curse at or whatever And it's their fault. You know, if they were like everybody else, we would be fine. Right? And and we can think of that in our own lives, if just particular circumstances or situations that are those situations that draw certain things out of us So so the heat is the environment, but the scripture would teach, as we've seen, that it's what's inside of us. It's our heart. So uh let's I I want to do this draw again. So remember from the three trees diagram, the heat is up here. represented by the sun. These are our circumstances, and just to focus on the one side of the diagram, uh there's the tree that is the authority tree. That's the uh sinful, ungodly responses. That's the the things that come out of us That uh are uh disorienting, that are destructive, uh that cause even more suffering. Now what are those kinds of things? Well, just to uh look at a few, go ahead and turn in your Bibles if you haven't to Ephesians chapter 4 In Ephesians chapter 4, when Paul is speaking about the transformation that should take place in the life of believers, he gets very specific in providing examples of what that transformation uh transformation should look like. And so as we look at Ephesians chapter 4 starting in verse 17, we can see the kinds of things that reflect uh that characterize the unbeliever. Let me start in verse 17. Now this I say in testifying the Lord that you must no longer walk as the Gentiles do. In the futility of their minds, they are darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God, because of the ignorance that is in them due to their hardness of heart And then verse 19. They have become callous and have given themselves up to sensuality, greedy to practice every kind. of impurity. Now, there's not a that's that's not a long list. Verse 19 really is the the thorns, if you will, that come out of the unbeliever But he specifically refers to giving uh themselves over to sensuality and then being greedy to practice every kind of impurity. Don't just think within the narrow context of sexual purity and impurity, that's that's a broader term. But then if you look at verses 25 to 32, where Paul is saying what the transformed life should look like, think about it in terms of what it shouldn't look like. You know, verse 25. A lying is a thorn that can come out of us. Anger is a thorn that can come out of us. Verse 25 Verse 28, stealing is the form. Verse 29, corrupting destructive talk. Verse 31, bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, slander. uh are thorns, a malice is is a thorn. These are all the kinds of things that tend to come out of us when we're not walking the Spirit and they make it very clear to us that hey this is a problem. There's something wrong here. And of course because we're all sinners and we Paul to one degree or another has these things come out of our lives, we know that These manifestations, these responses to the heat, to the difficult circumstances of life, they don't tend to make life better. Right? And that's where the deceptiveness of sin is revealed because in our own sinful, distorted, twisted thinking, sometimes we say if I do this, that will make things better. If I express my anger, if I tell this person and give them a piece of my mind, somehow they will come to understand what they've done wrong. You know, and they'll submit to my way of thinking. Or if I can just let them feel the pain that they've caused to me, repaying evil for evil, then maybe our score will be settled and things will be fine. No, that's distorted, crazy thinking. But that's what we tend to do, and that's why we tend to succumb to these temptations, because we think somehow this is going to make things better But the reality is we hurt others, and we end up hurting ourselves, right? We shoot ourselves in the foot, as we would say. If you flip flip back just a few pages to Galatians chapter 5, we have the list of the deeds of the flesh, which has some overlap with what we saw there in Ephesians 4. And again, these are the kinds of things that tend to come out of us in difficult situations. Sexual immorality, verse 19, impurity. Uh sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, henry thing, I guess. Um Uh where uh MET strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. Right? So that's not a complete list. He's just saying this is just a uh a sample list of the kind of things that are the deeds of the flesh. I need to get a lapel. And Deeds of the flesh is another way of saying thorns, or thorns is another way of saying deeds of the flesh. And there we have a bunch of specific things that tend to come out of us in difficult situations, in unpleasant, undesirable situations. And noti notice that some of them are not necessarily things that we do to others, right? Some of them are uh fits of anger, ru rivalries, uh sexual immorality. Those those are things that we tend to do to others in one way or another or do with others. But then others of these are things that really take place in the heart. Verse 20, idolatry, enmity. That's an attitude of the heart. Jealousy, you know, looking at what somebody has and wanting it. Uh later on in that list, verse 21 is envy. Uh drunkenness, you know, that can happen with others or uh in in private. Uh so we respond not just in terms of how we engage with others, but also we respond in our own heart in these ways and and we cause these things to fester uh in our own soul. And it's almost like we grow these thorny branches that tend to curl up on each other, on ourselves, and we end up poking ourselves. Right? Maybe some of you have experienced and certainly we've all heard testimony of people who have gone down the path of sin and perhaps It has affected other people, but uh significantly it's affected their own lives. Right? It's led their life to go down a spiral uh of sin. Well, think think about as as you think about those specific things, things that think about like categories. Think about different ways in which we tend to respond. In the study guide, he uh Paul Tripp lists these kinds of categories. Uh one of the ways we respond is by denying, avoiding, and escaping our circumstances. We run away Uh we cut off relationships because we don't want to deal with things. Uh we you know in these days we block people on Facebook or or we uh when we see someone we walk the other way Uh we do whatever we can to leave the situation. Maybe a uh a spouse will leave the home or kids will run away from home or some other way that we try to escape. We quit our job because we just can't handle this situation with a coworker. Or we switch churches because we don't want to deal with situations. Obviously there's all kinds of reasons people switch churches, but that happens very often. That's one category of thorny responses. We deny, we avoid, and we escape. Another category is we magnify and we expand And we catastrophize what we perceive others have done or our situation. We look at it and we look at it through a microscope and it becomes much, much bigger in our minds. And if it was something that was relatively small, we'd turn it to something big, and of course we call that making a mountain out of a mohill, right? And again, we've we've all done that. We've looked at something someone said, maybe a facial expression that they that we perceived. We're like, oh wow, that's, you know, they've offended me. Right? Uh you know, I once had someone tell me that they thought I I hated him and I'm like, Well, why in the world would you think that? He's like, Well one day we're in the worship center and I looked at you across the room and And you had this weird facial expression at me. And I'm like, I have no idea what you're talking about. Like to me that would be magnifying something I've no you know, he he saw something and he interpreted it a particular way and thankfully we were able to work through that Or catastrophizing, you know, this situation, this this is the end of the world, you know, this is gonna be the end of our relationship where this is everything's lost, you know, because of this situation. We We make something far more significant than it is. And so that means that we're not thinking biblically, we're not thinking accurately about it. Another way we tend to respond is we become hypersensitive. You know, we're just looking for every little thing and we can be so easily offended. Our skin by analogy becomes sensitive to the to the heat around us. And even just the normal things of life tend to just destroy us internally. Another category of response is that we return evil for evil. That whatever someone does to us, we pay them back with our excuse me with our words or with our actions. Yet another response, category of responses is we get bogged down, we get paralyzed or or captured. We we kind of become entangled, enmeshed, we maybe even um What's the I'm trying to think of the what happens when you get arrested? What are those things called? We handcuff ourselves to to you know just to ourselves because we we're just so paralyzed by what's happened around us. You know, we we could become in a state of shock if you will that we don't know how to respond and so we just go in on on ourselves and and we get stuck. Uh and then finally another category of responding is we become self-focused and self-righteous. on the world or lens of others is ourselves, or at least our perception of ourselves. And so we evaluate others based on how we perceive ourselves. We think, well I'm clearly better than they are. I'm clearly a more faithful person. I'm really I'm clearly a more loving person. If they were just like me, you know, everything would be would be well. And so we we tend to focus in on ourselves and make everything about us. Those are all different ways that we tend to respond to the heat of life, right? And every one of us will do one of those things at various times or another. Uh sometimes we'll have tendency to do uh one or more of those things more than others. But those are the kinds of things that tend to flow out of us. So that's that's kind of what the emphasis was last week of these these are the things that tend to flow out of us. Notice, by the way. Uh and you know this to be true about life. When when life gets difficult, what doesn't come naturally to us unless we've been sanctified, and that's an important caveat, but unless we've been sanctified What tends to naturally come out of us in difficult situations is not joy, is is not love. I just want to love this person who's done something against me. Uh it it's not I I just want to serve and care for uh those who are my enemies. Uh I mean just think of the fruit of the sphere. Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness You know, those things don't just naturally flow out of us, again, unless we've been sanctified by the Spirit when we have difficult situations. That tells us that there's something wrong. with us. Right? It's not just those around us, it's it's something in us. And as as a reminder from a few weeks ago When we think about the heat, don't only think about the difficult circumstances of life, also think about the blessings of life. Sometimes really good things happen And what do we do? We're like, well of course that happened because of all my hard work. Of course that happened, because I'm just a good person. Of course that happened because I did the right thing and of course God's blessing me. That's what He's supposed to do Uh you know, we can we can become less dependent, we can become self-righteous, we can become um materialistic, you know, and and and come to expect good things to happen when things have been good Such that, you know, when you have a season of blessing and then something happens, it's like what happened? You know, what what went wrong I thought I was doing everything right. So what tends to come out of us are things that are uh defined by the the bees of the flesh and ways of responding that are uh displeasing to God Alright, now let's talk about why. Why is that? Well you already know that it's because of what's in our heart. That there are things in our heart, there's uh there's uh soil in our heart, if you will, that produces those realities. Jesus said in in various places that it's out of the heart of man uh that we are corrupt, that we are um uh spoiled, that we are unclean, our words, our actions all come out of the heart. But we need to we need to explore that more today. Let me make the heart bigger here If you've taken many classes from me or frankly listened to some sermons lately, you've heard me talk about how the heart has effectively three chambers biblically. There is the uh cognitive chamber, which is the uh thinking, uh beliefs That's where we we do our rationalization, you know, planning, just our thinking part of the heart. And then there's The uh affective part of the heart, which is where we experience emotions, our affections, if you will. That's also where we have our values, priorities. I or teeth. Uh desires, and perhaps that's the most significant one Uh and then our volitional um chamber and that would be our will, our commitments. And then actually what we what we uh say and what we do And that's out of what we express. And I've I've put dashed lines between those three because they're not independent uh chambers. They all kind of are together, but that's And I won't take the time to walk through the scripture that uh would identify all of those aspects of our soul as being part of the heart, as a reminder of soul, heart, mind. Spirit are all synonymous terms in Scripture, but the word heart is the Holy Spirit's favorite term, just by the amount of times it's used, Old Old and New Testament. So we have all of these things, and in order to understand why I do what I do, we have to examine these different areas. And so just to Extrapolate this a little bit more. When we think about what comes out of us, the thorns of our lives, we have to ask ourselves, well, what am I believing about God? You know, we've done a sermon series recently where I tried to emphasize the fact that what comes out of us or what comes to our minds when we think about God is the most important thing about us. And that is absolutely true. And if we really consider the things that we struggle with when we respond sinfully to our circumstances of life, we can ask ourselves What does my response say about what I believe about God? Am I believing that God is good? Or that God is out to get me? Am I believing that God is faithful or that he's unfaithful? Am I believing that That God is out for my good or that he just doesn't care about me and so he's forgotten about me. There's all kinds of things that are responses to the the circumstances of life reflect some theology that we have. Theology means the study of God. We have some theology, some thought of God that is rooting the responses in our lives. Also, what we think about uh mankind When we are shocked, surprised, uh disturbed at the way that other people act, uh what what does that say to us? What are we reflecting we actually believe about mankind. I was talking to a pastor this week of another church and he was seeking some help because he was honestly struggling with his faith and one of the things that has contributed to his his doubts and his questioning is he's seen so many difficult things, particularly sin, in the lives of people who profess faith in Christ And he's like, what's the deal? And I'm thinking, don't you know your theology? Don't you understand uh that's not how what I said to him of course, but um But that's what I was thinking, because uh o of course we sin because we're sinners, right? Even those of us who are saved by grace, who've been redeemed and regenerated and are being sanctified, we still sin. We still battle with sin And so we need to think about w how w what do my responses, if if I'm responding in a way that's displeasing to God, what does that say about what I believe about mankind, about the nature of man, both myself, And others. You know, uh some people struggle with perfectionism, they would call it. I'm a perfectionist. What does that reflect about what you believe about mankind? And the ability of mankind to be perfect or to be as nearly perfect as possible. Every perfectionist who's a believer would say, oh, I know I can't be perfect. I just expect that my family's perfect. That they clean everything perfectly and they do everything perfect, you know, whatever. So we have to think about that. What what What is my response to the things of life? What what does it say that I'm actually believing about mankind? Um and as well, things like what do my responses say I believe about just reality? And this I just mean kind of everything else, the the world around us, uh God's plans and purposes, uh you know, uh politics, geography, uh or at least the the geopolitical landscape Uh just how am I interpreting life? What am I believing about the world around me? And how are my responses reflecting that belief? Right? I uh you you've probably heard me say before we have a stated theology. We all have a doctrinal statement that we have, you know, in our minds of this is what I believe about God, this is what I believe about man's, what I believe about reality and everything in it, as far as I'm aware of those things There's our stated theology, but then there's our functional theology. And our functional theology is that which we function out of. We live out of our functional reality. And there's sometimes, perhaps many times, a difference between our stated theology and our functional. We would say God is good, God is loving, God is sovereign, God has good purposes, all of those things, but then we respond in ways that reflect, I don't really know if God is good You know, those those kinds of differences. All right. That's our cognitive side of things. Perhaps one of the biggest drivers On the effective side of things is indeed our desires. You've probably been here many times, but go to James chapter 4, verse 1. James 4 verse 1 says, What causes quarrels and fights among you, is it not this that your passions are at war within you? You desire and do not have, so you murder. You covet and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. Now, this this is talking about obviously conflict, uh interpersonal conflict, and The reason that we have conflict with one another is because we have conflicting desires. You put two toddlers in a room, one of them gets gets a toy. There could be a hundred other toys in the room, but the second toddler wants the one that the first one has, right? They have conflicting desires. They both want the same toy and they don't want the other one to have it. So they fight. Alright? And adults, we do that in a far more sophisticated ways. Uh we we do that within our homes, we do that you know at the workplace. You know, we want things that are in conflict with the desires of others, and that's why you fight. Well, that's true and that's obvious, but that's also kind of superficial Uh if you just focus on that s that kind of superficial object of desire, uh that doesn't ultimately solve the problem because once that gets settled and no, Johnny Cher would you know, little your little sister, uh then there's gonna be something else that's gonna crop up. There's deeper desires that we have that produce uh those surface level desires Desires like I want life my way. Right? I I will have all kinds of troubles and problems with not just with other people, but just with the circumstances of life, because I want life my way. I want to be the one who decides everything in my life. I want to be the one who decides how what the weather's going to be like. Right? I want to be the one who decides how I sleep. uh how good I sleep or how uh well yeah nobody wants to sleep poorly. But you know there there's something in us that wants to be the sovereign of our life. We would never say it out loud Right? We we would never maybe even explicitly think it, but that can be a deep desire. And and maybe one of the ways specifically uh another way of putting this is control We just want to be able to control the things around us. Another desire that might drive us is I want Um pleasure. Let me put it that way. To use one of the words from James 4. 1. It doesn't have to be sexual pleasure, it can just be, I want to have fun in life. I don't want to have hardship. I don't want to have difficulty I I just want to have fun. I I I want y life to be easy. Uh and so there are some who go down the path of you know, sexual addiction because they're just looking for one experience of pleasure after another. There are others who go down the path of extreme experiences, right? So They're doing uh skydiving and you know, all of those kinds of things. I'm not saying that's bad or wrong. It actually kinda looks kinda fun. I'm just saying that It's possible that someone pursues those things because they just they want that thrill. Right? When we were in California now five years ago, we had an annual pass to six flags. Um Yeah, Magic Mountain, Six Flags. And uh we lived just ten minutes away and uh we would go there all the time because we had we got the food pass. So we saved a lot of money in groceries. That was my primary motivation. Um and uh and and so we went on the rights, right, all the time. And there was, you know, those rides that initially just like, oh my gosh, this is so thrilling and freaky and you're screaming. And after a while, it's like You know, you just lose the excitement, right? 'Cause you're so used to it. You're flying through the air, you know, kinda hanging out like this and at hundred feet above the air, you know And everybody else is crazy, but you're so used to it, you're like, okay, whatever. So what do people do? I need something else. I need something more. That's how people get addicted to subs substances. I just want to feel good, so they'll you know start to take a little alcohol just to relax after a long day. But then they find that they need a little bit more and a little bit more and eventually they find themselves addicted or same with drugs. I just I just wanna I just want to feel good. I just want to have a little high. And before you know it, they need to have more and more and different uh drugs in order to experience pleasure. Another thing that we might desire that drives our responses, for some, maybe not as many, I want to be healthy. I don't know why, but for some reason Facebook is always showing me ads for healthy type stuff. Exercising and you know, particular diets. I'm not looking for it. I t but it's it's trying to tell me something. Um but right we we can get in arguments when you know uh our family isn't um uh uh doing what we want our You know, maybe from one perspective, uh we're wanting to provide healthy food but nobody wants to eat it. Or we're wanting to be provided healthy food and it's not getting made or we're wanting to engage in healthy activities but uh everybody just wants to sit around and be a cash potato. Right there's all kinds of ways that because our we're thinking, ah, we need to be active, we need to be healthy, we need to be eating a lot of good food or uh healthy food But the people around us aren't, then we can have conflicts. Or think about this, sickness. You know, it has nothing to do with anybody else, but sickness comes upon you. And because you just have this heart's desire to be healthy, to to live a long life, to have a life that's free from pain and suffering, we become depressed. And angry, even angry at God because He brought pain and suffering into my life through through sickness Uh we can make health an idol, you know, where uh uh a person uh will spend hours every day neglecting their family, neglecting you know, their r the responsibilities and relationships because they just need to work out, you know, two, three, four hours a day. Uh there's all kinds of ways in which health can become uh a desire that leads to thorns in our lives. Let me give you uh one more. Uh I want To um please people. You know, sometimes we have this desire, and again it's not inherently sinful Uh we have this desire that other people like us. Other people think well of us. Other people in uh enjoy being around us and you know we enjoy being around them, friendships and and whatnot And so sometimes we will respond to circumstances like by lying because we want to put ourselves forward in a way that we think other people will uh will want to hear, will say things that we think people want to hear. uh we will uh uh change who we are just in terms of our personality or our interests because we want to conform ourselves to the those that we want to be happy with us. We will struggle when someone's not happy with us. When someone we perceive they think wrongly about us, they have a wrong opinion about us, you know, we'll get discouraged and depressed and anxious about those things. You know, conflicts just destroy someone who's a people pleaser because They want to be at peace with everyone and they don't want to have that experience of of being at odds with someone. And at the root of that can be just this innate desire or this core desire to to be a people pleaser. I d I just want other people to think well of me. Now um Let me give you two categories. There's all kinds of desires we could talk about, but let me give you two very, very broad categories of desires. There are desires That are disordered, and by that I mean that they are wrong desires Whatever right desire there would be, these are just plain wrong desires. And then there are desires that are unmeasured This is kind of my turn for it. I haven't seen anybody else use it, but this is a good desire that has grown out of proportion You know, last week one of the questions that was asked was how do I know, you know, with a Y diagram of pleasing God or pleasing self, how do I know if I'm doing one or one or the other? Because sometimes I can be doing something good or wanting something good. So how do I know? Well, I think one of the ways that we know if a good desire has become unmeasured, it's grown out of proportion, is when we are either willing to sin in order to get it. Or we respond sinfully when we don't get it. Those are the two easiest things. And when I say sin, I don't only mean we we act out in sin, but there's a sinful attitude of the heart. You know, there's bitterness, there's anger, uh, there's uh envy, there's jealousy. Um You know, it's very common for a single person who desires to be married, then you know their friend gets engaged and there's something in them that almost becomes bitter because their friend is getting engaged and they're they haven't found a stop Yet. Those are very common ways of responding. And it's a good desire that has gone out of proportion. And we have this and all kinds of things. In fact, I would contend that among believers, this is a primary problem that we have. We have good desires that have grown out of proportion. And so when we think about uh the struggles in our life, As you think about that area of your life that you've decided you want to focus on this quarter, I would encourage you to consider what are the underlying desires that I have, and if they're good desires, and I trust that they are. uh have they grown out of proportion? In what way have they grown out of proportion? Have I have I thought that um yes I want to have obedient children, but have I Has that desire grown into a control desire? That kind of thing. Alright, now we need to watch the video. It's about 21 minutes long. So we're gonna watch the video and he's gonna go over some of this, but at the end he's gonna say, you know, go to this page in the workbook. Obviously we don't have the workbook, but What I did give you is what he's pointing to in the workbook. So if you didn't get the handout, the x-ray questions, those are in the back. These x-ray questions are written by David Powlison And these are just helpful questions to ask of yourself that will kind of dig into your own heart. That will help you think through what what is it in my heart that's producing responses, emotions, desires that are displeasing to the Lord, that are the thorns. of life. So that's that's what he'll talk about there at the end. You already have that. So basically this will be the last thing. I'll just say a prayer at the end uh and then I'll let you go. Alright, very good. So some repetition there, but of course no one says it like Paul Tripp. And uh we brought out not just the You know the desires level, but how those reflect worship in our heart. That we've replaced when when when our desires come unmeasured, that means that we've taken God off his throne and we put our desires there, thinking that that's what will satisfy Now, I told you I was going to pray and be done. I'm not. Because I remembered something I want to say that I think is really helpful and important. When we are thinking about the thorns in our life. When you think about maybe the issue that you've identified that you want to grow and change in or uh maybe other things in your life, other things that you perceive in the lives of others One of the things that is absolutely critical in working through this process of growth and change, identifying the thorns, getting down to the roots. is that we identify we identify the thorns biblically. And the reason that's important is because if we don't, if we put labels on our thorns, That doesn't match up with what Scripture says. We're going to come to the Scripture and we're going to be like, well, the Bible doesn't say anything about that. So here's what I want you to consider, and I'm going to make some broad brush statements. I'm not going to nuance it because of time, but just broad brush statements. There there we l we live in a world that's psychologized, right? Uh our whole world, uh including the the church at large, we've all imbibed the the way of thinking of the world, the psychology And the World of Psychology has what they call the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, the DSM, it's the Bible, if you will, of psychologists and maybe more specifically It's the book that identifies or collects together common struggles that people face and it puts labels on them. When you think about a psychological label like depression, anxiety disorder, OCD, obsessive-compulsive disorder ODD, obstinate defiance disorder. And there's hundreds of labels that are common in our world. Narcissism is a big one that's growing today. Those are labels that are intended to communicate a list of experiences or, if you will, symptoms that people experience. I I want to be clear to say I'm not saying that the labels are false and reflect false realities. What I want to say is those labels, what they do is they are a summary that have been collected of experiences, behaviors that have been collected and put that label on top of that. And my example for that, uh, to make it easier to understand is when we have pain in our head, what do we call that? A headache. What what else do we call that? A migraine if it's particularly intense. Now uh a headache can have multiple symptoms. Certainly the the basic symptom is pain in the head. Uh but there can be other symptoms like sensitivity to light, uh sensitivity to sound, uh it could be other things. Now a headache If we stick that label on that pain in our head, does that tell us why we have a headache? Does it tell us how to get rid of the headache? No, it doesn't. The term headache is a summary label for our experience of having pain. in our head and perhaps if we have a migraine it y you put other symptoms under that as well. So a migraine or a headache is just a label that summarizes a series of experiences. In the same way, labels like narcissism, uh depression, anxiety, OCD, you know, though all of those kinds of things bipolar And again, I'm not nuancing, there's a lot of nuance I could give, but for today I'm not. Those labels summarize a set of experiences, behaviors, and struggles that people face. Again, the problem is it doesn't tell you why those problems exist. Those labels don't tell you inherently what the solution is. However, because of the world that we live in, and again you use the example of a of a headache, even though the label itself doesn't tell me how to solve the problem. Uh as soon as I get a headache, I know how to solve the problem, right? Just take a couple Tylenol and it'll go away. Uh or if you get migraines, you know, you you know that you have to put yourself in a particular environment, dark you know, quiet, that that kind of thing to to help um decrease your experience of of of pain. Uh so the label itself doesn't tell you what to do. You just inherently know, oh when I when I have this, this is what I do. to to try and deal with it. I I remember having a co-worker in GraceTU who said he would never want to take anything for his headaches because he wanted to know what caused it. So when he'd get a headache he'd maybe drink water in case he was dehydrated. Or he'd drink caffeine in case he had a you know, low caffeine or whatever. And I'm like, why in the world would you do that? Just take the dylano, man. That's me. But uh But in his case, he knew that just having a headache didn't tell you what the uh what the problem was. But he didn't know that if he could identify the problem, he would know the solution Now again, the the labels that we tend to use today don't point to you to the actual source of the problem. It doesn't explain why you have those experiences And and I'm not saying anything different than what the DSM or what psychologists would say. They would affirm, yeah, those labels just ex explain a series of things. They don't point you to the problem. But what they do Because of the context in which those labels are developed, even though the label doesn't point you to the solution We naturally think, oh, when I have that, because these kinds of people created that label, they must know the solution, so I'm going to go to them. So meaning when we have something like, you know, anxiety or depression, sometimes we'll think, I need to go see a psychologist to deal with this issue, and whatever the label might be. So, what we call something will direct us in our own hearts to what we think the problem is and what we think the solution might be. So, when we're considering what is going on in my life, we need to be very careful to make sure that we're identifying and calling our problem's biblical terms so that we can do two things. Number one, we can identify the source of the problem. Because God's word, as we read from Ephesians 4 and uh Galatians 5 and other passages, that would uh identify the the ways in which sin comes out of us. Those passages identify the source of our problems. James 4, your desires, your pleasures. And many other passages reflect the source. Why is this coming out of you? So if we use biblical terminology, we will be able to identify the actual source or the cause of those struggles. But then also using biblical terminology will point us to the solution. I if sin is our problem If wrong thinking, wrong thoughts about God, wrong thoughts about ourselves, wrong desires, if those are our problem, then the solution is uh to renew our minds, uh to have new ways of thinking, to to put on God's thoughts and put on righteous ways of living and behaving that reflect God's character. Now that's where we'll start going next in the next session next week with looking at the middle tree, the cross. But I just want to affirm it's vital, if we're going to grow and change, that we label things accurately. Otherwise, we're going to be lost. because we won't we won't be able to find the terms that our culture uses uh in the Bible and so so uh make sure that you have those terms. And so the way to identify like if you if you think about narcissism for example Uh y you can look up and see what are the kinds of things that make someone a narcissist. Well you look at that list and you're like, man, those are biblical. uh categories. Uh someone who's self-focused, who's always oriented around themselves, uh who is unloving. They can't they can't um consider that it doesn't enter into their mind to think about the uh other the needs of others and the the the ways in which they can serve and care for others. So the way to uh move away from the label is to get to the specifics, to get to the longer list of experiences and symptoms, and then you'll be able to usually identify those things in biblical terms. Alright? Alright, let me pray.