Alright, so uh this is cross part two uh of the curriculum how people change. So we are working through that three trees diagram, which you They can hardly see on the board, at least I can hardly see. And uh we've spent a couple weeks talking about the the thorn bush that is the the the way in which we tend to sinfully respond uh to the circumstances of life, both the trials and the blessings. uh that the the deeds of the flesh tend to flow out of us uh in our lives and uh because of the trouble that that causes for us we we experience the heartache, we experience the guilt and the shame and um the the emotional struggles of that and then of course that bleeds over into our relationships and there's brokenness uh in our relationships with others and so we all desperately want to grow and change. We We don't like how we are. We don't like the way that we uh respond to things, and so we want to grow and change, and so uh that's what we've been seeking to do. And and last week we started the conversation of how Christ and his work on the cross brings about a fundamental transformation in us that puts us in a position where now we can grow and change Where we don't have to sin the way that we are used to sinning, the the way that we've cultivated habits of sinning. But now we can actually choose By the power of the Spirit, the renewed heart that we've been given, a new way of living, a way of living that's like Christ. And so today we're going to just press into that even further and then just get more and more practical as things move along in the next few weeks. So just to remind you so that's just a a brief overview of where we're at. But uh you know we we talk about we've been talking about these three trees in many ways as though they're kind of distinct things like Okay, there's one part of your life, or or sorry, one one moment in your life where you're like all thorns, thorns everywhere. And then there's the other part of your life where you're after Christ, and now it's just fruit everywhere Well, we all know that's not true, right? That uh because we're s in sin-cursed bodies, but also because of the work of Christ in us There's a mixture in us. There's aspects of our life which by the grace of God are beautiful fruit, that God is sanctifying us and growing us and producing the fruit of the Spirit in us and the character of Christ. But then there's also those aspects of life that are thorny. So it's not all of one or all of the other. Uh as much as we might want to be all of the other, but that won't come until Christ returns, or we see him face to face. And so really the the picture The picture that scripture gives us is not that we go from this tr from the thorny bush to okay now we come to Christ and also where the nutrient actually what happens is uh we have been cut off of the old life and we have been grafted uh This is not going to look like anything. We have been grafted that's a branch into Christ. And because we are now grafted into the vine, right? He is the vine, we are the branches, now we bear fruit. as a vine in Christ. Does that make sense on at least on a visual level? We're grafted into Christ and it's because of our attachment to him, our union with him that we experience the power that comes by the Holy Spirit, the motivation to grow and change, and move forward in what the Spirit is doing in our lives. So just to uh uh assert that and to remind you of that reality that Paul talks about in Romans chapter uh 11 that we've been grafted into Christ. Now we're gonna watch the video. It's a two uh twenty minute video And then we'll just uh uh revisit those concepts as we look at Ephesians uh four and five and perhaps some other passages just to talk about In light of what is true about us in Christ, in light of who we are in Christ, our new identity, how should that affect then how we live and how we grow and change? Well that wasn't convicting. Um if you have your Bible, go over to Ephesians chapter four. We'll start there. Uh well we won't start there. I'll we'll get there. Uh I I want to start with this. Uh Romans chapter twelve, don't turn there. Uh just read uh the verse real quick. Romans chapter twelve, you're familiar with what Paul says as he transitions from his declaration of the gospel in verses one to eleven to uh the implications of the gospel in verses twelve to sixteen. He says, I appeal to you, therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God and what is good and acceptable. Imperfect. If you're like me, and I and I think you are, our tendency, because of the impact of sin in our lives and in our hearts is to live instinctually. We just kind of live day by day, we go through each day, and we just kind of do what seems right and natural and we don't think about how we're living. You know what what he talked about, those two different scenarios, that that first scenario is I'm just gonna live based on what flows out of me. The second scenario is I need to think about what's about to happen as I drive home, right? One is thoughtless, the other is thoughtful. The thoughtless way of living, which is so natural to all of us, is uh living out of our flesh. Right? And when we live out of our flesh, when we live according to what's natural to us, that means we're going to uh live based on what are the loudest voices in our life. And the loudest voices in our life, certainly before we come to Christ, and many times even after Christ, the loudest voices in our life are three. The world. The flesh and the devil. We are so bombarded from the outside And we're so bombarded from the inside with messages like, I just I deserve comfort, right? I'm entitled to what I want. uh my children must obey me and I should have to exert the least amount of energy possible, you know, for them to to do that. My boss at work should appreciate me when I just do my normal work. I shouldn't have to, you know, go the extra mile or whatever. We we we have these thoughts that that rise within within us in our own flesh, our self-centered thinking. We have the world telling us what uh what life should be like, that we should be able to, you know, have the latest car and have the l nicest clothes and, you know, enjoy those great vacations And the the world is bombarding us with messages about what life should be like. And we're like, yeah, yeah, that is what life should be like. And again, we grow in entitlement in those things. And that's how we we become conformed to the world. Again, that's our natural state as unbelievers. And so depending on when you come to Christ, you know, you live your life and you're just you're just part of the world, so you're naturally conformed to it. But then even when be we become believers, when Christ saves us, even when he cuts off the power of sin in terms of giving us the ability to choose righteousness, even when he opens our minds to the truth. We still have all of those ways of thinking inside of us, right? We have those habits of just living and responding and instincts that we just knee-jerk react to situations according to what we're used to And if we don't stop and think and renew our mind We're just going to keep being conformed to the world. So the longer that we live, the older that we get, the more we're exposed to just the things of this world, the more our flesh is cultivated in our own hearts We're just being more and more conformed to this world. And that's what explains all of the thorns that come out of us. And so Paul is saying here in Romans 12, don't be conformed. Stop being conform to this world. instead be transformed by the renewing of your mind. This is really the challenge of the Christian life Uh i it's not so much that uh the Christian life is intellectually difficult to understand, right? It's not like, well some of you won't agree with this, it's not like calculus. But for the rest of us, uh it's not like some you know esoteric um thing that that we just can't wrap our minds around. Uh the Christian life is very simple. It's laid out in clear terms in Scripture, in terms of what is God's design for us, what is the way that He's designed for us to live and the things that He He wants us to think. The difficulty is that we actually have to think. Right? It's like telling a child who just doesn't want to do their math homework. And it's and they know it. You know, they know their addition. They know that two plus two equals four. They just have twenty times that they have to do it. But they just don't want to do it Right? They don't want to put forward that effort. They want to go off and do something else. Again, that's part of the curse of sin in us, that when it comes to the Christian life, it's not that it's complicated, is that there's something in us that's just like it should just be easy I shouldn't have to work, you know, for for change. I shouldn't have to think hard about uh my life So that's why we desperately need the Holy Spirit in our life to give us that desire and the will as Paul talks about in Philippians. 2, 12 and 13, right? When he says to work out your own salvation, because because God is at work in you both to will, to give you the desire, and to work, to give you the ability. uh to work for his glory. So uh all all that to say, um I just want to affirm the importance that what we're doing in this class, what we're doing in this hour, is what we need to be doing day in and day out. We need to be renewing our minds according to the truth. We need to be thinking the way that God calls us. to think. And so uh so let's go over now to Ephesians and hopefully you're already there. And I just want to point out Some of the kinds of things that we need to be thinking now this is just going to be a sampling with the time that we have left today. But we need to think daily, regularly, about who we are in Christ, what Christ has done for us, and what that means then for our lives. I've said it before, I'm pretty sure. The gospel is not just what you need to know to become a Christian. The gospel is the motivation and the model for change. And we see that time and time again. exemplifies that put off, reading of my put-on process in verses 25 to 32. But go back there to 32. So we'll just jump in. I will start at 31 there at the very end of the chapter. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you, along with all malice. Be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another. Now just pause there for a second. If God had given us that passage, and of course we have commands like that all over the New Testament, in various epistles of Paul, we have the example of Christ where he did those things, where he manif he treated others in those ways. That would be a good instruction, right? That would be a helpful thing. Okay, that's what God calls me to do. But when you think about those very things, bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, slander malice, and you think about what are the circumstances in life that bring those out of us Why would I ever be bitter towards someone? Why would I ever feel wrath towards someone? Under what circumstances would there be clamor in the home? You know, just a loud noise in the home that that's uh exemplified by people arguing and and making noise together Uh what circumstances of life would slander ever come out of my mouth? You think about those kinds of scenarios Maybe you can think very specifically about things in your own life, or you can imagine what they could be Those are not easy situations, right? Those are not moments in life where we are thinking with a clear head Where uh we're able to step back in the moment and just say, wait a minute, what's going on here? Let me think about this, right No, those are moments when those things are coming out of us when we are so hot in the head, if you will, uh we're so stressed in our minds that those things just flow as a matter of the flesh coming out. And so when he says, okay, don't do those things, but verse 32, be kind, tenderhearted, and forgiving. That's extraordinarily difficult. Not to say impossible, but extraordinarily difficult. So again, if that was all we had, we'd be like, all right, I'll try. Next time, you know, my kids do something, next time my spouse does something next time Somebody, you know, at work does something, I I'm gonna be kind. The problem is that happens and you forget, right? It all goes out the window. So how do we How do we get ourselves in a position where we can actually obey that command? Well, I think the key is the last phrase. As God in Christ forgave you. Again, so much of our life we're not thinking. We're not thinking about the truth. We're not thinking about who we are in Christ. We're not actively dwelling on what Christ has done for us. And so when we get in our into those situations where we're tempted to blow up in anger, the last thing that's on our mind is the gospel. So what Paul is saying here is you need to be actively thinking about the fact that you have been forgiven in Christ. You need to consider and ponder your your own sin that led to Christ's sacrifice on your behalf. You need to Consider that the wrath of God that was mounting on you and recognize the magnificent work of Christ, where all of that wrath was taken away because it was placed on Christ. And it's no longer on you. And you've been forgiven, and you've been set free, and your sin has been separated as far as from the east as from the west from you. And you're righteous now in Christ. And the more that we dwell on that and meditate on that and allow that to reign in our hearts and give rise to praise to God day in and day out. You know, we we not only maybe read a passage of scripture in the morning where we're reminded of that, you know, in our devotions and then close it up and okay, thank you, Lord, and move on with the rest of the day. But no, that somehow in various ways that continues to be on your mind, whether through music that you have in the background or just through personal intentional meditation of of a verse of scripture like this one or others, or some way that these truths are just ruminating in your heart and your mind throughout the day. Then, when you get into a situation where someone sins against you, you are so full of the joy of the Lord because of the forgiveness that you have in Christ. That though you may well be tempted to respond in anger, there is yet a new strength in you to be able to respond in a way that's pleasing to Christ. To be kind-hearted, to be tender, to be forgiving. That only happens if we are being transformed by the renewing of our minds. Okay, now look at the next verse, chapter 5, verse 1. Therefore, be imitators of God as beloved children. Okay, Paul, that's that's that's a command you've given me to imitate God. It's like when Jesus says, be perfect, therefore, as your heavenly father is perfect. Okay, I'll try. I'll try it, I'll fail. Right? Well, verse two, walk in love. As Christ loved us and gave himself up for us a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. So the imitation of God that we're supposed to live out, which is then is exemplified by the command to love, is motivated by and modeled by the way in which Christ has loved us And did you see what he said about that? That Christ loved us, that he gave himself up for us. Okay, so he he sacrificed himself for me, so that's that's the kind of love that I'm supposed to have for others. Alright, Paul says to husbands in chapter at the uh in verse twenty-five, husbands, love your wives, how? As Christ loved the church. So The kind of love Paul's talking about is a sacrificial love for the benefit, for the good of another per person. But even that is not all that Paul says. He doesn't simply say, die to yourself like Christ died to himself for you, because that's what Christ did. Leaves it at that. No, he goes on to say that Christ did it as a fragrant offering and a sacrifice to God We just use one word, worship. Jesus sacrificed himself, he loved us by giving up himself as an act of worship to God. So when we love others, and by implication those who are hard to love, those that require sacrifice on our part to love. The mindset that we ought to have, like Christ, is to sacrifice, is to love as an act of worship to God. We all know that one of the things that makes love loving someone so difficult to love so hard is that we want to say, but they don't deserve it. Right? They they haven't earned it And Paul is saying here, it has nothing to do with them. It has everything to do with God. That you love others as an act of worship to God, because that's what Jesus did. And he did that for you. Again, these are the truths that we need to have running around in our minds so that when we face those difficult situations of what it looks like to love another person We're thinking about how Christ has loved us, who were his enemies, and how he did it as an act of worship to God. Just I'm just s skipping here for the sake of time. Let's jump down jump down to verse twenty-two. Wives, uh submit to your own husbands as to the Lord, for the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church, his body and his himself its Now as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit in everything to their husbands. Okay. Now we're not gonna you know there's a whole obviously a whole lot we could say about this. I'm just gonna broad brush this and just stick uh with a With a plain meeting, there's a lot of nuance we could add, but uh wives, God calls you to submit to to follow the leadership of your husbands. Well your husband is a sinner. I know my wife's husband is a sinner. I'm pretty sure about that. And uh at least in my wife's experience, following a sinner is not the easiest thing to do. Right? So God is not calling wives, hey, do what's easy and just submit to your husband whenever he's being that wonderful Christ-like figure. Now he's calling you to submit your husband even though he is in fact a sinner, and again not because of who he is that he himself intrinsically deserves to be submitted to and and followed. But rather because you're following a pattern of the relationship between Christ and the Church That's all I'll say about that for now. Verse 25. Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. Again, every husband is married to a sinner. And so the model that Paul uses, just as with wives to husbands here, is that we are to love our husbands, or sorry, we are to love our wives as Christ has loved sinners. And so we were not being asked to do anything that Christ hasn't already done for us. You know, he did it that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with a word, so that he might present the church to himself in splendor without spot or wrinkle or any such thing. So she might be holy and without blemish. So the the corresponding to that, as husbands, we ought to love our wives. Such that we promote their flourishing. We promote their holiness. We promote their sanctification. We promote their good. uh in in Christ and and in marriage. And so it's it's disastrous when when we don't do that, when we do the opposite of that. But again, because our wives are sinners, that's not easy, right? That's not easy. And we're sinners and so it's none of it is easy, but we're we're compelled by the example of Christ. to imitate that uh that way of being. Uh look at chapter six verse five Bondservants, obey your earthly masters with fear and trembling, with a sincere heart, as you would Christ. So if we can just blow this up in terms of uh expand the uh application to anyone who's under authority. Uh there's many other passages we could turn to, Romans chapter 13, 1 Peter chapter 2, and others, that we are to submit ourselves to the authorities above us. The repeated New Testament imperative is not just that we submit, but that we submit to the authorities as we would be submissive to Christ. Recognizing that the authorities above us are aren't perfect, that they are themselves cursed by sin, perhaps structured, you know, because of the curse of sin. So it's not just the individuals are sinners, it's also that the structures are cursed by sin, and so the whole system is a system that is difficult to submit to. And yet that's exactly what we're called to do. And we're called to do it not because there's intrinsic, you know, goodness and whatever in in in the authority, but rather because That authority has been put there by God, and so our act of submission is really an act of submission to God Himself. And we do that again, all based on the reality of what God has done for us in Christ. Now I think I've probably used this passage before, but let me just go there again because it's just always on my heart and mind. And uh I would love for it to be on yours as well. Go go over to 1 Peter chapter 2. So kind of along this theme of of submission to authorities. In 1 Peter chapter 2, starting verse 13, Peter talks about being subject to every human institution. whether it be to the emperor as supreme or to governors as sent by him, to punish those who do evil and praise those who do good He talks to servants, to slaves to submit their m to their masters. Eventually, chapter three he'll talk to wives and to husbands, so a lot of the same themes But here, the particular emphasis that Peter places is on in the context of unjust suffering. So again, living in a world that's cursed by sin, in in a world where we are constantly faced with injustice on a personal, relational level, as well as a structural, governmental, uh uh economic level. That's that's the context that Peter is writing about. And so he says Verse 19, for this is a gracious thing when mindful of God one endures sorrows while suffering unjustly. Essentially saying this is a gift of grace from God that one has the ability to endure sorrow while suffering unjustly. Verse 20, for what credit is it if when you sin and are beaten for it you endure? But if when you do good and suffer for it you endure, this is a gracious thing in the sight of God. Again, this is a a gift of grace. Uh it's something that is a uh that God looks upon a and has favor, but also is produced by Him as an act of grace in in our lives. Well how how do we endure unjust suffering? I mean today's the International Day of Prayer for the Persecuted Church. Well emphasize that um during the service. How do believers around the world who face unspeakable suffering, how do they endure unjust suffering? Well, verse 21, for to this you have been called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example that you might follow in his steps. We endure unjust suffering by remembering Christ, by thinking about what Christ has suffered for us. And by looking to it not just as a way of saying thanks, thank you, Jesus, for enduring suffering on my behalf, but rather looking at it and saying, how can I follow that example? What would it look like in my circumstances in a very concrete way to imitate Christ? Specifically the thing he calls us to model there at the end of verse Uh twenty-three is that Jesus kept entrusting himself to him who judges justly So there's a mindset of who God is and what God is going to do in terms of the the vengeance that He will work out on the earth, the the condemnation he will bring to evildoers, and so we can trust that the Father will judge uh those who uh mistreat us uh in his perfect way in his perfect time. And it's on the basis of that reality that then we can endure unjust suffering. And of course he has a lot more to say. besides that. So my my whole point in all of this is that we have to think. We have to meditate on the truth. This is why the scripture continually calls us to have the truth ruminating in your mind, to be dwelling on the truth, to be, to let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. Colossians chapter 12 We we just have to be filled with the Word of God so that the truth of who Christ is and what He's done for us is in us, it's it's uh uh transforming us, it's guiding us, so that when we face those concrete situations which you and I face every single day in which we're tempted to respond in a sinful way, we have in our minds not just the the joy of knowing what Christ has done for us, but we have the example that we can follow in Christ in our lives. And I praise God that we live in a day that uh not only do we have the Word of God so easily accessible to us in written and audio and every other form that we can imagine, uh but we have an uh incredible amount of music. That's been written by saints that points us constantly to Christ and sets our mind on the truth. We have one another that when we find ourselves in a difficult position where we just W we we we know it we need to know, but we just need someone else to tell us. We can ask someone, tell me again what I already know about Christ. We can go to one another and speak the truth and love to one another. But we just need to keep building into our hearts and minds the truth of the gospel. so that its richness and its fullness would then flow out of us into a fruit filled life. We could impose into all of this the various identities that we have in Christ That because of what Christ has done, you know, that we're justified, that we're adopted, that we're redeemed, that we are new creatures in Christ, that we're saints. There's all of these identities that are true about us because of what Christ has done for us that we need, again, we need to build into our lives. We need to clothe ourselves with every single day. You know, like uh uh a military a person in the military, a soldier or uh uh a law enforcement officer who puts on their uniform and there's there's a distinct sense when you're wearing the uniform of who you are and what your place is in this world. We need to wear our identity in Christ and put that on Every single day. That's why Paul talks about in Ephesians chapter six, to put on the armor of God. That's effectively what he's saying. Put on the truth of who you are in Christ. That's what the helmet of salvation, the breastplate of righteousness, and the belt of truth and the gospel of peace, the shoes of the gospel of peace. Peace. Sword of the Spirit. We need to be putting that on day in and day out. None of this is I gotta work For my sanctification in the sense of I gotta uh earn it. It's all because of what Christ has done. I need to remember and believe what God has already said, what God has said is true about me already. And just have that overwhelm all of those false messages that I'm t tempted to tell myself. And overwhelm the messages that are coming in from the world around me. of who I think uh or who the world thinks I should be. So I I hope that's helpful. Um and Uh that this is why sanctification is a lifelong process, because we're constantly in that battle between the messages of the world, the flesh, and the devil, and and what God's word says is true. We're constantly needing to apply the truth of Scripture to the details of our lives, and because our lives are constantly changing, there's always new opportunities to apply the truth to the new details of life, new dynamics and situations and relationships. But this this is what God calls us to. This is how we grow and change. We take the Word of God, we bring it into our mind, cultivate the mind of Christ, and then we begin to live it out with the power of the Spirit. for the glory of God. Alright, let me uh pray