Good morning. Um as we have considered in the past week or so that the canonization of the books that we now call our Bible was actually done in two sections. There's the Old Testament canon that is the Jewish Bible. These books were collected by the Jews from the period from beginning with Moses all the way through the prophet Malachi. And then the Jews recognized that after Malachi there was the period of prophetic silence. There were no prophets. And but but during this time that we call the prophetic silence, there was some some of the books were written by the Jews, which we call the pseudopigry and the apocrypha. These books were written by Jews and they were not recognized by the Jews as being part of the can. But some of the books would eventually be considered accepted by some Christians. And that's why we why we um get this distinction between the pseudo pigrapha Which are books rejected by all, and the apostles, which are books accepted by some, those some being Christians. Now Some of these books, these popular books, would eventually be discarded, um, but um others were accepted long in To of history. In fact, the Roman Catholic Church would canonize some of these books during the Council of Trent, which was their reaction to the Protestant. Reformation. As you recall, Martin Luther challenged the church. Look, where is scriptural support for your doctrines of purgatory and dologenism? Praying for the dead, things like that. Well, the church had no scriptural support in the New Testament canon, so they just took some books here and just added. to their canon. But on but um we've we concluded yesterday, or last week I mean, that these books um should not be there because they don't meet the t test of canonetization. And we're right now on page twenty six of our notes, down at the bottom. I just wanted to conclude why we don't accept the Apocrypha books as part of the canon of the New Testament or of the whole Bible itself. Question number one that's always asked is, was the book written by a prophet or an apostle or some spokesman from God? And the answer has to be no, because for one thing all the prophet the prophetic session ceased at four hundred BC, about the time of Malachi. So So there were no Old Testament prophets in this period in which these books were written. Also, the questions, the next question about Canonization is is the book authoritative? That is, does it speak from God? And the answer is no. None of these books purport to be authoritative. Now some of them the authors sort of pretend that they're some uh some prophet or some Old Testament character. But um but these books do not have authority. And the Jews recognize that. Okay. Also, the third question about canonization of scripture is does the book tell the truth about God and about the doctrines that we have already known from previous revelation And the answer has to be no, because we know some of these books have errors in them. Um hist um they have doctrinal errors, um heresy even. Um they're And there are also his historical um errors. Um and so that's number thick question number three. Question number four is Does the book give evidence of having the power of God? That is, does it have transformational power? And the answer, well, these books here No. Oh. Yes. How do you define transformational power? I define transformational power is is does it does the Five would change people. Does the work base? Um no. It um um um it brings conviction It brings repentance. Um it it brings people to a correct understanding of God. Um it it leads to Salvation It leads to a transformed life. That's the transformational power of God through His Word. And the fifth question is were the These books accepted by the people of God? Well, they were not accepted by the Jews. The Jews wrote these books, but they did not accept them. Now they were accepted by some Christians. Christians, um, but by and large um um they were not accepted by the people of God. Yes. Could they be accepted as historical books like Josephus was accepted, but it's not in the case? Yes, that's right. Yes. too have some value. They they they do tell us a little bit about life back then Um and they may have some moral moral toy story. Um and they may even uh been read in some of the synagogues. Um um but they were not considered inspired. Okay. Um yeah, so so so I'm not saying these books have no value whatsoever. They may have value. They do tell us something about life back then. Some historical, right? Yes. Yes. Okay. Okay. So are there any questions about these books here? Now, in terms of have these those the um the value, we will soon see that some of these books will have will show us a little bit of will will show will have some value for us in in terms of recognizing which books are here. So but we'll get to that very soon. Okay, so we are now on page twenty-seven of our notes. The development of the New Testament canon Um you know we've we we we seen for the old testament can canon that the books were separate very soon after they were written. Moses put his books into the holy place J um Joshua after Moses would buy his book, he would also add his book to the holy place. It was accepted as as God's word And they would be preserved throughout the generations. Well, the same way it is with the New Testament canon. Number one. Has in the case of the Old Testament prophets, so it is with the apostles and their associates in the New Testament era. That the recognition by the church at at the very time of the writing that these apostles were authentic spokesmen for God is what determines the intrinsic canonicity of their writing. It is altogether God's word only if That is God breathed. In general, these New Testament books were received by the church precisely when these books had been certified by an apostle as being a message. From God. Hence, the kineticity of the New Testament books follows the same pattern as the Old Testament books. That is, when Paul wrote his letters, they were certified at that moment, when he was sending the letters to the these churches. And the church that received these letters recognized them immediately as being a message from God by way of Paul the apostle. Yes. Except in the case of in 2 Thessalonians, he had already written 1 Thessalonians, and in 2nd he says, you've received a book written by someone who purports to be me, but is not a good idea. That's right. But yet that's That book had caused much grief and problems because people believed it. That's right. That's right. How were they to know? Well, okay. For because when Paul wrote his letters He did two things. One is he um he wrote it in such a way that the people would recognize that it was his handwriting. The second but the second more important way is he sent the letter by way of a trusted courier. He did not just drop the mail drop the letter into into the Roman Postal Service, but he he he was sent it by I a person trusted by both him and the church. For for example, if you read the book of Colin, Paul sent that letter by way of Epaphodius. Epaphodius was someone from the church at Philippi. So the so this church knew this person. He was an elder elder there at the that church. And it was a very close associate to the to Paul. Okay. So when Epapoditus we s sent this letter to, or gave this letter to the to the church, They recognized it as being from Paul. But just because it was from Paul, even authentically from Paul, it's not in the canon because there was m about four books written to Corinthians. Be and between first and second there was at least one book written by Paul and it wasn't a fraud like in Thessalonians and yet it was not a part of the canon. Um well there are some people who will say that. Um now And uh you know I'll you know we'll we'll see we'll get to that very soon. So I'm so I'm going to be we we refrain from from from that. Okay. So number two, there's a sense in which Christ Jesus established the New Testament can by what he said to the disciples in John chapter 14, verse 26. But the ad Advocate, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, will teach you all things, and will remind you of everything that I have said to you. So Jesus Christ himself promised the disciples that he is going to send the Holy Spirit, and the Holy Spirit will remind them, teach them everything that Christ has said. Up to that point, the disciples had been with Jesus for several years, but nothing had been written. Now, there was one display. between the Jews in the Old Testament and the Christians here in the New Testament. That is When the prophets of the Old Testament wrote, their books were collected in this holy place. Now let's call it Jerusalem. And So oh um and even because most of those books were written around were were written in Jerusalem. You know, you know, you know maybe I'm ahead on See see Jeremiah, Ezekiel, um Daniel were written outside, but they were soon brought back um to Jerusalem. Judg Judasm was the center place. Um Christians had no such place. Um so if there was a time delay between the Cephas Of a book in the New Testament, the primary reason was just Geography. If there's a time design acceptance across the wider community of churches, then the primary reason is that most books had initially a single individual or a single church As the recipient. The books would then be read, copied, and shared with nearby churches, which in turn pass these letters to um other churches. So it would be so it that it would take some time for it to go all the way across the Roman I mean imp pri So just because the church be just because the book was accepted by some church, it didn't exactly mean that we that it we that it was accepted by the whole Christian community. Because uh Um not every every Christian community had all the books. In fact they did not. Um so acceptance would be local. Um For a pu for some period of time. So there was some lag in time and uncertainty from one region to another has to the acknowledg has to the acknowledgement of some of the New Testament books. The prophets of the Old Testament had Jerusalem and one single nation, Israel, as a center of focus. Whereas Christianity had no such center, no such No such holy place. So that's why it takes a few hundred years for everybody to agree with the canonization of these New Testament Um that's right. Yes. So um you know the center is to lose the loser, but we're only talking about a select few people in that you know, that's just the hard priests and and and the Levites and you know beer resistant people but but when you go to Christendom, you know, it there there's so many people involved with the Holy Spirit that Um, I don't know, it it's just like apples and oranges almost. Right. It's a different volume. Yes. Y y yes, that is right, yeah. Because Christianity was decentralized. It was wide, vast, um much more so than Judaism. Um Yes. Well that's because um because if because it the because of the um the the great commission at the end of um Well crazy closing your back to other loyalty. Well yeah, you go Yes, because um you know unlike Judaism, Christians um um um were evangelistic they had to go out and they went far out and um and these um groups would would form these churches would form And they you know, and they had and they may only had a very small portion of what we call the Bible today. Um gen gen generally if they had a Bible, they would probably have All of the Old Testament, but probably only a very few books of the New Testament. So Um so they would gradually acquire more books. Um can I ask one more question? Yes. In earlier and I think I might have missed that class, you said the canon chooses the church. I'm not mistaken. I I think I said that the canon determines the church, yes. And and what I mean by that is that is a how we function, how what we believe. believe that is based upon based upon the canon. Um you know, you know we we don't define what goes into the canon. We just accept what comes out. And that applies for every religion, right? Pretty much Um Yeah. It it is related. Remember, it this is a totally new way God is working with people. The Spirit is inside of all individual believers in the Old Testament yet. a mediator, you have the priest. We are priests, right? We we go right to God. It's huge. We have the Spirit. They didn't uh we're sealed with it. Everybody's a believer. And you just can't put too much emphasis on that. Uh we're saved. Uh it's totally different operation, but you're right it is from the Old Testament. Uh the spirit came upon people but the New Testament of the what came what he would prophesy and came and and so the it gave us the ability to discern. So the idea of of God So people recognize God's words. It's really just for believers because you can't convince an elsewhere of of the words. Mm-hmm. So this really is for us. Yes, right. Okay. Okay, but you know, and I and I also want to add that it's not that um you know, I'm not saying that these early quick In these far from regions of the Roman Empire had almost nothing. They may have had, in addition to the written manuscript. scripts that they had received, there were in that time working um various prophets of God. And they would also add to the add to the revel revelation that the people had. Some. It's I'm not saying it was common. I'm you know, I'm just saying that g that that God could have used other means. Um because there were teachers as well that will that will that will um going around teaching. So ev even if the churches had not the books, they did have access to some teachers, they did have access to some prophets who were active. I mean because we you know we we we know in the book of acts there were some um some people called prophets in um um in um in um in the the in the churches who were giving revelation. Um okay so I am now down To number four. The frequency and the nature of persecution across the Roman Empire was also a factor, but in really two different ways. First, persecution could potentially slow the disability. of these books. Since these books were banned and they were sometimes burned. Now since the reign of Nero, um during that infamous Roming burning of Rome, um He actually outlawed Christianity. Up to that point, the Romans had considered Christianity to be merely a sect of Judaism. So any persecution was primarily from the Jews or from the local people, but not the government. But after Nero, persecution was fair gain to all Christians. Not all Christians were persecuted. The church was not persecuted all the time. But if the Roman government wanted to persecute Christians, they had free reign. Um and so the Christians were persecuted, the books were banned, burned even, And um so that so it's important for the Christians to understand what is their kin? Now what books are worth dying on. Um so this this this popelled the need to have a canon. But secondly, this persecution's um Um so um it should be started. Yes, uh yes. Yeah, to number five, I said th then they say this persecution defined canon would certainly be the canon of the first century. Other imitation books would be soundly rejected. Now, number six, and this is important too. Just as the Old Testament books tended to attract various expressions. Another cultural legends, namely these books here, so did the New Testament books Um and um especially from the from the from um especially from methods my my my heretics such as the such as the Gnostics. Um you know, so um one of them, Mars Marcian, produced his own abridged canon in approximately AD 140. And Marcion accepted Luke's gospel, with the exception of the two chapters which he deemed, the first two chapters which he deemed as too Jewish, and ten of Paul's letters. believed that Paul was the only true apostle. And so so with so from what Marcian tried to promote. It behooved the church where we better establish our own canon Okay, so that was the emphasis upon having the canon. Because you have this persecution on one side, and then there's these false teachers on the other side. all these other books that that were coming out, um written um sued pseudo non for the most part. Um So also a recognized canon in number seven was also necessary for Christians to know which books to should be read in the churches because they also continued the practice of reading scripture. When they met. And where is this church located? Like the the what where is it coming from? Is it Antioch or wh where's where's who's the deciding person? people. Who decides what's in the canon? Yes, it says because of these Mary and Heresies that are coming in, the Christians decide is there like a location or a group of people or Well, it was the Christians individually the churches that were um that were trying to to to um um uh make known what is the canon. Um you know think um uh I mean the the uh I mean there were some some conference w in which the various elders of the church would meet w with um other other churches to sort of sort of s sort of decide um Yeah. Um so it but again it was not some central one person, one church. Was there historical documents for these things or um well you well you can Um we know about them from the from the writings of the of the earlier early church. Then the Council of Nessir was also in that time. Yes, yes, th there was that one but the hot but but that one was several hundred years. Yeah. Right. Um can uh just one quick question just kind of recap this conversation. Yes. So, you know, because as you mentioned because of why in the geography in the nature of a why is even geography and like a dispersal of uh churches in the New Testament churches in you know in this throughout Europe and Asia. So you are saying that uh you know and then there was lack of a central kind of location unlike a Roman Catholic church in a being established at the time. So each church may and may recognize the need for canonization, you know, the to to which book, you know, which books um to guide you know worth dying for. But it may there may be some dis variations depending on each individual church. Yes, that's right. Okay. That's right. Right. So um see I'm I'm on um num number number eight A recognized canon would also be necessary for Christians who know the limits to what Paul has said in 2 Timothy 3 verse 16. All scripture is God-breathed and probable. for teaching and so forth. So what does all scripture mean? Well Christians want it to know. It obviously doesn't mean uh it's it could still be a growing cannon at that point that sometime you've got to cut the cannon off Um you gotta say, well, now we have all crypto. It's not it's not something that's g that's going to keep on growing and growing and growing forever um you know You know, for all the age ages to c to come. Okay. So this selection process to divine a canon was already in place in the first century church to to firm a authentic books. From the very beginning, inauthentic in non apostolic writings were s in circulation. So there had to be a way to um t t distinguish Books of the canon versus books outside. Not only was there a prophet for the Old Testament, There's also an approval for the New Testament as well. And so there was this need. The church recognized this need. Page twenty. eight. Paul warned that the that that warned the Thessalonians not to be quickly shaken in mind or slammed or alarmed by a letter that appeared to be from him, claiming that the day of the Lord had already Already come. And so Paul authenticated his own writing. I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand. This is a distinguishing mark in every letter. This is the way I I write. It was like his signature then because a lot of his books were written by scribes, not the whole book was not written by Paul. This is in every letter, this is a distinguishing m mark in every letter. This is the way I write. I write this greeting with my own hand. Um he doesn't always write like it says like from Paul and Sylvanus and all they were written the books themselves, but I see here that he must have signed them in some way. Um this he didn't say this book. I write this book, but he said I write Um well that that doesn't discount the that the rest of the book Is not from Paul. Right, because he would not have put that signature on it if it wasn't from him. Right. Okay. Okay. Okay, yeah. So um okay s so the word and circulation books Not written by the apostles, not sanctioned by the apostles, that was circulated as if they were from the apostles. And also not only that, there were even legends that had cropped up because um the people not only heard the word of god from what was written they also heard the word of word of god from how it was was taught whether it was taught correctly or or um C C C C C C C I'm C C otherwise. For example, um in number B, what deposits did not include Others would add their own writing to fill in the various details. You know, people wanted to know these things. So very often wrong stuff and contradictory stuff would begin to circulate. For example, the Apostle John had to put to rest a false belief circulating in the first century church that he that had been held that was held that he would never die. I mean some people thought that was the gospel of truth. So John had to put that to rest. Also we we have to recognize that you know think about this. These apostles were the were eyewitnesses to these events. I mean they they saw it with their own eyes. They heard it. Um you would think, man, that that would be wonderful um for them. Well, actually The Word of God is even more trustworthy, more liable, more precious than our own eyewitness testimonies. Peter would say this. For we did not follow cleverly devised tales for me made known to you the power in the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, though we were eyewitnesses to these to his majesty. He was there on the Mount of Transfiguration. He saw it. And so he's not coming up with this tale. I mean he he he was an eyewitness to it. But he see but he also says this. We have the prophetic word made sure to which you do well to pay attention as to a lamp shining in the dark place until the daw day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts. Now this word of God that we have right here is even more precious to us than if we had an eyewitness witness account. Because even an eyewitness account can sometimes change gravity. Gradually over time. Um and I'm sure many heritage were I listened to a lot of things, so who wants to listen to that? Yeah. Right. Yes. Yeah. And I mean that I mean let's just look at Luke, for example. You know, he received testimony from eye witnesses witnesses who'd write his own gospel account in the book of Acts. Um So he was not ne necessarily an eyewitness himself, but he examined eye w eyewitnesses. Um this accounts for most of the New Testament and it's They knew it had to be written by an apostle. But they didn't even know who wrote the book of Hebrews. So how could they in fact know he was an apostle if they didn't even know who he was? Um well actually um The early church, for the most part, believed that Paul wrote on Hebrews. That even if Paul did not write Hebrews, the Hebrews was written by close associate to the apostles. How do they know that? They don't know who wrote it. Um if you go to um to a I mean Hebrews chapter two and that's a that's a Do that for before one moment. Hebrews chapter 2. Let me see here. And look look at look at verse 1. For this reason, we must pay much closer attention to what we have heard, lest we drift away from it. For the word spoken through angels proved unaudible, and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense. How shall we escape if we neglect so great a salvation after it was first spoken by first spoken through the Lord? It was confirmed to us by those who hurt. God also bearing witness with With them both by signs and wonders and by various miracles and by gifts of the Holy Spirit according to his wheel. Okay. So this writer um was was a was was was at least a first generation hearer. From the apostles. And so it's very clear that this person whoever wrote wrote it was was acquainted with the apostles. Now, speaking of who actually wrote Hebrews, this book book book book was debated um by various church councils. And um eventually it was accepted into the canon um because um um there was you know uh um evidence that ha it had been written by by Paul. But now what's kinda ironic is that many scholars today claim that it wasn't written by Paul. Now I'm not going to get into that debate. Um and um but no one says that this book should hence be Hence be we hence be rejected. Um so so so then this is a book that's that um got in um and it did get in um and um and we're glad that that it got in um and um um you know it it may not have gotten in the way most books did um but that's just the way life um Some sometimes good things happen despite our the pet the better effort. So um number ten. Um it is widely accepted by all scholars that all twenty seven books of the New Testament will compose And therefore accepted by the original audience by the end of the first century. Proof of acceptance is that we have copies of these books, and that these books were available to be cited by the early church. fathers. You know, going back to all those letters that Paul appro supposedly wrote um to to the to the to the to the Corinthian church. Those letters, we have no idea to what they are. Many of the other writings do that we think existed, they're just not there because they were not copied. Um and um so we had copies of them. That's that's one good reason to to to know that these letters were accepted. Within so this is takes us to the end of of the first century, 100 AD. Okay. Now within the next century, up to 200 A. D. We see that all twenty seven books were cited by some early church father. Now, some of them were cited was cited more d than on C T others. And then within another 100 years, by the time we get up to 300 AD, It's safe to say that nearly every single verse in the New Testament has been cited by some of the early church fathers. Now not every book is quoted by every church father, but every book is quoted by some To f depother. Okay. Yeah, I think I've read somewhere where you could practically put a whole in the new textbook together just by the copies of the legendaries of the other church follows. Yes. You can practically put it from quotes at the uh Yes. That's right. Um what's the evidence Well, number eleven, various translations and lists of canonical books bear witness that these twenty-seven books continue to be accepted by the church. Well example, number eight, the old s the old Syriac translation. dates to the end of the fourth century, but based upon a text dating from the second century. This translation includes all New Testament books except for 2 Peter, 2 John, 3 John, Jude, and Revelation. And then these books that were omitted were originally destined for the Western world, but the but the Sunitic Church was in the East. So that's could be reason. why those books were omitted. Also, if you go with the old Latin translation, which dates to the end of the second century, and served as a Bible for the early Western church. This corresponds also to the to what is called the Meritonian Canon or the Meritonian Fragment. That dates to about the year A. D. 170. contains all New Testament books except for Hebrews, James, First Peter, and Second Peter. Um and again these books were omitted probably because they just were not they were just unknown. And this fragment, this mirror Miriturian fragment, that was actually discovered in uh in about the year 1740. So this is long afterwards, but it would but it was um just a fragment. Um but it does give a list of books. Um doesn't this contradict the point of other it it says um the last sentence in B, these omitted books were probably written to churches in the East. But just above it in point A it says these books and it's the same books were originally destined for the Western world. Um well it's hard to to um okay. Don't think of East and West as geographical places. Um these these are churches prime see these are churches primarily uh um um that associated to to the Western Church. So the so the could so so the COS churches that that are in the East that are part of the of the West is in the west that are part of the um um c c east but there's some but there is some CCCC overlap. Um um question Yes. I know the Roman Catholic Church then thinks that they've been there from the beginning, but when do we think they started like veering off into heretical doctrine? Okay, um Um basically here's kind of what happened. Once the Christian church began to sort of you know kind of get married to to the w Romans, you know, after the time of Const Constant Constantine. Um the um the um the MC church And in the state began to sort of sort of be one voice Um so the um brook I'm I'm I get So the Roman Catholic Church had its almost the origins there. Now, now no don't think of that don't think of the Catholic Church as sort of a church beginning at one point in time. It did not become what it is. today all at at one moment. It gradually grew that way. And it grew that way primarily because Christians began to to um um Interpret their teachings, their doctrines in light of how Rome was teaching So it's constantly so you can link well again I Um you know, it's it's not a simple type thing to sort of think of uh of sort of say this is the origins of uh um of the Catholic Church. Um it it sort of began that way, but just gradually over over time. This this would take centuries. Um and it's not just one one reason. Um the the um um but um you know you know you know um in Um in not all not all the churches sort of joined at one time. Okay, so Um but in terms of what's west and what's east, yes I know I s I I'm not quite sure how how I put those two cens censuses right next to one another with with it seems to be somewhat contradictory. Um I I will have to s um you know check that. I'm no no I I may have I may not ign I may not have expressed it Correctly. Okay. Um but um but the point is not all books were recognized in some region at uh at the same time. Some some of these These books were written way over there, so it would take time t for them to reach way over there. Um yeah. Okay. Also, the codex Bera Cosio dates to about A. D. two oh six. And um this contains sixty-four of the sixty-four books. Si sixty-four of the sixty-six books. Um only Esther is omitted from the Old Testament, only Revelation is omitted from the New Testament. Okay, so so so we're so we're getting closer. Um Athanasius of Alexandra in AD three hundred seventy three, he lists all twenty seven books of the New Testament And then a short time after that, the Council of Mehippo, Northern Africa, confirmed that all twenty-seven of of the books of the New Testament, and also eight of the apocryphal books were also added there. But um okay. So so in summary, the process of collecting the Atheni apostolic books began With the first century, these books were repeatedly affirmed in the second century by the early church fathers through quoting these books as authoritative. There were also various debates over certain books through the the third century, cumulating by the fourth century in a canonical list that has been recognized by the church ever since. And again, let's just note that the church doesn't really define the canon. The books in a canon are already the inspired books of God. We don't make them inspired. We don't say that they're inspired um um because they are They are already there. We just recognize it and we submit to them. Okay, so yes. Can I ask this quick question going back to number uh C I guess? Unless you get hung up in a council of the people. But just uh E the the um what is it? Line E says that uh the Council of the Temple affirmed, meaning so what do you mean by that if they recognize it as a word of God? but included Apocrypha even though they recognize they it's not Word of God but still will just kind of keep it together if that was to happen. Um well okay about these Apocrypha books Um the the same included that you the council affirmed the that these books were were important. Okay. Um but not the but they were not listed as inspired. Okay. Right. I mean they they w they were still added to to the the Baba Bible. They they they they would they would still books listed in um in in the Bible side by side um that they would Um but not all the Christians would recognize him. Okay. Okay, well let's go on to the extent of the New Testament can't be. And how did these 27 books get there? Again, there are books that we call the obstacle gumina. That is, these are the books that were accepted and not disputed by anybody. And these are the vast majority of books. And in general we see we see that twenty-seven of these twenty twenty of these twenty-seven books are in this category. Um don't the the the seven ones that are not are Hebrews, James, Second Peter, Second John, Third John, Jude, and Revelation. And now the books of Philimon, 1 Peter and 2 John, first Peter and First John are sometimes not listed among this category. Hamalogumina. But we can say that these books are just omitted rather than Disputed. Um and then there were the books rejected by all. The pseudo. During the second in third centuries numerous spurious enum the um books appear. The church historian Eusebius would call these books totally absurd in an Um C T MCT ampious. Most of these books are heretical, such as the writings of the Gnostics who claim special knowledge into divine mysteries. These Gnostics would call themselves enlightened, but the church correctly called them heretics. Much like the Old Testament pseudo-pigraphy. These books manifested a wild religious fantasy, perhaps revered by some cults, but rejected outright by the early church fathers. Again, like their Old Testament. These cultic books evidenced an incurable curiosity to discover things that are not revealed. by God. Um now no one really knows how many books are in this category because some books are completely lost in time. And some people even claim that they uncover these books um um in in more in more recent times. Um now there are all Now, for example, there are nearly two dozen Gospel accounts, surprisingly. The most well known being the Gospel of Thomas, which is a second century Gnostic document. detailing the alleged miracles that Jesus performed in his early childhood. And then there's the gospel of Joseph the Carpenter, a fourth century writing of a monophete cult. So, and also there's about eight editions to the book of Acts. You know, there's a second century Acts of Peter, which contains the legend that Peter was actually crucified upside down. Now on page the next page there are several poetries claiming to be from Paul, such as the second century lost epistle to To the Corinthians and six letters of Paul to Nacab You know, so John's revelation that attracts a lot of copycats. Um Apocalypse of Paul, second apocalypse of James. Okay. And then also there are books that are disputed by some Antal Gomina. The books in this category are Hebrews, James, Second Peter, Second John, Third John, Jude and Revelation. There is, of course, much evidence that the apostolic church accepted these books and that these books were cited by the early church fathers during the second century. The basic problem of acceptance was not so much on the issue of inspiration, but primarily on a lack of communication between the Western Church and the East Eastern churches. And then there's also the books accepted by some, the Apocrypha. The distinction between the New Testament Apocrypha and the Pseudo-Pigrypha is not strictly definitive, but the pseudo-pigra Papigfa are books not accepted by any of the early church fathers, whereas the Apocrypha books would at least have some revered status among some of the early Church Paulus. Okay. And so that would get onto so before you go. So I was intrigued by the bottom of page twenty nine where it says there's where it used those additions to the book of Acts. And that got me thinking because even in my Nazi Bible, there's especially at the end of books, and I'm looking at the end of Mark, where they put it in parentheses and say, you know, not included in some manuscripts or something. So they're like additions, but yet they are included in our printed Bibles. No. Um what you see at the end of Mark is not an is is not somebody else else's i it it it it is not considered to be one of these books. Um that ending that you have to see in my That is called a variant. It's found in some manuscripts, it's not found in other manuscripts. But that's different than the We'll talk about variants um soon. Oh, okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Um yeah. Um you know, I am out of time now. Um so I'll I'll begin here next week. So let's um um I'm see p I'm to pray.