Yes, last week we began to talk about text types. Text types is a term that textual critics have come up with in the past few hundred years. years to to identify various philosophies, families, traditions that have arisen from the copying of the um Now some of these text types, and I have the four main ones. This is here. The first one is the Alexandrian text type, the Western text type. the Byzantine text type and the Caesarean text type. Um the first thing I'll uh I'll I I want to note is that the four are not completely separate. There's some there's some cross pollination here. But as um the scriptures were copied by hand um across the Christian Christendom. Um there were various philosophies that have that have arisen. You know, some copyists would be very meticulous in how they copied it. Others were somewhat loose. And um eventually um th these these these text types would would um have each in each of them some some variation. There would be variance because as they were copy the scribes would would make errors. Sometimes there would be a simple error like a like a Misspelling maybe a transposition of a word or letter or a whole phrase. Sometimes a whole phrase would be missed. And sometimes um there might be an addition um that would be added. Um and no some rides copied it very metic very meticulously. Others were um put some thought into it um and where they came across an um in an error that what they thought was an error they would try to correct And sometimes by correcting it they would create uh create another error. Um in fact in in in in in in some ways those two thoughts were more dangerous than those who did not think. So we're going to begin on I think page 47 of your notes. Um this first text type Alexambian that's associated to the city of Alexandria in into northern Egypt. Um what is act actually called Lower Egypt, um because you know, um Upper E Egypt would be fat because it was going by the way that that the Nile River flows, flows from north from south to North here. So around Alexandria there arose a body of scribes that took upon themselves some elementary principles Of textual criticism to sort of clean up all of the variations that they saw. And this began about the year 200, the beginning of the century. And they they created a created this this text type that that um that is called the Alexandrian text type. And then uh other bodies of copyists throughout the Roman Empire would create their own text type. So at the bottom of page four forty seven, um I I just want to to emphasize number number ten. Essentially performed the textual criticism by comparing many existing text and preserving the best text, although there was some elementary of editing. That is, um they would not only um judge what the best text But they would actually make some changes changes to it to sort of bring it up to date or to or to re or to refine it. century there was another school of schoolites um um that were um this was a and they introduced another text called the Western text type. And this was um introduced by a man named Lucidian of Enioch. And he attempted to standardize the popular text by the removal of a of obscurities. in awkward grammatical constructions and the translation of variant readings into a recension. Um in this text had much more substantial editing than the Alexandrian text type. That is, these clients would take the text and if they thought something was was awkward, then they smooth it out. Like for example, you know test um languages do not remain tas tas test. They will change over over time. And so these clients would be sort of updating the Greek text in conformity to what was spoken at that time. for example. And um that that they would also these Western type of text would tend to conflate the the areas. For example, open open op open up your Bible to Luke chapter twenty four. Um and um This is I'm I'm I'm gonna give you one one one example. Um the very end of Luke of the of the of the Gospel of Luke Luke chapter twenty-four and let me um begin With them, verse 50. And he led them out as far as Bethany. And he lifted up his hands and blessed them. And it came about that while he was blessing them. He departed from them. And they returned to Jerusalem with great joy. And were continually in the temple praising God. And I'm reading from the Nas B here. And I in in my in in in my version, it just has a footnote which says that this word praising God could also be l literally blessing God. Okay, so um and um does anyone have a have uh have a d different reading than that? I do. Yes. Um well it says that um verse fifty one, now it came to pass while he blessed them that he was parted from them and you didn't indeed carry him up to heaven. Mine said to carry him up to heaven. Okay. Well okay well I'm talking okay, but now Do you have a different version in fifty in verse fifty three? Fifty-three. Um and we're continually in the temple praising and blessing God. Oh praising and blessing God. Um And King James. Yes. Yeah, I I I was gonna say the King James Version has fifty three this way and they were continually in the temple praising and blessing God. Amen. Um now the King James Version, you know, so the new King James Version, um, that's based upon this text type, the business visiting text type. And both of these are very much similar in in that they tend to sort of join variation. Some texts have praising God Some texts have blessing God, but what some of these copyists did was they just combined the two. So in the so in the King James Version, It has blessing and praising God. So that's just one example. Okay. But I think most modern translations will have just have one of those two terms. So I think we're on the next page now. So now the Western text type is considered to be not quite as trustworthy as the Alexandrian text type. Although sometimes it does preserve the original war war date. And when a variant has a of both text types, it's pretty sure you can be pretty sure that it is original. Also I should point out that in reality There's there's really not a whole lot of differences between these text types from a from a just a a point of view b view. These text types are gener are are generally the b um are generally um just um debated in the ac academic lit literature and for all other nuances. Um so don't so I so I so I don't want to to give you the impression that you got four different vers versions and they're all separate, they all go their own way, and we have to sort of choose which one is the past. Um yes. Larry in in in a simple form like witnessing people because now the biggest the biggest thing is always say that the Bible is contradicts itself and and you know just mere mere road it. So a simple term a simple language. How as witnesses somebody who would you how would you respond to them in regards to the scriptures and the his validity? Um well basically Um the best thing to do is to speak the truth. You know, don't get caught up in s in some s That's a tourist argument about in ill. Um uh just about something. Um now you can maybe ask him, okay, if if you think that there's an error, where where Where is it? Most people can't. Okay. Um yes um um so um so that's where pol logitics comes in comes into play. And y yes that's very h useful, very helpful, but at the end of the day, um a person is going to be convinced by the Word of God. Um not necessary by some argument that by which he's going to change his mind uh about some some theory that he's heard his in the Passed. Okay. Okay. So number thirteen. The Western p um text type is important for us to consider because um this This would become somewhat dominant in the very early centuries as the need for new Bibles arose because of the end of the persecution during the time of Constantine. And as the years passed, there will be fewer and fewer manuscripts of the Alexandrian text type. Um we'll see uh we'll we'll see it uh we'll see a little bit more of the Western text type. But then eventually Even the Western text types going to die away. And you and most of the manuscripts that we have are the Byzantine ones. Okay. Do the Al Zambian text types sort of die away? Well, one reason is that the Egyptians who produce these out Exembian text types, these out Exembian manuscripts, um they sp they ceased speaking Greek. Um so there would be very, very Limited use for a Greek translation now. Also, much more prominently, you have the arrival of Islam. In the sixth century and the Islamic militants they completely devastated a Christian community, not just in Egypt, but elsewhere. in North Africa and in the Middle East. Hundreds of churches were destroyed. There were massive forced conversions to Islam. Those Christians who resisted were liable to to be martyred. did survive, did continue, but in but in much less numbers and in much less influence. Somewhat isolated. the rest of of Christendom at at that time. But the manuscripts that they had, the few that they had, um they were preserved. some of them. Um I'm sure the Islamic w Milton said burn many of them, um, but some of them did did did survive and because again in Lower Egypt, um just South of Alessandria, it's ideal to preserve manuscripts. The climate is dry, the water table is low. And so these uns men use squirts they were they were just um kept in some mine necessary um during all this time. Those were preserved until they were found in the um in the in the so called age of expiration um by by the Europeans. So in number 14 scholars also have secondary sources to determine the original text. There's um examples of quotations from the early church fathers. Now, these quotations might not give you the exact wording of the original text because the church father himself may have quoted from a pre existing spurious variant. Um the writing of the church fathers could also be subject to change over the course of being copied from generation to generation. Also, the quotation itself might be verbatim, it might be a loose citation, it might be a paraphrase, it might be just an illusion. And the quotation itself might be from the text, it might be from memory. Um so so again it's not a full proof proof that that of the original text, but it does have some weight. Now, this I'll example text type. um that was made known to Western civilization in the past few hundred y years. Um that is the foundation for most of the modern English translations. And it is the text type that is most revere, um, that has the best reputation among tech text textual critics for these reasons. The readings are more abrupt. Um the readings tend to use fewer words. There's greater variation among the synoptic gospels, and the readings have have are considered to be difficult. That is, the text is not polished. So those are the so right or wrong, whether you agree with them or not, these are the These are the principles that a textual critic would would look favorably upon. Because when these are evidence, It means that the text hasn't changed all that much. And that's the that that tends to be the the And that tends to sort sort sort sort of be the be the feature of this Alexandrian text type. But that's not to say that the rest of these are you know far peneath um yeah. Um now the best known min m menuscule of the text type is the min m minuscule thirty-three from the ninth century. You know, eight hundred in the eight of month. Um and this codex contains many of the old testament prophetic books in all of the New Testament books, except where Unlike most men in the schools, this one has significant damage. In fact, if you want to go see it, you can go to the National Library of France. And there it is. So um so that that one is one of the last remaining of the Alexandrian textbook. types. Now the Western text type has the reputation of paraphrasing, even turning to text into a sermon. And one scholar noted, perhaps owes Overstating his case, and I'm sure he he did overstate his case here. He says words and even clauses are changed, omitted and asserted with surprising freedom. Wherever it seemed that the meaning could be brought out with greater force In definitiveness. Okay. So that's what this person says. The term Western, of course, don't think of it as being say Western Empire of Rome. Um it's um because um it's also prevalent within the East as well as like in Syria. So so So so so so again, even though they all have geographical names, there's a lot of cost to p pollination here. Even within the same May use script, you have different text types. Because they'll be copied by different people, each having his own background. Okay, now um the uh another un uh uh unto your manuscript called a code And it's denoted in the academic literature by then by the letter A D. This dates to about AD 500. Western text type for the four Gospels in Acts. And this is the oldest bilingual New Testament manuscript. It's written in Greek and Latin. It is and it's either from France or from Italy. This codex was discovered in fifteen sixty-two and it shows numerous variations. And also has numerous markings or correct Over the centuries. And this illustrates one difference between the Christian and the Jewish counterparts. The Jews tended to destroy their old manuscript. Christians did not. They just reused them, copied them, corrected them, um and and kept them and just kept them around. Um um so they did not intentionally de destroy old manuscripts for for for the most part. Now the Byzantine text type is the most common. Eighty percent of the manuscripts have this text type, maybe more. And it underlies what is called the Texus Receptus or the Received Text used for most Reformation era translations of the New Testament into the into the vernacular languages. Now, compared to the Alexandria text type, the distinct Byzantium readings tend to show a greater tendency towards smooth and well formed Greek. That is they updated the text. They updated the language. Um there was also fewer just inst instances of textual variation between the synoptic gospel passages. That is, they tended to To sort of smooth out the differences. Note so the readings will are less likely to present contradictory or difficult issues of X and G That is um um they they they snoozed out the text. Um so So those are some of the differences and similarities between these text types. And um again um unless you really read the lit literature or these textual critic to critics, um um you may not really um um understand what these text types are. Um but just but I just want to break this up to you just so that you'll have a familiarity with it when these terms do appear when you read. So let's talk about some examples. And I'm on page 49 now. Let's talk about this wrong ending of Mark. Um the wrong ending of Mark, um, chapter 16, verse. Verses 9 through 20. This is not found in many of the oldest and best Greek manuscripts, such as Codus Bat the Caneth, Codus Sin Neptis. Also the so uh um also the Syric in the o many of the older Armenian and um uh um Ethiopic manuscripts omit this long ending. They s they Mark ends at verse 8. Now some of the early church fathers, such as Clement of Alexandria, Origen, Scipion, show no knowledge of this long ending. Now Jerome, he admitted that this portion was omitted from most Greek copies, but he still added it to his Latin Vulgate. Some manuscripts have this long ending, including an asterisk or some other symbol symbol, to indicate that this is a addition to the text. Also, if you look at the Codex Washington, yes, it has an extra ending following verse 14. So If there are multiple endings of Mark, that means that they're probably spur spurious curious. There's something um in so there's so that gives you indication that that there There's probably something um that um um that the that this ending is presperious. Now, John MacArthur says this That is a later uninspired square. And what's it perceived imperfection? Well, it's the it's the fact that uh if you don't had this long ending. Mark seems to end rather abruptly at verse 8. So that's the perceived imperfection. Now whether it is a in imperfection, you know that's the debt. That's the main the the debt that's the question. And then he also says that this session does not fit the style and structure of the rest of Mark. For example, John Webaka would point out that in this long mark there are 15 words that you won't find any place else in the book of Mark. So that kind of tells you maybe this ending came someplace else. So again There's almost no sin here that all scholars will agree that this is not original. However, you will note that it's in your Bible. Now it now it is b-bra b it is bracketed. The translator will give you a note which says this does not appear in the earliest and best manuscript scripts. But most translators will not take it out. Um because again most translators, you know, for good reasons, they tend to be concerned They're not going to take something out because they don't want to take the Word of God out. Okay. Even if it appears to be from some other source. So that's why we s that's why that ending is still there in your Bible, even though most people will say it should not be there. Now sometimes the translator will take it out. And this is another example in number four item here. You have first John chapter five, verse seven. This is known as the coma Johanny. It's completely omitted in modern translations. For example, in the King James Version in the left-hand column, I'm going to read the verse 6. This is he who came by water and the blood, even Jesus Jesus Christ, not by water only, but by water and blood. It it is the Spirit that bears witness, because the Spirit is truth. For there are three that bear witness in uh put Heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost, and these three are one. And there are three that bear witness on earth the Spirit and the Water and the Blood, and these three agree in one. So that's King James Version. Now the right-hand column is the is the NASB. Begin with verse 6. This is the one who came by water and blood, Jesus Christ, not the body. Not with the water only, but with water in the blood. And it is the spirit that bears witness because the spirit is truth. For there are three that bear witness, the spirit, the water, and the blood and the water. the three are in agreement. You will notice that verse 7 in the King James Version is has been removed. Now why is that verse First removed from King James Verse in in most modern to translations. Well this this this this variant has no Textual support in any Greek manuscript except for a total of eight, all of which date in the Middle Ages after 1215. And these contain a passage. in what appears to be a translation from a late recension of the Latin Vulcate, which is not the Latin Vulcate issued by Jerome. That is, it's not from Jerome. Um and um And also, none of the early church fathers quote the passage. Now, that is actually most significant. None of the early church fathers quote the passage, even though that would have been an ideal defense of the the doctrine of Trinity against Sibelianism and Arwinianism, as this controversially grew during the first few centuries. This would have been an ideal proof text, but the none of the fathers quoted it. It was not used as any defense. And it was not found in the tact and after the fifth century when this gross gross gloss was quoted as part of of the epistle by Latin fathers in North Italy in um North Africa in uh in um Italy. So this is a very Late period. Now, Erasmus. Erasmus was a gifted Greek colleague. He lived um contemporaneously with Luther and William Tyndall. Um he His um he we he's often called the schoolmaster of Europe. You know, he um he brought biblical language study um to a high new level in Cuba. He always he actually published a his his Greek text Um which became the standard Greek text for for not o for for not only Luther's German translation, but also for Tyndale's English translation. And his Greek text would be refined over the the next few years. And it would be the basis of the text that is used by the translators for the King James Version. So this text that Erasmus published made a significant contribution to the Reformation. He also believed, like T Luther, in justification by faith. He was a he also was an early reformation um um reformist. Um and actually he could w he could really well have been the person that we think of when when we talk about the Reformation. you know, we primarily think about Luther as as starting the Reformation. Well, Erasmus might have been that person that we would think about today. Except that um unlike The other reformers, he did not like conflict. And and um he actually never did leave the Catholic Church. He he knew it was was corrupt, just like Luther. But he chose to remain in the church, in the Catholic Church. Um and so this kind of so his his laid back a non paternal a manner uh um um sort of um see plays in t plays into into this. So num num so so number seven, with this background in mind, Erasmus prepared his printed edition of the Greek New Testament of fifteen sixteen and he updated again in fifteen nineteen, more so in fifteen twenty twenty two for that matter. He rightfully left out this variant, but was challenged by some of the people who felt that the p that this passage in first John chapter five was a viable proof text for the doctrine of the Trinity. So he left it out in 1570. sixteen, fifteen nineteen, and I think also in fifteen twenty twenty twenty two, that he was challenged. Some wanted him to keep put this verse back in because it was a proof text for the doctrine of the the Trinity. They enjoyed that proof text. Rasmus said no. But he said he would only put it in if they could show him a Greek manuscript that actually that actually had that text in So that was his way of de pushing them de pushing them away. Um however, um he responded, um far too soon Far too incautiously. Because those who challenged him to put that verse in actually did produce a Greek text that had that verse in it. Um Is it was a fifteen twenty manuscript that had been translated into Greek from the Latin. Um as if it as if they made it to order for him. So Erasmus Again, did not want to cause conflict, so he put that verse in. And so that's how that verse got into the um text, the Greek text. that would eventually make it into King James Version. Okay. Um Um So then um so the King James Version followed Erasmus's Greek text and on the basis of Astingra Late and doubtful witness, all the weight and authority of all the other Greek manuscripts were disregarded. No wonder Geyser and Nix can say the inclusion of this variant breaks almost every major canon of textual criticism. And A. T. Robinson adds this some Latin scribe caught up in Sipio Exegesus and wrote it on the margin of his text, and so it got into the Vulgate and finally into the Texus Receptus by the stupidity of Erasmus. Well, but then don't think that Erasmus was dumb or just too stupid. In all cases, he was actually act he was actually a very gifted man. doing, but in this one case he failed. And we also note that the doctrine of the Trinity does not rest on this verse at all. So that's one more example of textual criticism. Another example. And I'm on I think on page 50, number 10. Going back to the Gospel of Luke, there has been some debate among textual critics concerning what Jesus said on the cross in Luke chapter 23, verse 34. When Jesus would say, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. Now some manuscripts, some later manuscripts, omit the passage. passage. But the long reading, but the but the long reading, that is the reading with that that quote in it, does have support from the early church fathers, who at times wrestle with the idea that Jesus is absolving the Jews on the one hand, but this still seems to be this subsequent recalicus. We can conclude that the omission was a later development in the second century. A time of fierce Jewish Christian Jewish Christian Jewish polemics. And so what J Luke records here is totally consistent with the life and the teachings of Christ, as evidenced, for example, by what Stephen similarly said while he was being stoned to death in Acts chapter 8, which is also written by you. So this points out that there are two primary ev um evidences. There's what we call external evidence, and there's also what we call internal evidence. External evidence, which is external to the text, that is it's outside the text, is not evident within the text. That deals with the chronology, which is a date of the text type, rather than the date of the main script. Again, for better or for worse, these text types are going to have some impact upon how we judge whether a text is is authentic or not. It also deals with uh G sixty or the distribution of independent witnesses. And what and basically what that means is if you have, say, five witnesses to a text. But all five of those witnesses are, you know, in in the same city, in the same region. They're friends, um, neighbors, Um that has that carries much less weight than if you had five witnesses all across the the world in on the on the T V T in power. In Rome, Constantinople, North Italy, Alexandria, Spain. Um so so so again it's the geography of these witnesses. Um you also have the genealogy, that is the relationship between manuscri scripts. That is, if you have two menus use that agree with some that that that there's a um a um Text that's that is authentic. But both of those manuscripts are are are of the same text type or they're just copied by the same person or or um or there's uh some other rel relationship. That's that's case much less weight than if you have a text that's present in all four of these text types um that all four text types that that that are completely independent of one another. Okay. So that is fixed External evidence, external to the t to the t text. And external evidence emphasizes the reputation of the text type. Again, our Alexandrian text type has the best reputation among textual critics. And the Byzantium text type is doesn't really have that good of a rep mutation. So now we go to the internal evidence. Now external evidence tends to be more objective. But the internal evidence must not be ignored. The internal evidence is concerned with trans corruption evidence. It is the habits Of the tribes. That is, if you know a certain monk, and he tends to copy the text letter by letter with without much thought. He he you know, he just does his job, he does his job in he he he doesn't try to, you know, correct what's there if he thinks that there's something wrong. He He just copies it verbatim. That's one thing. But you have another monk that that thinks that that may think too much, and he comes across a text that he doesn't like or he doesn't Or he thinks it's wrong, or he thinks it could be corrected, or it could read better, he might you know, he'll might want to change it. Um and so that's The habits of the scribes. We also have the intrinsic evidence, which is the habits of the authors. Again, this is in the text, whether it's Paul or Peter, you s you you sort of know how they write, what they often write about, how they build their sentences and in In um in present their thoughts. Okay. So that is the internal evidence. So there's external evidence, internal evidence, both of which are used to determine. Determine is a text authentic or not. Now that's the I in number E I have um quoted a paragraph from a from the Journal of Biblical Literature. And I'm and I do that because I just want you to see it so that some of these terms that we've talked about you'll find it find it right right in in this paragraph. And you might be able to to to to even understand what the author is saying. So bo he he says this. evidence that is external to the text to Luke chapter 23 verse 34A is far from conclusive. Both the short and the long reading The short reading being without that quote of Jesus, the long reading being with that quote of Jesus, are found in every text type. These are the text types, including important house examples. The short reading is supported by an important but later second or early third century per Paris. But a good number Of second and third century church fathers testify to the long reading. Moreover, intrinsic probability suggests that the prayer belongs in the text of Luke. Probability that refers to the to the author. And he says this. But prayer matches Luke's preferred way of addressing God. Its structure resembles that of the Lucan Lord's prayer. It resembles Stephen's prayer for his killers without having a single word in common. Again, that's a lot of weight. And the link between ignorance and mitigated culpability matches the motif running through acts through Luke and Acts. Okay, so that's so that's one paragraph in this journal article. And if you just to read through it a a few times you'll see sh you know he is very he defines his terms, he uses terms very p specifically, and if you know the terms You can follow along with what he says and what he concludes. Are there any questions so far? Um we have some instances where there's plagiarism within this period. Uh because this this is something evident in our current society, people plagiarize uh plagiarize them. Was that in the inferences? Oh y you you who mean do um do people um um create words that they claim of from God? No, claim of from other from reading another text. Um between you know, these early fathers when they they were looking at something they might use the to do some corrections on their side. I don't know. I'm just I'm just you know oh well I mean those who copy the text I mean I mean yeah they they had They are monks. They spend their time reading books. Um some some some some some some of the books are good. Some of the books are maybe not so good. And so um so that monk might influence them if that might influence them when they copy the text. That is that is correct. Okay. Okay. Now another textual variant is found in John chapter 1 Verse eighteen. Um the textus resetus we ho monogenefus, which means the only begotten Son in the King James Version. Now most I think many of your modern trans translations um has the only God or only begotten God because uh they they they they're translating it from the from the word theos God rather than a viewas which is Sun. Um And um so these um so A. T. Robinson states that this earliest that the earlier reading, which is Theos, is probably correct in that likely some scribe changed the reading to make it look like more like the John three sixteen passage. And now what's important and I'm going and we're going to talk talk about this in a few weeks. This word monogennus um you might see the word mono, which means one. You might see the word genus means a class, family, kind. Um literally it means one of a kind, one in the family. unique um now um this so so the trans trans Translation could be be an only God or or um or one and one and only. W um but it doesn't mean begun. And we're going to talk about that in number T just just a few weeks. So I saw so I was specific It's there that for for for a later time. Only that that shifted that's why you may see in your um b Bibles the word God, but then you'll see a Margin note note which says some translations say or some manuscripts say some. Okay. Um Revelation chapter twelve verse eighteen. Um is a is is another variant. Robert Tom Thomas states this. A textual variant reads, I stood rather than he stood. Um if and if you go to to um to Revelation thirteen. Um verse one says and he stood on the sand of the seashore. I think that's why Uh I th I think that's uh I think that's the way most modern trans translations read it. He being this beast, this dragon. Um But some variants meet I stood on the wheelchair, that is John Stuart there. But Romus but Robert Connis makes this important um observation. This this variant I stood, would make John has the subject that is, John st stood on the shore, has one standing on the sands of the sea, and begins a new sentence. If this reading were correct, This would be the only time in the book that John actually changes vocations without being told to do so. So again, that's unlikely. probabilities are on the side of he steward because largely of ex of its external support, including P forty seven, the papyrus manuscript classified as forty-seven. Sina Sinatus Alzhenis. And the first person reading apparently arose when a copyist changed the verb he stood to the first person to accommodate the following I saw. That is um um so so that's why there that that there's may so that's another variant. um that has been that is found in some of the menus. But the probable text would be he chose to ed that dragon choose to it on the seashore. Okay. So these are just a few of the um text of the variants that have been cataloged, um that have been researched by textual critics and all of that research is documented um um and um so now in the we remaining time this class uh I want to um talk about the history of the English translations. All translations of the of the English Bible prior to the work of William Kendall were done from the Latin Text. That is, the Latin text was the official translation, the official Bible of of the established church um headed by the Pope in Rome. Um this is so we're talking here about the Western side of Christian to them. They use the Latin text. If you were Christian back then, you would go to church on Sunday morning and you would hear the text read in Latin. You would hear all of the service, basic, basically all of the service in Latin. There might be a a sermon, a little some sermon of that by the priest in your native native language, um but for the most part it's all Latin. Even if you could not understand any of it You just have to say, Well, I just trust the priest, I trust the church, they know what they're doing, they're the they're the professionals, um, and I'll just do what they say tell me to do. And it's also and if there were any translations into English, they were partial. Primarily the Gospels, primarily the book of Psalms. But not much else. And even the gospels were were still partial. Yes. Mary when I was a little girl I was I was raised Catholic and we was only like we told I was probably in second or third grade. Okay. The only thing with that was ever spoken was when the free came up so in that. Okay. Yeah. And the button back was always to you. You never saw the free s the free face. Yeah. We didn't even get that. Huh? We didn't even get that if it So forty seven years as a Catholic, we never got that either. Anything in English. Anything. So so so so again, some things just never do seem to t too change, do they? Um The Catholic University, by the way, does have a Latin mass on Sunday, just in case you're from the world. Oh okay. So you you can imagine Europe was in darkness. Um and um and and so um so the so the w what was very, very few portions. of Scripture in the vernacular English, Old English at that time. Now there are some Latin versions of the Gospels with word-for-word English translations written between the lines which survive in the Old Saxon or or or the Old English from from the tenth centuries, again nine hundreds, such as uh Lin Disfernet Gospels in nine fifty. Edited by a priest named Albert from a 7th century Latin copy, again a very old copy, by a monk named Edward. In this manuscript, you will see it in the British. British Library. Because you know, with the disintegration of the Roman Empire in the West, the medieval church in in its supporting state put a damn On the translation of the Bible into the vernacular languages, such as English. Latin was the only officially recognized translation. The biblical message was presented. to the laity primarily in pictures, paintings, preaching, you know some some preaching, poems, and devotional pair of phrases. Only portions of the scripture could be found in English. Odhim's translation of Psalms was the very first of any portion of the Bible into English. And soon out soon afterwards a venerable Bede in Egbert of Northumplia translated the gospel. But the Catholic Church, the established church, looked with great suspicion, even downright hostility on the idea that a layperson could study or interpret the Bible for himself. And again this is not just in um on C C England, but all over Europe. For example, the French Council of Toulouse in 1229 actually forbidding the laity to read the Bible, whether in the recognized Latin Vulgate or translation in the vernacular language. That is, even if you could read Latin, if you were not a professional clergy person, it was illegal for you to read the Bible. And any non author authorized any non Latin translations, they were burnt. Um so you could not even read them at all. Um And I'm out of time, so we're going to begin here next week. And uh Father, we thank you for your word. That's true. That changes us. We thank you, Fathers, that you have preserved your word through the centuries by men and women who have given their lives that we would have the Bible in our own language, in modern English, right before us today. And Father, so help us to to to to treat your word as precious And to read it and uh in and to grow in the grace and knowledge of Jesus Jesus Christ day by day. And Father as we worship you may May we do so in spirit and the truth. May we sing praises to you and may we meditate upon your word and meditate upon um what to what you have done for for us upon up that you would send your son Jesus Christ to die for us upon that Roman cross. Amen.