Well welcome on this Sunday, the Lord's Day, which is Mother's Day. So happy Mother's Day for you mothers. Um last week we began our next section on the history of the English translation. And we noted that in the beginning in the in the Old English English period, as well as in the Middle English period, most of the translations of Scripture into English were from the Latin Bulgate. Um not from the Greek, not from the Hebrew, but from the Latin Vulcan, which was essentially the official translation of the Roman church. And even those translations were rather limited. You may have parts of the gospel translated, parts of Psalms translated. translated. But for the most part, the medieval church, that Roman church, um put a damper on translation of the Bible into English. Again, Latin was the only official recognized translation, even though that itself was a translation. Um and the biblical message was presented primarily through pictures through through um through paintings, um through some devotional paraphrases, as well as um the the sermons that priests would give. And but for the most part, the Catholic Church, the Roman Church looked with racist suspicion if not downright hostility on the idea that a lay person, a common person could study and interpret the Bible for himself. And I think we're on page fifty-two of the notes now. Um for example, in the In the year twelve twenty nine, a French Council of Touris had actually forbidden the laity to read the Bible whether in the recognized Latin Vulgate or in a translation in the vernacular languages. And any non-Latin translation, um they those were despoid. Um And even before this, Pope Gregory VII back in in back in back in the 11th century actually for actually attempted to Stop. The circulation of a Slavonic translation, stating and I quote here, for it is clear to those who reflect upon it that not without reason has it pleased all Almighty God that Holy Scripture should be a secret in certain places, lest if it were plainly apparent that Holy Scripture should be a secret if it was plainly apparent to all men before Chance it should be a little it should be a little as t steamed and be subject to disregard. Or it might be falsely understood by those who of mediocre learning and subject to an error. That is, he was saying, you better not let lay people read the scripture for themselves or interpret it for themselves or um because they cannot understand it, they will disregard it, they will think l little of it, um, and um So on and so forth. Um they will produce errors, heretics, and we don't want that. Um so that was the idea that the Roman Church put a really strong damper on giving lay people the Bible in their own vernacular language. And I also might add, one reason that is is perhaps perhaps unstated is that the church did not want dissent. They did not want people to question them or criticize them or to um make or to um um um question what they were doing. Okay. I mean, it was power. Um and of course things haven't changed too much actually. Um And this anti-translation zeal is actually in contrast to a wave of translations in the first few centuries. I mean there was Latin. There was Coptic. Gothic, Syriac, from Armenian, Georgian, Ethiopian, from Arabic in Tolab. But for the Western Church, the Western Roman Church, only their Latin was recognized. And even in the late and even in the mid the thirteen hundreds, when now i in the Middle Age period, um, the the Herman the English hermit W Richard Rowe translated Psalms along with a devotional commentary. But even by this day Most of the Bible was still only in that. Okay now we come to um Oxford scholar by the name of John Wickliffe. Um he was a distinguished scholar. Um and um and he was also um the religious advisor to the court of King Henry the Third. And at this time the monarchy of England was Well, I would not call them anti Catholic, but they w they but they were sort of pushing back on the Pope. Um and so John Wycliffe proved to be and acquit to them because he um he because some of his theology was useful in their conflict with the Church of Rome. And so that Wycliffe was actually rather protected by the English crown. Um so now has um Wycliffe beg began to teach and publish um You know, he's a you know he's you know there were a lot of free thinkers back in those days, but John Wickliffe was was certainly one other. And um, you know, he um um he for example he put forth a doctrine of dominion. And basically what this says is that God himself alone is the source of all authority. And so here he delegates portions of his authority to both the church over spiritual matters and the state over secular matters. And human rulers, whether kings or or bishops or or whatever, um, they exercised that delegated of authority. They could do do so only if they adhered to through their office. They had to serve God faithfully. If not, they were no longer worthy to be a leader, whether in church or state. And what that meant was that if the church failed, for example, if they did not live lies of purity, um, if they did not have blameless lives, the church the state could come in and confiscate the property. And that I mean the Crown suddenly saw all the property that the church owned and all the money that was floating around. And um they wanted a piece of it. Um so John Wycwiff um served uh was useful to the crown. Um He also challenged the Church of Theodogians and the priests that that had failed alone could interpret and read the scriptures for the common people. He also wrote a book called On the Church, and basically what he says here is that the real church, God's church, the church of Christ, is not an outward hierarchy form of bishops and popes and and whatever, but it's a whole assembly of the elect, those predestined to salvation and chosen of God from eternity past, and Christ himself. Is the only and true head of the church. And since the church is spiritual and invisible, and the church that we see on earth, well that's That's visible and it is field of both the elect and the non elect. And what that means is that the Pope himself can be can at best be the head of only of the outward expression of the visible church that resides in Rome. And therefore if you're in um England, you don't have to have anything to do with the with the Pope. Um now Of course this angered the church and um they called John Wycliffe in for questioning um for t t trial. But the king um protected him. And so John Wycliffe continued to um preach and teach. Now, as time went by went on, John Wycliffe also um began to preach against the doc the Roman doctrine of transubstantiation. Now this was a much more serious offense to the to the Roman Church. And by this time, there's a new king. And he's not going to protect Rickwood. And the church and the Roman church demands that Oxford University expel John Rickworth. And so they do. And Rickworth then retires. to his hometown and spent the rest of the time as a priest in a local church. Now, with that in mind, at this time, John Rycliffe Jesus, close associates, and they began to translate the Bible into English from the Latin Vulgate. And this would be the first translation. of the entire Bible into any European language. Rucliffe is known as the morning star of the Reformation because he He questions the papal authority. He criticized the sales of adult instances. He denied the teaching of transubstantiation. He argued that the Bible is the only source of Christian doctrine. And Wycliffe believed that the way to prevail in his in his historical against the abusive authority of the church was to make the Bible Available to the common people in their own language. And so each one could read for himself how about how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ in that apart from in the ecclesiastical authority. Okay. So Wycliffe and his associates completed the New Testament in about the year thirteen eighty. And sometime after that they completed the Old Testament. Now, Wycliffe did not actually translate the whole Bible. the Bible were not translated into af after he passed away. Because at because near this time he would um pass away. Um but his formulas would continue copying the English translation. And by the way, there was no printing press at this time. They did it by hand. And with also um organized a group of of people known as the Lawlords. And the Lawlords is actually a rather drug terms given to them by by by their opponents. They were a group b basically a group of lay people commissioned to to take the word of God and to preach it to the people. And so and you know Wycliffe also wrote out a bunch of sermons for for for them to use use. And so even after Wycliffe passed away, these lawless would then continue to preach. Now Um they had some political clout early on, um, but once you get to about the year fourteen hundred Um there's a new king, uh a new monarch, and he's very much pro-Catholic. So at this time the lords are subject to persecution. In fact, the king even um initiates a law which permits for the first time in um England the burning of a hem heretics. And this was certainly and the target was certainly these laurels. Dawards And so they were subject to arrest and p and um you know, ex execution for doing what they were doing. Um so this be so these lawlords actually became became a rather underground sect for the for for the for the next 100 years up to up to the time of Tyndale. Then um now the Wicquip Bible actually was rewritten, um improved upon by a man named John Purby. Um he produced revisions in eighteen in thirteen eighty eighty eight, most of thirteen ninety six, which used the English more naturally, because Rycliffe had sometimes just translated word for word from the vogue and it was rather unnatural. and its reading. Um so we m and then we we remarkably we have over two hundred copies of the Wycliffe Bible today, even though they were all written by him. And and um and then um but um the Catholic Church continued to fight back in May of 1450, which is about um 30 years after Ruckliff passed away. They actually dug up his grave, his body from the grave, they burned it. And they threw the ashes in the river. Because that's what they do to t to t to a heretics, whether they're still living or yet or been passed away for. decades. And um now we'll come to William Tyndale. William Tyndale is a very important person. Basically, the Bible that you have before you is a result of him. You can call William Tyndale the father. of the Bible, of the English Bible. You can call him also the father of the English Reformation, because it was his Bible that was the catalyst for the English Reformation. You can also call him the father of a modern. I mean English. Because he because the English that he used in Bible, um we still speak today. That's the basis of of modern um English. Um as it is in many languages. It's it's it's a translation of the Bible into that language that sort of um defines that language, defines the grammar, um the v the vocabulary, it wipes it down on paper. Now, William Tyndale um w graduated from Oxford. Um he was um um ordained as a priest, even though he never did serve as a priest. And um very early on has he began to study Oxford and again he was a gifted linguist. Um at Oxford he excelled in six different languages. He could speak fluently six. different languages. And he was late they'll be picking up Greek and Hebrew as well. So that's eight. And if it says that if you heard him speak your language, you would think he was a native spee speaker. Now but as he studied at Oxford, he came to understand that England was in darkness because the scriptures were hidden by the Roman Church. Yes, he was at Oxford, he could study the scriptures, but he wasn't really permitted to spend much time with until he had been sort of em e immersed in all this philosophy um that that that is rather mindless. Um and so he felt that he wanted to translate the Bible into English. Now, to do so, he would need permission because copying the scriptures into English was still illegal. So he went to the Bishop of London. to ask permission. And um he thought he would get this permission because the bishop of London was also a good friend of Erasmus. and had helped Erasmus to to um to construct his Greek New Testament. Um the um bishop of of um of um Well the thing was um see cut earth t t turn stone. Um and um this the this person here will figure very prominently in Tinder's life. Um But this bishop did denied Tyndale permission because he was suspicious. He thought Tyndale's theology was too much like Luther's. And he did not want Lutherism or Protestant in England. Um and um So um but then so then Tyndale ha got the began to study to to make a plan as to how he could Translate the Bible into Um English. He knew he could not do it in Um Engu. Um there was just um too many people knew him. Um the ch the the Both the crown and the church would be after him. Um and again to do so, um if it was caught, it's the death telling him. Penalty. But while he was in London, he also got acquainted with a businessman who offered to underwrite the project. Um and so for a year Tyndale began to make plans of how he can translate the Bible. Um and what he decided to do was he decided to, since he could not do it in a England you have to go to a to U Europe to do so. Um now ig Europe was Catholic for for the most part. And it was a it was just as dangerous a place. Um but it was big. There were lots of big cities. Um and no one knew 'em. Um and um There were a lot of English businessmen too. And so he could kind of blend in with the crowd. And so that's what he did. He he he he he took off for f for Europe. And so the next Twelve years he would um um travel from city to city. Um for for example he was in Wittenberg Worms, Hamburg, Cologne, Atworth, a Netherlands as well. And he picked big cities because again there was lots of people there he could hide very well. He could blend in. He picked cities that were on a river that had access to the North Sea because he could ship his Bibles by boat up the river to the North Sea and out to the to the to the to the British ports. Um also you pick big cities because there'll be access to good quality paper. You also pick big city because there were printers. Because by by that by this time the printing press had been invented and there were lots of printers. Um the only problem was the church not only forbid you to translate the scriptures into the vernacular languages, they they you cannot print the scriptures into the bana binnacular language. So I that was still considered Capital punish punishment. And so even a printer could be put to death if he published a Bible. Um But there's money to be made here. And so we was able to find a printer in each of each of the places that he went who was willing to risk his life for this project. Um and um and then um so these Bibles that he he um he published, they would be hidden in pale bales of cotton. shipped by barge by ship to um on sixteen England, where b where business businessmen and cloth merchants would know they're coming, retrieved the Bibles, and then put them on the the on the market for people to buy. Um so that's that's how that's capitalism back in those days. Um now you might think and also The cost. What would it cost a common person to get a Bible in those days? Well, in the first printing of Tinder's Bible, a Bible would be about a week's way. for a common person. So just imagine your weekly wage and think, well about spin spinning that for a Bible. Now by by the time um Tindale had his second version of the Bible. The cost was down to t to two to about a half week's wage. And now um so Yeah, so now um so now when Tyndale left England to go to Europe, um he um had to do two things. You had to learn Greek. Um you also had to learn Hebrew. Um and Hebrew would be the most channel Lengy. Um because at that time there was hardly anyone in Europe who knew Hebrew. That even in um even of England there was not even a a professor of Hebrew. But um Tyndale learned Hebrew from from a Jewish scholar and um and taught himself that that language. And that was no small feat. And And so during this time he would be um studying, he would be um um learning his Greek and Hebrew, he would be um translating the Bible. His first translation translation was printed in in the year 1525. That's the New Testament. And that was bundled up. Um bound and shipped. Um and then he began to work on the Old Testament. And um um and and um He he um translated uh the Pinate. Um and then those books were were bound and empty published. So the Bible Bible is not printed all in all all in one piece. Um in fact the five books of Moses were were were were bound in um individually so you could buy Leviticus or Deuteronomy. And then mo and then you can af afterward you can find them yourself in in the one book if um um if you so choose. And um And again, the church did not stand idly by. They saw these copies of Tyndale's Bible. And they did not like it. And so they um began to confiscate the Bibles if they could. They also began to buy up the Bibles when they could. But all that did was give Tidale more money to print more Bibles. Um and the church also did one more thing. Um they sent out people spies um um to find Tyndale. To have him arrested and brought back to an England. Um later on. Now that was actually a pretty difficult yes, you have a question? I just want a question. Oh, yes. Yes. It was also against the law to even have a possession of a Bible or to read a Bible. So so if if if you will call selling a Bible, having a Bible, reading a Bible, possessing up possessing a Bible, um, shipping a Bible, yes, that would be a sentence of death. Yeah. So again, the church discourages. Very much so. They also sent out spies to find him. But Tyndale was living in Europe, changing his place occasionally. sometimes by n sometimes by necessity. So all the efforts failed. And um because you again no one knew knew where he was. Well there were very few people who knew where he was. Um also no one knew what he looked like. He was careful. He never said for for Portrait. That that was very common in th in those days to have a portrait made of yourself. He did not do that. In today's vernacular we can say he was living off the grid. Um And um and so um in fact I'm I'm getting a little bit off my notes here, but um um um so that means um but before I do that that means Let me just say one more thing. Um and that is about how he was eventually arrested. Um while he was in the the Netherlands in in um in um Antworth Worth Worth I think I spelled I pronounced that correctly. Um he was living at a boarding house um a guest of an English business businessman named Thomas Pointe. And um um h here he Um at this time there was a certain man who had to pay off a large debt. And um he basically liquidated a large part of the of it um of his of his state to pay off his debt and he sent the money back to back to London by way of his thought Um you know, imagine taking your you know, half your life savings and giving it to your son. Maybe you know, just imagine say Say say you know, let's go back to say the the completion of the Transcontinental Railroad back in the in in the in the late eighteen sixties. Um imagine having your son travel by train, say from Baltimore to the Los Angeles to the bank to deposit that money. Um, you know, just think about all the adventures he might have. Um well this son, Harry Phelps was a fool. I mean, there's just no other term to use. He on his trip he gambled the money. He gambled it completely away. He lost every bit of it. by the time he got to London. So when he got to London he had no money, the debt was still on the books, and how was he going to face his father? Well, the Bishop of London, this guy right here, heard about his plight and called him into his office. To make a deal with it. Here's the deal. If Harry Phillips traveled to Europe, tracked down Tyndale, arranged him to be arrested, and eventually executed. The bishop will reach into the church coffers and retrieve all the money that the guy needed to pay off that debt. So Harry Phillips took the deal, he went to Europe, and he eventually found Tyndale. Adam Antwort. world. He began to to develop a friendship with him. Now the businessman who were with Tyndale warned him, you'd better be careful of this guy. Tyndale was probably a bit naive. and and kind of began began to trust this guy. And one day, Harry Phillips asked William Tendell to take a walk. And Harry Phillip Harry Phillips led Tyndale right into a trap, an ambush. Soldiers were there and they grabbed him and had him arrested and put in into prison. And he spent about eighteen months in prison in a cold, damp dungeon, in a cold, damp castle. And That winter was the one of the worst winners on record back in those days. So Tyndale suffered all of this time. And eventually they put him on trial. He was a marky of a trial, but they convicted him. His charge translated in the Bible. And they chained him to a stake, put a chain around his neck, strangled him, burned him, And for good measure they even threw in gunpowder. Um and um so that there was nothing left of that body. Um That so now so so with all that said, let's go back to the text to to to to the notes. Um and I think I'm on page um fifty three. I think on um on on number 11. Let's go the let's go back to number 10. Tindale's desire to to translate the scripture is exemplified in what he said to one church clergyman. If God spare my life ere many years, I will cause the boy who drives the plow to know more of the scriptures than you do. Do. And he would certainly need God's protection, since translating the Bible into English was still illegal. He was forced to leave England, and he can put it in his translation of the New Testament in 1525 in Hamburg, Germany. We also became acquainted with the writings of Martin Luther. And both Tyndale and Luther used the same Greek text, which is Erasmus's 1516 edition, and making their translation. of the Bible of the New Testament into English or German. See, now we see yes last week that Erasmus gathered together a bunch of Manuscripts, and he um he um created this this Greek text from these manuscripts. Um now the text was actually he actually did a really good job of creating of um building this text. However, all of these manuscripts were rather late in time. But but he would continue to improve that text. He made he made new additions to to to that text over um over over the years and even when he passed away, someone else would take up take take up the text. So task. So this text would would continue to see new additions, revisions, um for a long time to come. But it was Erasmus's Greek text. That Tyndale used. Tyndale's New Testament was also the first English New Testament after the age of printing. And thousands of these translations were smuggled into English. England, while the English church authorities did their best to confiscate and burn copies. And Tiddell continued to revise the translation until 1535, when he was arrested in Antwerp. In fact, he he he not only translated The New Testament into English once, he did it twice. He continued to make improvements to it. Um and um so So to so again he continued this work all the way up to the time that he was arrested. And during this time he also um began to translate the Old Testament. He translated the Pinate and he translated the Old Testament historical books, Joshua through Second Chronicles. He also translated the prophet of Jonah. And um now he didn't have help. Um he there was a colleague that by the name of Miles Coperdell And Coverdale translated most of the Old Testament. And but now Coverdale was not nearly as proficient in Greek and Hebrew. as Tyndale. In fact, Coberdale actually probably used more of the Latin Vulgate in Luther's German translation in his help in in what he did. But the two of them together um um p p produced the produced the the complete Bible, Old Testament as well as the New Testament. Now, Tyndale did not actually live to see the see the provocation of the Old Testament. But um during this time Time there was a change in um um in one. Um and we can go a little bit in into this now, but um the king Henry the eighth. If you know anything about British history, you know this kid because he had six, seven wives. Um and um he was married to a woman named Katherine of Aragon. Um and um um and more than anything else he wanted a son. But Catherine of Aragon had not given him a son. son and King Henry VIII thought that maybe his marriage was cursed because he He actually married his brother's wife. Um after he had passed away though, I mean but um um but he thought his marriage was cursed, so he wanted to divorce her. Um and so but to do so he needed permission from the Pope. Um but um the Pope refused to grant permission, primarily because Catherine of Aragon was the aunt of the Holy Roman Empire um Holy Roman Emperor Charles V. Um and Charles V Um and and the Pope was dependent upon Charles V for his for his existence at a at this time. So um so so the Pope refused. And what this so what King what Henry VIII did, he began a succession of of act actions that eventually led to to the um Church of England um d divorcing itself from the Roman Church. And so Henry the Eighth became the he new head of the English church. Um now this did not did not take place, you know, over over a short period of time. But up see but eventually the British Crown Would would confiscate property, would demand loyalty from the priest, and things like that. So now Now so uh so during this time so at this time the king was convinced by his advisors that he should authorize a translation of the Bible into into English. And so that translation was Coverdale's trans Bible. And it consisted primarily of what he had done. plus a little bit of what Tyndale had done. Now shortly after that, the king authorized a second translation And that translation was made by a man named John Rogers. John Rogers was actually the chaplain of this English boarding house in Antwerp, whom Tyndale befriended and John Rogers would become a s would become sort of like the secretary of Tyndale. Um and um now John Rogers performed a great Act for us all. When Kendall was arrested, the authorities then went to this boarding house to confiscate his manuscripts, his material, his Bibles. John Rogers heard about Kendall being arrested, and he raped To the boarding house. He grabbed all the manuscripts that he could possibly get and he left. Just in time, just before the authorities arrived. And so J John Rogers had Tendell's Many use including the Old Testament trans translations. So what John Rogers did on his Bible is He um he um took Coverdale's Bible, he took out everything, he took he he he um and he um took out what Coberdale did um Okay, that um he put in everything that Tyndale did, kept kept only what Covidale did that Tyndale did not do, and And I had that published as a Bible. And that became known as a Matthews Bible, because again, John Rogers used a pen name for a Matthew. Matthews. And that's why we call it the Matthews Bible, even though it it was published by John Rogers. And um so that is the second translation authorized by the by the king. Even though at this time the king was still not Protestant by any means, that he was never Protestant. And um So I think I think I'm down to um I think line number I mean number 14 now. Shortly after Henry VIII gave his proof of a copadious translation, another Bible called The Matthew's Bibles is part of this. This also received approval from the king. That was Thomas Matthew with a pen name of John Rogers. And John Rogers is famous because he's the first martyr under the bloody reign of the infamous person that we call call bloody Mary. And um and so John Rogers used Ken Dose and fifteenth New Testament edition, and the Old Testament was comprised of all the text which Tyndale had translated together with Coverdale's translation for the remainder of the Old Testament and the Apocrypha. And Rogers also added 2,000 explanatory notes, footnotes, and many of them rather controversial. He also added a study guide in a Bible. dictionary. Okay. Now, these two Bibles, though they had royal approval, the notes of each book was ri was was really a really served as an affront to many of the of the religious people. And Um primarily because the notes were Calvinistic. So the King um um authorized yet another Bible. This Bible would be called the Great Bible because it was big. Um and um the person to do that was Covidale. And basically what Coverdale did was he took Matthew's Bible, or John Rogers' Bible, and he took out the the all of the explanatory notes. And that became the Great Bible. Um and um so this Bible was published in in um 1539. So this is about three years after Tyndale. had been executed. Um, its title page was a woodcut engraving attributed to Hans Hob Hobine that depicts Henry the Eighth, Thomas Cromwell, who is the Lord Chancellor and also Thomas Craner Kramer, with some further additions on on um And it will it has a picture of of them d them handing out Bibles with the people saying, Long live the king as if they're responsible for the Bible. You know, they'll they're the ones who who get the credit for for for for the Bible. Now there is going to be one more Bible. Very important Bible. This is called the Geneva Bible. Now, in 1547, King Henry VIII dies. He dies a Catholic. Um his son Edward the s the seventh, he's young. I th I think it's a he's about nine years old when he becomes king. Um and um he um He he supports the Protestant Reformation, but he dies of um t tuber of um tuberculosis. Um in fifteen fifty three. Now, his sister, Mary Tudor, she is The daughter of Catherine of Um Aragon. So she's Catholic. And she has seen what happened. to her mother and she's angry. She's angry with Protestants. Um and so she turns she tries herself to turn the tide of England. back to Catholicism. And so she begins to persecute Protestants. And in fact, not just persecute them, but she's going to execute them. Um and so this reign from fifteen fifty three to I think about fifteen fifty eight, this five year reign, um, is n you know, she's known as bloody Mary. And so many of the Protestant reformers in England flee to Europe. Some of them settle in Geneva, home of John C. Calvin. And one of them, William Whitenham, who is actually the brother-in-law of John Calvin, he organizes a translation team And um they they translate the Bible in 1557. So and then and that becomes the Geneva Bible. This is the first English Bible with verse divisions. Also, they also added a talic to an Where the English IDM required words that were not in the original text. So this is a new feature. And then so they did the translation. They revised it a few times. For example, they also introduced a demonstrative pronoun that for cases where the Greek definite article had been previously untranslated. so so they did make some changes. Um that that were not common that would that were not with Tindal. Um and this and technically this is actually actually the first Bible translated directly from Greek in a Hebrew. Because Coverdale had actually translated those Old Testament portions from German and from the Forgate. And this Bible um Um again, it's still very much Tyndale. Um and this Bible would be the Bible of the pilgrims when they migrated to the New World. It was a Bible of Shakespeare, in a Milton, in a John Bunyan. And during the long 45-year reign of Queen Elizabeth, this Bible would see nearly 100 editions. And even after the King James Version was published, the Geneva Bible would still remain the most popular Bible in England for four many years. And again the notes were Calvinistic. Okay. Which created a problem for the bishops and those kind of wedded to the old way of doing things. So now we we um come to the year sixteen oh four. Um there's a new king, King James the First. He was summoned to Hampton Court Conference to address a list of grievances against the Anglican Anglican church signed by nearly 1,000 Puritan leaders. Now the king himself. wanted both sides to reconcile, to be at peace, um but he failed as as a peacemaker and he blamed the Puritans. But the highlight for him was a suggestion by John Reynolds, who was a Puritan president of Kirkus Christi College, that he authorize a new translation for all parties within the church. And the king expressed his support primarily because he could then rid himself of both the the bishop's Bible, which he likes, but he that was so unpopular. Popular. In fact, does that say anything about the Bishop's Bible? I mean Oh, the Bishop's action. Um say one one thing one thing one thing about the Bishop's Bible. Um and the Geneva Bible which he despised because it was so seditious in its notes, because it was so popular with the people. So this vicious Bible, what's that? Well that's another Modification of Tyndose Bible. It was done by the by the bishops. And what they wanted was well they did not want all those notes. They also um disliked the the um some of the terms. For example, Tyndale one thing that really hurt the religious authorities. This word ecclesiastic, I'm Clean, think up. That's a Greek word, and it means assembly, it means congregation, and and assembly primary Primarily in the sense of in an assembly of the called ones or the called out ones. In the New Testament, it's often translated church. For example, Methodist. Matthew chapter 16, when Peter gives his his his confession, you are the Christ, the Messiah, the Son of the Living God, Jesus replies, You are Peter, and apostles. Upon this rock I will build my ecclesia, church, assembly, congregation, and the gates of Hades will not prevail against it. Okay. So now the disciples did not un understand that word in terms of church. To them that word would have would have been in terms of assembly or common We'll get you. But by the time you get to Pentecost, that's the birth of the church. And so that that word is probably translated church from then on. But what Tendel did, he translated this word congregation throughout. So what he wanted to emphasize is that the church is a a symbol, a congregation, local people gathering together. It's not that church hierarchy. Um So in the Bishop's Bible they they wanted this word back to church. So then we have so so we have these two Bibles, the Bishop's Bible and the Geneva Bible. And now um the king doesn't like e either one. One's in an embarrassment to him, and one's an annoyance. So next time we're going to talk about the King James Version. So let me pray and we can go on. Oh Father, we thank you for those who have gone before us and have paved the way in our pilgrimage walk. And Father, help us to appreciate what they have believed and what they have done in in And for those example of faithfulness. And Father, Father, we thank you that you have preserved your word to us, that we can read it and understand it in our own language. And Father, to you be praise for you are sovereign over all things and and um you will bring all things into submission to your son jesus christ and we thank you father amen