Well, good morning. We'll begin now. The welcome on this bright sunny Sunday morning. When we as God's people gather together and we bring out praises to our Lord and we encourage one another in the things of God. Um And we give God what is due to his holy name. Okay, well, uh we have talked about the inspiration of Scripture. We've talked about the acceptance of Scripture by God's people, by the canonization of Scripture. That is God's people recognizing God's word. And now we're going to proceed on to the transmission of the word. And we're going to talk about the Old Testament, the Hebrew text that's passed on to us through generation after generation. Now, then we also talk about the New Testament transmitted to us in the Greek language. Both of these, both the Old Testament and the New Testament, have different paths. So for the Old Testament, the text is given to us by the Jewish people. And primarily there is a group of Jewish scories called the Mesoretics. And they worked from about the 6th century A. D. to about the 10th or 11th centuries A. D. And they were meticulous in what they copied. I mean they examined every word, every page, every section. Um you know if they had verses back then, we would say that they counted the words in the letters of every single verse. So they were very careful in what they copied. So we have today a very good, clean text of the Hebrew text. And although we do not have many copies of it, many, I I should say many manuscripts of it The ones that we do have, they're very good. And we began and I and I think we um ended up up up up last year about this family, this one family By the Ben Asher family, and they had a near monopoly of copying the um um text. And what we have today comes largely from them. Now the latest, the oldest manuscript that we have, called the Codex Colerinus, dates to about the year 900 And again, this manuscript, like most manuscripts, is partial. It does not include everything. But we do have a complete menuscript called the Aletho Codex, which today is only partially um preserved um due to the um Arab Umbr Umrias, the anti Jewish riots back in nineteen forty seven But the oldest known complete copy is is the Leningrad Codex. And again, a codex is a handwritten book. And that is found, if you want to see it, you can actually see it today, but you but you need to go to the Leningrad Public Library. And this dates to about the year 1000. So the scripts that we have today put um are based upon those menus closed quifts. Some of them are known as the biblical Habrica One edited by Kittle, and that's fact dates to 1906. An upgrade was um written again by Kittle in 1913. The next generation of textual um um critics um gave us the third edition of the biblical hebraica, and that's in 1937. Now, and then another upgrade version was given to us in 1967. It's called the Biblical Hebraica Stugarts here. This one is actually the basis of most modern translations. And you would note that by the date, nineteen sixty-seven, that it has The one one of the features of it is that is that it does reference what we call the dead sea scoros. Which which gives us a little bit more insight into what the Hebrew text is. And then a more recent one is called the Biblical Hebraica Quinta. And that dates to about nineteen ninety-six. And um and then uh now and then I'll just note that the Tinet published by the Jewish Publishing Society, used um the the um Stuttgartia as a text for the Tina in 1999 So now let's look at something. Let's look at at a timeline. We have The oldest menus scripts of the Mesoritic text dating to about one hundred Up up to to about one thousand AD. That's a metoretic um text. Now, as you know from what we talked about previously, the Hebrew text was written between the time of Moses and Malachi. Moses was back here in uh in uh in about 1400 BC. And Mal and Malachi goes up to about 400 B. C. A mouse. So what we have between these two dates is about 1500 ears. So the question is, yeah we we we have a good text from here, but does it really match what they had back in the days of Mellet? I mean you you you you you you got a difference of fifteen hundred years. So the answer is Although we don't have a Hebrew text between these two dates, we do have other things too. And we're going to talk about those things. We have something Around this period of time called the Samaritan Pinature. If you look into the academic literature, you often see the symbol S A M. P. That's the academic abbreviation for the Samaritan Pinate. In my notes, I usually use just S-P. Now what is a Samaritan Pinate? Well, as you know, the Samaritans were, well the Jews considered them to be a mixed breed, half-breed. um despise him. Um but back in the way back in the year s seven hundred and twenty B C The Assyrians conquered the northern kingdom of Israel and their Policy, their means of subjugating people, is they they're going to take it take a large portion of the population and they're going to move them someplace else And then they're going to bring in other people and to replace it. So you have this mixed population, none of which can speak another's language. And so that so that and they do that to cut to um reduce the probability of a re of a re of a reveal So back in Israel, the northern part of Israel, if you have you have this mixed population And and the and that population becomes what what we call today the Samaritans. Now, but they did develop a religion that's that's basically Jewish. Um and what they did during this pu period of time, they took a copy of the Hebrew text, and they made it their own. And what they did was they they um they accepted the penitent, the both of Moses They rejected everything else. Primarily because once you get beyond Moses Scripture begins to talk about Jerusalem and Mount Zion And their place of worship was Mount Garrison. In fact, if you um, you know, if if if you go to the book of John John chapter 4, you have this account of Jesus encountering this woman at the web. This woman is a Samaritan. And during this conversation, Jesus reveals to her her past. You know, she's had five husbands in the past The one the man that she has now that she's living with, he's not her husband. And now she perceives Jesus to be a prophet. A spokesman, someone sent from God. So now she has this theological argument that she wants to give to him She says this, and I'm just quoting from John chapter 4, verse 19. The woman said to him, Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. Our fathers, the Samaritans, worshiped on this mountain, garrison. But you say that in Jerusalem is a place where people ought to worship. That is This woman was saying, we Samaritans worship on this mountain. You Jews worship in Jerusalem at the temple. To his right. If there's one God, you've got to be someplace to worship him. So what's the right place? And Jesus would reply, The time's coming when neither in this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship, because God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. Where you are physically, it doesn't matter. So the Samaritans had their basis of worship on this mountain. So the Samaritans Took the books of Moses and they began to copy them. So now we have this um this tweet this um family of manuscripts Copied by the the Samaritans from the Hebrew penitent. Now, of course they do make some changes But um but but be b but before I want before I tell you this, I'll just say that that the Samaritan Pentative was known to the Western world beginning in 1631 Okay, so that's after a thousand years, more than a thousand years of of time. And also the Samaritan Pentateuch was written In a what they call a paleo Hebrew alphabet used by the Jews prior to the exile. But at the time of the exile, the Jews changed their But the Samaritan Pentateuch was written and is ancient Um and also the t to transmission of the Samaritan Panatic is independent From that of the Hebrew text. So you have two different texts copied by two different people. But now that we have this Samaritan Pentateuch or copies of it, And again, copies also have variations. Um and um so Um now this Semaritan Pinatook, if you count and and some people have. If you look at the differences between the Pinateup of the Samaritans and the Pinateup of the Jewish people, you'll count about 6,000 differences. Now, 6,000 is a big number. But most of these differences are pretty small. You know, it may be a misspelling of word. Might be a duplicate word, uh, might be a transposed word, um, might be a misspelling Now there are some differences that are clearly, clearly sectarian. For example, this the Samaritans changed the Ten Commandments. They were going to insert their own commandment saying that on that you are to worship on Mount Gerison. So yes, there are some changes that are just just the that the suburbs did intentionally. Um just is just to support their reluct religious faith. Now some Scholars claim that the Samaritan Penitic existed in the third century BCE, based on nearly 2,000 agreements between a Septuagint and the Samaritan Pentateuch against the Mesoretic text. And what's the significance of this? It might only mean that the Samaritan Pentateuch and the Septuagint each use similar transition, translation And furthermore, that all three are recensions of some earlier text that is all three of these The Mes Retic text, the Samaritan Pinatech, and this in the Septuagint, they all um they all go back to a single um p parent, which they should. Yeah. So there are some times a symmetric pinitive actually matches the subtuagan. And because the subtucat existed after this period of time, you know, sometime sometime time around here You know, this is about five hundred B C this is about t two fifty C B C This is the Subtugate there. So whether the Subtugate copies the S Samaritan Pinateuk or the Mithreic um text. Um you know that's somewhat de debated. Um so the question is since we have a severity tinnitter And there are diff differences between that and the Methredic text. He was right. Now in some cases we know it's a sect it's a sectarian variation, you know. worshiping in mount at at the mountain. That's clearly Samaritans putting that in the in the text. Um But Gordon Winheram in his Leviticus commentary explains his preference for the MT Nonetheless, what has been established is that for the Pinatech, the MT must be closer to the original text than the Samaritan Pinateuch and the Septuagint. The Mesoritic text has more archaic orthod orthography, morphology, and syntax than the old Palestinian text, which is the Samaritan Pinitic and the And the Sefuga. Indeed, it's been argued that the old Palestinian text is a fifth century BC modernization of the original Hebrew text A modernization that the MT has largely exc excited, that is, to say this, is that the subversion Samaritans copied their own pen and it from the from from the Jewish people. But the Jewish text The Mithraic text is likely much more original. Now, the New Testament writers who use the Septuagint Would certainly reject the Samaritan Pinitope as being non-authentic. The Samaritans rejected all the prophets later than Moses. And we know so that when Jesus went That Jesus would go to Jerusalem. He did not go to Mount Garrison. And we also notice that the Satukan doesn't contain the sectarian additions to the Samaritan Pentateuch, such as the additional commandment concerning Mount Garrison. Nonetheless, the Samaritan Pinatech shows that the MT is a superb disciplined recension that reflects the Old Testament Available in the intro testamental um period Okay, so all that what all that says is that we can look at the Samaritan Pinate, compare it with the Mesoric text, and we see very good agreement. Yes, it's then a slightly different script. Yes, there are some differences But even with all those diff differences, one can conclude that what we have today in the Mesoretic text is very, very close. to the original, based upon this Samaritan Panate. Of course, that says nothing about the other other of other books But you know that that that um if we can that if we can test the the Pinate And see it's pretty close. We can w we em have a pretty good assurance that even the the rest of the books are close too. Okay, so the Samaritan Pentative is one means by which we can make a judgment. on the text and have confidence that what we have today matches the original Okay. Are there any questions about the Samaritan pen and the Nettook No not a serious question, but uh them uh manipulating the Ten Commandments. So did they have eleven commandments or did they kind of fudge with the first commandment? Um I think they I think they um I'm not sure I they may have took out one and then added one. I'm not sure if they had eleven. But they might on my half. Okay. Also Another support for the Mesoretic text is the archaeological confirmation of the historical details of the biblical documents. Even to obsolete names of foreign kings that had been unknown for many centuries until the unearthing of lost historical artifacts. That is, there are names in the Mesoric text that were largely unknown for centuries. But in more recent cosmological unearthings, these things have come to light. Also Another significant archaeological find in support of the Mesoraic text was that Mesphara of Rose, attributable to the Pharisees and the Zealots, and dated to the Roman conquest. Fragments of such books as Genesis Leviticus, Deuteronomy, Psalms, and Ezekiel show close identification with the current MT. That is, yes, we do have some fragments of some books Of the of the Hebrew text that have been found at Mesada that that um show very close resemblance that that um show that there's that it matches pretty much What we have in the Mastoretic text today. So that's one more confirmation And also another confirmation is the septuit. And that's a Greek translation performed during the 3rd and 2nd centuries BCE. in Alexandria, Egypt, supposedly by a team of seventy or seventy-two translators, hence the destination Subtugal, LXX. Now, whether there were 70 or 72 or some other other number, we really don't know. But now the translation itself is rather uneven. Now some books, such as the Pentative, were translated very We might call it formal equivalence, why we might call it word for word. But other books were translated rather dynamically. For example, the book of Daniel is much more dynamic. Thoughtful thought um than the Pinate. Um so Even though the Satugan is in Greek, we can look at the Greek, compare it with the Hebrew of the Mesoric text, and we can see, you know, are there Places where the text is completely contrary to one one to one another So what we what we see is that the translation helped introduce the theological terminology of Hebrew scripture into Greek. In the Satugin is recognized by all Jews, including those in Palestine. Hence the Septuagint is the Old Testament most quoted by the New Testament writers since people spoke Greek. That is, why did the New Testament writers quote from the Septuagint? They were speaking Greek. Not necessarily Hebrew to their audience. And on the whole, the Saturgit closely parallels the Masoretic text, including common style and idioms, even if comparing the books that are were translated almost literally. In similar fashion has a Hebrew text, so the Satugan has seen various recensions throughout the centuries. That is The Saturgut also is a manuscript, a handwritten manuscript. So it also has a history of copy. Now, the certificate was used by Christians, and because of that reason, the Jews dropped it. Um they they chose they're not going to s support it anymore. Um instead what they Did was they created their own new translation of Hebrew into Greek. And that was done by a Jewish in the second century. And this is a very literal translation of the Hebrew. So again that's one, so we can compare that With the Hebrew text, just you know, you know, just check, do we have a resemblance? And yes, we do. And then there was even one more translation by the Jews, by Semechis, which is a more idiometic Greek. So we have these manuscripts. Again, they're copies of copies, not always complete. But we c but what we do have, we can compare it with the Mysritic text And we can see that there's resemblance, there's close resemblance. So we have more and more evidence that we can have more and more confidence in the text that we have today. Furthermore, we have this This massive Old Testament Bible called the Hexia, compiled by Origin of Alexandria. He's the greatest textual And Origen wanted to aid Christians in comparing their scriptures with that of the Jews when disputes might arise. Because again, there were disputes. And the hexath had six interlineal causes. Now imagine this, this book, a Bible. has three columns on each page the um different translations of the text. So this is a massive book The first column was a Hebrew text. The second column was the Hebrew transliterated into Greek characters. The third column was the text of Apula. The fourth column was the text of Seneca. The fifth column was its own corrected subtuagent. And uh sixth time was the test of docan So he had, so now if we had this book to today, this would be the greatest A document of antiquity that we can that that we can imagine. Unfortunately, we don't. All we have is Just a retranslation of Origin's fifth column, his corrected subtuagance, that dates to approximately the year sixteen. And that is in Syriac language. So all we have are references to this document. But the document itself is lost. But one of the one remaining bad feature of Origins work that survives for us is his techniques of sexual criticism. For example, he added special markings to identify variants among the various manuscripts to enable the reader to see which corruptions had been corrected. in which omissions or additions had been made. So he began to annotate that Text, give margin notes, give footnotes, so that the reader can know what are the variations in existence So that reader himself can make his own judgment. Now, aside from this big, massive Bible that's been lost to our history. There is one more evidence that is a treasure today, and that is the Dead Sea Rose. Which were excavated from a quadrant case near the Dead Sea between nineteen forty-seven and nineteen fifty-six. Fragments of s of scores which were initially discovered by Bedouin shepherds Which number now in the thousands date from the third century BCE to the first century CE. That is over this 200 or 300 period period of time. Found here in 11 different caves are fragments of every Old Testament book except for Esther. And again, that's note. Most of these books are fragments. So we again we don't have the whole text, but the text that we do have, we can compare it with what we have today. So Stanishira's here in eleven different case are these fragments That are that were used along and also with other religious books and documents used by the Epstein community, which is a Jewish sect which inhabited this region until the Roman contrast in A. D. 70 And this is a approximate nearly nine hundred and eighty menus grips. Although Most of partially intact. Now these documents include Hebrew, Aramaic, and Greek writings. Among the Old Testament books are several pseudo-pigrapha books, such as the Book of Enoch and the Book of Jubilees. There were commentaries, Thanksgiving hymns, Aramaic prepare phrases in several sectarian works governing the community life of this Jewish sect Now one significant aromatic paraphrase, or which is called the Targums, is known as the genesis apocryum. It's a very free reworking of the Genesis stories and the tales of the patriarchs. So so again it's not a translation of Genesis, it's just a re Reinterpretation of it's a it's just a it's a spreading out Jesus Moore has a story from story book. And kind of filling in the details that the Hebrew text doesn't include. But you can look at that and make some comparisons and see. But now, again, most of these choroes are held by the State of Israel in the Shrine of the Book at the Israeli Museum, although the Palestinians also claim control. Some manuscripts were undoubtedly looted over the years. There's evidence that some of the caves were already looted prior to being excavated. Because once word got out that some of these documents have been found, yeah, there were people who probably did some more searching And probably took these documents before others who had who wanted to preserve it came in Now, the significance of this discovery is that we now have manuscripts that date nearly a thousand years earlier than what we had before. Documents that were just a few hundred years after the close of the Old Testament canon. The general conclusion is that that we can reach is that the Dead Sea scoros Give overwhelming evidence, confirmation of to the fidelity of the Mesoritic text There appears to be very little alteration in the text over these thousand years. And even if we focus on the differences None of them affect any basic doctrine of Al-Faith. Now, besides the documents found at the Dead Sea There's other documents that have been unearthed. One of the best known is is that of a cave at Wadi Mahimarabah Southeast of Bethlehem, which dates to the second Jewish Revolt. And that dates to the year 132 to 135 A. D. Including here is a scroll of the minor prophets, Joel through Haggai, which closely supports the Mesoretic text. So here's one more confirmation that the Mithritic text is very, very close to the origin. And then another significant m manuscript found in K 4 is a mythic testimony. Containing assorted mythic passages from Deuteronomy, Numbers, Joshua. And also King K4 are commentaries on Psalms, Isaiah, and Nah. So again, we can look at those documents. Well, I can't we call it because I cannot read the Hebrew. Um but but but there are um scholars that have gone through these documents and compared. And no consensus is there's very good agreement. Also Another witness to the ancient Hebrew Old Testament text is the Aramaic Targums, which are very dynamic Paraphrase translations into the common language of the people, which began to appear in the first century BC The translators included expon explanatory glosses and often bold and reinterpretations of the text according to theological biases of their time, and they relate to the Allegorical interpretations. That is, they are very loosely translated and often Um with details that are just not found in the Hebrew text. You know, you might think of of a very loose fair fair phrase that we may have today. Even more loose than what we have today. So initially the religious leaders would not consider these as authoritative, but graduated Jews would include these Aramaic targans as part of their public readings up to about the 10th century CE So these translations have limited value for use in the textual criticism, but they do add to the massive evidence collected that validates the Old Testament text. And also, another witness to the fidelity of Mystic text is Jerome's Latin Vulgate translation, written between 390 and 405 A. D. Now Jerome was initially criticized for using the Hebrew text being used in Palestine at that time, although he still relied upon the Setugan as well. Nevertheless, the Latin Vulgate gives some reflection into the Mesoritic text. That is, you can look at the Latin Vulgate It's last, but you can compare what it says with the Messi text and make some judgment as well. So this again supports the metric um t t text Okay, are there any questions so far? I n I know I've I've um probably have bored some of you to tears with these um terms that you probably have not seen very often before. But uh yes. We mentioned the like Achilles translation a couple times a quiless Is was his written in Greek or Hebrew? Do you know? The what translation? Uh the lens. Oh, that that was written in Greek. Okay. Yes. Um yeah, he is a Jewish A copyist, and he translated, he made another translation of the Hebrew text into Greek. Now, I just want to kind of sum summarise with all these manuscripts that we have there are some basic principles of textual criticism that I just just want to emphasize right now The basic text is a Mesoretic text because it's because of its carefulization. Okay. Now when a translator um decides, hey, I'm going to make a new translation So he's going to pick one of these Hebrew texts for the basis. But now in most cases he's actually not, he's going to look at other sources as well. You know, some weight is giv is is going to be given to the the subtuagent by reason of its age and its face basic faithfulness to the Hebrew text Well that carries significant weight, and also he's going to look at the discoveries of the Dead Sea Ros, a reason that the text is nearly a thousand years older. He's also going to look at early Aramaic, Syriac, Copic, and Greek and Latin translations. to add indirect evidence associating the early Hebrew text. That is Most translators will use more than more than one source. Or at least he's going to look at the Masoretic text and go by that has this main text. But when there's a question, you know what does this word mean? What's this context? He's going to look elsewhere. for to sort of make a judgment as to what the correct translation, what's what's should be what's the correct meat meaning of the text And the second thing is the reading that explains the origin of origin of the text, the origin of other variants is preferable. For knowledge of the typical scribal errors enables a technical critic to make an educated decision on the sequence of variants. This principle is also the most controversial and subjective, for two scholars could come to completely different conclusions based upon the same e- evidence. It all boils down to who has the most believable story, story, story. That is, some of these textual critics Can actually identify who actually made the copy and some of the things that he some of the things that he that this copyist tends to do. And so There's judgment as as far as not just the text itself, but the history of the variants. Because you have to come, because the the textual critic not only wants to know what the original text is He also wants to know why are there variants, and when did they come into the text, and why. Also on number C I said that shorter reading is preferable because the scribes would frequently add material in this in order to solve style or syntax Problems, but seldom abridged or condensed material. For example If you can go to Acts chapter 8, I'll I'll I want to show you something something. So let me begin with verse thirty-four, and I'll read down to verse thirty-eight. This is about Philip and the Ethiopian official. And the eunuch Said to Philip, About whom I ask you, does the prophet say this? About himself or about someone else? Then Philip opened his mouth and began with this scripture. He told him the good news about Jesus. And then verse 36. And as they were going along the road, they came to some water. And the eunuch said, See, here is water. What prevents me from being baptized? Now, look look what's next. 38. And he commanded the chariot to stop. They both went down into the water, Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him. Well what happened to verse 37? Well if that's missing in the in the ESV But the ESC includes a footnote. And in the footnote says that some manuscripts add this verse 37. And the verse is, if you believe with all your heart you may and the in the youth in the and he said in and he replied, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God Now what the editor, what the translator is telling you is that that verse, 37, is not found in most menus. Um and how does he know that? Well, he's he just looks at at the manuscripts Um and that verse happens not to be found in many manuscripts, and it appears to be an addition Now, why is it added if it's a if it's an addition? Well maybe the copyist said, wait a minute, here's a question And there's no answer. I'll just give an answer. Um now again the answer is still Um doctrinally sound. But the question is Do you even need an answer to the to to that question? It's not like Phil is saying, is so I mean we we we wear it says if you believe with all your heart Well this Ethioan eunuch already believes. You know, he's looking for baptism next And therefore most textual critics will tell you this verse is really not original. It doesn't answer, it really doesn't answer the question. In um in uh now of co of course most translations won won't take it out completely. They'll maybe bracket it Or they put it in a footnote, like the ESV does. Yes. Just a comment and add on is if you've ever looked at the beginning of your Bible, there may be some comment about the words written in Italics. Yes. Which will mean like this is not originally there, but for our modern brains to help fill in the gaps, they put in those words. Well yes, I mean that's I mean that and that's and those words are put in to make it re well. Okay. So again there are some variants and people want to know why these variants are there And also the more difficult reading is more likely to be original than the than the a more simpler reading because if copies made changes They made it to simplify the text, not necessarily to to make it more comf more complex. And also, variants that match similar passages are suspect. That is, um, if you have this variant that appears simply else in the Bible Then that variant is somewhat suspect. It could be. Oh. Okay. Um do I have an example? Um let's see that be Well well I do know this. I I can't give in I'm in. Well w I should say that. You know, I you know right right now I I all I do not have it an example. I mean and if I did, it would not be in the text. Yeah. Um. Okay. So again If you look at the front of your Bible, the translator, the the the editor is is is going to tell you what text he uses. Like for example, the in the in the NSB Bible is saying, in the present translation, the latest edition of Rudolf Kittles Biblical Abraca has been employed with the most recent light from Lexicon the iconography cognate languages in the Dead Sea So he's so the editor is is is telling you that that's the text that he's going to use. But he's uh but he's doing make some judgment calls based upon these uh upon um these MCTCA other um s resources For example the covenant languages it means that he's going to look at uh at the Aramaic. He's he's going to look at I'm at that. I'm adding languages that are very close to Hebrew. Aramaic, Ugaritic, see those type of languages. Um and he's going to um so he's going to um make um c comparisons. The New King James Version has this preface. For the New King James Version, this text was used in the The text used was a 1967, 1977 edition of the Biblical Hebraica, based upon the bin-Ashr text, and now we know who bin Ashr is Well, frequent comparisons are made with the Bombag edition of 1524 to 1525. Now we haven't Um I'm talking about that. But about that one too. But the Satugate version, the Greek version, which we know about, and the Latin Vulgate were also consult In addition to referring to a variety of ancient versions of the Hebrew scriptures, namely Aramaic and Eucharitic, the New King James Version draws on the relevant manuscripts from the Dead Sea Scripture. case. In a few places where the Hebrew was so obscure that the 1611 King James Version was compelled to follow one of the versions But where Hebrew textual information is now available, resolve these problems, the New King James Version now follows the Hebrew text. And that is what the editor is telling you is that in all these centuries that we've had since the King James Version was Came out sixteen eleven. We have a whole lot more knowledge of Hebrew. And some of these terms that that uh That the translators of the King James Version just did not know what to do with, hardly. We now have a better understanding of some of these words. And again, this is not just for four four you know C C C C C English translations. The um the um the um Spanish trend um t um trend Nation also begins with with a similar um phrase, the Habika Habraika of umkital. I'm not going to read that. But you you but but you can look at that and see, yeah. Text is okay. So here's so we swe uh have talked about how the mythic how other sources give Support for the Meshrait text. But how does the Meshoretic text compare with these sources? Well, I'm going to quote for you from Gordon Winham in his commentary on the Vitaliticus. He says this. For many years it has been accepted that for most of the Old Testament, the Mesoric text preserves the best text. That is, it is closer to the original, and fewer mistakes have been made in copying it than in tran tran in than in it than in transcribing other versions. The translations of versions such as a subtuagent in this American Pentateuch need to be considered only when the Mesoretic text presents obvious difficulty. This faith in the Mesoric text of the Pentateuch has been vindicated by recent manuscript discoveries, namely Dead Sea In the s in the studies studies of the Satugan and the Samaritan Pinadu. And then he says, among the Dead Sea Horos There are nine partial manuscripts of Leviticus have been found which pushed back our knowledge of the text some 1100 years to about 100 BC. One manuscript from Cave 11 diverges from the mint from the Masteric Text The Samaritan Pentateuch and the Satugan at certain points, but none of its special readings is superior to the other other versions. Although the relative merits of the Dead Sea corose, these fragments must be seen in the context of broader textual traditions. When this is done, the Mesitic text is seen to be superior to both the Samaritan Pinatech and the Setugan, even when the latter to share common readings against the Mithraic um text. So this Commentator is telling us, yes, we can trust the Mesmeric text that we have today. And then he gives an example. Leviticus chapter one, verse six is a is a is an example. Here the sub the severity of Pinateuch and the Siptugan both use a plural pronoun implying that the priests shop up the burnt offering. Whereas the Mithraic test by using similar, by using using a singular, suggests that this is a worshipper's task. This could be a witness to the different sacrificial customs or to a different understanding of the law. This sort of variant is typical of the differences between the Mesoritic text on the one hand And the Saptugan and the Samaritan Pinatech, on the other hand, for the most part, they are slight changes or small additions intended to clarify the meaning. So again, when there are differences, most are small and they don't really that they they really they don't affect the meaning and last And I'll do one more paragraph here. Although the Old Testament books although every Old Testament book except Esther appears within the Dead Sea Evidence many of these are just fragments. Victor Hamilton in his commentary on Genesis states this. The translation in this commentary is based upon a text The BHK and the BHS. Both of these are based upon the text of the Vindegray Public Library Manuscript D. 19, written in A. D. 1008. Unfortunately, we do not have major fines from quadron on Genesis, the Aramaic Genesis apocrypham accepted. And thus we are unable to compare much of the BHK's and the BHS Hebrew text based on as it is on the manuscript from the Middle Ages with a Hebrew text written in a millennial earlier. So the author states that only clax have been discovered of Genesis. Okay. And I'm going to stop right there because it's time to close. Um any questions so far? We're going to we'll we're going to wrap this up next week and then we'll get into the New Testament transmission. How do we know that the Greek text that we have is original? Okay, well let me pray