Okay, welcome on this Sunday morning. I think we're on page twelve of of our notes. In the previous two sessions. We consider that God's word is God breed. It is inspired. It comes from God. God is a source. Scripture is not just the thoughts of men, it's not the ideas of men, um, it's not the word of men But it's the very Word of God preserved to us, and it is sufficient, is all that we need to have a relationship with the father in a relationship with each each other. It is necessary for salvation By which we mean that for us to know God, this word that God has given to us reveals how we are. Recipients of the grace of Jesus Christ. We also have learned that in the Old Testament, when the prophets spoke, they wrote a book. And they would add their books to the collection of books that was in a holy place, like the tabernacle or the temple. And these books were recognized as by God's people as the Word of God. In the New Testament, the prophets wrote books And they would typically write a book to a church or to an individual, and these books were read In the church, they were copied and sent out to other churches. And so is growing body of books would be distributed throughout the the churches We also note that the early church fathers filled their New Testament, filled their writings with New Testament quotations and recognized these books as Scripture. In Clement of Rome, for example, identified the synoptic gospels of Matthew, Mark, and Luke as Scripture. Repeatedly he employed the phrases God said, and it is written to designate passages from the New Testament. And such quotations appearing in these writings of the early church fathers were often undesignated as to the source, that is, they did not particularly say, were unquoting from Mark, or unquoting from Romans But their quotations come from these New Testament books. And so it's clear that these New Testament books were given the same status has inspired Old Testament books. Again, we've seen that the Old Covenant has books In the New Testament, the New Covenant would also have books. And so there's this growing body of books And such high esteem continued across the centuries. Cecera of Jerusalem listed the books he considered as divinely inspired. This collection is comprised of 22 books of the Old Testament, which of course is the 39 books that we see today in our English Bible. And also 26th of the New Testament books, only Revelation being absent But now that does not mean that he considered he did not consider Revelation as inspired or as part of the New Testament cut of canon. He just did not quote from the book Or he may not have known of the book because, again, it takes time for these books to s read out to all the churches. So now so so so we've seen that scripture is self-authenticated Both in the New Testament and in the Old Testament, the books designate that they are words from God. So now I d I just want to go briefly through this next section about another defense of scriptural inspiration, and that is the apologetic Evidences. Okay, so we've seen that there are numerous indicators in Scripture that point to plenary inspiration. That is, God spoke The prophets wrote, and the people acknowledged the expressed authority. They collected, preserved, and read these books in public worship. But now the question is, are there other evidences that Scripture is inspired, that these books are the Word of God? Well, yes there is For example, let's just look at the resurrection of Jesus Christ. You will find this nowhere else but in the Bible. For example, Jesus repeatedly predicted that he would be crucified if he would be rise again the third day. And he's quoted From the Old Testament, like Psalm 22, pictures this crucifixion. Isaiah 53 gives even more detail in substance to The death of Jesus Christ and to his resurrection. And Daniel also sees a vision in which the Messiah would be cut off. From Daniel chapter nine, verse twenty-six. Jesus even points to the book of Jonah to illustrate This principle of resurrection, that just as Jonah was, quote, dead in the body of this fish for three days, so even so the Son of Man would be in the Earth for three days. That is, he would be physically dead. And we know that Pilate And the Romans totally made sure that when that before they took Jesus off down from the cross, they ensured he was dead. He didn't just pass out. You know, for example, one of the Roman soldiers purred a s a spear into the side of Jesus. Just to make sure, yes, he's dead. And um plus they even placed guards on the tomb site. Because they did not want anyone trying to rob the tomb of the body And then claim that yes he rose again because the the religious leaders knew that Jesus claimed to rise again from the dead, the third day. So they did not want that to happen. But then the but the disciples, those who were closer to Jesus, they didn't believe that for some reason. They saw the resurrection. They saw the crucifixion as a terrifying event. Event of death and defeat. Um and they knew that they could be next. Um so the so they were afraid. They hid themselves um from the from the Jewish leaders during this time. But Jesus did rise from the grave in bodily form. The stone rode away, the soldiers fled. From the post, Jesus was seen by his disciples and many other eyewitnesses during the next few weeks prior to his ascension to heaven. These once fearful disciples became bold so that they stood up to the religious leaders who tried to silence and intimidate them. As Peter would say, we must obey God rather than man. The God Of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom you put to death by hanging him on a cross. He's the one whom God exalted to the right hand as a prince and a savior to grant repentance to Israel. and forgiveness of sins. And you we all witnesses of these things, and so the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to us to those who obey Him. And so just can consider that these once fearful disciples became bold, and they and most of them were martyred for the faith. And if they had done some something like steal the steal the body of Christ and um you know they certainly would not die for a lot So the resurrection of Christ is one more evidence that what the Bible speaks is true, that it is that it is the Word of God. Also, consider Bible prophecy from Genesis through Revelation Scripture is filled with prophecy. And God is not timid about disclosing future events. Hundreds of details of detailed prophecies fill the scriptures with many of them precisely filled even hundreds of years Later. For example, Micah prophesies that the Messiah would be born in Bethlehem. This is certainly not an after-the-fact claim. So the religious leaders used this prophecy to identify the birthplace of this king of the Jews to Herod the Great. This prophecy had been on their books for 700 years. And so the Jews also recognize that there's other prophecies about the Messiah, Psalm 2, Psalm 110. And you know, man might occasionally gets something right, um, but God gets everything right all the time. Um So the religious of man is impotent in this field of prophecy. So that's one more reason why we can say God, that scripture is God's breathed. And also consider that consider just yourself The Holy Spirit indwelling you. You can understand Scripture in a way that other people cannot. This is a gift given to you. This because this is enabled. Because the Spirit illumines his word to you. And you can understand it. And also consider that scripture is transformational It's not just a uh you know it's not just a how to book It's not just wishful thinking, um this word changes you I'm not unlike any other book. Also, just look at the field of archaeology. Time after time again, archaeologist archaeologists cu uncover truth what confirmation of the Bible. Now they don't actually try to do so intentionally. In fact most of these Academic trained archaeologists. Um they are trained at technical institutions. In fact, they would like to see bring up something that it contradicts the body. That's what they usually try to do. Come up with a contradiction But time after time again, once all once the dirt's been dug up, the papers published and referees and the debates done What do they have? Confirmation of what the Bible says is true. We can also look at the Genesis account, just the creation itself. And see that what the Bible says is exactly what we see today. For example. Scripture says that God created the creatures as kinds. There's this cat kind, this dog kind, this horse kind, all kinds of animals that he's made. But there's no transitional forms between these kinds. Dogs are always dogs. They can Change. Um cats are always cats. Um you know uh a lion is different from a tiger They have um but they're still cats. They have all the characteristics of a cat. And cats don't change into something else. And this is in contrast to the theory of of evolution that claims that everything came from a s a single That there's been all kinds of transitional forms. And and once they dig up all of their dirt And come up with all these creatures that have lived in the past, what do they see? Different kinds. Um and um there's no transitional forms. Okay. Um and also you know that's uh let's just note that biblical statements concern matters that cannot sometimes cannot be proved or disproved Can we trust these? That they're true? Well, numerous contradictions have been claimed in the past. But they've all been, but most of them, many of them have been resolved or diminished considerably by confident exegesis in research. Some difficulties remain, even though it's often hard to to know whether though they are apparent they are apparent contradictions or or errors in the in the text. Or the fault of a copyist or a translator. But time after time again, when someone claims that the Bible is wrong. Additional research only proves that what the Bible says is true. And so we can trust that anything else that may remain up to this present time um will will will will eventually be s be s be s settled. Okay. Uh um are there any questions on this On inspiration yes. archaeological example where an archaeologist did prove the Bible through Oh do I have anything at the top of head? Um yes, I can name one. And In Daniel chapter five, there's this account of the King of Babylon giving this big lavish dinner. And that's where Daniel revealed the prophecy. He's the king saw this hand writing on the wall. Okay, this king's name, Belgize, um no one actually knew who he was. evidence for this king. But until recently. I'm not sure how far back in time. But now we know yes this key actually existed. Um and um um also um Yes. Right. That is a city that's only mentioned in the Bible that they found. Yes. Although we're someone less than the best one thirty years. Right. Yeah. Yeah. I mean I mean there's just all kinds of examples Okay now so so we seem that God breathes words God gave them to the prophets. The prophets spoke them and wrote them down. The people received the word of God um these books. Now let's talk about the canonicity of scripture The word canon is derived from the Greek word canon, which is a rod or a ruler, and the Hebrew word canet Which is a measuring rod, Paul uses a term to indicate a rule for conduct. For example, in Galatians chapter 6, verse 16 And those who walk by this rule, this canon, may peace and mercy be upon them and upon the Israel of God. In early Christian usage, canon came to mean the rule of faith, or the normative writings, that is, the authoritative scriptures. There is a double sense of the word. The Bible is the canon of which all else is to be judged. That's an active sense. And the canon is met for the rule or standard by which a writing is judged, has inspired and authoritative, which is a passive sense Now, in Old Testament times, book qualified as being inspired as authoritative writing, only if it had been written by a prophetic spokesman of God These works were collected in a holy place. Again, we'll talk about the Jewish nation, the Jewish people. They would compile these books. They would collect them. If you wanted to hear the word of God, you would go to the tabernacle or the temple. Because that that's where the scripture was kept. Now the works of a false prophet would be rejected, and they would not be kept And according to Josephus, only those books composed during the prophetic period from Moses to Odysseus, which is 4th century BC, could be canonical. This period would cover the period from Moses, who wrote the Pinateuch, to the prophet Malachi. Now the Jews recognized that after Malachi the prophetic voice ceased. Josephus would write from the Artist Ortiz until our time Everything that is the the Jewish history has been recorded but has not been deemed worthy of like credit with what has proceeded, because the exact secession of the prophets has ceased So now there were many other books written after Malpai, those books that we call the Apocrypha. But the Jews never considered these books to be part of their canon. They may have been valued culturally or um um um but they were not we can Okay, sorry? Yes. I think you said to uh previously that as a new uh rabbi or a leader wrote their account of things, they put it in like the sort of the holding place in the in the temple. And so someone was the gatekeeper and was like, no, this is not going in there. Is it somehow related to that? Well the ratify SIDL and their writings will check. But they were not part of a canon uh query ship. Okay. So there's some non-canon training that we're account, but we're okay. Yes. Yes, that's right. Yeah. Okay. So now the question is, how were these books determined? How was the canon established Well, let's talk about what does not qualify a book as being part of the canon. A book is not part of the canon because it's it's uh it's a whole The book of Jaspel, for example. That's mentioned in Joshua chapter 10, verse 13, is an old book Um but it's it's not canonical. But the evidence is great that books were received into the canon immediately, not after some period of time And um you know the books of Moses they were received immediately You know, uh another example is is the book of Jeremiah. Because we know in Daniel chapter um 9, I believe. Um, Daniel was praying to God about the end of the exile. And he knows that the time is near because the prophet Jeremiah said that the exile would last seventy years. So Daniel considered Jeremiah as a thortatous And also, the canicity of a book is not determined by his agreement with the Torah, the books of Moses. It's clear that any book contradicting the law would be rejected. But it's not the Torah that determines the kineticity of everything that That follows. The measurement rule is not the Torah, but it's divine inspiration. Notice though many books that agreed with the Torah were not accepted. For example, the Taman In the Midrash, both agreed with Moses, but the Jews never considered these books as canonical. See our examples of uh of books written by by the rabbis Um but they were not part of the of their Bible. And um So this is the same of many other, and this is the same of many Christian writings associated with the New Testament. For example, in the second century, you had these early church fathers They their writings were consistent with the New Testament writings, but their books were not part of the canon. Okay. Okay. Um also The canosity of a book is not determined by church authority. It's not the church that determines the canon. It's the canon that determines the church. For example, Paul says in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 20, you are fellow citizens with the saints and are of God's household, having been built upon the foundation of the apostles and the prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone. So we as a church are built on a foundation. That foundation is the Word of God. And what's a church? We go to the Bible to determine what does the church do, how does a church function, and everything else. about our our our faith. You know what ordin what ordinances do we have? We go to the New Testament. Okay. So num so number five also um oh yeah one more thing. The knit the A book is not canonical because that because it's quoted and referenced by the early church fathers. The books of the Apocrypha were extensively referenced by some early fathers. In their sermons, in their books, sadly, some of the apocrypha books were accepted by some of the early church fathers, and we'll get to that very shortly But these Jewish books were never recognized by the Jews as canonical, and hence the Christians should not recognize them too as canonical either. But what determines a book as canonical is divine inspiration. God reveals and his people recognize what he reveals Canonicity is determined by God, is and is discovered by man We don't determine it, we discover it. Now the question is, can may men make mistakes? Yeah, mean came. Now what's the What's the solution for all of this error that man can can miss? Well, if we look at these books over time over and and look at it what what what what what what many individuals have written about them um Discourse about them, debate about them, we can come up with a very clear understanding about what books God has preserved. And we'll get into that very shortly, too. So this calls for the people to apply true principles for determining the books that God has inspired. Again, it's not a fail-proof process. Because again, there are many, many false books. And there are many, many writers whose claim that they are writing for on behalf of God. And this ever-present-day threat compelled the believing community to review carefully what goes into the sacred collection. For example, very early in the age of Christianity, there was this cult, this false teaching of Gnosticism. Well, these preachers of Gnosticism they wrote their books. But the believing church community would eventually reject all of these other books. And so so now so that's that's how I've got how a book is is is determined to be canonical Number eight, is the book written by a prophet or an apostle or by a spokesman of God? Each book would bear the acclaim of divine authority and some man, although the degree of which will vary. In the doctrinal literature there are divine imperative pronouncements about what believers are to do. In the historical books, the exhortations might be more implied And the authoritative pronouncements are more about what God has done. So again, is the book written by A divine spokesman for God. For example, the prophetic books are usually pretty easily recognized by this principle There's this declaration, the Lord said to me. Okay. And that's a common earmark. Now, some books have been challenged on this principle, such as Esther. I mean this book doesn't even have a single explicit reference to God. And it was not until it was obvious to all that the protection and therefore the pronouncements of God on his people were unquestionably present in this book Was this book accepted into the Jewish canon? You know, God has promised to preserve his people. And Esther is a prime example of how God preserved his people. Not through a miracle, but through his own people. The next one, does the writer have credentials from God? The Bible came to us through spirit-moved spokesmen known as prophets Every biblical author had a prophetic gift of function, even if it was not explicitly identified as a prophet. For example, Paul would identify himself Several times as an apostle, sent not by man, nor through the agency of man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father He would then correct the Galatians. If any man is preaching to you a gospel contrary to that which you receive from me Let him be accursed. And that's a strongly worded pronouncement of judgment. And also having credentials from God it also implies that the writer is who he claims to be. For example, Paul exhorted the the this or no no I got believers that they are that they are not to be quickly shaken from their composure or be just stirred either by the spirit or a message or letter as if from him to the effect that the day of the Lord has already come. Yes, there were many yes, even in Paul's day, there was probably at At least one, maybe more than one, person who was claiming to be Paul. He was fighting penis. Letter, claiming to be Paul. So has to be an apostle, has to be a sent from God. And also some of the early church fathers well they were sort of slow to accept the book of 2 Peter. Why? Because they thought it was a forgery They say they looked at 1 Peter and they looked at 2 Peter and they said, these books appear to be written by different people. And so there was a question about 2 Peter. Did it sound like Peter? But eventually this book was accepted as well because the church fathers were convinced that this book was actually written by Peter. So the there existed many books with a claim of being written by a prophet or an apostle, but they were forgeries. Also, this a book has to speak truth. Right? I mean, does the book speak the truth about God, man, history, etc. ? God cannot lie, so God breathed words must be true and be consistent on all aspects No factual or dogma errors can be inspired. Note that being factual does not necessarily mean that the book is canonical, but a canonical book would speak truth. For example, the Brians, when they heard Paul, was Paul speaking truth Well, they went back to their Old Testament to consider, is what Paul teaching consistent with what the Old Testament was teaching? And again, many of the apocrypha books were rejected because their historical uh anomalies in theological Theological heresies made it impossible for them to accept them as as from God, even if there were some authoritative Also, um some early church fathers even questioned the book of James. Could this book be inspired if it contradicted false teaching on justification by faith and not by works? But once it was understood that there was really no contradiction, you know, James is not teaching another gospel. James is not teaching that salvation is by works. Jesus is teaching that salvation produces works. And so once that was understood, this book was also accepted. Also, Jude was a was another somewhat problematic book. Because this book quotes some non-canonical books And so once Christians understood that Jews' quotations granted no authority to these books, just as Paul's quotes from a Greek philosopher implied no granting of authority to them, then acceptance of this book was also done So whatever complementary support canonical truth derives from other books in no ways leaves canonical value to these books. So just because a book quotes some other book doesn't mean that other book is canonical And also does this book have life? Yes. Oh what what book did Joe Jude I th I think it was I think it was the book of first Eminek. Um that's a um a um book written um um before Christ, um within that 400 years of prophetic silence Um and um what Judas Judas quoted is that Enoch was a prophet. And he prophesied of way back then, even before the first judgment, he was prophesizing the second coming of Christ. So he quotes from that book this this this um truth that Enoch was a prophet Now Enoch was a prophet, but that doesn't imply that first Enoch is canonic. All all it says was the book of first King in it just happened to include something that's true. So also does this book possess life transformational power? You know the scripture was given to us to to change us Not to make us wiser or more intelligent. It does not help us to you know you know, win we we win T V games on um tr tr tr trivia. Um So this word of God is living and active with the result that it's useful for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for training in righteousness. And Jesus said, We will all, we will know the truth, the truth will set us free. And so um so in this false teaching that does not edify us. That does not um that does not bring us freedom. So, let's look at this book of song of Solomon. Is that life trans for transforming? You know, it's if you read it, it's somewhat sensual. Um, but this is a book describing marital love. Um so others um so um and then also others have questioned Ecclesiastes because this book Is well is somewhat pessimistic. Um you know, it is life horizontally. Um but The book does conclude with the admonition to remember your Creator in the days of your youth. You know Solomon helps us by showing to us, look, if you had all the time, all the money, um to do all the pleasures that you want. Don't do it. Because Solomon already tried it. And he found it was completely empty. You know those who say, well, you know, let's have your one hundred to do uh items before you die. And that that will make you happy uh or just having this brand new thing or this amount of wealth that will that will make you happy. No it it won't Because Solomon explicitly says, I had it all, and I did it all Um everything I wanted, I got. Everything I wanted to do, I did it. But all of that is banned. But here is the key. Remember your creator in the days of your youth. And also, was the book received and accepted by the people of God for whom it is written? Determining that the book is canonical is as is assured when the book was received, collected and used as God's word by those to whom it it was originally given. The books of Moses were accepted immediately. The books of the Old Testament prophets were recognized immediately. The people were to test false prophets and were to reject them. Their books were to be excluded And again, the books of the Old Testament were generally accepted in the canon immediately. I mean, consider that Daniel counted Jeremiah's book as canonical. The Old Testament books were all written within Israel, with the exception of Daniel, and hence these books were recognized by the majority of Jews in the same time period. So in the type in in in in the case of the Old Testament recognition And in canonicity were both at the same time. Because again, there's one people One center of worship, Jerusalem, one holy site, the tabernacle or the temple Now for the New Testament things are are a bit more lengthy because There's no central holy place. There's no temple. Um there's no one place That all Christians go to conjugate. So when Paul wrote his letter to say the They would receive Paul's letter, it would be read in public worship, and then it would be copied. And those copies were given to nearby churches who would receive those copies He would read them in their worship services, and they would copy them again, and they would send them off to nearby churches. And so on, and that's just generally the way each of these letters Were sent. Now, so the churches that received these letters, they would immediately recognize them as authoritative, as God-inspired. You know, something that Paul wrote, something that Peter wrote, but has they a copy and has they go out more More geographically to other regions regions, it takes time. And so some churches may not receive these letters for a considerable amount of time. You know, back in in the first century They most churches did not have a complete Bible 39 books that we see today. They would have only a fraction of those books Now they would gradually receive more and more books, but again that process takes time You think uh Paul recognizing the Bereans was somewhat typical of there's a group that they they study the scriptures and this is what they're doing, is they're Researching and affirming and then uh deciding if it's acceptable. Yeah, well we'll well well I think this yeah, this this um Yeah, you're right. I'm I'm not sure how much of well how much of the new tether CD pretty. They may have just had the old well old tether. At this time. And now I should point out is it is that each book went through its own cycle of being copied. And some books will copy Had a wider distribution. For example, the gospels. They would be known to almost all churches. Very quick. Other books um such has you know has uh um has um say um teep say um Jude or Revelation, those books um were not nearly they did not go out as nearly as quickly. Um they were not copied um quite it quite as often um in sea And so those books were generally the ones that were somewhat questioned because not everybody had So so so so again here I mean here I said here a a limited distribution of a book with slow is is is its acceptance as canonical until believers were assured that the first century believers had it had indeed recognized the book Some books were received by some of the people of God, but would later be determined as non-canonical. This is true of several other books of the Apocrypha. Because again, during this sage of sec second century, as these books were copied and as they went out to all these churches, there were other books copied too. Like the apocalypse. Also, the nature of prophecy is of prime importance in determining kinestasy. If a blue claiming to be prophetic seems to have indisputable falsehood, then the prophetic credentials must be re-examined because God cannot lie and the other four principles serve as a check So again, um and also the divinely inspired and authoritative books are the sole basis for doctrine and practice And so no article of faith may be based upon any non-canonical work. So those those books of the Apocrypha, they will also be copied. They're also being sent from church to church. They also read, but the church could not add any of their practices based upon those books. So let's um just um go on to the development of the Old Testament canon Let's note that each contributing author of the Old Testament canon was in some sense unaware of how his portion would fit into the overall plan. For example, Peter reminds us that these prophets were seeking to know what time what person or time the Spirit of God within them was indicating Has he predicted through them the sufferings of the Messiah and the glory that should follow So neither of these, so neither these prophets nor those who collected these prophetic writings were constantly constructing the overall unity of Corruption. Now I'm I'm trying to determine why I I wrote that paragraph. Well that has gone to number two. We we have seen that there are three basic steps in canon in in c in the canonization process. One God gives inspired writings through the prophets, the people of God recognize these inspired writings Also the people of God collect and preserve these inspired writings. In the in our English Old Testament The thirty-nine groups of books are grouped in into three or four commonly accepted categories, the Pinatec, the historical books, the prophetic books And the prophetic books. The Jewish group, this same period, has 24 books into three categories, the law, the prophets, and the rights. Oh. Oh I do want to mention that you may see the number twenty-four and is and think, well but I I thought you just said twenty-two. Well, some people count twenty-two, some people count twenty-four. Um, but it's all the same number Okay. Um which is the same thing as our thirty nine books in the Old Testament, if that's um confusing enough Um but but um you know we group our books differently like for example all the minor prophets that we group separately in I mean in the Hebrew Bible they're all one book. Okay. So that's why there's a a difference in the in the numbers. Okay. Okay. But the but there is a distinction between acceptance of a canonical book and its placement within the library of books. That is, the presence of a Jewish threefold division doesn't imply that the books of that specific section were accepted all as a single group. In terms of acceptance, each book was placed in the scriptural library as it was finished Um and that is and that is in a in a century it's chronological order. Now Later the Jews would rearrange these books. But but but but that's not changing but that's not changing the books, it's just rearranging the um books. Um so that's why the books are not necessarily in a chronological sequence. Even though they were accepted Essentially chronologically. Okay, so not until Later, for uh reasons unknown, the the Old Testament books were rearranged into three broad categories that we see today in our Bible. These threefold classifications arose no earlier than the second century BC, with the first reference being in the in the Apocrypha Book of Cyrac, which speaks of the law and the prophets in the other books of our fathers. Again, three sections there. Although we cannot be sure that what the writer actually means by the other books of our fathers. But the Jewish philosopher Philo mentions this threefold division in the first century AD. Josephus also mentions this division in against Ophion. The first, the five books of Moses, 13 books of the prophets, and four remaining books containing the hands of God and the precepts for the conduct of human life. In the Jewish Tamon, Tamon of the 5th century A. D. , this 11 books in this third section called the writings. Psalms, Proverbs, Job, Song of Psalms, Song of Psalms, Ruth, Limitations, Esther, Ecclesiastes, Daniel, Ezra, Nehemiah, and Chronicles. And we see a a varied number of books in the third century as these centuries go on. So this implies that these books were not just Late additions, but we're a rearrangement of of the collection that from the original twofold division There's no new books and no new redactions of these books during this time. That is, the Jews did not change the books. They did not edit the books, put something in or take something out. They just rearranged the books. So this does not invalidate the theory that each book was placed in the collection very near when the book was finished. The book of 2 Maccabees, another apocryphal book, speaks of the law and the prophets. The quadrum community also consistently referred to the Old Testament as the law in the province. Even this fringe Jewish group believed in a closed canon. That is, that there was that there was a continuing silence, prophetic silence, to this very day The only potential reference to in the Old Testament, to the in the New Testament, to a threefold division in the Old Testament is in Luke 24. forty four, when Jesus spoke to the two men on the road to Emaeus, that all things written about me in the law of Moses And the prophets and the psalms must be fulfilled. But we see that beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he explained to them the things concerning himself in all the scriptures. In Psalms is also included because again are the many, many messianic Psalms. So the canonization of the Old Testament was therefore in two stages, the law and then the prophets. Each prophet would add their books to what Moses wrote, including the blessings for obedience, the curses or the judgments for disobedience In short, by 400 B. C. , there were a collection of 22 books, or 24, or 39, consistently called the law and the parlance. These books were accepted as they were finished, although not necessarily placed in chronolog uh chronological order Because again, they were sometimes rearranged. The last place in the Old Testament Was Chronicles. Yes, is that amazing? Even though for a few of the minor prophets, such as Malakai, extend beyond the chronology of Chronicles. Chronicles because when Jesus spoke in Luke eleven forty-four, he he would say this for this reason about the wisdom of God I said I will send him prophets in apostles and some of them they will kill, some of them they will persecute, so that the blood of all the prophets shed since the foundation of the world may be charged against this generation for the blood of Abel That's Genesis to the blood of Zechariah, which is Chronicles. Who was cured between the altar and the house of God. Yes, I tell you, it shall be charged against this generation. That is Jesus was saying. All The Old Testament from Genesis to Chronicles, or we would say from Genesis to Malachi. All that all of what God said is going to be charged against this generation because they um because they ahead that That Bible, they they read that Bible, but they didn't obey it And I'm liberal theologians and those who espouse the tenets of hierocritism have long claimed that many of the Old Testament books were written later than what is apparent, probably to explain away the occurrences of predictive prophecy. They don't like predictive prophecy. When they see a prophecy, they think that was written after the fact. For example, Daniel. I mean he wrote of future kingdoms. But the but the critics claim no Daniel wrote at the time of the Maccabees. He wrote looking back, not looking forward. Ford. And um so but Jesus himself spoke of Daniel as a prophet. He spoke of Daniel as a as someone who spoke of him. And yes, that's predictive prophecy. And scripture is full of it. So The liberals are wrong. Scripture does speak of prophecy, predictive prophecy, prophecy before things happen. And that habits all over the place. We even have prophecy about end times that are still future to us. And all that God will accomplish in his time, in his way, exactly as God has Told us. Yes, we don't know all the details, but when everything is said and done, we can look back in our Bibles and see, yes That's what exactly what God did. Okay, I'm going to stop there. And so let me pray