Well good morning on this Palm Sunday when we recognize especially The entrance of Jesus into Jerusalem riding on a donkey and fulfillment of the Old Testament prophecy to Jerusalem, look, your Savior is coming on a donkey. And that's a sign for the people But it's a sign that they did not recognize, they they ignored, and the mess the Messiah would be rejected that week, he would be cut off But the stone that the builders refused has now become the chief corner stone. And this is the Savior that we worship so much. And um, well, let's begin with a prayer. Father, our God in heaven above, we thank you that though you are transcended above the works of your hands, yet you condescend to us. And you are with us. You will never leave us. You will never forsake us. And we have access to you through your beloved Son. Now dear Savior. Father, we thank you for this day, for the gift of life that you've given to us, the gift of eternal life that we have in Christ. We thank you that we can come as your people, as your beloved children, to worship you in spirit, in truth. To have fellowship with each other, to encourage each other, to help us grow in the grace and the knowledge of Jesus Christ day by day. Help us father this hour to learn of how you have worked And the history of man to bring about your word to us in our own language. And Father, we also pray especially for our brother Ricardo as he is going through chemotherapy, um um cancer treatments. We just pray, Father, that you will give him grace, that you give him encouragement and joy. And Father, we thank you that you give us joy, a joy that cannot be taken away from us. And a joy that is real and will be with us forever and ever and ever. Amen. Okay, um so far we've talked about the inspiration of Scripture. That is, Scripture is God breathed Every word, every phrase has come from God to us. God is a source. He's revealed it to his prophets. And the apostles, and they have written it down exactly as God intended it to be. And that is all scripture is inspired. It's sufficient For us in all areas of godliness to know God, to know how to obey God And for us to grow in the grace and the knowledge of Christ each day. And also it is sufficient for salvation Everything that we need to know about salvation is found in the Bible. This word has been passed from the apostles in the writings. To us. And this um this writings were collected by God's people They were acknowledged to be the Word of God, they were written down, they were collected, and copied. Now, I sh I should point out that since these works have been collected, there's been some some edit that thing we can arrange the books as we please Um and um but now liberals have insisted that there are redactors. That is, there's been people who have actually modified the word. They have they have um through some means. Um now this is a false assumption. Okay, um and they f they claim that The books have been modified to even through this period of prophetic silence The principle of inspiration does away with purported redaction camps because the original writings have no errors to correct. And the process of redaction, if it existed, would undermine the scriptures for these reasons Redactions actually violate repeated warnings from God not to add to the word which I am commanding you. And that's from Moses. Redactions transform fixed autographs into fluid material Redactions deceived in that another later writer augments the manuscripts as some of the original prophet wrote them. It is upon this principle that a book would be rejected Also redactions undermined the test by which the believing community could verify the prophetic nature of the writing. A prophecy that is revised would be different prophecies and perhaps hide from what has been seen from what should have been seen as a false prophecy. And there could be no redactor during this period of prophetic silence since the believing community would have would have what they knew to be all the valid canonical books After this, they would only engage in the the legitimate script scribal activities of copying the books and rearranging the material. In short The bleeding community would reject redactions. It's also Sufficient for us to know that these redactors, if they existed, we don't know of them. Nobody knows of them. So let's talk about the extent of the Old Testament canon. And we're going to come up with some new words. Homolodumina. Homolo Yumina. Um this is these are this is a term that means the books accepted by all. That is, these books were never challenged by any other rabbis during the within the Jewish community. This group includes all of the thirty-nine books of the Old Testament Except for five books. Song of Solomon, Ecclesiastes, Esther, Ezekiel, and Proverbs. Now I should say point out this. It's not that these books were debated vigorously or that there was a f a conflict between various factions of the Jewish community. But there were just some ra some rabbi, maybe a few, who said, well, I'm not so sure about this book. So let's dig into the book and find out. um stuffing. Another classification is the books disputed by some. The Antyla Golmina, which includes the Song of Solomon, Ecclesiastes, Esther, Ezekiel, and Proverbs. These books were already in the canon. They were already accepted, but they were questioned. By some raps rabbis, even though all these books had really no issues. For example, Song of Sullivan was challenged by due to its sensual nature. But scholars affirmed that that it was it's a book narrating narrative intimacy. But this hasn't lessened the tendency of both Jews and Christians to allegorize the story. But the book is a strong response against the teachings of the later Gnostics who claim that since flesh is evil, then marriage is considered to be less holy than celibacy. So this book ended up being accepted, even though you know some questioned it, but it was not a serious chat challenge. Ecclesiastes Was challenged due to its pessimism. The scholars recognize that this pessimism is focused on what is under the sun and that the other book ends with a focus on the Creator. So this book remained. Esther. um is appears to be secular in nature. That is, this book doesn't even explicitly mention the name of God. But there is a providence of God written throughout this book That protects the people of God. And so this book was would be included. In some some exc scholars would question Ezekiel as being anti-Mosaic in his teaching, but no specific examples of contradictions with the Torah could be identified. So this book was accepted. There are also some who questions proverbs, because there's this one proverb that appears to be a contradiction. Proverbs 26, 4 and 5. Do not answer a fool according to his folly, lest you be like him. Answer if you f has its folly deserves, lest you also be like him. But close examination reveals No, there's no contradiction here. This is legitimate form of Hebrew poetry There's also the books rejected by all the two-day pigrapha And there's also the books accepted by some, the Apocrypha, which is also which is literally the hidden things. A collection of about 14 books Now, let's talk about this Suda Pegrapha. These are writings filled with religious fantasy and myth. Frequently speculating on something that not explicitly covered in the canonical books and falsely attributed to biblical characters, prophets, and kings. This collection comprises about 20 books. Written between a period of about 200 BC to 200 AD. Examples of pseudo pigrapha include the Book of Jubilee The book of Adam and Eve, the martyrdom of Isaiah, and the two books of Enoch. The Jews labeled these books postporous because of the false claims to divine authority, the highly beneath all Fantastical character of events and the questionable, even heretical teachings. Now, the Book of Jude does quote from 1 Enoch 1, verse 9, but this quote acknowledges only a truth contained in the book. That Enoch prophesized. This citation does not imply that first Enoch is authoritative, only that the myth is carrying a divine element of truth. is not merely enough to demonstrate that a book is quoted to affirm to confirm that the book is canonical Instead it is necessary to demonstrate the nature of the the quotation. In this case, Jude quotes one Statement. Namely, Enoch was a prophet. He received revelation from God and he spoke about the second coming of Christ. Now, let's talk about this Jewish Apocrypha. These are books accepted by some. The Roman Catholics argue that seven books of this group and four books of a And four partial books of the Apocalypse belong in the canon of Scripture. They call these books Deuterot Canonical. That is, it's the second canon. And they grant these apocryphal books equal status to the books of the New Testament. Now, these books were placed in the canon by the Roman Catholic Church In response to the challenges from the Protestant Reformation. This was during the so the infamous Council of Trent. Now, Martin Luther had criticized the Roman Catholic Church for not having scriptural support for selling indulgences. And for such doctrines as praying for the dead um and um So he challenged the church, the Roman church, to return to scripture. Instead, the Roman church canalized these books so that they would have scriptural support for their teachings. And there are other distinctly Catholic doctrines, such as justification by faith plus works, not merely by faith alone. For example, the Catholics found support in the Book of 2 Maccabees for praying for the dead. Now, how do they justify doing this? So let's just be let's be honest and just look in the mind of a Roman Catholic. or the or the minds of the church to see why did they do such a thing? Well Catholics claim that the subtugant Which is a Greek translation of the Hebrew Old Testament that predates the time of Christ, also had the Apocrypha. They then assume that this means that the Apocrypha belongs to the canonic. So that's one assumption they make, one argument that they put forward to claim that they were correct in what they did They also claim that some of the early fathers had quoted from the Apocrypha and that they had used these books in public worship. Now, that's partially true. The early fathers did quote from the Apocrypha, and some of these books were perhaps read in the worship. Um the second the third assumption that they make is that Saint August um Augustine view these books as inspired And that is correct. The fourth assumption is that they claim that early Christian community accepted the apocrypha because there was listed among some of the early Christian tombs These scenes from the Apocrypha. They also claim that the early church councils such as Council of Rome in AD 382, Council of Hippo In A. D. 393, the Council of Cartridge in 397 gave approval to the apocrypha books. Okay. So that's their claim. So let's let's it let's examine is is this claim valid First of all, the prophet of our books do not claim divine authority. None of them were written by a prophet Because again, this these are in the silent years. There is no prophet in Israel And the Jews knew these books were written during this period of prophetic silence, after the time of Malachi. Now, none of them were confirmed by divine miracles, something that often happened in the prophets of the Old Testament, in the writers of the New Testament. None of them contain any predative prophecy which could have served to confirm divine inspiration And also, in one case, the author of 2 Maccabees concedes that his book is an abridgment of what another person has had written. And he expresses concern as to whether a good job was done or not. Okay. So that's a red flag that this book is not canonical. Also the New Testament writers never quoted from the Apocrypha Now there are numerous quotations and allusions throughout the New Testament from the canonical books of the Old Testament. I mean all the books except for Song of Solomon and Esther are quoted. But even if there were a reference to the to some apocalypse books, this would not necessarily imply that the book has a stamp of divine authority. Now, the Catholics come back and say, wait, what about Hebrews 11, 33 to 35? Where the writer says, Women received their dead by resurrection, and others were tortured, not accepting their release, in order that they may obtain a better resurrection. Well they claim that's a quotation from 2 Maccabees, where seven brothers and their mother were tortured and killed because they would not renounce their faith But again, even if this were an allusion to that event, which I don't think it is, um, because again it's taught it um But even if if even if it were a quotation, it would not imply that the writer of Hebrews is sanctifying this book as inspired. And again, we know second Maccabees expresses is expressly disclaims inspiration. No, so some of the church fathers did speak approvingly of the Apocrypha, but that does not necessarily imply that they held these books on the same level. as the New Testament books. Um for example, um Tim Molino The Bishop of Sardis, writing in AD one hundred seventy, delints what he considers to be the canon of the Old Testament, which all the books we have today, only with the with the exception being of Esther, but none of them are the apocryphal books. Athanasius, three, in the year three sixty-seven mentions some of these apocryphal books But adds that these are not intended to be included in the pen, but appointed by the Fathers to be read by those who newly join us and who wish for instructions in the word of godliness. That is, there's some value, but that value does not mean that these books are inspired. Yes. We should never see the see preceded with the lines of you have heard it said of old, have you not read? Those are always hey, it's in the Old Testament. Yes, that's yeah, that's why. Gee Jesus Jesus often quoted from the Old Testament never from the apocalypse. Okay, and again, let's just note, Josephus said, there's 22 books None of them are the Apocrypha. Jewish Council of Jemena, which met in AD 90, rejected the Apocrypha as scripture. Philo, a Jewish teacher of the first century, quoted on virtually all of the Old Testament books except not a single time from the Apocrypha. Also, there are several historical errors in the apocryphal. For example, the book of Tobet narrates a story dating from the time of the Assyrian Empire. So this is even before the time of Daniel. But he states that Nineveh was captured by Nebuchadnezzar. Inamah, Inama. Instead of by Nebuchadnezzar, which who was a father of Nebuchadnezzar, and by Cyroxes, King of Media. So he gets the things wrong. So such historical errors are indicative of man-made documents where the author is hindered, perhaps unknowingly, by a lack of correct historical documentation. The 2nd century B. C. rock author apparently did not know the name Nabucola, who lived in the 7th century B. C. So the author used a name from Daniel and also a name from the book about Esther. Also, The apocalypse contains many unbiblical doctrines. A few of them include the world being created out of pre-existing matter. The idea that giving alms and other good works can make an atonement for sin. Well the invitation and intercession of the saints The worship of angels and the teaching that there exists a purgatory. So if God inspired all three, the Old Testament, the Apostle, and the New Testament, all three would have to agree. But they don't. Also, the question is, did the Septuagint contain the Apocrypha in an in the days of Jesus? Well, none. Well Jesus did not quote from the Apocrypha. The Old Testament, the New Testament writers did not quote from the Apocrypha. So uh so so that means either it so that that that means either it was not there or they completely ignored those books. Um Um also, one other reason that I will note here is that's not in these notes, is um is this. The Old Testament is a story, God's story, that leads us up to up that that will that will That will bring us to the point of hoping for the Messiah. God's people were hoping for the Messiah. That they saw the Messiah in the future. The New Testament reveals the Messiah is here. His name is Jesus. The Apocrypha Contains nothing of the Messiah. Um there is no future So this is one more reason why this apocrypha section is out of place. Um if if it were in the Bible. Okay. Um and so no so note this Jesus frequently Confronted the scribes and Pharisees for ignoring or not knowing this the scriptures, for adding their own traditions that contradict the Scriptures. But he never confronted the Pharisees for either adding books to the Bible or by taking books out. And so this is further proof that the Satugan of the first century did not have the apocryphal books. And also note that here that the Jews translated the Septuagint from the Hebrew, which should not include the Apocrypha. Hence it's highly likely that the subsug that the subtugent which the Christians inherited did not include the hot pocket. Again it we all we also sort should note that none of these apostroph books do we have a Hebrew um back It's all we when when we see these books it's Greek. Um not it's not Hebrew. Also, even though some Christians had pictures up from the from the Apocrypha, that does not necessarily mean that they viewed the Apocrypha as canonical. This is hardly a test for for for identifying a book as being canonical. And also church council. That's not a convincing argument since Martin Luther has stated it so well. Church councils have erred Church councils in North Africa during the time of Augustine were influenced heavily by his ear-founded position that the Apocrypha was inspired. Which he apparently believes because these books make mention of extreme and wonderful sufferings of the martyrs. Even though he is fully aware that the Jews themselves rejected these books. So the Jews themselves rejected these books, and they came from from the Jews We Christians should do the same. And again, it's great and as as influential as Augustine was his views on their profile were not shared by m by me. Yes. About what time period was it, Augustine uh Graham? Um That would be um I'm a C um Um three fifty. Three fifty okay. I think Don't quote me on that. Again, so in um in so in in conclusion Was the book written or backed by a prophet or apostle of God for these apocryphal books? No. Is the book authoritative? For these books? No. Does the book tell the truth about God and doctrine as it is already known by previous revelation? The answer, no. Does the book give evidence of having the power of God No. Was the book accepted by the people of God, the Jews? No. Now, let's talk about the New Testament canon. As in the case of the Old Testament prophets, so it was with the apostles and the associates in the New Testament. That the recognition of a book at the very time of the writings um were made, um, were authenticated spokesman for what is determined the intrinsic cannot say of the rights. It's altogether God's word only if it is God brief. In general these New Testament books were received by the church precisely when these books had been certified by an apostle as being a message from God. Hence the canonicity of the New Testament books follows the same pattern as the Old Testament books. That is, right when a book is written, right when it's delivered to an individual or to a church, that's when the book is recognized as being um And these books were then read in the church and they were copied and passed to neighboring churches. And there's a sense in which Jesus Christ established the New Testament canon by telling the disciples The apostles, but the advocate, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, will teach you all things and remind you of everything I have said to you. So he's talking to the apostles at that moment. So it's the apostles' books that are recognized Now, there is a now in Christianity there would be a time delay Unlike the Jews which had Jerusalem as their center and the tabernacle or the temple and they were centralized Christians had no such holy city, no such temple, um, and these books would have to Make the way around to all the churches, which takes time. So these books would be read, copied, and passed on. Gradually across the whole Roman Empire. Acceptance would be localized, not globalized. So there was some lag and s and because one region may not get these books for a while. And um that and s and so why we have these church councils was because These books were not always familiar with everybody. They were not deemed they were not accepted by everybody because they did not know these books Now the frequency and the nature of persecution across the Roman Empire was also a factor, but in really two different ways. One is persecution could potentially slow The distribution of these books. From the time of Nero, Christianity was an illegal faith Christians were subject at any time to persecution, either by the Roman authorities or by local citizens. They were not always persecuted But that persecution could arise at any moment of of time. And so When this persecution, these books would be um banned and burnt. And that happened repeatedly. So that would also slow the acceptance of these books But secondly, this persecution would also canonize some of these books because if you I mean just just note this. If you persecuted What are you going to die for? Well you're going to die for the truth. You're going to die for what you believe is God breathed words. So these are the books that Christians are gonna value. And they're gonna die for these books. Um And these will be the books that are preserved. And so this persecution-defined canon would certainly be the canon of the of the first century in later books. Imitation books, they would be rejected. You're not going to die for a book that you know is is false That's not in that's not God brief. Um now Also, there was a need for a canon, an accepted list of books, because again, these Gnostics, they were writing their books Um and um you know, one of the first Um list came actually from a heretic, Marcian. of and he came up with his own his own abridged can in approximately one eight one forty And this compelled the church to make clear a voice on the actual canon, because Marcian accepted Luke accept for a a few chapters, which he which he deemed to be Too Jewish. And he accepted ten of Paul's letters. In fact, he really considered to be Paul as the only true apostle. Even though we did reject 1 Timothy, 2 Timothy, and Titus. So a recognized canon was also necessary for Christians to know which books should be read in the churches. And also a work and I can end it with death server for Christians to know which books should be read in the church. Working on it was also necessary for Christians to know the limits of what Paul said. All scripture is God-breathed and is prodigal for teaching. That is, what does all scripture mean? What's included in that phrase And the selection process to divine a canon was already in place in the first century church to confirm authentic books. Um from the very beginning in authentic inauthentic and non-apostolic writings were in in circulation. Because I mean Paul won the church Not to be quickly shaken in mind or alarmed by a letter that appeared to be from him, claiming that the day of the Lord had already come. 2 Thessalonians chapter 2 verse 2. And Paul authenticated his own right. I, Paul, write this reading with my own hand. And this is is a a decision marked at every letter. This is the way I write. Because again, there were lots of other books too. Um and you know that's that's to be express expected because again Scripture does not include us include every single detail that we might want to know. And therefore there's a lot of people who want to write and fill in the gaps. So, in fact, the Apostle John had to put to rest a false belief circulating among the first century church, which claimed that he would never die. So again, um there were threats to the canon of sure as to what belongs there and what does But also notice this. You know, you know, look look look at the apostle P Peter in this one case. Peter Was there on the Mount of Transfiguration. I mean, imagine that. Seeing the glory of Jesus Christ But he's he he he's gonna write and say to to us, it doesn't matter if you're not a witness Because we have a more sure witness. This here is the witness we need and we have it. It doesn't, you know, you're you're not missing anything by not being there at the Mount of Transfiguration Because you have the record in the Bible. You have what God has destined you to know. You know, so let's also note that Luke received eyewitness accounts to write his gospel account in the group and the in the book of Acts. So he used eyewitness accounts to write his books. Now, it's widely accepted by Everyone, that all 27 books of the New Testament were composed and therefore accepted by the original audience of the end of the first century. Proof of acceptance is that we have copies of these books, and that these books were available to be cited by the early church fathers. Within another 100 years, all 27 books would be cited. You can just read the read the writings of the of our early church fathers, and they will cite every um tw all twenty-seven books. Now cited some were cited more than um others and within with in within uh another one hundred years Going up to say the to to say the year 300, one can almost claim that every verse in the New Testament had been cited Not every book was quoted by every father, but every book was quoted by someone And there are various translations in lists that bear witness that these twenty-seven books continue continue to be accepted by the church. For example The Old Syriac translation dates to the end of the fourth century, but based on text dating from the second century. This translation included all New Testament books except these books here, 2 Peter, 2 John, 3 John, Jude, and Revelation. These books were omitted from the These books that were omitted were originally destined for the for the church around Turkey, um Greece, that region, not so much for Syria. Um so so these letters had not yet made it for the South, yet, probably. But again, we don't know because most of our manuscripts, they're not complete manuscripts And um so so just because the book is not seen doesn't mean that it did not exist or was not accepted Because we should we should also note that this each book, it's not like all twenty-seven books have the same history All these books were copied individually or in groups. Some of these books were not copied as as often Um for example, no, gospels. I mean those were copied all the time But a book like Jude, a book like Revelation, um it there are many fewer copies that we have of that book. So just because the book is not found in a manuscript doesn't mean that it wasn't there. And that book could also mean that it had fallen off. Because these manuscripts are not complete in most cases. We also have a low old Latin translation that dates to the second century and served as a Bible for the early Western Church. This corresponds also to the Mercuryan canon dating in about A. D. 170. It contains all New Testament books except for these, Hebrews, James, 1 Peter, and 2 Peter. But but a more significant evidence is this codec vera psychoxia It dates to the year 206 and contains 64 of the 66 books that we recognize. Only Esther was missing, and only Revelation is missing from these books. Athanasius, in the year AD 373, he lists all 27 books of the New Testament as canonical. Council of Hippo, Northern Africa, affirmed the 27 books of the of the New Testament, although there were some books of the Apocrypha that were also included. Again, Augustine um had some uh impact, um, but just temporarily So again, summary, the process of of collecting these books began in the first century. They were repeatedly affirmed in 2nd century by the early church fathers through quoting the books heads authoritative And there were obviously now there was various debates among over certain books through the third century, cumulating by the fourth century in a canonical list that has been recognized by the church ever since And again, let's note the canon defines the church. The church itself does not define the canon. So now we come to the, well to the New Testament canon. Now what about these books that were debated? Well let's think that let's talk about this. First of all, there were some books that were accepted by everybody Homolo Gud Mina. The vast majority of the New Testament books were accepted by the church from the beginning and they were never disputed. All the church fathers spoke in favor of the kineticity. These books appeared in virtually all of the major translations in the canonical list of the early church. In fact, we could say that twenty Of the 27 books are in this category. All but Hebrews, James, 2 Peter, 2 John, 3 John, Jude, and Revelation. Now some books like C C five Ehman, First Peter and First John are sometimes Not listed among this category. But we can say that these books were just omitted rather than Again, sometimes these books were just not there in the manuscripts. Um Now, let's talk okay, so now before we get to to the to these disputed groups Let's talk about another category of way, the books rejected by all, the Sudai Pigwell. During the second and the third centuries, numerous prosphorius, you know, heretical writings appeared. The church historian Eusebus would call these books totally absurd. Most of these books are heretical, such as the writings of the Gnostics who claim special knowledge into the into the divine mysteries. These Gnostics would call themselves enlightened, but the church correctly called them heretics. Much like the Old Testament pseudo pigrapha, these books manifested a wild religious fantasy, perhaps revered by some cults. But rejected outright by the early church fathers. Again, like their Old Testament counterparts, these Calphic books evidence an incurable curiosity to discover things not revealed. In the canonical books. Now, the question is, how many of these books are in this group? Well it's it i i it's exactly it's the price number is actually difficult to discern because some books were quickly lost But there are new ones are occasionally brought to light. For example, in the nineteen forties, there was This uh Egyptian shepherd boy named Muhammad Ali, not the boxer, um, and he was digging around and he came upon In the soil a clay pot. Oh, treasure. There must be treasure in this clay pot. So he broke the pot, hoping that there's treasure there. Well, he was disappointed All that was in the pot were these old documents, these old manuscripts, but she did not know what they were And he eventually sold him on the antiquities market. Well, it just so happens that these documents were um that he found were were were books of this category of the pseudo pigropha. And so it it it was fine it was from this finding that we know what some of these Her film C R. So the so new books could occasionally be dug up from the dirt, I suppose. Um And now there's at least two dozen gospel accounts, the most well-known being the Gospel of Thomas, a first I said this is a first century, well first or second century Gnostic document detailing the alleged miracles that Jesus performed in his early childhood Then they then there's a gospel of Joseph the Carpenter in the fourth century writing of the monasticite cult. There was at least eight editions to the book of Acts, such as the second century Acts of Peter, which contained the legend that Peter was crucified upside down. There's also lots of forgies claiming to be from Paul, such as the 2nd century lost epistle to the Corinthians and six letters of Paul to The Mecca. And also Job John John's Revelation contains many apocalyptic topic acts, such as the Apocalypse of Paul and the second apocalypse of James. So there's lots of these books. Now there's some books that that are disputed by some The Anti Laguma. These books of this category are Hebrews, James, 2 Peter, 2 John, 3 John, Jude, and Revelation. Now, there is, of course, much evidence that these books were accepted in the first century, right when they were written. You know, think about John. He's going to write to these seven churches They're each going to receive a letter from the Apostle John. They know this is from God. And They copy it and they send it on. It's read to the church, copied, and and it's passed on to the to the to the next church. That's how in s in s in so on. But they're still disputed by some people. Um and it's b it's basically basically because there's a lack of communication here. And then there's also some books that are accepted by some, the Apocrypha. The distinction between the New Testament Apocrypha and the Pseudo-Apigrypha is not always definitive. But the pseudopri um are books that are not accepted by any of the other church fathers, whereas the apocalypse books would have been accepted by some of them. Now let's talk about these books that were disputed. Hebrews. Why is this book disputed? Well, basically because the writer does not identify himself. And so this anonymity of Hebrews kept open this question of apostolic authority. And the issue arose from among some in the Western church who were not aware of the authority in in original acceptance of this book in the East. In time the Western Church came to accept Hebrews as Pauline, even just as a just had has just had the East Eastern Eastern Church But even if a writer were not Paul or any of the apostles, the writer clearly knew the apostles and wrote the book during this time. And um also this book was also slow to being separated because some Polts misused this book And so this was a great concern to the church because sometimes the Hebrews chapter 6 verses 1 through 8 teaches that a believer may lose his salvation. But here the writer is really warning Jews who had become enlightened to the gospel message that if they turn back to Jerusalem to Judaism, there's salvation nowhere else. Um they've missed salvation. Many scholars today claim that Hebrews, though it is canonical, is not written by Paul. I personally think it is, because I can't think of anyone else who could have written it James. This book was was um questioned because you know James um Um for t two reasons. Who is this James? Um And um you know, was he an apostle? You know who who was this guy? You know, so this issue of Salvation by grace, or is it salvation by works? But both problems were resolved Um, you know, it was accepted that James is the half-brother of Jesus. Um he's the one who presided over the council of Jerusalem in Acts 15 He's an elder in the church. You know, so this problem about justification by works does not contradict what Paul taught. Um so that so so the so that once this agreement um that was that there was no contradiction really then this book was was accepted Okay, second theater. This book actually faced greater doubts than any other book. And that primarily deals with who's the writer. Yes, it says Peter is a writer, and most people would agree that Peter's a writer, but some dispute it, because 2 Peter sounds differently than 1 Peter. There is a difference in style. Now some would uh would would address this issue by assuming that 1 Peter 5 verse 12 implies that Peter actually used a script For First Peter. What's more prob probable is that Savanas delivered the lift. Letter. He did not actually write it. Um, but the apostles always delivered the letters by a trusted Curio known by both the apostle and the church. That is, if you were in a church And somebody came to you and said, this is from Peter, or this is from Paul, how would you know? Because again, um there are counterfeits Well you would know because the person who delivered it you could trust. So some might have an honest doubt about the authorship. Some might intentionally campaign some may I have intentionally campaigned to disprove Second Peter was written by Peter by saying it's not written by Peter. But it should also be noted that yes, there is some differences, but there's also a lot of similarities But but this was a a legitimate concern because again there's loss of imitations, loss of forges, um, loss of counterfeits Um but there are um sufficient um evidence Um that Second Peter is written by um um Peter because several of the Church fathers quote passages that resemble 2 Peter. Even if they don't attribute that to Peter And I'm just going to bypass this because of because of time. So there's really only two possibilities regarding the authorship of 2 Peter. Either it was written by Peter as it claims, or it is pseudo-donus In a fork of a forger who pretended to be Peter. If the latter were true, the author would have been a hypocrite as well as a liar a deceiver of condemning false teachers for being what he himself was in giving a severe warning about divine judgment. And so the early church fathers would immediately reject such forged doctrines, since these fighting definitely were not from the apostles or their or their associates. But we see our early church fathers attesting to this book. And the New Testament places a premium on truthfulness. Oh so second and third John. Why are these books here? Well, they're small. And um, you know, they'll they're not quoted so much. Um they're not all that familial even to us today. Uh And um so so these um but it but the acceptance of these books grew as these books became more widely known Jude. Why is this book here? Well some questions of references to the pseudo-pigopha book of Enoch, and a possible reference to the assumption of Moses in Jude 9 But this book was substantially recognized by the Earth Church Fathers, Uranus, Clement of Alexandria, and And again, this quote from the Studio Pegova book is not is not essentially different from the citations made by Paul of the non-Christian poets, for example In Acts chapter 17, verse 28. Jude's quoting merely cites the book No, huge quoting neither cites the book as authoritative or vouches for everything in the book. The quote merely cites a truth from the book. Now, let's talk about Revelation. This book actually had some debate. Some really nasty debate, actually. This book was recognized by the early church fathers including Paupeeus, Justin Martyr, the Mur the Moratorian fragment, uh Uranus Clement, Torturian of origin um c p um seem method ts. But this book was in the in the docket in in the third century The case being determined completely on its apostolic authorship. Actually, there's one more reason. There was this bishop of Al Alexandria Dionysius. No, he was a godly man, a very godly man, well known, well respected He was very staunt in his excess on correct doctrine, but he hated this book. And so he campaigned against this book. And the root cause of his criticism against this book Was his strong opposition to the teaching of the thousand-year kingdom on earth And so he attacked this book on the authorship, claiming that John did not write this book. Now he may have considered this book to be of some value, but he did not want it in a canon. So he claims this book could not have been written by John since he knew that the authorship was a primary factor in accepting a book. And so he objected to this book in these ways. He said the writer does not claim to be John. That is, he does not include his name in any of his other writings. Therefore, why is he including it here? So therefore, this John must be someone else. In regard to the general construction of the recognized Johannin apostolic writings, Dionysus Dionysius notes that the gospel in the first epistle begin in similar ways. In the beginning was the word, and that which was from the beginning. So again, this does not occur in Revelation. And he come and he comes up with this long list of vocabulary. That's that's found in Revelation or not found in and not found in the other other epistles, or found in the epistles and not found in Revelation. So therefore he he concludes these two guns are are different. Um You know, for for example, he writes to the to the to um to um Eurosidius The former, the Gospel and the Epistle, are not only written in the fullest Greek, but also show the greatest skill in their diction, the reasonings, in the constructions in which they express There's a complete absence of any barbarous word or solicitism or any vocalism whatsoever. For the author had a As it seems, both kinds of word, three gifts of the Lord, the word of knowledge and the word of speech. Now, I would not deny that the other writer, the writer of Revelation, had received revelations and received knowledge and prophecy. Nevertheless, I observed his style and that his use of the Greek language is not accurate, but he employs barbarous idioms, in some places committing down rights So it's that is that is he claims rev revelation is horrible right Okay, so what do we do about that? Well, again, that's so theological bias can affect one's approach to scripture in various radical ways. Dionysius had a theological axe to grind, and this brought into question an almost unanimous tradition that had been handed down to him Now tradition preserved from the ancient church is on the whole quite reliable. When some church fathers went astray in his writings, there was generally a sufficient response to counteract the error. These early Christians were not ignorant and uninformed. We can learn a lot from the early church fathers. That is, the church fathers claimed Revelation to be canonical, to be from John. And there's also a danger in resolve in relying solely on internal evidence for conclusions about authorship when there's a strong consensus of ancient tradition covering the same field. Different books written by the same author can show differences in construction, themes, and vocabulary to express properly the subject content. Even in different books and different subjects, there can still usually many similarities, such as this case between the gospel and the apocalypse. One must not exaggerate the differences and ignore the similarities. Dionysius exaggerated the differences But he completely ignored how these books will come. Now his influence would wane Um, because there was other giants of the faith that would defend this book. Athanasius, Jerome, Augustine came to the book's defense. Indeed, Athanasius is generally given credit for saving the book. He valued the historic position of his church above the critical opinions of Dionysius and Eusebius, who shared much the same opinion On this book, has Dionysius stopped short of an outright denial of canosity because he knew he was at odds with the church in this matter. So that is how we have the 27 books that we recognize in the New Testament. Well, we're going to do two of them. Two of them stop right here And next week we'll we'll we'll we'll we'll we'll don't we'll delve into into more about this New Testament apostrophe. So um so let me pray