So when we think about change, uh just reflecting a little bit on what he was saying there, you know, the we tend to think about the problems in our life as I the way I overcome them is by doing certain things You know, I have to take steps uh to change. And that's certainly true. What we often neglect is what he was reflecting here, what we'll talk about in a moment. Uh and that is that uh we're in a relationship with Christ. That we can't look at our lives in a legalistic way of I'm supposed to live up to this standard, and so here are the things that I have to do to live up to that standard. I think the first metaphor he threw out of how how how might we think about our relationship with God was this employee-boss metaphor. that man if I just do all the right things then my boss will be happy with me, he won't get me in trouble, I won't get a pink flip one day. And that's just how we naturally tend to think, at least most of us do. And so it's so important for us to embrace what the Scripture says, and that is that change happens, growth happens as we delve deeper into our relationship with God. Uh ma maybe put it another way, when you think about the three statements that you've memorized, my goal in life is to please God. I please God by being like Christ, and God knows I'm not going to be perfect, but He does expect me to be growing, those can sound very I'll use the word legalistic in the sense of it's just laws. And that it can sound that way, but then when you just take the next step and you realize who is God and who is Christ, uh it is my savior. He is my savior. He is the lover of my soul. He is the one whose spirit dwells inside of me and who has promised never to leave me or forsake me and who strengthens me and works in me. And so there's a a dynamic relationship that we have with God that empowers and motivates us to change. And so that's what I just want to highlight even more this morning. So if you have a Bible, go to Ephesians chapter 4. Ephesians chapter 4 And we're going to start, I'm going to read verses seventeen to twenty-four. Ephesians four seventeen says, So this I say, and affirm together with the Lord, that you no longer walk Just as the Gentiles also walk in the futility of their mind, being darkened in their understanding, excluded from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, because of the hardness of their heart. And they, having become callous, have given themselves over to sensuality for the practice of every kind of impurity with greediness But you did not learn Christ in this way, if indeed you have heard him and have been taught in him just as the truth is in Jesus. That in reference to your former manner of life, you lay aside the old self, which is being corrupted in accordance with the lusts of deceit. And that you be renewed in the spirit of your mind, and that you put on the new self, which in the likeness of God has been created in righteousness and holiness of the truth. Alright, so in this passage we have kind of two two ideas. One idea is the reality that if we're in Christ We should no longer walk as the Gentiles do or as unbelievers do, is what he means by Gentiles. That there is a way of living, there's a lifestyle, there's a mentality, a way of thinking, there's a pursuit in life that is true of unbelievers, was true of us when we were unbelievers. And he says, don't live that way anymore. Don't think that way anymore. Christ didn't teach you to live that way. You haven't been taught in Christ to live that way, so stop living that way Instead, in verses 22 and 24 to 24, he gives us three aspects or three Engines, if you will, uh of change. In fact, let me uh let me draw it this way. I I'm not an artist or the son of an artist, but my daughter's an artist, and so that qualifies me, right? So let's see if anybody can guess what that is. I'm no. I'll give you a hint. This is a material object. I'm I'm I'm guessing nobody's gonna guess this but this is not a bowling ball? It is a terrible drawing. I don't know if anybody said that, but every aspect of our life is intertwined with Jesus. No, alright, just maybe one more one more and then I'll tell you and then you'll see how horrible of an earth that is. Sinn of Beeba. Amiba. Wait, wait, what what I hear over here? Okay, no. Can we get a water? Okay, no, no, no. Alright. Alright. As soon as I say this, you're gonna be like, yeah, that's bad. Okay. This is the bottom of a rocket Oh. Can you see the fire shooting out of here? Come on, you've seen the bottom of rockets, you know those those all right. What are these? These are engines. The process of change that Scripture presents to us uh is not a step-by-step, you know, do one thing, then the next thing, then the next thing Uh I've often used the illustration of a a three-legged stool that, you know, in order for you to sit on a stool, then you have to have all three legs, otherwise, you know, you're gonna fall Uh th this came to me recently and I thought that is this is so much better. Not the drawing, but the idea. Engine, three engines If we're going to move forward in life, if we're going to be propelled higher and higher, if you will, if I can use that language, in the Christian life, there are three engines that the Lord uh gives us, tells us about, that must be in operation for us to grow and change. Now, verses twenty-through to twenty-four give us those three engines, if you will. What are what are the three engines that you see in verses twenty-two to twenty-four? What's one of them? Lay aside. Lay aside what? Good. Lay aside the old self. What's the second one? Put on the new self. Put on the new self? And what is it? Be renewed in the spirit of your minds. Alright, I'm not putting these in any order. So put off, be renewed in the spirit of your mind and put on Uh even though the text does make it uh translate it differently between lay aside and put on. Uh the the word is the same. And the language there is uh the the language we would use to take off and put on clothing clothing. It's a dr those are dressing terms. And the idea is the old man is like a a soiled dirty garment that you need to take off and then put on clean clothes Right. Um my brother in law uh is uh one of my brother in laws is a mechanic and he would come home and you can imagine what his clothes were like when he came home, right? He was greasy, he'd been working on cars all day, and uh his his wife, my wi my wife's sister, would say, You have to change. You cannot sit on the furniture with that clothes on, right? That's that's the old man that the the sinful uh old part of us uh is something that we need to take off. And it's it's simply a metaphor for the word stop. Stop living the way you shouldn't live. Stop living like the Gentiles. Stop engaging in the behaviors that mirror ungodliness Stop doing the things that are displeasing to God. And then he says in verse 23, be renewed in the spirit of your mind. Now there's a there's a passive aspect to that. Grammatically it's passive, be renewed. But what he's reflecting there is allow the truth of God to renew your mind. Put yourself in a humble position, sitting under the Word of God, where the truth of God's word is renewing, refreshing uh shaping you uh according to the truth. So that you think the way that God thinks, you love the things that God loves, you hate the things that God hates uh that you are cultivating the mind of Christ. First Corinthians two talks about the fact that those who are Unbelievers do not have the mind of Christ. They cannot understand the things of God, but we have the mind of Christ. Of course, not inherently on our own, but by the Spirit. The Spirit reveals to believers there's excuse me, the in illuminating work of the Spirit by which uh we are able to understand and know the truth that's been revealed by God. And so we part of the process of change is to allow the truth of God to shape our thinking so that we have the mind of Christ. So put off Stop uh sinning, stop doing the things that are displeasing to God, be renewed in the spirit of your mind. And then the third one is put on, which simply is to start doing the things that are consistent with that mind of Christ. Start living in ways that reflect reality from God's perspective. One way to think about sin is sin is the practice of insanity. Because sin is inherently lies in deception, whenever we sin we're violating the real dynamics of life. We're thinking about life Wrongly. We're we're thinking about life in very temporary, very selfish ways, and we're completely ignoring eternal realities. We're ignoring who God is. You know, we lie to ourselves and think, well, I'll never get away with this No one will ever know about this, you know, nobody sees this. This has no impact on anybody anybody else. We tell ourselves all kinds of lies, and that's insane. Right? We might as well be saying, I'm Napoleon, I can do whatever I want Uh but that's what we do whenever we sin. And so by renewing the mind we think the way that God has us to think, and then putting on means engaging in life, living life in a way that's consistent with that renewed mind We are cultivating habits of life, it would be another way to put it, consistent with the truth. Now notice how he says there The new self put on the new self in verse 24, which in the likeness of God has been created in righteousness and holiness of the truth. So what he's saying there is the new self is something that God has already created in you. The new self is the fulfillment of the new covenant promise of a new heart and a new spirit. It's our condition as a regenerated person that we have spiritual life in us that God has given us And he's saying, uh cultivate that. Live consistent with what God has put inside of you already. Alright, so put off, be renewed in the spirit of your mind, and put on. Again, those are not chronological steps, one and then the other and then the other. We're doing all of those things at the same time. The reason that we often struggle to change is because whatever habit we have in our life, we tend to think, I just need to stop. Just don't do that anymore. Just don't do that. Stop, stop, stop, stop. And that's it. And we can't we can't stop because we're not thinking any differently. Uh and we're not doing anything differently. We're just trying to stop. Just avoid it. And you know And that's it. And so if we just have that one engine of put off that's flaring and the other two are are shut down, we're not going to get very far. You might have some success. Every once in a while you manage to to avoid that simple behavior, but uh but ultimately it's not going to lead to lasting change. We could also put off and put on. We could replace our behavior where we stop doing the thing that we don't want to do anymore and we start doing something else in its place. And that can be a really good thing. Or it can be just replacing one bad thing for another bad thing Years ago I counseled a a man who was struggling with uh alcohol and as I'm getting to know him and uh understanding the you know ch the challenge that he's facing and and dynamics and whatnot. Uh he said, well I started drinking alcohol to quit smoking. So he he stopped smoking. Hey that's that's good. But now at that point he was, you know, an alcoholic and destroying his life as a result. He put off smoking and he put on alcoholism That's not biblical change, right? Now let's just say he put off smoking and he put on uh golfing. Is that biblical change? Not really. Now golfing is not inherently sinful. I suppose it could be, you know, depending on various factors, but in and of itself the game of golf is not inherently simple. But that's not necessarily becoming more like Christ, right? If the goal is to glorify God by becoming like Christ than putting off a sinful behavior for a hobby that has no spiritual benefit in and of itself, then you're not necessarily becoming more like Christ, you're just behaving differently. And again, that's what we often tend to do. We replace one behavior for another, and we may not be overtly sinning, or let me put it this way, we might be sinning less uh and less overtly, but that doesn't necessarily mean that we've changed for the glory of God. Yeah, so that's where uh it I think this is helpful because all three really are are integrated into each other So the what what you're saying there is in order to put off you have to understand uh the the w what it is that you're putting off. And that's also part of the the renewing your mind is is you want to Think about your sin uh as it really is. Um think about the gravity of it, uh the the fullness of it, uh the implications of it. Uh why is it sin? Why is it a problem? Uh you know, sometimes we might think of something in our life and we think of it more as an annoyance and so we want to change that behavior because you know we just eh we don't like it and You know, I just I don't wan wanna be like that anymore. Well that's fine. But uh is there more to that behavior that would be helpful for us to understand? Does God see that behavior uh in in a deeper way other than it's just an annoyance Like for example, uh if uh um i if you uh have a tendency to snooze your alarm clock. You know, man, I just I just wanna uh I don't wanna do that. I just want to be able to get up so that I have the time to do what I need to do before, you know, I get on with my day Well, uh y you could be thinking of it just in a very, very practical way of I j I just want to not uh be hurried and harried and you know show up uh to whatever activities, work or otherwise. um stressed out and you know you're thinking very kind of um uh practically, logistically about it. Nothing wrong with that. But is there a way that God would have us to think about uh our time and our sleep? Um and so part of the renewing your mind is thinking, well, how how would God have me think about my time management? Uh about how I should be spending time, like am I giving myself even time to spend with him in the morning? Um What are my priorities? Are my priorities aligned with God's priorities? How am I demonstrating or not demonstrating love to God and others by this habit? And how would changing the habit help me honor the Lord and and and show love to others uh in a better way. There's just all kinds of things that we need to understand about whatever whatever it is that we're trying to change, we want to understand the mind of God on that Um and and when we have a better understanding of it, that's when we'll be more able to put it off because we'll see the reality of it. Um yesterday I was teaching the men's breakfast on the uh disciplines of godly man and we're talking about uh you know the pursuit of godliness And one of the things that I was saying was the reason that we often uh don't love God the way we ought to love God is because we don't understand our sin the way we ought to understand our sin. Godliness, just to give you a little uh thought here, Jerry Bridges defines godliness as the div as devotion to God that leads to a life that's pleasing to God. Devotion to God that leads to a life that's pleasing to God, that's godliness. And then he defines devotion to God as having three components: the fear of God, the love of God, and the desire for God. The love of God, of course, is our response to what God has done for us in Christ. And so we understand that he has loved us, and therefore we are to love him, 1 John 4. We love because he first loved us. But, you know, if we're honest, we we sometimes don't really have uh a a significant response to the gospel, right? We hear the gospel, we're so familiar with it, we hear it all the time, we're just like, yeah, that's the gospel, you know, no big deal. Christ died for my sins. All right. Praise the Lord. There's there's not really a compelling response that we have to that. Why is that? Well I think part of the reason, a huge part of the reason, is because we don't really understand our sin. And because we don't understand our sin, we don't think highly enough of the work of Christ on our behalf. And so part of putting off is to more fully and deeply understand the reality of our sin so that we grow in hatred of it and and don't want to do it, despise it, uh, and and there therefore are are more more motivated to put it off. All right, put off, put on, re-r renew the mind. Any other thoughts or comments before I take one more step? Yeah. Okay. So we've been looking at the process of change. uh from Ephesians four. Now, Ephesians, as uh many of you know, has six chapters. So chapter four is in the middle. And that's helpful to us because in the wisdom of of God, as the Spirit inspired Paul to write this letter, which of course he didn't write it in chapters and verses. but just in terms of the flow, the first half of the letter, which for us is chapters one through three, focus heavily, if not entirely, on uh the the work of God through Christ on our behalf. And then the second half, chapters four through six, mostly focus on uh our lives and how we should live. So the reason that's important is to come back to the theme of the video. When we're thinking about the process of change We can quite literally we or we have to think of it literally in the middle of the context of what God has done for us in Christ. Or put it another way, our relationship with Christ, or put it another way, our identity in Christ. It's a relatively short letter, but it's not until a little bit past halfway through that Paul starts talking about what does it mean to live a life that's pleasing to God. He's spent a significant portion of time talking about what God has done for us in Christ. Now we don't have time to go through that, so I'm going to give you a homework assignment that if you want to Really put uh put some effort into renewing your mind and uh being reminded of what Christ has done for us. Uh you can go through Ephesians this week just kind of verse by verse, paragraph by paragraph, and identify what are the the things that God has done for us in Christ. What has God done for us in Christ? As well, you could ask the question of the text, who am I in Christ? What is my new identity because of what God has done for us in Christ? Christ. And when you bring all of those things together, and you can there's there's elements of that in chapter four, there's elements of that in chapter five and in chapter six. So it's not exclusive to the first three chapters. Go through the whole thing. And when you put all of those together, just spend some time praising God. Lord, thank you. Thank you for what you've done. Thank you for who you've made me in Christ. Thank you for this new relationship that I have with you in Christ that uh that empowers me now to to live a life that's pleasing to you, that motivates me to pursue Christ-likeness. It would do no good if we, you know, managed to overcome our sinful behavior and became nice people, but it wasn't in the context of uh growing in our relationship with God. We want to have God, we want to experience God glorifying change, Christ modeled change. And of course Christ Himself lived out of who he was as the Son of God. And so uh the more that we understand what God has done for us in Christ, the more we will be empowered uh to change. You know, sometimes I hear people say, I can't. I can't change. I I I can't stop doing this in. I can't avoid that. I I can't whatever. I I can't change. Only the unbeliever can say that, legitimately. Only the unbeliever lacks the power, the truth. uh the motivation to change. The believer, if they're thinking rightly about themselves, has everything you need. This is this 2 Peter 1. 3 uh that we have everything that we need to glorify God for life and godliness. What we often lack is right thinking and right motivation. And so I would just encourage you that as you think about the issue in your life that you want to grow and change in, this week as you walk through Ephesians and identify the work of God in Christ uh on your behalf, your identity in Christ. Think about wha how you can uh direct uh or connect those truths to that issue in your life. If this is true about me, if I've been redeemed in Christ, if I've been sealed by the Spirit, if I've been forgiven in Christ, and all the things that that you'll identify in Ephesians, if those things are true about me, what does that mean for this issue, this struggle that I'm seeking to grow and change in? You can make direct connections to that. Because you do have the power in Christ. You have the Holy Spirit dwelling within you if you are a believer in Christ, if you've been saved. Okay, the second assignment that I want to give you, again if you want to really uh Grow and change and to glorify God is as you think about the put off, put on, and be renewed in the spirit of your minds, I want you to to sit down and think about the issue you want to grow in and identify what is it that you need to put off? What what are the behaviors, what are the habits, uh, what are the the things in your life that need to be put off, that need to be stopped, that need to be uh taken out that need to be removed. You know, like Jesus said, if your bright eye causes you to sin, cut it off, throw it away. Figurative obviously, but what one of the things that in order for you to to grow in change you need to remove from your life? Secondly, what are the things that that uh you need to think differently about? Uh and and maybe part of that is is uh you know I I need to learn how to think differently about this issue I need to understand God's perspective on this sin, this struggle, whatever it is. But what is it that you need to be renewed in your mind and how would God have you think about that? Maybe you already know, you just haven't sat sat down and taken the time to articulate it for yourself. How would God have me to think about this? And then third, what are the things that I can put on? How how can I uh add to my life what habits, what behaviors, what words can I uh cultivate in my life that will replace the sinful Things that are there. Alright, so just apply the put off, be renewed, and put on to that particular issue Alright, I'm going to stop there. I'll tell you this. If you want a bonus homework assignment, I had hoped to have the time to do this, but verses 25 to 32 there of Ephesians 4. is Paul's application of the put-off be renewed and put on to various issues in people's lives. So a bonus homework assignment is to identify what's the put off, what's the put on, and what's the be renewed aspect of each of those issues that Paul addresses in verses 25 to 32. Uh as an example. Alright? And I'll I'll review those uh quickly next week. Okay. Let me pray. Yes you do. Yes we do. Bonus points in heaven. All right. Very good. This time that we've shared together to reflect on these things, Lord, this is your word, this is the truth. And because it is the truth, it carries authority, and for those who believe it carries power uh power by your spirit. And Lord, I pray that you would help each one of us to uh be honest with ourselves, to reflect on our own lives and where our struggles are uh and to be able to take the the truth of your word and apply it to those issues so that we can glorify you and become more like Christ and cultivate this relationship with you that you have established with us in Christ Uh Lord, help us not to be a people who are just about the the externals, the behavior, uh the doing. We we want to we want to do right, we want to live lives that are pleasing, but Lord help us to have uh a changed heart and uh a love for you that drives uh all that we do in life. I ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.