Well take your Bible with me and turn to John chapter 7 for our message today. Actually let me just add one note to what Pastor Christopher said about the conference. I would love as many of you to attend as possible, knowing the wonderful benefit it will be for you personally and for our church collectively as a local family, as a family of Christ that we are. And so if the uh cost of it is of any hindrance to you, we don't want that to be the case. And so I'm gonna um tell you a coupon code you can use to get fifty percent off that conference and it's HBC fifty That will give you 50% off and you can decide whether you want to use it or not. If you want to pay full price, you're more than welcome. If it would be helpful for you, maybe you parents, to hire a babysitter to have a lower cost, take advantage of that. Or if the the uh discount would be in any way help you to attend. We wanna offer that to you. The Lord has certainly provided for us to be able to cover the costs. uh both through registrations as well through other resources. So please take advantage of that. Clear your schedule if you're able and and participate that. That'll be a wonderful blessing. All right, John chapter 7. Our text for today is John chapter 7, verses 14 to 24. And in this text We see Jesus confront the Jewish leaders about their unjust judgment of him That they judge him is not necessarily the problem. It's the way they judge him. That's the primary problem. And in the process of confronting them about their unjust judgment, Jesus gives us the right way to judge him. And then as well, this whole passage presents to us a model that the disciples of Jesus, hopefully that's you and I. can follow in being like our Lord as f in faithfully proclaiming the truth Now there are some of you here in this room who do not know, or who do not believe, I should say, that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, or at least you haven't believed that to the point where you have bowed the knee to submit to Jesus as Lord of your life. Most of you have, but even if you have, you know people in your life, family members, co-workers, others that you know who haven't submitted to Christ. One way to think about believing in Jesus is that believing is a a way of making a judgment about him. Now we need to be careful with this because the reality is we are in no place to judge Jesus As his creation, we do not have the right to determine what we think to be good and true and right In fact, to put ourselves in the judge's bench is to presume that we have the requisite skills and ability and knowledge and perspective to make Accurate assessments about God the Father and God the Son Believing in Jesus is not so much a positive judgment about him as much as it is submitting to the reality of who he is. On the other hand, to not believe in Jesus is in fact to make a judgment about him. To not believe and embrace and submit to the rule of Jesus over your life is to put yourself on the bench and make a judgment about Jesus Christ. And so in our passage today, we see people doing just that. And what Jesus effectively says to them is, if you're going to judge me, at least do it on the basis of what is right and true. Now, in the end, when someone, if we can say, judges Jesus rightly, they immediately realize that they are not the judge. He is. And they need to hurry down from the bench and get behind that defendant's bet uh desk and plead for mercy from the judge of all the earth. So if you have not yet done that, I pray that the Spirit will work that reality in your heart this morning. Well follow along as I read John chapter 7 verses 14 to 24. The Word of God says, About the middle of the feast, Jesus went up into the temple and began teaching. The Jews therefore marveled, saying, How is it that this man has learning when he has never studied? So Jesus answered them, My teaching is not mine, but his who sent me. If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether the teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority. The one who speaks on his own authority seeks his own glory. But the one who seeks the glory of him who sent him is true, and in him there is no falsehood. Has not Moses given you the law? Yet none of you keeps the law. Why do you seek to kill me? The crowd answered, You have a demon who is seeking to kill you? Jesus answered them, I did one work, and you all marvel at it. Moses gave you circumcision, not that it is from Moses, but from the fathers, and you circumcise a man on the Sabbath If on the Sabbath a man receives circumcision, so that the law of Moses may not be broken, are you angry with me because on the Sabbath I man I made a man's whole body well Do not judge by appearances, but judge with right judgment Now John told us down in chapter two of this chapter that this is the feast of boots. It's also been called the Feast of Tabernacles or the Feast of Sakot, depending on or depending on the Hebrew word there. According to Leviticus 23, this feast is one of the three feasts that all faithful Jews were required to attend. Taking place in the seventh month on the Hebrew calendar, which for us is around September, October The feast celebrated two things. First, it celebrated the forty years of wilderness wanderings where the Lord provided for and protected his people. And second, it celebrated God's provision in the harvest year after year. And so to celebrate God's provision through the harvest and his protection and and uh care for his people through the wilderness wanderings, the people would do several things to celebrate this, and this is all outlined in Leviticus 23. First, they would live in booths. You could call them tents, but they weren't shelters made of animal skins as a tent might have been at in that time. Rather, they were leafy branches that were put together to create a temporary shelter And so those who would travel from outside Jerusalem would make their booths, their tabernacles around the city on the hills. Those who lived in the city would actually make their dwelling places on the roofs of their houses houses so that they would dw dwell in tent even though they owned a home right there. That was to remember the fact that for 40 years the people of God moved from place to place, dwelling temporarily in the wilderness. Second, the priest would offer more sacrifices at this feast than at any other feast. This was an eight-day feast and throughout the eight days one hundred and eighty-two sacrifices would be made. They would sacrifice seventy bulls, fourteen rams, ninety-eight lambs, and a number of meal offerings to go along with those animal sacrifices. Those sacrifices were not performed performed by the people themselves, but by the priests on behalf of the people And then on the third day of their harvest, or r not on third day, but uh the the third element of their celebration was that out of their harvest And the abundance that the Lord provided, the people would give their own free will offerings and vow offerings, expressing their heart of gratitude to the Lord for his provision. The first and the eighth day of this feast were days of solemn remembrance and worship. But days two through seven were times of celebration feasting and joy, as the people would remember together God's goodness and faithfulness. There's one more component to this feast that's often been neglected, and that's found in Deuteronomy thirty one, where it says this. And this has some relevance to our passage today. It says, at the end of every seven years, at the time in the year of the release, at the Feast of Booze When all Israel comes together to appear before the Lord your God at the place that he will choose, you will read this law before all Israel in their hearing. Assemble the people, men, women, and little ones, and the sojourner within your towns, that they may hear and learn to fear the Lord your God And be careful and do all the words of this law, and that their children who have not known it may hear and learn to fear the Lord your God, as long as you live in the land that you are going over the Jordan to possess So every seven years the people were to come together and hear the law of Moses again and again, so that it would be passed on from generation to generation. So the Feast of Booth was a time of worship. It was a time of celebration. It was a time of feasting, of sacrifice, and at least every seven years a time of teaching. These are the biblically prescribed elements of the Feast of Booths that God gave for them to remember His goodness and faithfulness. And as happens in any culture over time, there are additional traditions that were developed, and we'll see some of those as we work through the rest of chapter 7 and into chapter 8. But we saw last time that, according to verse 10, Jesus went up to the feast privately. Whatever that means exactly, he ensured that no one knew when he was coming so that there wouldn't be any kind of a welcoming party. And he also didn't do anything when he arrived to make his presence known. Perhaps as he did six months later with the Passover, he sent his disciples ahead to make arrangements so that he could come under the radar And even though he didn't make himself publicly known, again as we see earlier in the passage, Jesus was the center of attention at this feast. We saw in verses 10 to 13 that the Jewish leaders themselves were looking for Jesus, and those among the people were quietly whispering to each other their various opinions about him. It certainly wouldn't have taken much by Jesus to spark a firestorm of attention and controversy. As is the case with human nature, people were judging Jesus. In their hearts, they were either hanging on the words of Jesus Or they were hanging Jesus with his words. In their minds, they looked at his actions and either declared him to be a good man. Or declared him to be a lawbreaker. So there's a lot of judging going around, and most of that judgment was unjust, it was irrational, and it was false. Some judged him out of jealousy. Some judged him out of false piety. Others judged him out of false expectations, and still others judged him out of pure ignorance. And this still happens today. 2,000 years later, people still judge Jesus in their minds. Based on what they think they know about him. Now, of course, today nobody has first-hand knowledge about him, as did the Jews in that day, but through books, movies, even cartoons And certainly religious instruction, Christian or otherwise, people in our society have who have heard the name of Jesus have some kind of opinion about him. It's usually not enough for somebody to affirm simply that he existed as some historical figure. People tend to have some judgment they hold about him, positive, negative, or even indifferent. And again, the problem is that by and large, opinions about Jesus aren't based on any legitimate standard. They're based On ignorance and error. So their judgments are not only false, but unjust. What the people needed in Jesus' day, and what we all need today, is to use the right criteria in judging Jesus. If you are going to make a determination about him, if you're going to have an opinion about him, at least judge him on the right grounds. If you're going to condemn him, then do it on proper evidence. And if you're going to determine that he is, in fact, the Son of God, then be sure that you know why. And so what Jesus does in this passage is give two standards by which he must be judged. Two standards. If you're going to judge Jesus, at least judge him first by his humility. And second, by his submission. Humility and submission are not only how we must evaluate Jesus and observe the reality of who he is, but they also are qualities that we who are his followers should cultivate if we're going to faithfully represent him to the world around us. So let's begin by considering that we must judge Jesus by his humility. We're going to see here in verses 14 to 18 that Jesus displays humility in his teaching by not taking glory for himself, but by rather pointing to the glory of God. And this is in contrast to the religious leaders whose teaching always pointed to themselves or others like them. Look again at verse 14. It says, about the middle of the feast, Jesus went up into the temple and began teaching. Notice what Jesus did when he went into the temple. He began teaching. And whether he did this in obedience to Deuteronomy 31, we're not entirely sure. But Jesus did really what was common among the rabbis. If you've ever seen a picture or a drawing of the Temple Mount, you know that it's a very large space, in fact of about 450 acres. And most of that is open space, but all around the edges, there were colonnades, which were backed by the wall of the Temple Mount It was roofed, and then pillars on the front side held up the roof. And so rabbis would gather their disciples in one particular area of the Temple Mount and teach them. And so, all around the Temple Mount, there would be various groups of rabbis and their disciples engaged in the process of teaching and learning. And in fact, the book of Acts tells us that this is exactly what the church did when it began. They met on the Temple Mount for the purpose of teaching and fellowship. So it's not like Jesus when he went into the temple did something utterly unique by beginning to teach In fact, it's very likely that on that very day there were other rabbis in various places teaching their little group of disciples. Now it seems that as Jesus taught, that he drew a crowd. John doesn't indicate that this created some big ruckus that as if all the people on the Temple Mount came to listen to Jesus, but But as Jesus taught, people came and people listened. And it seemed they listened long enough, at least, for him to teach some substantial amount of truth for others to evaluate. And notice that it says in verse 15 The Jews, therefore, marveled. They were amazed. They were astonished. They were surprised. It wasn't so much the crowd that marveled, though that's probably true. Here specifically, John tells us it was the Jews, that is, the religious leaders, particularly those who were antagonistic toward Jesus, the Pharisees, the Sadducees, the Scribes. The professional teachers marveled at Jesus' teaching. Notice what they say there in verse 15. How is it that this man has learning when he has never studied? Now if you read that in the English, which we just did. That can sound very positive. They could all almost be amazed and even encouraged by that. But the reality is, in the Greek, the tone of this is a tone of disdain. And quite literally says, how could how has this learned knowledge net w not having studied They didn't call him a man. They certainly didn't call him a rabbi. All they could get out was the demonstrative this. It's like they were saying, how does this, this, I don't know what to call him, but how does he know stuff stuff Now today, given the virtually unlimited amount of information available to anybody who has an internet connection, which is pretty much everybody Being self-taught is not only possible, but in many cases it's expected. I remember even 20 years ago, my boss at a software company preferred those who were self-taught over those who went to college. But learning in ancient times was radically different. People didn't have books. They didn't even have access to libraries. There was only one way to learn anything. And that was under the in-person tutelage of another person, of a rabbi, a teacher, a master. Now education was very important to the Jews, and so children would go to school hosted in synagogues all around the nation in every city. And among other subjects, they would be instructed in the law of Moses and its application to life. And since students didn't have textbooks, they didn't have copies of the scripture or any other book for the very subject matter, neither were there books at the home for them to read. The method of instruction was repetition and memorization. And so Jesus, like other children, would have received as he was growing up the instruction that would enable him to live before God and live as a faithful Jew and participate in the feasts and ceremonies and sacrifices that God required. If that's all that Jesus was teaching, if he was effectively communicating what for them would have been an elementary education in the Scripture, nobody would have marveled. Nobody would have been surprised. They might have even been a little bit scoffing at the basic reality of his teaching, but that's not what he taught. And so the Jews here, when they say that he hasn't learned, that he hasn't studied, they're not saying that Jesus has no education. They're saying that he hasn't had the kind of education required to teach. As we know, generally speaking, the kind of education that you need in order to take the role of a teacher is more elevated, more advanced than the r than what everybody tends to receive on an e particular topics. And this was especially true of religious truth, rather of religious instruction. To teach the scripture, one needed intense an extensive training, not only of the scripture itself, but also of the tradition of the elders that had been handed down among the Jews from century to century. And in addition to knowing the tradition of the elders, perhaps in their minds most important In teaching the scripture was a mastery of the various rabbinical interpretations of scripture And the reason that that was most important is because it's not so much the scriptures that the rabbis taught, it was the interpretation of the rabbis of the scripture that was taught. Truth was not so much what does the scripture say, but what do the respected rabbis say? And so a good teacher was not defined by their ability to help you understand the scripture. No, a good teacher was one who could tell you what the respected rabbis said the scriptures said. And so, as a result, the rabbis, in order to teach the scripture, had to be adept at clothing other rabbis. Now the teaching of Jesus was nothing like that. Were there times where he quoted other rabbis? Yes, there were. You would often hear him say something like, You have heard that it was said before. The problem is, whenever he quoted other rabbis, he only did it to contradict them and show them how they were wrong. And to say what Scripture actually meant. But most of the time Jesus didn't quote anybody He taught both the scripture and he revealed truth not contained in the Old Testament about the kingdom of God, and he did it with authority and without any reference to anybody else. And so it was this utterly unique approach to teaching that always left crowds amazed at his teaching Maybe you remember that at the end of the Sermon on the Mount, which is found in Matthew 5 through 7, it says, And when Jesus finished these sayings, the crowds were astonished at his teaching. For he was teaching them as one who had authority and not as their scribes. So the people were amazed at the teaching of Jesus. The Jews, though, were incensed by it. For them, it was the height of humility to quote other people. And the height of pride and arrogance not to quote other people. The rabbis assumed that teaching without quotations amounted to self-promotion. After all, how can you say you know the scripture better than the well-educated and respected and experienced and trusted rabbis? In their minds, certainly not this uneducated Jesus. So the Jews The Jewish religious leaders judged Jesus based on his lack of advanced education, and therefore they perceived him to be arrogant and self-promoting. Now notice that they don't challenge the content of what he said. By and large, throughout Jesus' public teaching ministry, they never charged him with anything with saying anything that's contrary to scripture. In fact, the only issue they could come up with for the charge of blasphemy was the fact that he claimed to be the Son of God But whenever he taught the scripture, whenever he answered their theological and their practical questions from the scripture, they were silenced by the simplicity and the clarity and the accuracy of his teaching. And so it is on this occasion. They they couldn't speak against the teaching itself, but they came up with this charge of effectively self-promotion on the basis that He hadn't done any formal study, and therefore he wasn't relying on the rabbinical authority, and therefore his teaching must be his own invention. That's what they're questioning when they say how is it that this man has learned has learning when he has never studied? Look at Jesus' answer in verse 16. He says, My teaching is not mine, but his who sent me. My teaching is not mine, but his who sent me. In response to their charge of self-promotion, Jesus points away from himself and to the one who sent him. And so here again, Jesus aligns himself not with any of the rabbinical schools of the day, but with God. The scripture ultimately comes from God, of course, and so even when Jesus taught truth that went beyond what the scripture said and What the s what God had previously revealed, everything he taught was consistent with the Scripture, which validated then the source of his teaching. If you read the Old Testament, you know that many times the prophets would declare that their message was not their own, but God's by saying, Thus says the Lord. And so in doing so, they were explicitly clear, hey, this is not my message. This is God speaking. Now Jesus in his teaching never says, thus says the Lord, but he did say, at least in one place, The Father who sent me has himself given me a commandment, what to say and what to speak. And here he says, my teaching is not mine, but his who sent me. It's just another way of saying, thus says the Lord. And so Jesus affirms here that his teaching, like the prophets, comes from God. Now that's interesting because as the Son of God, in intimate union with the Father, there is a sense in which he could have said, he could have claimed to be the source of all that he says. But he ensures that he never takes responsibility, or maybe that's not the best way to put it, he never points to himself as the source of his teaching. He always points to God the Father. And in this we see the humility of Jesus. This is incredible humility. I mean, who could dispute the fact that Jesus is the greatest teacher the world has ever seen? If you were to make a list of teachers who've had an impact on humanity throughout all of time, there would be many people on that list, but one would have to admit that no one has had greater impact than Jesus. Yes, we have the works of Plato and Aristotle and many other teachers and philosophers throughout time But thousands of years after their deaths, other than the scraps of their writings, what book, what schools singularly devoted to their teaching can you find on this earth? Name me one teacher, one philosopher, one leader in all human history whose influence has sustained education centers all around the world for thousands of years. Can you think of one? I can't. Jesus All around the globe, even on this very day, there are millions of buildings occupied by people either daily or weekly. Who gather for the sole purpose of studying the teachings of Jesus? This happens in homes, in schools, in community centers, in churches, in universities and seminaries all over the globe. Now maybe somebody would say, well what about What about other religions? Aren't there a great many people around the world who study the writings of Muhammad or Confucius or some other philosophical or religious leader? And of course, that is true. But think about it this way the influent the influence of Jesus is so exponentially greater That virtually every religion, every philosophy has to have something to say to incorporate Jesus into their teaching. But the followers of Jesus, certainly Jesus himself, but those who have followed Jesus over thousands of years have no interest or desiring in incorporating anybody else's teaching into their study. And so in saying this, I'm not saying that Jesus wins the top influencer award. As if he he makes the the top list, number one on the charts. No, really what I'm saying is that Jesus is in a category all on his own. His teaching is so true and so penetrating and so insightful and so helpful that in various ways it has filtered itself into the psyche of humanity around the globe. And Jesus, being the Son of God, here 2,000 years ago, knew what would happen in the future. He knew what his influence would be. And yet as he stood there, standing before the Jewish leaders who accused him of self-promotion. He displayed infinite humility by pointing to his father as the source of his teaching. Now, how can we confirm that his teaching really is from the Father? What evidence can we examine to discern if what Jesus says there is true? Well, Jesus himself offers us two tests on this regard. So look at the first in verse 17. He says, if anyone's will is to do God's will, He will know whether the teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority. We could call this the test of consistency. He says that his teaching is in perfect alignment with God's will. Again, notice how he says there, if anyone's will is to do God's will. If you have a different translation, maybe it says his will. The ESV inserts God's will there just to make clear who Jesus is speaking about. And so by invoking God's will, Jesus goes further than to say, or rather to compare his teaching with the scripture itself, as if you can line up the scripture, line up his teaching and say, yep, they're the same. Jesus, as I said earlier, taught many things that went beyond the scripture which weren't that which you couldn't find in the Old Testament itself. Especially things like teaching about the end times and the kingdom of God. And so if you tried to just do a direct comparison and find his teaching in the Old Testament, you wouldn't always find it. And so what Jesus does here is he makes an even tighter biblical argument than that. He goes deeper into the scripture to the heart of God And so rather than appeal to the letter of the law, if you will, he appeals to the spirit of the law. Or maybe more specifically, he says the heart of God revealed in the Scripture is the heart of God revealed in his teaching. And so if you if you think about your own life, if your desire is to know God, if your desire is to know the will of God and you spend yourself digging into the scripture, which for in that time was the Old Testament, and you want to know who God is and what He is like and what He expects of you. If that's what your life is committed to And that's what you've been doing. And now you hear the teaching of Jesus It would be plainly obvious to you, of course, Jesus is teaching the truth. Because his teaching reflects the heart of God that is found and rooted in the Scripture. That's how you know that Jesus' teaching is not his own, but from God By the way, there at the end of verse 17, the ESV and other translations say, I'm speaking on my own authority. on my own authority. The Greek literally reads from myself. I'm speaking from myself. And the idea is this, to speak from yourself is to assume authority to speak divine truth on your own. And again Jesus doesn't do that. He doesn't speak from himself. He doesn't assume authority to say whatever he wants. He doesn't demand that People listen to him solely because of the strength of his personality or the demonstration of his power. Instead, he humbly shows that his teaching is from God as seen in the fact That God's will in his teaching is consistent with God's will in the Scripture. So that's the test of consistency. The second test is in verse 18. Look at it It says, the one who speaks on his own authority seeks his own glory. But the one who seeks the glory of him who sent him is true. And there is no falsehood in him. The first test looks back of the scripture to show consistency with the scripture. The second test looks forward at the aim of his teaching. Is his teaching aimed at drawing attention to himself, at drawing up popularity and applause and praise and affirmation of the people? Is his ministry striving to build up and exalt himself and make everything about him? Or does his teaching promote God's glory? Is his teaching directed at pointing people to the praise of God, to believe in God, to obey and submit themselves to God? Jesus says here in principle that the one who contrives his teaching from within himself and appeals to himself as the source of truth necessarily glorifies himself. And how could you do otherwise if you really are the source of truth? It would be wrong to point to people away from yourself. Because that would be to direct them to error. But here's the amazing thing, Jesus is the truth. Right? He will say to his disciples later on in the upper room, I am the truth. He is, as we've seen in John chapter 1, the very word of God in the flesh. And yet rather than seek his own glory, He points people to glorify God, his Father. And the reason he can do that is because even though he is the truth When he points people to glorify God, he's not directing them away from the truth, but rather declaring the perfect union between himself and his father that they are one. This is infinite humility on display. Again, being the Son of God and speaking on his own, he he could speak on his own authority Being the truth, he is the source of truth. And so being both the Son of God and being the truth, he is worthy of glory. But his teaching proclaims the Father's message, and his aim is to give glory to the Father in all things. And so that's how you can know that Jesus is true in his teaching because he directs attention away from himself and to God, his Father. And so if our judgment about Jesus is to be right and just, we must judge him by his humility. He is not like other teachers who speak from themselves and who proclaim their own authority and who try to create dependence on themselves and who seek to glorify themselves. Jesus speaks from God, points people to God, and when we evaluate him on that basis, the righteous determination can only be that his teaching is true. that he is the Son of God. So we must judge him by his humility Consider now the second criteria by which we must judge Jesus. We are to judge Jesus not only by his humility, but also by his submission. His submission. We're going to see here in verses 19 to 23 that Jesus displays Submission to the law of God in all that he does. And this is in contrast to the religious leaders who rebel against the law and subvert the law of God. Look at verse 19. It says, as Jesus continues to speak, has not Moses given you the law? Yet none of you keeps the law. Why do you seek to kill me? Here, Jesus turns the conversation and challenges the Jewish leaders. He judges them on the same basis. Or rather, by the very standard that they claim to uphold, the law of Moses. Just as Jesus claims to do the will of God, and he does, they claim to do the law of Moses, and the problem is they don't. When Jesus says there none of you keeps the law, he doesn't mean of course that they don't keep any of the law, but that they break it in such a way as to subvert the law. He knows the truth. It'll be written in James chapter 2, verse 10, that anyone who keeps the whole law but stumbles at one point has become guilty of it all. And that's true because God's justice is not weighed in a balance. It's not measured in a balance or on a scale. God's justice is measured against his perfect standard. And anyone who does not meet that perfect standard Start to finish, completely, without any deviation, they fall short of it all Even when claiming to be defenders of the law, the Pharisees and the rest of the religious leaders are the chief breakers of it. And we could give many examples of that. You've no doubt heard about the many ways in which they turned the law for their own personal self-righteous wicked purposes. But Jesus gives us an example of the Most significant way in which they violate the law. Look again at the end of verse 19, he says, Why do you seek to kill me? Why do you seek to kill me? When I say that their desire to kill Jesus is the greatest violation of all, it's not because murder itself is Somehow set above and beyond all other sins, but it's rather because of who Jesus is that makes their desire to kill him the greatest violation of the law. Listen to this parable by Jesus from Matthew twenty one. There was a master of a house who planted a vineyard and put a fence around it, and dug a wine press in it, and built a tower, and leased it to tenants. and went into another country. When the season for fruit drew near, he sent his servants to the tenants to get his fruit. And the tenants took his servants, and beat one, killed another, and stoned another. Again he sent other servants more than the first, and they did the same to them. Finally, he sent his son to them, saying, They will respect my son. But when the tenants saw the son, they said to themselves, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him and have his inheritance. And they took him and threw him out of the vineyard and killed him. Last week we considered Why the Apostle John has spent so much time and will continue to do so demonstrating the unbelief of the Jews. And we saw that his intent is to show that Jesus fulfills the Old Testament by experiencing at the hands of the Jews the same treatment with which they treated God and his prophets. This parable by Jesus is his way of saying that same reality. God sent his prophets to the people to teach them, to warn them, to instruct them. But they rejected them and hated them and killed them. And now the Son of God is here, and the Jewish leaders looked on him with contempt. They hated the attention he got. They feared that they would lose their positions and power and influence. So they determined to get rid of Jesus, even if it meant breaking the law to do it. They demonstrated no true submission to the law of God. In fact, the law of Moses, which was really, of course, the law of God, was little more to them than a way to control the people. Because they could control what the people knew from it and how they understood it. Unlike Jesus, whose teaching reflected the heart of God In the law, the teaching of the traditions of the religious leaders violated the law of God. When God gave the law, his heart was to protect the vulnerable and promote justice and produce flourishing. But the traditions of the religious leaders took advantage of the vulnerable. They subverted justice and they hindered flourishing. And so Jesus said on one occasion, Woe to you, Pharisees! Hypocrites. For you tithe, mint, and dill, and cumin and have neglected the weightier matters of the law, justice and mercy and faithfulness. These you ought to have done without neglecting the others. These Jews focused on the minute details of the law and they completely ignored and set aside the whole intent of the law. And so Jesus here by saying, has not Moses given you the law? Yet none of you keeps the law. Why do you seek to kill me? He knows their murderous hearts and their complete disregard for the law, and so he confronts them about it. Now, verse 25 will tell us that some of the people in Jerusalem knew about their desire to kill Jesus, but not everyone did. Look at verse 20. It says, The crowd answered, You have a demon. Who is seeking to kill you? The crowd here likely refers to those who have come from Jerusalem from far away. John distinguishes them from the people of Jerusalem there in verse 25. So this crowd is apparently ignorant of the intent of the leaders. And by saying you have a demon, it seems they're fairly ignorant of who Jesus is. Don't take that phrase you have a demon too seriously. They are not doing what the religious leaders did when they observed the power of Jesus and declared it to be the power of Satan. Now this phrase, you are a demon, is more like just calling Jesus a lunatic. You're crazy, Jesus Now, if you put yourself in their shoes, maybe that makes a little bit of sense. They've traveled from afar, maybe they've heard about Jesus, maybe they haven't. But they're sitting to h so they're sitting there listening to him and uh no doubt enjoying his teaching, but then all of a sudden he accuses the Jewish leaders of trying to kill 'em. And if you don't know any better, you're thinking, whoa, where where did that come from? Why would you think that? Our leaders wouldn't kill a teacher of the law. Well, that was their response, but Jesus ignores them really, and what he says next is continuing to speak to the leaders themselves. Look at verses 21 to 23. It says, Jesus answered them. I did one work, and you all marvel at it. Moses gave you circumcision. Not that it's from Moses, but from the fathers. And you circumcise a man on the Sabbath. If on the Sabbath a man received circumcision, so that the law of Moses may not be broken, are you angry with me because on the Sabbath I made a man's whole body well? What is Jesus referring to here? This this one work that he speaks of, this is the work of healing the lame man back in chapter 5. This was the time when G this was the last time when Jesus performed a healing in Jerusalem, as far as we're told. And it was on the basis of that particular healing on the Sabbath. That John 5, verse 15 says, this is why the Jews were persecuting Jesus, because he was doing these things on the Sabbath. And so in response to the persecution that was coming on him, Jesus defended himself, proclaiming himself to be the Son of God. And so verse 18 of John 5 says This is why the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him, because not only was he breaking the Sabbath, but he was even calling God his own father, making himself equal with God. So here in John 7, when Jesus says, I did one work and you all marveled at it, he's referring to that healing in chapter 5. Just as they marveled at his teaching here in verse 15, they marveled at his healing in chapter 5. Marvel, not in a good way, but with this disdain. His teaching here violated their sense of what teaching should be. His healing in chapter 5 violated their sense of when healing should take place. Now it's not to say, of course, that if he healed every day except for the Sabbath, they would have approved. It just happened to be that by doing it on the Sabbath, they had a convenient excuse for them to find fault. And so what Jesus does then in referring to That one work of healing on the Sabbath, here in verses 22 and 23, he exposes their hypocrisy. He shows the injustice of their judgment. Now there's a couple ways you could take what he says here in verses twenty-two and twenty-three by comparing what he did with their practice of circumcision and even being willing to do it on the Sabbath. The first way you could you could potentially understand this Is that Jesus argues that by allowing circumcision on the Sabbath, the Pharisees themselves are breaking the Sabbath, the law of Moses. And on that basis, they have no right to be offended when he himself breaks the law of the Sabbath in order to heal. The assumption of that argument is to assume that in order to keep the circumcision law, you have to break the Sabbath law. So again, the logic is: if the Jews can break the Sabbath in order to perform circumcision, then Jesus can break the Sabbath in order to heal. One law is kept, one law is broken. That's one way of understanding the argument That Jesus makes here. There's just one problem. Jesus always keeps the law. If Jesus is defending himself on the basis that there are times when it's good to do the right thing for the wrong reason, or rather the wrong thing for the right reason, to break the law in order to keep another law To heal a man in order to make him well, even though you're not supposed to do any work, then that means he's admitting to being a lawbreaker. And if he's a lawbreaker, that makes him a sinner. And if he's a sinner, he can't be our savior. So let's not go with that interpretation A better way to understand Jesus' argument is to see that Jesus is not saying here there are times to do the wrong thing for the right reason, but rather His argument assumes that neither circumcision nor healing breaks the Sabbath. The reason that the Jews accused Jesus of breaking the Sabbath law is not because Jesus violated the law of Moses. But because he violated the laws they themselves had created around the Sabbath. Maybe you remember that on another occasion Jesus confronted the Pharisees on this very point when he said in Mark 3, verse 4, Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to harm, to save a life or to kill? In their minds they had invented, or not just in their minds, but they had invented laws that effectively made it unlawful to do good on the Sabbath. And that was a re uh uh law so unreasonable that they themselves could live by it. So there was another occasion when Jesus Said to them, Which one of you who has a sheep, if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will not take hold of it and lift it out? How much more value is a man than a sheep? And then he declares, it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath. So again, here in verses 22 and 23, Jesus points out to them that they instinctively know from God's own law, that just as there is no contradiction between practicing circumcision or rather the circumcision laws and the Sabbath regulations Neither is it unlawful to heal on the Sabbath. That's his whole point. He lives faithfully and perfectly submitted to the law. They accused him of being a lawbreaker, but he was no such thing. It was they, in fact, that were lawbreakers. He is not acting in ways contrary to Scripture. He's not changing God's standards to live and do whatever he wants. No, he is submissive to God. And he must be judged by that standard. No one can accuse Jesus of breaking the law on any point. The leaders of the Jews then could not come up with any reason to legitimately put Jesus to death. He taught the truth from God, he directed the glory to God, and he submitted himself to the law. of God. Humility and submission characterized his life. And so Jesus concludes there in verse 24. Do not judge by appearances. But judge with right judgment. The Jews judged Jesus on the basis of their perception, which was colored by their expectations and their personal standards. That is unjust. They looked at Jesus and listened to him, and they said in their minds, He doesn't sound like I think he should sound, He doesn't say what I think he should say, He doesn't do what I think He should do, therefore He must not be God's deliverer. I mean, how crazy is that? How irrational is it to judge the Messiah based on our own personal standards? Maybe you haven't thought in specific terms like these, but if you haven't believed in him, if you have not submitted your life to Christ, the truth is you have made a judgment. against him. Anyone who doesn't believe in Jesus, who chooses not to embrace him, must first make a judgment against him in their hearts. And apathy And disinterest are as much a judgment against Jesus as stubborn unbelief. And so, my friend, if that is you, understand that Jesus does not present himself to you for judgment. You're not his judge. He stands before you with arms outstretched, pleading for you. Inviting you, commanding you even to bow the knee to him, to see him as the judge that he is. He calls for your submission And today is the day to submit to Christ. Now is the time to bend the knee to Him because the day will come. Indeed, the hour is soon here. When you will bow the knee, but it will be too late. He will render judgment on you, not based on how well you did in this life. But whether you have perfectly lived according to God's righteous standard. And if perfection in God's eyes is the standard, you already know what the verdict will be. So believe in Christ and know that he offers forgiveness and eternal life to anyone who would submit to him. Now for us who have believed, how can we apply this passage? What does this have to say for us? Jesus models for us what kind of witnesses we must be if we're going to be representatives of Him in this world. If we are more concerned with the opinions of men or those around us than the truth of Scripture, if we seek our own glory instead of God's, If we live in disobedience to God, we give people ample reasons to reject our message. And so if we are to be faithful ambassadors for Christ in this world, we must speak the truth that comes from God clearly and confidently. We must glorify God in all things, and we must live faithfully according to his word. The gospel itself is an offense. We should not add to the offense of the gospel by our own unfaithful living. And so consider, beloved, as you examine your own life. Is there some way where you need to grow in faithfulness to be more like Jesus, to be humble To point to the glory of God and to submit yourself to what God's Word says. Amen. Let's pray. Our great God, we thank you for this passage. We thank you for this example by Jesus in the truth that he speaks. He confronts what is the false judgment of these leaders. And yet he does so graciously, truthfully. May we be like him. In our own life, when we speak to those who deny Christ, May we speak the truth in love so that as you work by your Spirit, people would come to a saving knowledge of Christ. Lord, help us to grow in faithfulness. We know We are weak. We know we fall short of your glory. Help us to increasingly become like Jesus so that we would show the world the wonder Of our Savior and how He transforms life. For the sake of Christ we pray. Amen.