Hello church. I'm sorry that I can't be with you tonight. This is all in God's providence. I've been looking forward to this for weeks, but uh not able to be with you at this stage, and so I hope you will accept this recording. as uh as coming from my heart. Uh I'm going to be speaking somewhat fast tonight because I have limited time and I wanted to fit as much as I can in without being too obnoxiously fast But uh please don't take any tone as uh being uh anything other than trying to uh get more content in. I've had a number of conversations over the last number of months You've gone out to lunch with guys and coffee and if that's something that you'd be interested in, I would love to have a more personal conversation in an extended way. I think that's very helpful to really seek to understand one another and see different perspectives. And it's certainly been helpful for me in the process. Well when we sent out the survey asking members to give feedback on which issues you would like us to address, the one that received the most votes was what role does the church have in promoting justice? In fact 30 out of the 49 respondents ask that we address that question, and that's my intention in this address. Before I get into the subject itself, I need to quickly frame this and every discussion Christians can have. According to Colossians 1. 13, we have been rescued out of the domain of darkness and transferred to the kingdom of God's beloved Son. While we're in the world, we are not of this world. We view reality from a completely different vantage point than the rest of the world. For us, everything in life is defined by God and not ourselves. any view on any matter that does not define ideas and words and right and wrong and justice and injustice and rights and privileges and all the rest from the pages of scripture is fundamentally anti-Christian because it's such uh such ideas begin by rejecting God's revelation 2 Corinthians 10:5 says, We are destroying speculations and every lofty thing raised up against the knowledge of God. And we are taking every thought captive to the obedience of Christ. In other words, we as believers are in a battle, not with people, not with parties, not with organizations. But with ideas. We are in a truth war. That's why Paul writes in second and excuse me in Colossians chapter 2 verse 8. See to it that no one takes you captive through philosophy or empty deception according to the tradition of men, according to the elementary principles of the world, rather than according to Christ. On all matters, we are to engage in thoughtful biblical reflection and analysis. We are to embrace that which is true and reject everything else. Why? Because that which is false will lead us away from Christ, and that which is true will keep us near to Christ. Like the Corinthian church, we are warned by the scripture that says, But I am afraid that after the serpent or as the serpent deceived Eve, by his craftiness, your mind will be led astray from the simplicity of pure devotion to Christ. We ought to be very careful to not be deceived. And so we must examine all things and hold fast to what is true. Now with that in mind, let us turn to the topic at hand. What role does the church have in promoting justice? Well the first step in answering that full question is to answer the sub-question at the beginning. What role does the church have? If we don't know the answer to that question, we won't be able to answer the more specific question before us. The Church, as the organized body of believers, constituted under the headship of Jesus Christ and led by duly appointed elders and deacons, has been given a clear and specific mission and purpose and role by our Lord and Master and Chief Shepherd. We don't make it up on our own. We listen to what He tells us to do. And what did He tell us? Well Matthew 18, excuse me, Matthew 28, 18 through 20 says, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit teaching them to observe all that I commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. In the beginning of Acts, Luke records these words from Jesus, which he also said right before he ascended But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you. And you shall be my witnesses, both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria, and even to the remotest parts of the earth The role of the church is clear, to be witnesses of Jesus Christ on the earth, proclaiming his gospel and teaching and training his disciples. This is the raison d'etre of the church. It's the reason the church exists. And any other role or purpose that we can talk about or discuss must be measured against that purpose. Barbers exist to cut hair, chefs exist to cook, accountants exist to count money, judges exist to judge, and the church exists. To be ambassadors for Christ and proclaim the gospel of reconciliation to all people teaching and making disciples This purpose is exclusively given to the church. God has given no one else this mission. The church cannot delegate this mission to anyone else If the church ever ceases to fulfill this purpose, by definition, it ceases to exist. There is no one else on the planet who can be a witness for Christ. There is no one else on the earth entrusted with the gospel. There is No one else in the world who has the ability to teach and train disciples of Jesus Christ. The Lord Jesus lived on this earth at a time when ethnic partiality and racism was far more rampant than it is today. The Jews hated the Samaritans and considered them half-breeds. The Samaritans hated the Jews so much that when Jesus wanted to stay the night in the Samaritan town on his way to Jerusalem, they refused to host him. And then you mix in the Romans and the rest of the Gentile world whom the Jews despised, and we see that racism filled the heart of almost every person in that region. Everyone hated someone because of their ethnic or cultural background. But Jesus gave no instruction to the church to address that issue in the culture. The Apostle Paul also lived at the same cultural time. And yet he wrote in 1 Corinthians 2 verse 2, For I determined to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified. Not only was this his personal philosophy, this was what he taught pastors and churches to focus on. In his final charge to Timothy, he wrote, I solemnly charge you in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus, who is to judge the living and the dead And by his appearing in his kingdom, preach the word. Be ready in season and out of season. Reprove, rebuke, exhort with great patience and teach and instruction. For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine, but wanting to have their ears tickled, they will accumulate for themselves teachers in accordance to their own desires, and will turn away their ears from the truth, and will turn aside to myths. Indeed, we are living in a time when people want the preacher to talk about what interests them rather than to preach the scripture The Apostle Peter, who wrote to churches experiencing injustice at the hands of family, neighbors, and the government, did not encourage them to promote justice of any kind, but instead wrote Servants, be submissive to your own masters with all respect, not only to those who are good and gentle, but also to those who are unreasonable or unjust. For this finds favor if for the sake of conscience towards God a person bears up under sorrows when suffering unjustly. It's 1 Peter 2, 18 to 19. In fact, he said that the Christians' response to unjust suffering should be such that the result of their response is not justice, but a hearing for the gospel. He wrote in chapter 3, but even if you should suffer for the sake of righteousness, you are blessed. Do not fear their intimidation, and do not be troubled But sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts, always being ready to make a defense to everyone who asks you to give in a hope, an account for the hope that is in you, yet with gentleness and reverence and Keep a good conscience so that in the thing in which you are slandered, those who revile your good behavior in Christ will be put to shame When Jesus dictated letters to the churches in Revelation 2 and 3, he did not correct them for failing to work toward improving society in any way. His judgments were precisely because of how they failed to follow his instructions and live by his standards. We can look high and low and deep and wide and we will everywhere find that the church that the role of the church in the world is to proclaim the gospel and teach and train disciples. We can now turn then with that in mind. To the more specific question of what role does the church have in promoting justice? I want to answer this question by affirming multiple ways in which the church can promote justice. in the world often as a way of teaching and making disciples. Now we can do this both as an organization, that is, using our time, energy, and resources as the organized church to promote justice. And we can also do this as individual Christians. And what I'm going to offer here is not by any stretch an exhaustive consideration, but simply some brief thoughts and ideas. First, the church is instructed by God to promote justice among its members by deciding on cases of wrongdoing. The church should be a place where justice is found within the body. Paul writes in 1 Corinthians 6, 1-3, does any one of you, when he has a case against his neighbor, dare to go to law before the unrighteous and not before the saints? Or do you not know that the saints will judge the world if the world is judged by you? Are you not competent to constitute the smallest courts? Do you not know that we will judge angels? How much more matters of this life In other words, within the context of the church, when there are wrongs done by one member to another member, the church is responsible to ensure that the law of God is applied to that situation. The church is the place where righteousness and holiness of God is not just taught, but lived out. And not just lived out, but also defended and upheld when there is a failure to live it out. This is not just related to sins committed within the body, as we see in Matthew 18, but this also includes matter of material or financial loss, matters that typically result in small claims court or civil lawsuits. The church should be the place where justice is experienced in the body life. A second way that the church can promote justice is by affirming the government's role in punishing evildoers. When the sins and wrongs committed inside the church violate the law, the church is duty-bound to submit to the government and encourage them in their role We find this in Romans 13 and 1 Peter chapter 2. When there are events outside the church as well that result in a public outcry The church should not join with those who seek to discredit law enforcement in the judicial system. We are called to, quote, honor the emperor. even if that emperor and his soldiers are ungodly, which certainly they were in Peter's day when he gave that command. That's not to say, of course, that we are to affirm their ungodliness But it is to say that we are to affirm their role and respect their authority, not try and tear them down Our culture today seeks to discredit and disbelieve authorities when those authorities don't do what certain groups want them to do. The church should not join in those efforts, but rather respect, honor, and affirm civil and legal authorities. Now, a third way the church can promote justice is by being committed to upholding just thinking. In our media-saturated age, the world of unbelievers is eager to prejudge any situation. The world refuses to let the investigative and judicial process work itself out. Out of a false sense of the right of information, the media disseminates information it obtains even if it can't be verified. The result is that, as a matter of course, they end up spreading false, twisted, and incomplete information that deceives the public. even if it's unintentional. Whereas an investigator can work through various theories as they gather information and work through their investigative process The public is almost always stuck with a first impression given by the media. And thus, when the end result of the investigation and trial don't align with their false perception of the situation, they cry injustice But the church cannot allow itself to be engaged in this behavior. It must be committed to just thinking. Proverbs 18, 13 says, He who gives an answer before he hears, it is folly and shame to him. Proverbs 1817 says the first Apletus case seems right until another comes and examines him. In order to defend Jesus, Nicodemus said his to his fellow lawyers, our law does not judge a man unless it first hears from him and knows what he is doing, does it? Indeed, the court of public opinion violates all of these standards. Whatever information we get Is usually biased, it's one-sided, it's incomplete at best. As the church, we must not violate these standards. We must be patient. And we must promote just thinking and discourage rash judgments. Now there's so much more that can and should be said, but I want to shift my focus now to talk about how individual Christians can promote justice. The first way individual believers can promote justice is by rejecting the secular notion of social justice. There are many reasons we should reject social justice, but the primary reason is because it is antithetical to God's character. And created order. Now there is no agreed upon definition of social justice out there, which is a significant problem But when you boil down the many different definitions you can find, they tend to come down to things like equal access to wealth, opportunity, and rights. The worst definitions demand equal outcomes, which is socialism. And while equality sounds nice, Even when you're talking about equal access to various things like wealth and opportunity, it's actually an impossible standard. It's impossible because not even God, in all of his perfection, holds to it In teaching about the kingdom of God in Matthew chapter 20, Jesus likened the kingdom of God to a landowner who hired workers throughout the day and ended up paying them all the same wage, whether they had worked for one hour or all day long. While the workers who worked all day felt this was unjust, Jesus presented the landowner who pictured God favorably as one who had the right to do whatever he wanted with his money. Again, in Matthew 25, Jesus told the parable of the talents and how a man gave to his slaves, he gave one ten talents, another five, and to another one. The slaves did not have equal access or equal opportunity. You can do more with ten than you can with one. But again, Jesus affirmed the right of the master to dispense of his possessions however he wished as well as affirming the responsibility of the slaves to steward the resources that were entrusted to them. For a multitude of reasons, which include God's sovereignty and men's choices, life is inequitable People are born with physical disabilities or into poverty. People are born with varying intellectual abilities and personalities. Some people work hard to succeed, others seem to succeed with ease. In so many situations in life, it's not what you know and what you can do, but who you know and who knows you. Some people are born into historically rich families and lose it all. Others are born into historically poor families and strike it rich. There are a multitude of factors in every situation. The concept of social justice largely ignores the complexities of life and, generally speaking, assumes the worst about those who succeed. and assumes the best of those who don't. Now there is so much more that needs to be said about social justice. I would refer you to Pastor Leek's message from last Sunday, as well as the resources that we will be making available. But the point is, believers should reject social justice if they are going to promote true justice because social justice has nothing to do with true biblical justice rightly defined. Now, a biblical sorry, a second way individual believers can promote justice is by using whatever opportunities and civil liberties are afforded to them to work toward a more just society There are a multitude of specific actions that fall into this category. The difficulty is that most believers lack meaningful opportunities to address just justice uh issues in society. And even the exercise of civil liberties like voting is usually complicated by the need to trust unbelievers to know and do what is right. More than that, believers promoting justice often find themselves at odds with secular conceptions of justice and those who are working for different goals. Just to pick one example, the legal system is often inherently unjust. The systems and processes and standards rarely reflect equitable justice for Example, the death penalty, which God approves us, approves of and encourages, and which ought to be a significant deterrence of serious crime, is at best neutered in our society or even non existent. Now we can multiply examples a thousand fold, but consider the practice of plea deals in order to avoid the cost and complication of a trial. Prosecutors try to get criminals to plead for lesser crimes instead of going through a trial for their full crime. In California several years ago, in an effort to reduce the prison population, they released hundreds of thousands of people who were convicted of quote nonviolent The problem is that many of those individuals pleaded down from actual violent crimes that they had committed. This is not just. Or consider how, in an effort to protect the legal process, sometimes the guilty get off scot-free due to technicalities and mistakes made in gathering what is otherwise legitimate evidence or other failures in the process that lead to a mistrial. I would submit to you that a word that defines our world is injustice. Rarely do the wicked get punished for their crimes the way they should. Sometimes people get overpunished for crimes that are subjectively defined. There are people who are free because of a failure in the process, and yes, there are innocent people who are in prison because of a failure in the process. Now, some believers can work to promote justice by being the best law enforcement officers they can be. Some can do it by being the best lawyers and judges they can be. Some can do it by becoming legislators and changing uh laws. Some believers can promote justice by working for organizations that influence the government toward a more just system. But But friends, understand that our world is full of injustice. The examples that are highlighted in the media are just tiny, tiny fractions of a world of injustice that is out there. God's standard of righteous judgment and the proper application of the law rarely, if ever, takes place. Every sphere of society is infected with the corruption of sin. Every institution that God Himself has established from the family. So the church to the government is infected by the corruption of sin, and every individual in the world is corrupted by sin In fact, the world is in the power of the evil one who is a liar and a murderer. Is it any wonder that injustice is the norm for every society to ever exist? The question is not why is there injustice and how do we get rid of it? It's an amazing reality that despite the corruption in our world due to sin, God is so gracious that in his mercy and common grace there would be sometimes a semblance of justice. And therefore the question is, how can we encourage a little bit more of it? I would submit to you that the social justice movement is not only problematic because it has a faulty and unjust view of justice, but also because it doesn't take the problem seriously enough They think the problem is that some white people have a bias against black people or that all today's problems are largely the result of slavery. But that's not the problem at all. The real problem is the problem of sin. Therefore, and finally, the most important action that individual believers can do to promote justice is to use the influence that God gives them to spread the news about the justice of God poured out on Christ. Who paid the penalty for our sin that we might be forgiven? God places each one of us in unique spheres of influence to be his ambassadors in those spheres. The more people who turn to Christ and become his disciples, the more just a society will become Between 1970 and 2008, there was a growing precedent in our country to protect God's just law of marriage as between a man and a woman. Twenty-nine states amended their constitutions and President Bill Clinton signed the Federal Defense of Marriage Act during his presidency. This was largely a bipartisan issue. But what quickly changed that quickly changed under President Barack Obama. And in 2013, during his second term, the Supreme Court struck down that act, and in 2015 Excuse me. Yeah, that's right. In 2013, the Supreme Court struck down that act, and in 2015, it legalized same-sex marriage in all 50 states through its ruling in Burgefell v. Hodges. Now after many decades where Christians spent tens of millions of dollars and uncountable hours and personal and public credibility to protect the just law of marriage, how did it all crumble so quickly? Well it's simple. While Christians were working the legal system, advocates of same-sex marriage were working the population. Despite the legal victories, popular approval of same-sex marriage grew and grew and grew until President Obama realized during his first term that he had to accept it. And the courts also caved to public pressure. Now, this is not to say that we should not do what we can to promote justice in society and hold back the growing corruption of sin, but it is to say that we must not think that working to improve society is the most important thing we can do. The most important thing we can do is to be faithful witnesses of Christ, proclaim the gospel, and make disciples. The fruit of that work cannot be measured in terms of societal change, but it can be measured in eternal impact. Our mission, as given by Christ, both as the church and as individual believers, our mission is not a just society. It is proclaiming the gospel to all people so that God's people will be gathered into His kingdom.