Okay, good morning. I believe we're someplace on page 54 of the notes. But before I get into the notes, let me just do a quick review of some of the highlights that we talked about last week. Um last week we talked about this run time period. It goes from about 1524 to about 1533. six. Um in the midst of this time period, um William Tyndale has left England um for Europe. And basically he's going there so that he can spend time and devote himself to the translation of the Bible into English. cannot do so in um England because both the Catholic Church, the hierarchy of the Catholic Church, as well as the the English Crown, both are opposed to the print to the to the translation of any portion of the Bible into English. But William Kendall senses the need for this translation. He knows England is dark and only Through the translation of the English of the Bible into English, can there be hope that the light of the gospel will shine throughout England? So about the year 1525 he completes the translation of the New Testament and that's published and the books, the Bibles are smuggled back. into into England. This is the first time that the that the New Testament appears in English that has been translated from the Greek. Um and that and that's a whole New Testament. Matthew through Revelation. Um and William Tyndale um does a spectacular job. Um and then he begins to translate the rest of the Bible, the Old Testament, and of course here we have to kind of kind of learn self teach himself of Hebrew. And that's no small task in those days. Because there are very, very few people in Europe who even knew the language. Um so He um he um basically um gets a Hebrew primer from a from a noted um Jewish s scholar and he begins to teach himself. from Hebrew. And um eventually he translates the first five books of Moses, the Pentateuch, Genesis through Deuteronomy, and those are also published. And those smuggled back in term of England. Also during this time he makes a complete revision of his New Testament translation. So now so now the there's there's a second um revision to that translation that's also published and those books are also smuggled in um in um into um ego. And um he also begins to translate the other Old Testament books and he actually translates The historical books Josh wrote through his second co chronicles, and also the so also the prophet Jonah. But he does not live to see those books published. Um You know, during this time, um he is being hunted. He's a wanted man. Um and the Catholic Church tries many different attempts to find to to find a material. But there are businessmen and women who are supporting him, who are hiding him, who are giving him the time the space necessary for him to complete this translation project. But eventually he is found. And he is Betrayed by a friend and um he is arrested. At this time he is in in an ant work, which is um the um um DMC T T Netherlands today, and he's arrested by the authorities. He is held in prison, in a dungeon, for eighteen months and a Eventually there's a trial, um that's a very mock trial, and um he is found guilty, his charged translating the Bible Um he's ex executed, he is basically strangled by the neck, tied to a post, his body is burned. Um and that occurs in fifteen 36. So during this brief 12-year period, we see all of this translation of the Bible into English. Now Above that, there's also a change in of England going on. There's a political change. The King Henry VIII wants to divorce his wife Ker um Catherine of Aragon. Um to do so he needs permission from the Pope, but he doesn't receive it. So through a bunch of manoeuvres Through parliament. He basically seizes the church property. He forces the bishops to have an oath of allegiance to the British Crown. And eventually the Church of England. who departs from the Roman Church. And at this time he is advised by two people, very very important people, Thomas Kramer, he's the Archbishop of Canterbury. He's basic he's basically what you might call the Prime Minister. And both of them urge King Henry VIII to authorize a translation of the Bible into English. This occurs in about 1526. Um and the person who does that, who comes up with this translation, this Bible, is um Miles Coverdale. Um he's been working along with William Tyndall. Um Now, he's not nearly as proficient in Greek and in Hebrew as William Kendall. In fact, he does most of his translation not from the Hebrew and the in the Greek, but from the Latin. Latin and a German. But he comes up with this translation called the Covid Air Bible, and that is authorized by King Henry VIII. Now, at this time the king actually authorizes a second translation. And that's put together by a man named John Rogers. He's also a quote associate to Tyndale. But what John Rogers does is he takes the Covidair Bible, he takes out the portions that Tyndale has has already translated and he puts those pieces back in. So so the New Testament is Tindell's, the the infinitive is Tyndale, the the historical books Joshua through through um second Coronado, that's also Tendells work. And the rest of it would would would be COVID errors, COVID errors work. He also does something else. He also adds some explanator explanatory notes, about two thousand notes, you know, footnotes, ex um commentary, um some of which is rather controversial. And um but he puts that together, that's part of Matthew's Bible. So that's the second Bible that is authorized by the king. But the king doesn't really like either Bible. Primarily because of the notes, those commentaries. Because he Those are too Calvinistic. So he authorizes even a third translation in Covidale comes back. He takes back his Bible and he basically basically take out the notes and that becomes the great bible and this Bible is called Great because it's big, big in size. Um You know, it's it's meant to be read from a pulpit. And so um now beyond those those three Bibles, the Tyndale Bible which is just in pieces. The the Kovod Bible and the Matthews Bible, um the bishops aren't really happy with these Bibles. Um because again, even though most of the notes have been taken taken out, it's still rather Calvinistic in its emphasis. Um also Um those Bibles do not have the ecclesiastical structure that they want. For example, the word bishop. That's not in the Bible. So so they actually make their own translation of the Bible. And this Bible um is probably is is not quite as good Although they are fairly good Greek scholars, they are not so good in Hebrew. this comes out as the bishops bible. And um this um um bible is um so is um then you used by bishops, by the churches, um, and um but no one else likes it. Um now at this time also there's another translation of the Bible. Um because um as we go further in time, about um nineteen uh about fifteen um um um um fifteen fifteen fifty King Henry has passed away. He's dead. His son um comes to reign on the throne, but he's about nine years old. Um so um and he's very sickly. He act I mean he ac actually dies of tuberculosis um in just five years. And um but during this time England does begin to move in a partisan Direction, apart from the Catholic Church. But not quite. And then the next enthrone is a woman by name. and Mary Tudor. She is the daughter of Henry VIII. Um now, Nelson the daughter of of um Catherine of um Eric. So she has a little um Um something to really um um fuss about and that is her mother um has been so eerily eerily t t t t tweeted. And so she comes And she wants to move England back to Catholicism. And um she is infamously known as Bloody Nick, because in her reign of five years, she puts to Yeah, many, many Protestants, about 300 actually. And the first one, first moderator, is actually John Rogers. And um so but she passes away, she dies. And then Queen Elizabeth I um reigns and it and it is during so then England begins to slow move back to Protestantism. But during this reign of bloody marriage, several Protestants flee England. And many of that of them settle in Keneva, Switzerland. Um and um during this time they make a new translation of the Bible. And this is actually the first translation. Translation that is completely translated from the Hebrew and the Greek. Um, there's no Latin. Um and um So this Bible is called the Geneva Bible. And it's actually very well done. And it is the most popular Bible among the common people. It also has very um it's also it's also very Calvinistic in its notes. And um this so we basically have two Bibles um That are competent in England. There's the Bishop's Bible and then there's the Geneva Bible. The Mass is, of course, like the Geneva Bible. very it's very much it it reads a whole lot better than the bishop's bible. Now Queen Elizabeth I reigns for about 45 years and then she passes away. The next in line for the for the crown is King James I. He's actually king of Scotland. So he comes down from Scotland to assume the the um the kingship in a in um um c um C Ingla. Um at this time he's met with a group of Puritans and They present the new king, the king to be, with a list of grievances against the Angleton Church. So, um and then so I'm down on page 54 on note number 21 at this moment. So this king or newly appointed king or soon to be appointed King, it's met with its delegation and it's called the Um Hampton Court Conference. And it's this and it's attended by over a thousand Puritans And by the and by the way, this is op this this is about 10% of the encouraging in um C C K. Anyway. So this is a pretty sizable group. Um and no, not something that's see just to be just to be brushed aside. And the king himself um wants to come in as a peacemaker. He wants peace. And um but he does he he doesn't make the piece. There's just no agreement whatsoever. Um um and but One thing that comes out of this Hampton Court Conference is that one of the Puritan leaders, a man named Um John Reynolds, who's Puritan president President of the Corpus Christi College, he suggests that the king authorize a new translation of the Bible into English. And this actually gives the king something to think about. Because here he has two problems. He has this bishop's Bible, which he likes, which the bishops like, but no one else likes. Then he has this Geneva Bible, which everybody likes. But him in those in any case, especially those notes. See, for example, the translators of the Geneva Bible. Well, they praise those who engage in civil disobedience. Like for example, the Hebrew midwives, when they when they refuse the edict a favor. The translator make a note saying this is really good, this is a really deep good thing to follow. So that's one problem with the Geneva Bible. according to King James. Another problem is that um they the translators, the the ones the ones who make those notes, um, they criticized King Apha in the Old Testament. because he did not execute the Queen Mother, his grandmother, because when she had had led the nation into idolatry. Um and um And this reminded the king of his own mother, who happens to be Queen of Mary, Queen of Siscot. Um because she had been executed by the English. Um and um Um b b b because at one point she had to flee Sc Scotland and she headed south to England because she thought she would be received by her cousin, Queen Elizabeth. But Queen Elizabeth considered this cousin to be a threat to her throne. So Queen Elizabeth had memory very arrested and put into prison. And but then there was there were a group of Catholics who decided to plot, to murder, to attack fascinate Queen Elizabeth in to install Mary Queen of Scott. Um but they had to get kind of a volume from Mary. So what they did was they ranged a trusted carrier to pass notes back and forth between them and m Mary who was in prison and um um and um Mary we just got Um and it and she was and she actually thought that everything was secret because she could encrypt her messages and she knew the British did not know, could not read. the the the the encrypted messages even if they found out what they were. The problem was the British had had already compromised the encryption and the carrier was a double agent. So the British were reading all of these messages So they couldn't so they got Mar Mary Queen of Scott involved with a conspiracy and so Queen Elizabeth had to have her own cousin executed. So that's so that so that was it so so um so that's a kind kind of give you one more um um reas reason why King James really did not like that Geneva Geneva Bible. So um so what came out of the other conference was is so they selected almost fifty scholars. Um and again there's a wide range of people, um both the Anglicans and the Puritans. And they actually worked from three separate committees, one at Oxford, one at Cambridge and one at Westminster. And uh so they all translated diff different portions of the Bible. And um and the k and the orders was that this would be a revision of the bishop's fire. And so the marching orders was follow the bishop's Bible if that is in agreement with the Greek. in Hebrew and then only then can some other translations, namely the the Covid Bible, the Matthews Bible, the Tyndale Bible. Oh, and last of all, that Geneva Bible. So this was supposed to be a translation. of or revision of the Bishop's Bible. And basically what the King James insisted was, if it's not broke, don't fix it. Um and and also another marching order was no interpretive notes. Only notes is is is to is a is to indicate readings that that pertain to the to the literal wendings of from the Greek and from the Greek and the Hebrew. Um When this was going on, w w were there uh in uh translations in German uh for German or Spanish at this period or is it just English from Latin straight to English? Was there German translation straight from Greek? Oh, okay, okay. Martin Luther translated the Bible into gr into German. He did so from the Greek and Hebrew. Yeah. Okay. Um and I think sometime later later there was a translation translation into sta Spanish. From from from Greek. Yes. From Greek, okay. Yes. Um So then so so now in sixteen eleven we have this authorized version, this King James version, even though at this time it's not known as the King James Version. That name would would come many years later. It was just simply called the Holy Bible. And um This so so this was technically not a new version but a revision of the Bishop's Bible. Um and um but Most of the Bible you could trace it to Tyndale. In fact, I think some people say um of the New Testament, you know, eighty percent, eighty five percent even of the King James Version Bible is directly from Tyndale. Um in the Old Testament I th I I think the percentages are maybe seventy percent or seven set set set seven set at 75%. Now there is one now I said that there would be three committees. Oxford, Cambridge, Westminster. Once those committees were done with their work, the work was brought up to the chief overseer of this translation project. And he could also make changes to it. One of the last changes that was made, in fact, is on this. Go to Acts chapter 1. And um in um in fact let me just um begin with um first um um Um let's see. Um verse seventeen. Peter is talking. He's talking to his fellow disciples, those who were gathered with him after the ascension of Christ. They're waiting for the filling of the Holy Spirit. And he's talking about Judah. And he says in verse 17, for he, Judas, was counted among us and received his portion in this ministry. Now this man acquired a field with the portion. price of his wickedness, and falling headlong, he burst open into the middle, and all of his bowels gushed out. It became known to all who were living in Jerusalem, so that in the own language That the fjord was called Hadabama, that is the fjord of Bluch. And then he quotes from the Old Testament for the justification of choosing someone to secede Judas. Verse 20, for it is written in the book of Psalms, let his homestead be desolate, and let no man dwell in it. And his office let another Mante. So so let it so his office let another man take. This word office from the Greek is the same as what was commonly translated overseer or elder. Um you know again it's again it's a A very Jewish word. Um it can mean an elder, a leader of a city or group, an elder of a sin synagogue. Um just someone in authority. So his office let another man take. So Judas is so so Judas has died. And Peter is then exhorting his fellow disciples to choose someone else, another man, to take his place, so that there will be twelve. Now, in the King James Version, this word is translated. His translate his translated bishop. The office of a bishop. Now, the reason why this was put in of course is to is to promote the current ecclesiastical hierarchy of the of the church to make sure that hey the office of the bishop is mentioned It's mentioned the Bible. It's it's legitimate. Um and um so it's so so it's very interesting. To see how they would translate certain words to ensure that there's a continuation of these equations. ecclesiastical terms in offices. Of course now, in in some ways you can you could actually translate office as say apostleship in this context. Now, if this were here. So that's how the ecclesiastical terms are preserved from the bishop's Bible. Now, the Key James version um um came out um um in Um y it it was a very impressive work. I mean, it was a good translation for its time. And it still is. Um now it wasn't particular s we seed very well. So you know most people, if they had their Geneva Bible, they checked it. Um those in the you know bishops who like the Bishop Bible they saw they kind of kept that too. So this this book had to this so this new translation had to compete against two other translations. Now the bishop's Bible was no longer in print. Um the new the King James Version would be the official replacement. Um that's the cest of the of of the Bishop's Bible. Um but the Geneva Bible continues to be printed, it continued to be read, continued to be used, it was among the people favored. In fact, the key even had to make You cannot publish the Geneva Bible anymore. Now, the printers got around that fairly easily. They just changed the date. So that a new so that to a to an old date so that the Bible that came out of the press looked like it was an old Bible. Um so so that um but because it Again, there was money to be made printing Bibles in those days. So many printers would do that. And um So another problem with the King James Version as it came out was there were a lot of lot lot a lot of typos, a lot of um um um um things that had to be corrected, um fixed up. And the translation would go through several revisions um to kind of clean Um un until it until it it was cleaned up. Um for example, one printing actually um had this on error. Um one of the ten commandments of course is you should not commit adultery. Well the printer left out the left out the negative. So um so that caused quite a problem. Um now the um King James version um is again it was a very good translation for its time. It's serious. Um and and um it's um and in its you know it's um its language was Um she was very noteworthy. Um it it it did have a very gracious s st style, had majestic language, um And no other book in English has had such a profound impact upon the English language as this book. In terms of its literal its literary significance, um it has no equal. Um and it's profound it's it's influenced language all the way down to the present time. Um at what point in time were all of the eras um taken care of in the King James Version of the Bible? Um most of the errors were taken care of very soon thereafter. You know, with the within a matter of years. Now the King James Version would continue to be updated periodically by MCAC Oxford Press. And the um that's if you go down to um note number 25. Again. Um I I said three editions were published in sixteen eleven. So again so again that's a geeze that's a correction there. Just in the same year, three editions would come out. But And then by 1769, a professor at Oxford named Benjamin Barley extensively edited the text to produce what has come to be stand the standard edition of the King James Version. Those slight changes would continue afterwards. So from the early 19th century, the early 1800s, the King James Version has essentially been unchanged. So the King James version that we know t today would date would most of it would date back to Benji Benjamin Bainey I have a fifteen twenty eight version. So with that version, all the errors would have been cleaned up out of out of it. Um well I mean there's some of the errors. Maybe not all of them. Okay. Um but also another another another thing we we we we would have to that we sort of have have to um um consider when we talk about the King James Version about you know whether it's um and that is you know as years go by language changes and so even some of the words that King James Version has used back then, some of them are no longer used today. Some words have even changed the meaning um by today. Um so so your What sixteen twenty eight twenty-eight version? Um, you know, I mean that's a pride poession. Um but there are words in that version that that you would not see in a newer newer printing of that. Yeah. Um yeah. Okay. So Now that's um now the King James Version also had two other issues with it that did not go unnoticed, and that is the translators um used a somewhat inferior Greek text. They used the Greek text from Erasmus. Um but that's still but that was based upon a few late manuscripts, none which date below name none which date below name none which date before say say um t 1250. And now that that Greek text from Erasmus, that's also been updated for that time. But again, even by the time King James comes comes along, um, it's it's still not a very clean week to t text according to mod according to modern So they knew Greek, but they also had a very inferior Greek t t text. The second issue is with the Old Testament, here they had a very good Hebrew text, the Meshretic text, but they um but the Hebrew scholarship just was not there. It had not yet come to fruition. In fact, you know, Tyndale was far ahead of his time in terms of understanding Hebrew. Um But of course, you know, he was executed and there was no one else like him. Even if you get up to the s to the sixteen hundreds, there's still a wide gap between um um you know um the tree you know translating from the Hebrew um you know doing the best you can and and then really doing it well. There's a a big gap. So those are the two issues for the King James Version. So let's go back to the to the to the Greek test. We have the the um received text, or the textus receptus. Um but But uh it's that's a great. And so this text is being updated um by various um And um and it's being updated because they're finding new and new manuscripts. Um you know see Erasmus began with just a few. Now we have a little bit more. But they're all pretty much that visiting text type. After this translation of the King James Version, New manuscripts were discovered. New manuscripts were brought to light, such as that Codus Codex Alexandrius Dennis, and the Natitus and the Codex Vanic The Baticanus. As these manuscripts were studied, textual critics worked to un to analyze the variant variant readings produced by the a better Greek text. And so this text, this electric text the ec electric text text is a tempt to examine all the Greek manuscripts, determine what is most likely the Original meaning. And there were some scholars that dedicated their whole lives for this work while building on the work that was before them. And I'm right now Now down on note number twenty seven. Number eight. There is this British theologian John Mill. He labored thirty years, imagine labeling thirty years. To produce an improved received text. And again, um don't think of this as you know, some some person, you know, in in a high ivory tower office and he occasionally makes a little change every few years and you know that's his work. Um no these men, these academics, um they study these manuscripts and they spend most of their time documenting the uh the Big big variants. They decide, you know, when these variants arose, what caused them? How do they impact the rest of the text. And so so and um so so this Greek text that they are recording is not just the Greek text itself. help with with with with that with actually no other thing around it. Most of this is is documentation, research. to to trace the flow of these changes and to make judgments as to as to what the original text would be. So fantasy. Texts go through various changes. The text itself may not change all the all that much. It's uh marginal notes. It's the researcher researchers notes in the in the in the researchers would then add their notes um to it. So so again this is this is a very detailed academic process. Um and it goes through and it has gone through centuries of analysis. Um you know, John Mill worked thirty years for to to um to update the Greek text. Um and he died two ye t about two months after or two weeks after his work was published. And then on letter B, there's a Lutheran Kirgyban named Johann Albrecht Bingel. He published further enhancements to the Texas we said. in seventeen thirty four. And he's noted because he he also cleaned up that book of revelation. He f you know, he was able to find um new manuscripts that shed right into some of the various readings in that book of revelation. Um he also Binko also formulated the principle of textual criticism that the most difficult reading is to be preferred over over the easier reading because he concluded that copiers would typically, when they make changes, would typically make the reading easier to follow, easier to read, not more difficult. They're not going to add complexity. They want to be they want to make it They want to simplify it. Um Okay. So then um then in nineteen um the in then uh no in In the year eighteen fifty. Um there's a German um textual critic, Karl Waufmann. He published a new text on early fourth century manuscripts. This would mark a departure from Texas Receptus as the main base. This would become to know as a critical text. That is, Walkman, what he did was instead of taking the received text and keep up Reading it, documenting it. Why not just create a brand new text from these early fourth century documents? So that's what he did. Um so that's what we call the critical t text. And most textual critic critics have sort of abandoned the received text. um often called the the majority text because it's the it's the majority of of the of of the manuscripts. Of course the majority of the manuscripts are the Byzantine text types. Okay? Um so So now there's two competing text type text Greek texts. Um but for the most part most modern translations will refer to the critical text. Text. Um now now you know I wanna point point out that as far as the text itself, there's really not that much difference. There's no changes in in the in in the doctrine. Um yeah. So So now um so I think I'm on on number D now. Samuel T Turgellus, he's an English biblical scholar of both Hebrew and Greek. He provides a new text in parts from eighteen fifty seven to eighteen seventy two, based on early manuscripts and citations from the early church fathers. And yes, he was acquainted with both Waffmann and Tischendorf. Um so so So again, there's further documentation that traces the development of the Greek text here. And then even Tischendorf, um German biblical s scholar Konstantin von Tischendorf, he uh he he's the one who dis uh who discovered that that um um Um the M. Codus Cyanatitus. He corrected other manuscripts. He produced other versions, uh other editions of the Greek New Testament. So he's going to spend his life Trying to come up with the original text. And so he's made he makes a significant contribution. Okay. Then we have the um the the um the um the Cambridge British Scholars um book Brooke Westcott and Fenton Hort. And they worked together for twenty-eight years to produce a volume called The New Testament in the Original Greek in 1881. And their names are of Quite common because many trans translations, translations, modern translations, we use their Greek New Testament. Okay, so and then in more modern times, there's a German biblical s scholar uh um on C on C C Aber Hansi He published the first edition of his Greek New Testament in eighteen ninety eight. His son Erwin, Nesty, he continued to publish new editions. He says in nineteen fifty two Again, that's not too far in the past. Um German scholar Kripp Hallman joined join the same effort to has has has the associate editor. And since nineteen seventy nine, new editions are hired the Nessie Arland Greek Nolan New Testament Greek. Otherwise we the DMCC DM N A. And this latest version, in print I think, is a is a twenty eighth version. And that's abbreviate abbreviated NA twenty eighth. So you often see that those terms in the biblical literature. And um and this is used by sc scholars and the researchers. These um so you have so So if you were actually going to do your own trans translation, this would be the text on that you would that you would want. But of course, most most of of us are not going to to do a trans to do a translation. Some of us may just want to, you know, you know, f f figure out all these Greek words for ourselves. themselves and see what they are in the ritual text and you know how do we do that? Well, the United Bible Societies has come up with a group Greek text which appears in a popular volume called the Greek New Testament. This Greek New Testament is considered to be more useful user-friendly for and this is for pastors and for to students. Um with it has fewer words on the page, has larger fonts, it has English subject headings, has Old Testament quotations in bold, and is in only the most important cross references are listed. expensive. So if so if you really wanted to get into the Greek language, this is the text to use. Okay. So With these new texts, um it it might be time to say have a new translation. Um so By the later eighteen hundreds there were several Greek good Greek New Testament texts, good, Tissendorf, Wiston, Wisconsinport, which differed from the traditional Texas Receptus. There was a growing accumulation of knowledge of various Greek words. Hence, there was a need for a new English translation based upon a better text with more accurate renderings of the original languages. And so now we have a list. of individuals that come up to meet that challenge. The first one is by a man named John Nelson Darby. He's leader of the Plymouth Brethren. He published a translation largely based on the Codex Banacanus and the Codex Sinatitus in 1871. This students would later publish the Old Testament. Um so this is a first well I well I'd say this is this this this be one of the first um um of the translations in more modern times. Also there's a British biblical scholar named Joseph What was the time? He published a translation based upon the text of Tregellus in 1872. His translation would be called the Emphasis Bible. for a special emphasis on the Greek definite article, the verb tense, and a logical idiom of the original language. And he also published the Old Testament in 1902. So now we'll get it into more modern times. Also, there's an Irish biblical scholar named Samuel Davidson. He published a translation based upon a text. Tischendorf in 1875. And then, in a departure from the current textual criticism, Robert Young published a very literal translation, which called the Young's Woodwall translation, beginning in 1862 using the Texas Receptus in the Mesoretic text. So he so he's going to depart. He's not going to go with his with with his critical text. He's going to go with a traditional received text. So he comes up with this Young's literal translation. What's noteworthy is that Young uses a present text. tense of verbs and narratives where most other translations would use the past tense. So now we've covered some several hundred years of um history v on a very high level. Um but I but but I hope we hopefully I'll give give you some notes, some thoughts that'll help you um Delve delve even deeper if you wish. Um next we're going to um come to more of a committee effort to um to a Bible translation. Um the first major committee effort was originated from the complication of Canterbury in eighteen seven to sponsor a major Revision of the King James Version. So this is a committee effort and it's going to sponsor a major revision of the King James Version, the first major revision in a long time. Chosen were sixty-five British scholars. Also selected well for a few Americans to serve as associate members. And basically the the Americans said were so you can't advise, you can recommend, but if we don't accept your recommendations, well you you can put them in a footnote. Um but we British are going to do this ourselves. Okay. Um so and the Americans were not permitted to translate anything for the next fourteen years. So the scholars made significant changes to the King James Version to reflect the better textual evidence reflected in the text of Togellus, Tishendor, and Wiscock, and Mohort. They also corrected a host of mistranslations of a Hebrew word. In the King James Version Old Testament. And the scholars also reformatted the poetic passages into poetic form. English revised version appeared in 1885, yet again people held on to the to the to the King James Version. It just w didn't take off. as they as they as they had as they had hoped. Um and um the Americans came back fourteen years later. They they also they published their trans Translation, which was considered to be a much better translation. Of course, part of the reason is that there's now 14 more years of research, so it should be better. Oh yes. So this translation is it ecumenical or just uh Protestants translated at this period. Um they they would try to make it somewhat ecumenical. Yes. Um so the Americans came back with their American standard version in in nineteen oh one. Um and they also did one more The Americans removed the apocryphal of good. And the Americans also uses it used the name Jehovah as a covenant. Name for God in contrast to the Lord to the word Lord are in applications in the English revised version. Yes? Was he apocrypha in most of the other versions up to the up to the point of the AI? Um when the King James version was published, it did have it did have the power. Now, later versions may have the pop-up or may not. Okay. But the apocalypse was still a fish. What about Tyndale's Bible? Um Tyndale Tyndale's Bible would have it. Yes. In fact, Coverdale actually worked the church in that he when he published his Coverdale Bible, he He actually um combined the apocalypse into one section. And the church authorities did not like that. Because to for them that just one step towards talking sing it out. Yeah. Okay. Well I'm now out of out of time, so we'll continue this next week. Father, we thank you for your word present. down to the times by your providential care um and by the lives of women and women who have given their lives to seeing that we have this word in our own language. And Father, uh help us to treasure your word in our hearts. In Christ's most wondrous name. Amen.