I appreciate very much how you all were singing just then. That minister to my heart is able to focus on God's greatness. His greatness You don't get to pick the time in which you live. You're born when you're born. You didn't have much decision about that. But we do live in confusing times, do we not? I mean, right is wrong now. And wrong with boldness is declared as right. Politicians promise great things on the campaign trail, they get elected, and then they change their mind once they're in office. Businesses make great boasts about what their services can do for you, but it's never quite as great as they boast. Even churches send out erroneous teachings and deceive people Good liars are believed, and those who flatly tell the truth are considered false. I believe Satan has done his work of confusion in the modern world. And you and I are the ones who suffer the consequences of that confusion. What is the remedy for confusion? It's truth. It's clear, accurate truth. Truth that resounds in our minds and our hearts, as God's Holy Spirit makes it clear that it's true. In order to have truth, we need to hear God. For God, Titus 1 says, cannot lie. And so everything that comes out of his mouth is the truth, for he is the truth. But where does God bring the truth to us? Where is his voice speaking today? Well, different Christians and groups that profess Christianity have different answers to that question. Pentecostal and charismatic churches continue to assert to this day that God speaks new, fresh messages to the church today, and those messages come to the church apart from Scripture. They come through modern dreams, visions, and other forms of revelation. Many who do not agree with that still believe that God speaks in other ways apart from the Bible, maybe through inner feelings Impressions that are made upon the mind, changing circumstances of life that happen particularly after you pray, and then boom, something happens, you're like, God is telling you to do this or not to do that And they insist that those circumstances, those feelings, those impressions need to be read, need to be analyzed and understood to know what God is saying to you And many wonder how can the scriptures, which were written so long ago, be a sufficient guiding voice for the church today? We live in a modern era. Things are complicated. New heresies have arisen since Scripture was finished being written 2,000 years ago. How can the Bible, an old book, really be a fresh voice for God today? Isn't it stale? Isn't it kind of outdated? We really do need to know where God speaks today. We can't agree on where God speaks, and we're not going to agree on what God has said. Well, today's passage of scripture gives some insight about the voice of God for the church. I'd like you to open in your Bibles to where we'll be preaching from in 1 Corinthians chapter 14 We have already covered the last two verses of chapter 14 and of previous message, and so today we are going to consider the two verses right before them, and this will conclude our study of chapter 14. And all of the truths about spiritual gifts and the worship service and how proper edification is done in a worship service. We're going to read 1 Corinthians 14, verses 37 and 38, and then expound them to our minds and hearts today. Follow along then as I read. Paul writes, if anyone thinks he is a prophet or spiritual, let him recognize that the things which I write to you are the Lord's commandment. But if anyone does not recognize this, he is not recognized. Pretty short section of scripture, isn't it? You might not think that there's a lot in there, but there's quite a bit to think about in those words. Much to consider. First of all, it's reassurance that the Word of God can be known, indeed must be known When the Lord gives a commandment, we are to know that it has been given and we are to recognize it as the Lord's commandment. It's reassurance to us of that. It is also a rebuke to those who do not know where the Word of God is coming or have created some other source that is not really God-speaking. And so it adds discernment to us as well that we would use the principles in this text to know the voice of God, to discern where it comes from and where it does not. And since Paul is writing this in a pastoral way to a church that he is correcting with specific problems that they had in their worship service, the disorder, the pride, and other things like that It shows us that there's a very practical reason to know why and where the voice of the Lord is coming It's not just a theological and abstract concept. It is a doctrine to help and edify and direct the church There are at least three questions about identifying the voice of God in a congregation that this text will help us with. I'll give these three questions to you now. You can write them down and we'll go through them. First of all, who is it that needs to know? Who needs to know where the voice of God is? Who needs to know? The second question is, where is the voice of God found today? And the third would be, what if someone doesn't acknowledge the voice of God? Who needs to know where is the voice of God found? And what if someone doesn't acknowledge that voice. Let's go through these first. Who needs to know? Well notice the words at the beginning. If anyone thinks he is a prophet or spiritual. Okay, so these words are directed at the ones who think, or the one who thinks. He is bringing the voice of God. To the church, to the congregation gathered. He thinks he is a prophet. He thinks he is spiritual. And so these words Paul is writing are directed to him. A prophet, as we've already covered in a lengthy study on that subject, we've already seen, is defined in Scripture as someone who would receive direct And infallible messages from God, and then was to proclaim that message to the people of God. The prophetess would take that and use it in the role of a woman. She would be Sharing the message with other women or in subjection to the discernment and judgment of men as was appropriate to a woman's God-given role all the way back from creation. And so these people who spoke the word of God in these circumstances. needed to know this. So spiritual is a little harder to understand what he means here. It's the Greek term pneumaticos. It may mean one who is gifted with the gift of tongues. Some interpreters think it's zeroing in on the person who's speaking with the gift of tongues there in the congregation since Paul took so much time to explain how that gift was to be used in the congregation. But I think it is more likely, and there are many that agree with this, that It is a more general statement. The term spiritual actually was used at the beginning of chapter 12 in verse 1, the beginning of this chapter back in verse 1 as well, and it refers to a broader array of spiritual gifts. So what is in mind here then is a person's self-evaluation, someone who thinks he's a prophet or bringing some other kind of revelation, whether through tongues or something else, he's speaking the word of God in the congregation and he has a self-evaluation, he has thoughts about himself, and he thinks he really is bringing the voice of God. That's what he thinks about himself. He's looked at himself, analyzed himself, and he's concluded I'm a prophet, or I'm a spiritual, I'm bringing this. It's just self-evaluation. There evidently were many who believed that they had a message from God, and there still are many who believe that today. There always have been throughout church history those who believe they have a message from God. But self-image or self-evaluation is never, listen, is never good enough. It's a starting point. People do have to go through self-evaluation. But it is never enough. You can't just have someone stand up and say, I'm bringing a message from God, and everyone's just supposed to nod their head and go, Okay, good, then God is speaking now. No, not necessarily It has to be evaluated. And that's what you see going on in a brief way in this passage. There has to be some objective criteria that the rest of the people of God can use to figure out whether God is really saying this or not to see if someone qualifies to be a prophet or spiritual, and that the words that are coming out of their mouth at that time are really the voice of God. Some people think that they are called by God to speak, and they may be sincere, and they may be sincerely wrong. There are other people also who need to know where the voice of God is, not just the one who thinks that he is the prophet or spiritual, but also the entire Christian congregation needs to know this as well. Why do I say that? Well, because though Paul is addressing those who think they are bringing the Word of God to the congregation, he's still writing this instruction to the entire church. This was a letter that was going to be read when the whole congregation was gathered and they were all going to hear this instruction. Indeed, the instruction is in the context of chapter 14, which contains many injunctions and much guidance for the entire church worship service gathered together in those days before the scripture was complete and revelations were still being given. Through gifts of the Holy Spirit. They would all be hearing the letter. It was read out loud to them. They would all need this discernment. They would all need to understand this as well. So every Christian gathered to worship the Lord in every congregation needs to know what is the source of the voice of God? Where does God speak? Where does he not speak? What am I supposed to listen to and what should I ignore? Pay no attention to? I mean this can extend even to your choice of CDs and DVDs and books and all kinds of principles, not just here, but you need to know how do I discern where the voice of God is really coming to me. And that just means that we need to know. You need to know. You need to know this. You need to be clear about this. You may have an idea about it, but you need to make sure you really know. It's very important. Because there's much confusion. If someone does speak in church, how would you recognize the voice of God even now? How would you know if it's God who is speaking, God who is talking to you in your mind and your heart? And what if God was trying to tell you something but you were stubborn and didn't want to listen, thinking maybe that's not the Word of God Many have brought confusion through false teaching. Things are being said today, even in the church, even in the evangelical church that are not true. But there's much deception out there. Yesterday two Jehovah's Witnesses came to my door It's about 12 degrees outside, and they're still out there going door to door. I would that we had as much devotion to evangelism as those people who are deceived are spreading from door to door that Jesus is not God, that he was not raised from the dead, and other heresies. Would that we would have that kind of commitment. Twelve degrees. I I was put to shame, frankly The charismatics and the Pentecostals, again, I mentioned that earlier, they make claims about the new messages that are coming, new messages apart from Scripture Well that's either true or that's false. If it's true, we all need to listen. If it's false, they need to stop doing that The text says, do not forbid to speak in tongues. The text says, do not despise prophetic announcements. But what are prophetic announcements and what really is the gift of tongues, and where does God actually speak? Someone asked to know. They're not the real things, and they're counterfeits. Then there are those who say that God is speaking. But they don't necessarily believe in a prophetic gift for today, but they do believe, as I mentioned earlier that there's certain feelings that they have and that's God's speech to them. Maybe you're like that as well. I had this impression God is telling me to do. You better be careful with that. What happens when you get it wrong? You're gonna blame God that he he spoke incorrectly there? I'm not saying God doesn't communicate to our mind, and I'm not saying that feelings are unimportant, and I'm not saying that we don't get impressions I get impressions. I get very strong impressions. I get compulsions. But I still have to check them and know where's the voice of God really coming? Then there's the Roman Church. They believe that they have the continuing voice of God when their church speaks in an official capacity from the seat of Peter. And they believe that. Many of them, I'm sure, sincerely believe that. Jesus warned in Mark 7. 8 not to neglect the commandment of God by holding to the tradition of men. What happens when what they speak is the tradition of men and they think it's the voice of God? That's a problem. Many evangelicals claim that God tells them to do certain things. But what does that mean? Are you sure and clear about that? It's different to say, God told me and you give these words versus I think the Lord is leading me to do such and such Because I've read in Scripture and the wisdom I'm getting from Scripture is this. That's one thing, but when you say God said and you give the words, now you're in another category Now they better all be true. Otherwise, God now is a liar. And so are you. Or me if I did that. There's a popular curriculum out there called experiencing God, and there's various variations of that now for couples, etc. Henry Blackaby, I'm sure he's a good Southern Baptist preacher. I see a lot of things that he teaches on his website in the book that are fine and good. I'm not calling him a heretic. But he claims to be able to train you how to hear the voice of God. That's quite a claim, really. Come to my seminar. I'm going to tell you how you're going to hear the voice of God. You better get that right. Because if you don't, then some people are going to think God is speaking to them, and maybe at that time he's not. There better be guiding principles. And what is really the authority on that subject I'm not doubting many of the things he says. I think there are many things in the curriculum that are fine. I wouldn't recommend the curriculum just because I don't think that the principles about how to listen to the voice of God are as accurate as they need to be. So I'd just like to say to you, it's not wrong to ask these questions. We really must know where God speaks and where God does not speak. To simply say, well everyone's right. You know, you're right, and you're right. Yeah, but they contradict each other. You know, Tevy and the fiddler on the roof, you know, you're right also, and everyone's right. That's illogical. It's not just illogical, it also is Dangerous. It's dangerous. Potentially dangerous. So, what is the real voice of God? That's our second question. Where is the voice of God? And this is the weightier question, the one we'll spend more time on. Notice next in the text, if anyone thinks he's a prophet or spiritual, here you go. Let him recognize, let him know, let him understand that The things which I write to you are what? The Lord's commandment. The Lord's commandment. Wow. Well, Paul's pretty strong there. What must this person who thinks he's conveying the voice of God to others know and recognize? What is it he must recognize? He must recognize the Lord's commandment. You think you're a prophet? Think you're spiritual, you better recognize the Lord's commandment. And where's the Lord's commandment? The Lord's commandment needs to be recognized in what I write to you, Paul said. What I'm writing and wrote to you, you think you're a prophet, recognize this. This is the Lord's commandment. Wow, that's strong. That's pretty strong. Imagine someone sitting there in the congregation at that time, they're getting that letter, they're like, whoa, better recognize that. Paul's letters were waiting. What I write is the Lord's commandment. Do you think that Paul understood that what he wrote is scripture? This text answers that pretty clearly, doesn't it? He understood when he was writing, this was God's voice, it was God's commandment. And he's uncompromisingly strong and assertive here. Someone might think he's being proud, overbearing. He's not. He's using his gift to be guidance and as a check for anyone else who thinks that they're really spiritual. I am writing the Lord's commandment. If I wrote it, you need to recognize it. Now, what does he mean by that? He means certainly what he's written in chapters 12 through 14, that's the section that he's in, but there's no reason to constrain it to that. He was aware of that throughout his writings, really all of the letter in his writings. He understood that it was scripture. For someone to be recognized in the church as a prophet or as a spiritual person giving forth the word of God, he had better recognize Paul's writings as the Lord's commandment. Any oral statement purporting to be the Word of God in the Corinthian Assembly at that time had to square with what was written, Scripture, whether Old Testament Or here in the process where New Testament scripture was being written. Dr. Robert Thomas of the Masters Seminary says this, writes this Paul's willingness to stake his own reputation and status on the accuracy of his written words discloses the degree of importance he attaches to them. His readers had to accept the words as binding or else label him as an imposter. And Dr. Robert Grimacki says this: the written word of God is the final judge of all charismatic activities. End quote. This is how you know the voice of God. It must square with the book. It must square with what is written. It must square with scripture. Jesus said in John 17, 17, when he was praying to the Father, Father, sanctify them in truth. Thy word is what? Truth. Back in 1 Corinthians chapter 1, there's an extended section beginning with verse 18, where Paul is mocking the greatest philosophers and scribes and learned men for their inability to know through their learning what the truth was. And in chapter two and verse nine he states that neither empiricism, where he says eye is not seen and ear has not heard, he says rationalism or mysticism, it has not entered into the heart of man, none of that can lead a human to ultimate truth. None of it. Only through God's Spirit, it comes from God Himself, who knows the thoughts of God communicated to the man will bring the voice of God. That is the Spirit of God that communicates the Word of God. Immediately think of 2 Timothy 3:16, right? All scripture is what? God breathes. It's out of the breath. It's out of the mouth of God. It's the very breath of God. Paul taught earlier in this letter, back in chapter 2, verse 12, the process of the inspiration. He says, We have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, so that we may know. So that we may know the things freely given to us by God, which things we also speak. Now here he's talking about the speaking process, but listen, not in words taught by human wisdom, but in those taught by the Spirit, the Holy Spirit. Combining spiritual with spiritual. What he means is combining the spiritual thoughts and putting them with spiritual words so they're conveyed to the people of God who are the spiritual people of God and they can receive. The Word of God, the voice of God, and know it, the fact in that passage she says a natural man, that's an unconverted man, an unregenerate man cannot receive the things of the Spirit of God for their foolishness to him and he cannot understand them because it takes spiritual judgment, spiritual appraisal to get it. So then the scripture is the voice of God. And the scripture is the voice of God for today. What scripture says, God's then. That's why in John 10. 35 it says the scripture cannot be broken. And today what God says collectively to his church comes only through Scripture. Beloved, Scripture is not stale. It's not dead. It's not irrelevant. It's not stagnant. Hebrews 4. 12, for the word of God is living. Living and active and sharper than any two-edged sword and piercing as far as the division of soul and spirit of both joints and marrow and able to judge the thoughts and intentions of the heart. You know about that because you sit there and when you're sitting under the Word of God and you're teaching, you're you're learning, you all sudden feel conviction or encouragement or whatever, like Your thoughts are exposed, and all of a sudden you understand something. That is the activity of the Word of God. We're even converted. Romans 10:17. Faith comes from hearing. And hearing by the word of Christ. How does someone get saved? How do they get converted? They hear the word of Christ, and faith comes through that vehicle. I believe for us there's more to consider. For the doctrines of the inspiration of Scripture And Scripture's trustworthiness and its sufficiency and inherency for today naturally lead to how we are listening to the voice of God in our church today It even affects our understanding as to the way church ought to be set up and what a worship service ought to be like. And in particular, when we speak of coming together as a church, we want in our worship services. We're here gathered here today. We want to hear the voice of God. Do you not? How is that to work? Why don't we just all go home when we have good study Bibles and sit at home, open the Bible and read it? There you'll be getting the pure word of God. You won't have to listen to anything any preacher or Sunday school teacher says and might mess up Just everyone just stay in their homes on Sunday, open up their Bibles, and just read, and you'll hear the voice of God. What is the point in even having church? Why have a Sunday school? Why have a Bible study midweek with other Christians? Where do they know? Just read the Bible. There's the voice of God. After all, it is the Lord's commandment, we just read that. And you know how to read, don't you? I bet you most of you do. This is a literate society. We have Bibles all over the place. We have like 187 English translations or something like that. Why even have to come and listen? Because this is God's design, listen, this is God's design for his gathered church to hear his voice. I don't think a lot of people understand that. I think they just kind of like, I'd like to get a little more Bible study, so I'm coming to church. And they don't really understand the design of God for his church. God's communication does not just stop with the inspiration of the scriptures. But also the work of the Holy Spirit in moving modern preachers and teachers to expound the Word of God to the congregation, in this setting, to the entire congregation. And it doesn't stop with the movement of God in the lives of certain men. It also extends to your mind and your heart and what's going on in your life right now as you sit there. And anytime you're exposed to the Word of God The Holy Spirit teaches you inwardly. He opens your eyes. He illumines you to understand the text. He's also working with you sometimes in such a powerful way, in such a fresh way, you can almost swear you heard God talk directly to you. But he's not adding a new revelation. He's speaking from his word. And sometimes he uses others To bring out the meaning of that. This is the pattern I've taught on this many times before. I don't want to get into great detail on it this morning. God has a pattern for maturing the church through gifted men. Who teach the Word of God, that's in Ephesians 4, verses eleven and following. It says Jesus Christ gave some as apostles and some as prophets and some as evangelists and some as pastors and teachers Why? What was their purpose? For the equipping of the saints, for the work of service, for the building up of the body of Christ until we all attain to the unity of the faith. knowledge of the Son of God to a mature man, to the measure of the stature which belongs to the fullness of Christ. A lot of learning has to go to that. God's appointed leadership have a crucial role in conveying the truth of God, the voice of God. faithfully and accurately to the whole body. Why? So the body can be equipped. Why? So they can exercise their gifts. Why? So that in the exercising of their equipped gifts and they're maturing, the whole body grows up to maturity. And together collectively, because God is very concerned with how we behave collectively, we all grow up and we attain to the unity of the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God. Now you've come to Hope Bible Church and you're learning the Word of God. And we're uh I'm I'm just thrilled when I see folks coming to want to hear the Word of God. I know the other leaders are as well. It's exciting And and really it's exciting for everyone. You're like sometimes you're not sure people really want to hear. And then when other folks come in and they let out an amen and they they enjoy that, they they receive that and benefit from that, that is an encouragement to everyone And you're going to hear and see that we practice expository preaching here. And you want that because you you know you're sitting under it and you're learning things and you're growing and it challenges you. And that's what you understand. I want to take your understanding of expository preaching and I want to maybe build on that a little bit this morning so you really understand what it is, that it's not just another method of doing things But is God's design for uh being a vehicle to speak to his gathered congregation? Many people when you ask them what is expository preaching, they point to some of the aspects of it. They'll say it's verse-by-verse teaching. That really doesn't get at the heart of what expository preaching is. There are many commentaries that go verse by verse that's not expository preaching. And we often don't go through every single verse. Sometimes we go to other verses as well to expose the meaning of other texts. and bring that to the mind of, well, to your minds, to all of our minds. Expository preaching is not a running commentary on the Bible. It is not just one guy taking his turn to tell us what he got out of his Bible study. Expository preaching in the context of a local body is, listen, the means to hear the voice of God for a congregation. to hear the word of God spoken and to hear it together, collectively as a church. In other words, to have God speak to us as a church today through His written word. Jesus is the head of his church, and that means he's the head of every local congregation as well. And Jesus is still speaking to his church. He hasn't abandoned his church The vision in Revelation shows Jesus walking among his churches. Remember the vision with the lampstands in Revelation 1? He's walking among his churches, and he's dealing with his churches, he's involved in his churches. He is involved in the life of this church. He is involved in the life of every true church, every true congregation. And he speaks his word to that congregation. And Jesus chooses men to speak his word to the people. And when those men faithfully discharge his word to the congregation, in that moment when his word is being heard His voice then is being heard, and the voice of God is being heard. This understanding of expository preaching is really not grasped by many who even claim to be Preaching in an expository fashion or to support expository preaching. Dr. John Stott, in his book on preaching called Between Two Worlds, writes this God still speaks through what He has spoken. If we are content to make the statement, Scripture is God's word written. and to stop there, we would expose ourselves to the critical rejoinder that our God, if not dead, appears to be as good as dead For we give the impression that he who spoke centuries ago is silent today, and that the only word we can hear from him comes out of a book, a faint echo from the distant past, smelling strongly of the mould of libraries But no, this is not at all what we mean, what we believe. Scripture is far more than a collection of ancient documents in which the words of God are preserved. It is not a kind of museum in which God's word is exhibited behind glass like a relic or fossil. On the contrary, it is a living word to a living people from a living God A contemporary message for the contemporary world. And in this book, Dr. Stott is arguing that the preacher stands between two worlds. the ancient world where the scripture was written and the modern world where there are needs, and he has to bridge that gap in his preaching. It's a very challenging book. Very challenging. In the book Famine in the Land, I love the title of that book by Steve Lawson, he quotes J. I. Packer In the book, and J. I. Packer says this, and this is from his book, God has Spoken. The true idea of preaching is that the preacher should become a mouthpiece for his text. Opening it up and applying it as a word from God to his ears, talking only in order that the text itself may speak and be heard. I love that. That's really what expository preaching is The text needs to talk, and the preacher becomes a mouthpiece of the text. Dr. Steve Lawson goes on in his book, Famine and the Land, to write this. This is the true nature of preaching. It is the man of God opening the word of God and expounding its truth so that the voice of God may be heard, the glory of God seen, and the will of God obeyed. Man, I wish I'd written that. That is great. Also, quoting the great preacher and theologian John Calvin, Steve Lawson, writes this preaching This is actually John Calvin, excuse me. Preaching is the public exposition of Scripture by the man sent from God, in which God Himself is present in judgment and in grace. In other words, God so intends to speak at this moment that he will hold his hearers accountable in judgment based upon what they have heard. You know you we always think about when I die I'm gonna get to hell and say God how come you didn't say such and such and he's like I did I sent my spokesman he handled my word correctly he gave you the message and you didn't listen you didn't obey Then Lawson also goes on in the same book. This strikes at the heart of what expository preaching truly is. It is preaching the Bible, explaining the true meaning of the scripture. in a way that conveys divine judgment if it is refused and divine grace if received. In this sense, Calvin argues that God is unusually present in the preaching of his word. It always bothers me when people talk about, you know, during our worship service, the first half is worship and the second half is like Bible study. That completely misses it. That completely misses it. The first half are things that we're saying to God, the second half of things God is saying to us, it's all worship. Or giving to God or of making commitments to God. And sometimes we'll have to think about this. We need to put some of that response after listening to the Word of God as well. The preacher needs to be a mouthpiece for the Holy Spirit's words in the text to his people. You're his people. And that requires not only saying what the Bible says, listen, but how the Bible says it This again is a misunderstood part of expository preaching. If the Bible, when you read it, and I'd like to ask you which part of the Bible doesn't do this, if the Bible, when you read it, has an authoritative tone Then what good is it to stand up here and be the mouthpiece for the Bible and not speak with authority? Gee, guys, God has a few ideas here that you might like to apply into your life I don't know what he'll do if you disobey it. It might not be that big of a deal, but it's really relevant. You might say the words that are there, but you're not saying it how God said it. And there's the spirit and the passion and the meaning behind that. The Bible has an authoritative tone, and a preacher speaks with authority if he speaks from the text. See, it's not just what you say, it's how it is said. A preacher has to in his studies, he has to absorb the meaning of the words the best he can. He's not going to do it perfectly. Believe me. There's so much I know I still have to grow and learn it. But you're in the word, you're absorbing the meaning into your life more and more, but you're trying to get into your mind, your heart. in your life, in your thought patterns, into your passions, into your feelings, so that when you come here to the pulpit, it's coming out of you. The passion is there, the authority is there, the sense of the meaning of it is there. The urgency is there. The compassion for the people who need to hear it is there. If the text has a comforting tone to it, the preacher needs to be comforting If the text has a rebuking tone, the preacher needs to be rebuking, particularly as it's needed in the particular application If the text is meant to be instructive, that means you're going to be taking a lot of notes when there's a lot of doctrine and you need to absorb a lot of it, and it's going to have that teaching flair and understanding to it If the particular text that's being expounded is evangelistic, then it ought to be reaching out to the lost souls. It's not enough to say what it says. Giving the feeling and the passion and the spirit of the words is necessary. Those who sit under this kind of preaching, hear the authority of God, not just his words, because his words do speak with authority. God speaks from this book. This is his word, and we are to listen to it. I speak with authority because the word has authority. You see this serious tone in me and you can you might think I speak this way all the time. I do not. I walk down there I might start talking about Now the Philadelphia Eagles are gonna lose the football game today, or something like that. That was for Tony, not to get his hopes up too high. The serious town here is trying to be and from anyone who comes here. I remember someone used to Someone said he used to be in this congregation, he said, I don't know what it's with you preachers. You know, you get into the pulpit and you're transformed. It's like, is that the suit? You put on the suit and all of a sudden you feel you need to speak that way? No, it's not the suit. It's the text. It's the text. The text is serious. I need to be serious. We had someone come and visit the church one time. They left here. They were hit by a hit by a motorcycle and they were killed. They never got to come back. I don't know what the Lord is going to do in your life following this day. Dr. Martin Lloyd Jones, another great preacher from the past, said, a preacher is not a Christian who decides to preach. He does not just decide to do it. The man who is called by God is a man who realizes what he is called to do, and he so realizes the awfulness of the task that he shrinks from it. Nothing but this overwhelming sense of being called and of compulsion should ever lead anyone to preach Oh, I got another quote. Alex Montoya. He's one of my professors at the Master Seminary. He has a book called Preaching with Passion, and that man preaches with passion. We've got to get him here sometime. Those of you who have been out to the Shepherd's Conference, know. This commission by God is an indispensable ingredient in a preacher's passion in declaring the word of the Lord. If you doubt that He sent you, you will be unnerved by both the magnitude of the task and by the response of the audience. Only those commissions can declare boldly and passionately, thus saith the Lord. And Dr. MacArthur in his foreword to preaching with passion. Writes this, I'm convinced that even in the most sound and solid Bible churches today, much of what is labeled preaching is not that at all. Turn off the overhead, eliminate the PowerPoint presentation, stop passing out the fill-in-the-blank outlines, and let the man of God proclaim the truth with genuine heartfelt fervor, energized by the Spirit's unction. That is preaching. The true preacher is never content with informing his people about a few academic matters. He wants to overwhelm them with clear and powerful exposition of the word so that they feel the impact of God's truth at the most fundamental level. You can really hear Dr. MacArthur's voice in that explanation, can you not? Expository preaching is not just another Bible study. It's not just a family devotion. It is not just someone sharing their insights from the Bible. It requires a certain gift. It requires a calling from God. Yes, it requires training. The more training, the better, because the better training, the better the exposition, the better the exposition, the better we Hear the voice of God Yet please do not misunderstand. The gift of preaching and my preaching, or that of any preacher, is by no means infallible. It is only true, and it only conveys the voice of God insofar as it represents what? What is written. And so it must be checked by you. As you are sitting there and you want to know what is the voice of God, you should be doing this. Listening and looking. And listen a little more and looking. And once in a while probably nodding your head because you don't agree. But then listening a little more. Because maybe you will agree. But if you don't, it is your mind that has to be convinced that's what the text says in order for you to know this is the word of God that is coming. And that's why we invest with the preaching so much teaching. And by the way, preaching the Word of God is not the goal of Hope Bible Church. I appreciate, and Alan appreciates, and the other leaders appreciate so much. When people come to hear the word. But our goal is not to preach the word of God. The goal of preaching is that you would hear the voice of God and after hearing do what? Obey it. Let it transform your life. This is only the engine in the car. It's not the destination. I just want to say a personal note. This now comes from me, not from the text. I just want to talk to the congregation a little more personally here. My dear brothers and sisters in Christ. This is what my calling is in this church. I'm a bit like Jonah, who when I first began to understand God was calling me back to Maryland to preach his word, I did not want to come. Nothing against any of you guys. I just did not want to be here. I did not want the task. And I did not want to come back to Maryland. And after I came, I knew I was right. I should never have come. Should never have come. But there is a compulsion that God puts in your life. I would like at times, and I've often said I would love a year or two off, to get away, to rest, but there is a compulsion. That you cannot set aside, I I can't go to another career, I wouldn't know how to do it. I would never be able to rest in that A man who is called full-time to preach the Word of God, and everyone else who has this call understands it. They don't need to explain it to one another. They're under such compulsion to preach, they can't really push it away from them. I know I promise to speak on leadership at some time in the future. I'm not really doing that this morning. I want to give a further explanation of biblical leadership from the text. I just want you to understand my mind and my heart. This is my calling. This is what God has called me to do. I cannot do otherwise. I hope that you understand my motivation in that, what I'm trying to do How I believed that God would chasten me if I didn't do it. There is a pressure, a compulsion that is put on the heart of a preacher to get the Word of God out. And in my flesh, I would like very much to avoid it. I read history and I know what has happened to many of the preachers down through history, that in time their congregations did not support them, turned on them, they were vilified by society, the rest of that. I am not the kind of person who wants that to happen to me or my family. And I know what is ahead. The Spirit of God makes it clear to me there are hard times ahead in this situation. And I covet your prayers because it is not an easy thing for me. It is not easy at all. I have often said, and I believe it's important to reassert this again, not to hurt anyone's feelings. I don't mean it that way. That when I came to Maryland, I came with the John MacArthur Church model. And I established this church with that model. The first Sunday I laid my hands on Alan and established him as the second elder And from the very beginning, this has been what our church was about. And not that John MacArthur invented church. I know I talk a lot about him. He's, you know, a guy who's had a great amount of influence in my life He he didn't invent that. This is a model of church that has been around for centuries. And it is biblical and it is proven. And the fruit of that, I would hope, is evident to all of you as you look around and see what God is doing here at home. There is wisdom to be seen in the arrangement. I hope it is in plain view for all of you. Anyone who is a leader in this church needs to recognize that model and agree with that model. must understand and accept what this church was established to do. It does not really matter to me that someone has had experience as a pastor or as an elder, or as a deacon, or as a youth pastor, or as an evangelist, or as a missionary in other churches. What matters to me is what their convictions are with their doctrine concerning what we teach here what their convictions are concerning our philosophy of ministry here, and whether or not they're willing to fit into that and prove themselves from that. That is something I cannot and will not compromise on. It really is something that Alan and I share in a conviction together. We do not want the standards here lowered even if it means we take longer to establish our leadership and I do intend to talk more on this later, but I wanted to give you a personal insight into my mind and where my heart and giftedness is in this so that you would understand better. The third and last question we're going to answer very briefly is, what if someone doesn't acknowledge the voice of God? And that's verse 38. But if anyone does not recognize this, Paul writes, he is not recognized. Now don't get the wrong impression. I'm not going to say from here that if a church doesn't have expository preaching, that they never hear anything from God at all. No. Expository preaching is the best way to hear the voice of God in the congregation. Obviously, anywhere a preacher or teacher, or you personally at home in your devotions Whereas you're reading the Word of God or reading a book that conveys the Word of God, anytime that is going on and it's faithful to the text, you are hearing what? The voice of God to you. I'm not saying that's not true. That definitely is true. But the goal of expository preaching is that the whole congregation will hear the text together and God can talk to his congregation through that. But there's some that don't want to acknowledge the voice of God. Now, here he's talking about what he's written So he's talking about the Scripture. So he's saying, what if someone doesn't recognize the Bible teaching? What if someone doesn't recognize what the Scripture says about that subject or about that text. What if someone listens to what Paul wrote in the letter and decides, you know what, I'm a spiritual, I'm a prophet, I know better, I'm disregarding Paul. And Paul's answer to him is that man is disregarded. Now if you have a different translation, it might be, let him be ignorant, or it could be, and I think this is a better reading, let him be ignored. If he ignores what I wrote, you ignore him If he does not recognize the scripture as the Lord's commandment, you don't recognize him as a prophet or a spiritual. That's what he's saying. No one may disregard the Bible. And that's why we put such a premium on people preparing for teaching with it. In Deuteronomy 8. 20, it says, Like the nations that the Lord makes to perish before you, so you shall perish because you would not listen to the voice of the Lord your God. What happens to people that won't listen to the voice of God? They perish. 1 Samuel 12:15. If you will not listen to the voice of the Lord, but rebel against the command of the Lord, then the hand of the Lord will be against you as it was against your fathers. The text of Scripture brings the voice of God, and the voice of God may not be disregarded without severe consequences. Anyone who won't conform their teaching, their doctrine, and their practice to this book, yet claims to be spiritual and wise and a teacher, is not speaking for God. And that's part of the terror of standing up and teaching the Word of God, whether in a pulpit, where the Word of God sits on its throne here above us. And I sit down underneath that as well. This is the throne of the Word of God, and this is what the Protestant churches have believed for a long time. And the authority of the Word of God is over us and it teaches us And anyone who stands here needs to just be a mouthpiece for that book because God is in authority over us. Anyone who stands in this position in any situation, teaching in a class or small group, they should have a A fearful approach to it. James says, let not many of you become teachers, you will incur a stricter judgment. Lastly, I just want to give a few comments about how you should be responding to the voice of God when you hear it. It will just come from a few verses. I'll give them quickly. In Luke chapter 5 and verse 1. It says this. Now it happened that while the crowd was pressing around Jesus and listening to the word of God, he was standing by the lake of Genezeret. That's just the beginning of a story. What do I pick up from that? Jesus was coming and he was teaching the Word of God and the crowds pressed around him to hear that. That ought to be our Passion, that we are pressing forward to hear the word of God. In Luke 8. 21 it says, Jesus answered and said to them, My mother and my brothers are those who hear the word of God, and what? And do it. You ought to be coming to church looking for something to do, looking for something to obey, to change, to believe better, to understand more clearly. In Colossians 3. 16 it says, Let the word of Christ richly dwell where? In you. You want to receive it. You don't want it to be bouncing off you, going in one ear and out the other. I'm too tired, I can't listen. You want to be receiving it. Psalm nineteen eight, the precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. Come in discouraged, come in sad, come in Hurting. The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. Let it rejoice your heart. And then it goes on, the commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes You've been misled by sin, and the commandment of the Lord is pure, and it will help you to see that your sin isn't what you need. You need purity and holiness. So I say to you, prepare your hearts. On Saturday night, on Saturdays, get ready. Prepare yourself to hear the word of the Lord and to worship the Lord and to respond to His text. Come in early. Be eager. Set up early. Get yourself set up and ready. Be there. Gather with God's people as a unit, as a congregation to hear the Word of God. We all Need to hear his voice. We all need to hear his voice, and we need to hear his voice afresh today. And that fresh, powerful living word is spoken to us from this book. Amen. May God increase your conviction about that. Father and our God, we just thank you for your word, and we confess that often we do not value our time in your word. We become dull of hearing. We become distracted with things that we want more than a stronger walk with you. Lord, I confess that my mouth That once blasphemed your name is by no means worthy to stand here and proclaim your precious and pure word. And Lord, That you would use sinful instruments to declare your word is truly amazing. It's an amazing demonstration of your grace and your patience in our lives. Thank you, Lord, for what you are doing, how you are working in this congregation. Lord, it is all your work And we are simply the instruments of your hands. To you belongs all praise and glory and honor, thanking you for your revelation and your voice that has spoken to us. from your word today. Help us to analyze the text again, Lord. Help us to study and be sure. In Jesus' name we pray it. Amen.