Well those songs have a lot to do with what we're going to be learning together today, thinking about his second coming, the fame of his name. That was great. Thank you, Doug. When you pray for Hope Bible Church, what do you pray for? Probably you use at least a lot of you the uh prayer sheet that we put out so you can know Some of the answers to prayer, praise God for that. Some of the ailments of people who are hurting and you pray for them, some of the ministry needs. Praying for leaders, praying for problems to be solved, building facility, all of those things are good. But I mean when you're really praying for Hope Bible Church and for what it should be doing, what it should be become. What do you pray for? And really, for any church that you think of, another church that's dear to your heart, here of a missionary starting churches, and you think, I'm going to pray for that church. You ever kind of get a blank in your head? I'm going to pray for the church. Lord, help that church to do well and be blessed. And you're struggling, what do I pray for them about? And you don't know the details of what's going on. What is the goal of your prayers, in other words? What are you really laboring for? Prayer is work, it's labor. What are you taking that time to labor for to see? for them. Well I think if if you think about the church and the church age which we're a part of, wisdom would dictate that we have By the eyes of faith, to look all the way down through time and think about what's going to happen to each church. Where are they ending up? Where are they going? And then to think about what they need to be on that day and then to kind of come back with our gaze and pray that that's what we will be on that day. We will pray that we will fulfill what it is that God wants us to fulfill. We pray with that goal in mind It is not a coincidence at all. And if you're familiar with Paul's letters, you see this happen in his letters over and over. He's giving some teaching, and all of a sudden he just goes right into a prayer for the church that he's teaching. And then sometimes he comes back and teaches more, and then further in the letter there's another prayer. That's how Paul did things. His mind would get caught up with the truth that he was learning, and then he began praying for the church. And we can learn things from what he prayed for the church. He doesn't always pray exactly the same thing, but his prayers take on a dimension that I think teaches us how to pray for the church, how to do that in a more mature fashion, how to be more exact in what we're praying for the church. Well, in 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, he's writing about the return of Christ, the eternal punishment of the wicked, the glory that all the saints will have when he comes to be glorified in his saints and among his saints. And all of that moves him to pray for the church at Thessalica. He thinks about them. They're going to be part of that crowd around Christ, the saints that are gathered. And so he wants to pray for them as a local church. that when that day comes, they're gonna be there. They're going to have fulfilled their calling. They're going to be whom God has called them to be. So We're going to study this prayer in just two verses, 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, if you can open your Bibles there. Look on with someone if you don't have a Bible. I think it's always important to keep your nose in the Bible as we're preaching so we don't end up preaching and talking about our own ideas or our own traditions, but we always preach the Word of God here. 2 Thessalonians 1 verses 11 and 12 I'll read them. To this end also we pray for you always That our God will count you worthy of your calling and fulfill every desire for goodness and the work of faith With power. So that, verse 12, the name of our Lord Jesus will be glorified in you and you in him. according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ. Well it's a short section, isn't it? And really, it concludes the last section on the return of Jesus. These two verses are rather loosely connected to what precedes grammatically, but the flow of thought is clear. Literally at the beginning of verse 11 you could translate it this way, To this also we pray. And it means unto this or to this end, as the Nazbi translates it. So immediately you should be asking, to what? What is he praying? To what end? Well it connects the thought backward, not just of course to the second coming of Christ and the glory that all of us will experience at that time, but all the way, keep looking back all the way to verse five Where Paul wrote, so that you will be considered worthy of the kingdom of God. Do you see that in verse five? And now Paul writes Here in verse 11, to this end we also pray. What end? Verse eleven, that our God will count you worthy of your calling. Do you see the connection? That's what he's praying about. He wants the Thessalonian Christians to be considered worthy of the kingdom of God when it arrives in glory and power. And so he prays that at end that God will count them word. The word also, the little word also there also shows he's connecting backward. Now please remember the setting of the letter and these recipients. This is still a church that's suffering affliction. Again, look back to verse 4. Let's remind ourselves Therefore, we ourselves speak proudly of you among the churches of God for your perseverance and faith, here it is, in the midst of all your persecutions and afflictions which you endure. This was not a prosperity preaching kind of church where everyone was healthy and everyone was happy all the time and rich and all the other junk that you hear people saying today. This was a church that in following Jesus had a lot of afflictions and persecutions. And they were faithful. They persevered. They had works of faith there. So how they responded to their present circumstances, i. e. those painful trials they were going through How they responded to all of that would prove whether or not they would be counted worthy of the kingdom of God when it came. The here and now was very important. It would determine what would happen there and then. And so that church needed prayer. And this church needs prayer. You need prayer. We need prayer. The church down the road needs prayer. And the church across town needs prayer. And this is How we can pray for churches We ought to think about the second coming, and in light of the second coming and the coming of the kingdom of God, we should pray. But what do we say? What do we ask for? Even before we get into our outline this morning, I want to give a few prayer preliminaries, I'll call it. prayer preliminaries. I just want to make sure before I dive into some of this deeper stuff that I bring all of you along with us and you understand a few things about prayer, which I'm sure most of you do, but let's just review them A few simple questions about prayer, and we can look at the beginning of verse 11 to help answer these questions. The first question, there at the very beginning, he says, we pray. So let's ask this question: what is prayer? What is prayer? The Greek verb here is prosukami. It's the most common word used for prayer in the New Testament. It just means prayer directed toward God. The simplest definition I've ever heard for prayer is this. Talking to God. Prayer is talking to God. And it should be done reverently. Why? Because of the one you're speaking to, yes? Depending on who you're going to talk to, depends on how you speak. Sometimes prayer is way too casual, way too flippant, and clearly someone who's praying like that doesn't remember who they're talking to On the other hand, it doesn't need to be all flamboyant, it needs to be sincere, it needs to be from the heart, but we need to remember that we're reverently talking to God. Now the second question was why would anyone want to talk to God? Well, why do you talk to God? What are the reasons you go and talk to God? Some of you have memorized ACTS, Adoration, Confession, Thanksgiving, and Supplication as the four components of prayer that also give the four reasons to pray. I'll just give them in a different order. First we give thanks to God Right? Why do you pray? To give thanks to God. Has He done anything for you lately? How about this? Everything that you own belongs to God and He's letting you use it for a while. Did you know that? If you don't, go to the Crown Financial Class, they'll get you straight. Everything you own belongs to God. Okay? He's been generous enough to share it with you. How about saying thanks And how about doing it every day and multiple times a day? And specifying what you're thankful for. Remember how the body of this letter got started? We ought always to give thanks to God for you. Thanking God For that church, because God had worked. Paul's already modeling what he said. The second reason to pray is to confess sins to God. Confess sins to God. Why should we confess sins to God? Because we sin. And because our sins are against God, and because we're weak, and because we sin far more than we ought to, amen? And we're going to get a chance to confess sins today at the Lord's Supper We've transgressed. We've trespassed on God's territory. We've committed iniquity. That alone is enough reason for us to pray. And uh a third reason is to glorify the name of God, to praise his name. There's a third reason to pray. Take his name, his reputation, lift it up. We're going to learn about that this morning. Praise him, his name is majestic. There's no greater topic than God. There's no greater person than God. You worship God in prayer. You adore him. You brag about him. You glory in him. You display all of his attributes in great words and give them back to God because he deserves all of that. It is very, very wrong for a created being like you and me to give such kind of worship to a football team. Or to some singer, or to some movie star, or to some great business mogul, or some other person, it is very wrong for us to act like they are the greatest thing. And you don't call it worship, but it is. When God, you come in here and you don't sing with enthusiasm for God. He deserves worship, right? In your prayer, you should give that kind of adoration to God. All of us should do that. He's the creator of all things. Fourth reason to pray is to ask for things. The Jewish men, as I've said many times before, their stance in prayer often was standing with palms open toward God. Why? Not to show off, but to receive something from God. Our hands are empty, Lord. Fill them. So you request things from God. I like 1 John 5. 14. This is the confidence which we have before Him that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. And then it goes on to say if we know he hears us, we know we have the request which we've asked from him. We don't want to ask for things that are for our kingdom and our will to be done, we want to ask for things that will promote his kingdom and his will. So we we can't ask for every single thing that we want. We can't have covetous eyes And then pretend to be religious and go to God and say, God, give me that thing that I really, really want. He's not going to answer that. It's not what we pray for. We pray for needs. Give us this day our what? Daily bread. Bread. Not filet mignon. Bread. If he gives you filet mignon, great. Enjoy it before God, but you ask for bread. You ask for your needs. And you know that a lot of people don't have nice bread, and we do. Praise God for that, right? What are some other things to ask for? Deliver us from evil. Wouldn't you say there's evil in the world? Are you tempted? Sometimes you fall in sin and you wonder why? Because you didn't pray, deliver me from evil, and you didn't watch during the day what temptations you'd be getting into, and you fell and you sinned. It's not too hard to figure out Here's another simple question with our preliminaries. Who should you pray for? That's easy. I like it right in there. It says, Paul says he prays for you. Who's the you? Thessalonian believers. Do you pray for other believers? Do you intercede for other people? Sure you want to pray for your own requests. You have them. You have needs. Pray for them. Nothing wrong with that. But do you take time to pray for other people intercede for them. What's going on in their life? I want to touch their life. I can't call everybody. I can't write a note to everybody. I can't email everybody. I can't have breakfast with everybody. I can't serve everybody. But I can pray for everybody I can reach them, I can help them. Prayer works. God uses your prayers. You don't need to be a pastor, evangelist, apostle, or anything like that to pray. You just need to have a little bit of faith and know who you're talking to and pray for them, and God will use you, right? Pastor Quinn reminded us last Lord's Day that we're together. We're a body. We ought to be praying together. There's a power in praying together. There's a need for that. Pray for the whole health of the body. We gather together. Why? So we can pray together and pray for each other as well. That's what Paul's doing here. Paul constantly prayed for his new churches. Plant a church, travel on, pray for the other church. Never forget it. Put it right there in his heart. Always praying for it. That's what he did. Pray for it constantly. Do you know of a church that's getting started somewhere? We just uh heard about the the church that's sort of getting restarted there. It's called Grace Community Church of Wilmington, Delaware. And the pastors uh Fresh out of the uh the uh Grace Advance Academy and he's trying to get that church up and going and we ought to be thinking about that church and praying for that church. Church that's been of like mind there. Providence Bible Fellowship's had some hard times there in Northern Virginia. We ought to be praying for that church as well. Other churches that you know of where the gospel is preached, pray for those churches. Now another preliminary question is when should you pray? And again, that's an easy question with an easy answer. Notice the little word there, always. Do you see it? What does always mean? It's not mystical though. It's not saying that we uh don't eat and we don't sleep and we don't play and we don't work. Prayer is cognitive. It's not saying that Just if I feel good about God, I'm praying. That's not correct. That's not what prayer is. Prayer is cognitive. It doesn't mean that everything we do is a prayer and our actions. It means that we're constantly Sending up prayers to God. It happens continuously throughout the day, throughout the week Throughout the month, throughout our whole lives until our last dying breath, right? We pray and we keep praying. Stephen called on Jesus while he was being stoned to death, and that sets a good example for us Praying now, praying then, praying all the way to the end. Paul told the Thessalonian believers in his first letter in chapter five, verse seventeen, pray without ceasing. Never let there be a time where the church stops praying. You know, we're not going to pray this month. You know, we decided we're just not going to pray this month. We've been doing enough praying. We got enough praying done in January. So February is a no-pray month. Never have that. Never have a day like that. Never have a week like that. It's not a good day if you don't pray, by the way. You have a day and you got a lot done and you didn't pray, I don't think you had a good day. I don't think you had a good day. You didn't pray. Somebody stick in two minutes here, thirty seconds there. How about just committing to fifteen minutes of prayer a day? Just start with that. Then build it to twenty and get it up to thirty and say, I want to pray. Praying is important You know, when you're in spiritual leadership, you have to take the duty of prayer seriously. God expects you, all of you leaders, to be praying and praying regularly for those in your church. Evangelists must never just preach, convert, and move on. Their converts have to be gathered into a church and then they have to be showered with what? Prayers, right? Prayers. So that's some of the elementary things about prayer. I wanted to make sure everyone's on board with that. Now to our main lesson. Here we go: three instructions on praying for your local church in light of the second coming. Three instructions on praying for your local church in light of the second coming. First The petitions of your prayers. They're in the second part of verse 11. That's where we'll spend the bulk of our time. The petitions of your prayers. Then the purpose of your prayers, the beginning of verse 12, and the power of your prayers. In the last part of verse 12. Okay, first the petitions of your prayers. Look at the second half of verse 11. He says, To this end also we pray for you always that Now here it expresses the content of his prayer that our God will count you worthy of your calling and fulfill every desire for goodness and the work of faith with power. There are two requests there I want to ask you, have you ever taken time to compare your prayers, prayers that come out of your mouth, that is, with the prayers of people in the Bible? You ever do that? Just write out what you prayed and go read a prayer in the Bible. Is it similar or is it different? It's a good way of figuring out whether or not you're praying properly or not. How do people in the Bible, men, women, they all Many prayers in the Bible, not just in the Psalms, but in various historical areas. Great prayers that are written. Jesus has prayers. There's John 17. He prayed because he prayed in a unique kind of way Jacob had a prayer. Abraham had prayers. Many people in the Bible have prayers. Paul had a lot of prayers. Compare your prayers to their prayers. See what it says. John Phillips in his commentary wrote this. He said, In our average modern prayer meetings, we pray that Sister So-and-So might recover from her illness. Or that brother what's his name would be able to get a better job, or that Dr. Sawbones would be able to find a suitable assistant It's not that it's wrong to pray for things like that, but most of our prayer requests are for such things. Paul rarely records a prayer for physical or material things. If we individually and collectively adopted Paul's plan, our prayers would soar, probably too, they would cease to be so boring. That's his quote, not mine. Dr. MacArthur in preaching on this text he entitled his sermon Praying for the Right Things. So now we're getting at it. Well, there are two requests that are asked for this church. And think about them. Think about the second coming and think about why they're good to ask. Request number one: that our God will count you worthy of your calling. That's his request. There's his request that our God would count you worthy of your calling, his calling of you. Does that surprise you? What kind of a request is that? Why is he praying for that? That doesn't sound like something we put on prayer lists, does it? I'm praying for this church so that God will count you worthy of your calling. What's that all about? Well, it's not, I'm praying this church will make its budget. I'm praying this church will grow. I'm praying this church will get a better sound system. All of those things are fine to pray for, I do. But the main thought here is: God will count you worthy. That's his overriding concern for this church. What does it mean to be counted worthy of a calling? Let's start with this. Let's start with what is a calling. What is a calling? Are you called as a Christian? Sure you are. What does that mean? Well, the word for called, clasis. It just refers to that. God calls, gives an invitation, and people are to come. Christians were called by God to enter into a relationship with God, to follow his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. to come and inherit the great kingdom that he has. They're called by God for that. You might think of someone who's uh asleep at home and they get an important phone call, boss is calling them from work and saying, come on in, we need you Comes quickly, arrives. Something's needed at work, he's there. He was called by the boss. When he arrives, he now is the called one. He was called, he was woken up, he was brought in, he was he is now the called one. Christians obviously are not called on the telephone We're called by God through the preaching of the gospel. God sends people to preach the gospel or talk the gospel in whatever way you've heard it. And as you've heard The good news about Jesus Christ, you realize this is not just some ancient story. This is the Word of God, and it's coming to me this day And God reinforces that on the inside, in your inner being. He communicates that outward voice and he impresses that on your heart, on your mind and your conscience, and you are now called, almost summoned to himself where he draws you out of your deadness and out of your blindness. He opens your eyes and you're called to him. In Romans eight thirty, it talks about this call, and there it can be described as an effective call, because it says everyone that God predestines he called And everyone he called, he justified, and everyone he justified, he brings all the way to glory. He glorified them. No one is lost along the way. So there's a special call for those who become believers. There's a reinforcement of that call. in the heart of people. It's the summonings of God to Himself. That's your calling. You're saved because of your calling. You walk in this life because of your calling. Everything about you as a Christian has to do with your calling. In Ephesians 4:4, our scripture reading, it says there's one body and one spirit, just as you were called, in one hope of your calling. Your calling has a hope attached to it. 2 Timothy 1. 9, it says, God saved us and called us with a holy calling. We're called the holy living, in other words. We're called to be holy people, to be before him. That's why he calls us. Now, to this idea of calling, here in this context, is added the idea of being counted worthy of our calling. Axia'o, to be counted worthy. How can we be counted worthy of this great calling? I thought that none of us were worthy to be called of God. We're all sinners. Only Jesus can make us worthy. How could we be counted worthy of our calling? Well, I want you to turn back to Paul's first letter to the Thessalonians. Just turn back to chapter 2. And look at verse 12, 1 Thessalonians 212, and you'll see a little glimpse of this. He's talking there, writing, he says, so that you would walk in a manner worthy of God. There's the same word, worthy of God. Walk in a manner, live your Christian life in a way that is worthy of the God who calls you into his own kingdom and glory. He calls you, what's he calling you into? Into his kingdom. You're not in the kingdom, he calls you into the kingdom, and in coming into the kingdom, he calls you into all the glory of that kingdom. How do you know if you're going to be worthy of that? By the way now that you walk. That you would walk worthy of the calling. There it is. Walk worthy of the calling. That's what he's talking about Now the kingdom that we're going to get to be a part of, right now you can't see it. You can only get a glimpse of it as we're gathered together and we think about how wonderful it is to be in the presence of other believers. We don't see Jesus now. We can't see all of that light and that glory and that power that was spoken of back there. Verses nine and ten we can't see that with our eyes. We have to envision it. We have to see it with the eyes of faith. But it's coming. And it's coming with great power and it's going to take over the entire globe and it's going to be radiant and it's going to be glorious and we get to be a part of that and so we have to prove we're worthy of that kingdom. It's a tremendous kingdom. It's a glorious kingdom. Now imagine just coming in your blue jeans and you're just in a t-shirt or something like that, and all of a sudden someone Someone throws a great party that's gonna be in some Bavarian castle or something like that, and you're you're kind of looking at yourself and you're like, Who am I to enter into this massive castle up there in the mountains and it's picturesque and There's queens and kings and people like that there, and you're wondering, I can't go in there. Well, of course, we're clothed with the righteousness of Christ. We could never be worthy on our own But we are to be counted as true believers, and the only way that can happen is how we live, and so our life will actually be used of God to demonstrate that we are worthy of entrance into that kingdom. It's going to be wonderful. We're citizens of Christ's glorious kingdom. We're called the holiness. We're called to walk a certain way until Jesus comes. This is how we will be counted worthy of entrance into his kingdom. In fact, in 2 Thessalonians 1, verse 9, if you just look back there, it says, These will pay the penalty of eternal destruction away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power. when he comes to be glorified in his saints on that day and to be marveled at among all who have believed. How do we prove that we are believers? By the way, we live. Scripture reading again said, I, the prisoner of the Lord, implore you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling with which you have been called. The word really has to say that our walk needs to be equal with our calling. It's a word that was used even in the weights, something that was worthy, worth something. The way you live is worthy of the calling you've received and the kingdom that you're going to go into. Do you see that? The kingdom is holy. Your calling is holy. Walk that way. That's how we're to live. Those are the kind of people that are going to be getting into the kingdom of God. You know, we are justified as saved by God, but that's not separate from our sanctification. Anyone who doesn't go through a process of sanctification isn't a true believer, they're not going to see the Lord. They're not going to be part of the kingdom of God. Now, does this mean we earn our salvation? Of course not. That we work our way to heaven? Absolutely not. But that those who are truly called by God must demonstrate the reality of their faith. By living the way Jesus called them to live. John in 1 John 2 put it this way: He says, Anyone who says he abides in Christ ought to walk in the same manner as he walked, right? You try to figure out who's a Christian, they should be living uh along the same ways that Jesus did, never as perfectly, but along the same ways. They're trying to follow him. Ever so imperfectly the truth, but they're trying to follow him Those who are truly called by God must demonstrate their faith. Listen, there are lots of people in churches. Maybe some right here in our church. We're not walking worthy of the call. And you have to be warned. We could do a sermon on eternal security for all of you that worry about whether or not you're saved or not. And I could reinforce the fact that the Bible says over and over Once you're saved, you're protected by the power of God and He always has you. But some people need to hear a different message. They need to hear a message, are you really even in the kingdom yet? How is your walk? Are you taking your walk seriously before God? We think because we say a prayer at some point in time, that's the kind of faith that saves. The kind of faith that saves, James says, is the kind of faith that obeys and keeps obeying. Abraham is the example of someone who was saved by faith alone, but Abraham had works to show his faith. He offered up his son Isaac on the altar. That's the point. There are lots of people in churches characterized by unholiness and unrighteous behavior. So I love the theology of John. It's so simple. First John 3, 7. Little children, make sure no one deceives you. The one who practices righteousness is righteous. Just as he is righteous. Simple, isn't it? Oh, that's so simple. But the devil's always trying to convince you or other people that you can live like the devil and still get all the blessings of God. That's why it goes on and says, the one who practices sin is of the devil, for the devil has sinned from the beginning. Dr. Thomas writes, though the worthiness of the Thessalonian believers was confirmed back in verse five, certainty and the security of God's purposes does not diminish the need to keep on praying. Ultimate salvation rests on the sure foundation of God's faithfulness, but until it's actually accomplished, Paul continues praying for it. Yes, salvation is all undeserved and all of grace, but grace that is working in you produces fruit that makes you worthy of entrance into the kingdom. doctor Hebert writes this utterly unworthy in themselves when called they cannot make themselves worthy by their own efforts, but they must diligently seek to so live that God may count them worthy of his calling The call to salvation look forward to its consummation in the coming kingdom. As saved people, they are heirs of the coming kingdom, but they must undergo a period of moral ripening to be fitted for that glorious destiny. So we're simultaneously secure in Christ and exhorted, make sure of your calling, make sure of your salvation. This is what Peter wrote. I want you to turn to 2 Peter 1 for a minute. Just keep your finger in 2 Thessalonians. 2 Peter 1, starting in verse 4. This whole section is just fantastic. I'd be tempted to make a lot of comments here, but I'm just going to read it so you get the point. Verse 4, 2 Peter 1:4. For by these he, God has granted to us his precious and magnificent promises. So that by them you might become partakers of the divine nature. That's wonderful. Having escaped the corruption that's in the world by lust. Verse 5. Now for this very reason also, applying all diligence In your faith, supply moral excellence. See? And then he keeps going. In your moral excellence, knowledge, in your knowledge, self-control, and your self-control, perseverance, and your perseverance, godliness. In your godliness, brotherly kindness, and in your brotherly kindness, love, the greatest of all attributes. Four, verse eight, if these These qualities are yours and are increasing, they render you neither useless nor unfruitful in the true knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now look at the warning, verse nine. For he who lacks these qualities is blind or short-sighted, having forgotten his purification from his former sins. Verse 10, therefore, brethren, be all the more diligent to make certain about his calling and choosing you. He's writing to Christians. Be diligent to apply these things to make certain that he has called and chosen you. That's important. For as long as you practice these things, he continues to write, you will never stumble, for in this way, the entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ will be abundantly supplied to you. Practice these things. This is why you are called. This is who you're being prepared to be. This is who you're going to be in all of eternity. Start living that way. Crescendo up into the second coming when he comes. Or if the Lord takes you in death before that. God will count us worthy, not if we say we believe in Jesus Christ, but if we behave that way There are never any disguises with God. Never. Anybody in here playing a game with God, he doesn't play games with this. He knows everything already, and he knows whether you are or you aren't. You keep attending, but you don't love Jesus. You don't obey. You don't even join a church. You just go on and on and on. What is that? You think that's going to be counted worthy? We don't even count that worthy. You think God will keep your Christianity secret during the week? Hope to be thought of as a nice church-going believer on Sunday. But God can't see on Monday to Saturday. You will be rejected on that day. They're whole local churches like this. They're busy with all kinds of programs. They got the money coming in. The Crystal Cathedral's going up. They have parking lots filled with cars. Make you envy us sometimes. And it's just a bunch of buzz. Just a bunch of worldly philosophy and business junk. God's not going to count them worthy. This is an all-encompassing prayer request. Do you see this here? It's not just will the church meet its budget? Can we hire someone new, get a new missionary? All of that's fine. We should be praying for that. This looks at the whole church and prays that the Word of God will work itself into the fabric of the church so the people are obeying and living and fulfilling your calling. It's wonderful. Now Along with that first request is the second. I've got to hurry up. Second request. And fulfill every desire for goodness and the work of faith. This is fabulous. This was just wonderful meditating on this He's praying, Paul's praying that God will fulfill every desire, not of God's, this is paralleled with the work of faith, every desire for goodness on the part of the church That's wonderful. And fulfill the work of faith. Fulfill is play ra'o. It means to fill up or to complete something, finish it. And so there are two things to fill up, every desire for goodness and the work of faith. He's praying for that for them. And this is how they will walk worthy of their calling, this way as well. Of course, you can have good desires, or you can have bad desires. You can have desires for goodness, or you can have desires for your own pleasures, which are not good. Right? When we put our pleasures above God's will, they become evil, right? God's given us good feelings. He's given us comfort. Loving someone else, obeying God, those pleasures that we focus on then become evil. They're evil desires. He's not talking about fulfilling every evil desire. Prayer can be manipulated. People can say, I want to pray to get rich. Yeah. Wouldn't we all? God's not going to fulfill that. That's a lie. It only happens to the guy that's up front collecting money that day. Did you notice that? He is rich. You might be yearning in your prayers for God, give me a richer, happier Life, give me better grades in school. Why? Is it just for you, for your pride, that you got straight A's? I want to be the smartest in class, so Pride and covetous are not good desires. Paul wouldn't pray for that to be fulfilled. No, it's for goodness. What's goodness? Those things that are beneficial to others, useful. That's what the word kind of has the connotation of that. They're of good quality because they benefit others and they're useful. Another way of thinking of this is every resolve that you have for doing good, Paul's praying it would be fulfilled. And the second component is fulfilling the work of faith. Work of faith means the work that faith does, the work that comes from faith. When you have faith, it works. That's the whole theme of the book of James, I think, is true faith works. A church desire to do good And then it should also want to work by faith to accomplish the good. The work here is ergon, deeds. Things that are done that are good, work of faith. Faith is the operating principle in the church and in ministry Faith is there in our hearts so that it can accomplish something. You ever read Hebrews 11 recently? By faith, so-and-so did such and such, right? By faith so-and-so did such and such. Just a long list of that. Take away the faith, you don't have the so-and-so doing the such-and-such, do you? Faith is the energizing principle. Faith prompts good deeds done for the Lord. Faith has to be active. Faith doesn't just sit there and listen to a message I'm a believer, God. Well, what are you doing? Where's the belief showing? If you don't do, got news for you, you don't believe. Right? If you're not doing, you're not believing. And if you're not believing, you're not one of his and you're not saved. It's a way of measuring yourself very clearly. Faith, if it has no works, is dead being by itself. James 217 In fact, faith, whenever it's there, instantly blossoms into some kind of works. Now I know the works increase over time. You grow as a Christian, you're not going to be perfect right away. But when you have faith, you want to get busy doing something, reading your Bible a little more, witnessing to somebody, working on your mouth because it's so unclean. Faith comes and just want to change He wrote this about them again in 1 Thessalonians 1:3. Paul was constantly bearing in mind the Thessalonians' work of faith and labor of love. Look how those guys go hand in hand. Now, all of this is to be carried out. Notice at the end of verse 11 with power, dunamis, dunami, duname, excuse me. The power spoken of is the power of God, of course. A church needs power. It wants to fulfill every good desire. It wants to have the work of faith. How can it do it? It needs some power. Where does the power come from? God. Our own efforts fall flat without divine power. without the Spirit's operation. And that's why prayer and using the weapons of spiritual warfare are so important to the church. That's why we spend time so much time in the Word of God and exhorting to pray because when we have that, we have our weapons, we have our tools, and we can accomplish things because God is the one who's going to do it among us. You just try to do church with business technique and personal charm, and you never really get to see divine power in operation. You don't get the blessing of seeing how God works things. Because he has an incredible amount of resources, really, I should have said, an infinite number of resources, and he can accomplish his work any way he wants to. He doesn't need any of us. He just allows us to join in with his work. Did you know that no one else in all society ever produces what the true church produces? Because only The true church has the power of God working inside of her. The moralists and the do-gooders and secular society try to imitate the church with their charities and this and that, and they fail miserably They can never escape their short-sighted goals, and personal pride stinks up all of their good deeds. The cults try to imitate the true church, but it's phony and deceptive and very unsatisfying for those who have been in it for a while. Sometimes people have come here to hope Bible church and they see people being friendly and loving one another and sharing this and that and they think, what is this? This can't be real. It must be phony. Because that's what they're used to. But it is real. Why? Because God's at work in you. You do have love towards one another. I can commend you as a church and say that. You do have love towards one another. It can grow, but you have it. And in having it it's a joy to be a part of it, isn't it? And when other people come in and they're like, What's this? I don't know, it's just the church that's loving one another. What's a big whoop? They love one another. We should be doing. But sometimes we don't do it all that well, we should be doing it better. But people, I mean people sometimes just walk around like, is this really real? Yes, it's real. But it's not us. It's God. God's divine power works. It works in people. It changes people. When it changes people, then black and white and Asian and Hispanic can sit in here and sing together And clap together. Oh some of you clap better than others. And serve together and and talk together and invite their kids over together and love each other and that's what happens. It's divine power. It's not human, it's not politics. It's not education. It's God. What they see is real. If it was just up to us, it'd be too selfish. We'd be like those that come in the church. All right, let's go. Out of there. Don't care about anybody, right? You come in, psh, you outta there, you don't care about anybody. I know somebody's gotta leave early today. I didn't mean to put you on the spot, but if that's week after week after week, then you gotta evaluate yourself, right? It's divine power. I gotta say, with all this power here that we should be doing works with, some of you are holding back. And I think it's because maybe in some cases you've got wrong priorities. In other cases it's because you're scared You look at a church like this and you say standards are too high for me. There's probably someone else who's doing it anyways. And it's not true. You're holding back. And so you won't join that committee. You're a tentative volunteer, and that's no good. I know you have your excuses about lack of experience, blah blah blah, but God's power is here. That does away with excuses. God's power is at work in us and in you. You need to work by faith with all the rest of the believers. For these Thessalonian believers in the face of opposition You know, they they couldn't rely on their own resources. They had to trust in God. All right, those are the requests. That's what you pray for. When you pray for the church, this is what you pray for. Now, rather quickly Second, the second lesson this morning is the purpose of your prayers, and that's in verse 12 at the beginning, so that there's a word that expresses purpose, so that These prayer requests that I pray, Paul saying, are meant to accomplish a certain end. He's going to pray for the fulfillment of good desires and of the work of faith with an end in mind. Here's the end, so that the name of our Lord Jesus will be glorified in you. And then he adds, and you in him. It's all together. All of the praying for the church goes in one direction. What are we really praying for when we pray for those requests and we're praying for the church? What in the end are we really asking? It's all heading in one direction, glorifying the name of Jesus. Do you see it? And to glorify him in us and us in him. Paul prays for glorification to happen. What's glory? Glory is weight, heaviness. In the sense of something that's really worth something. Like a heavy, precious metal. That's glory. Glory is value. Glory is something to be honored, something talked about, something praised. Glory is excellence on display. When it's God, it's all of His wonderful attributes, which we still struggle to understand, how they all go together in one infinite being And we think about it and we worship him, but then when his attributes are on display, we say, God is glorified. When we sing of those attributes and we tell of those attributes, we are glorifying God. Well it isn't what is to be glorified here? Yes, God, but more specifically what? The name. Do you see it? The name of our Lord Jesus. Be glorified. Name encompasses a lot. Name encompasses all that Jesus is. Name stands for the revealed character and the attributes of a person. In Matthew 6. 9, Jesus taught us to pray, hallowed be thy what? Name. See, it stands for Him, God Name in ancient times particularly did more than distinguish one person from another. There's Bill, there's Bob, there's Joe. No. It actually described the person. When they were given a name, it didn't just distinguish them, it described who they were. And so people took time. They were going to name someone appropriately Name then became over time linked with reputation. We have the saying, make a name for yourself. That's what we're talking about. Proverbs 22:1, a good name is to be more desired than great wealth. It's a reputation. So when the name of Jesus is glorified, what does that mean? That means Jesus is glorified. Yes? For it's his name. And the name speaks of him, Jesus. Jesus in Greek. It's explicitly stated here. I think that was on purpose by Paul So there's no doubt which name will be glorified, which name we work to have glorified. It's strange what some churches do today. It's hard to know they're wanting to glorify the name Jesus if you don't even hear the name Jesus too much in church. And then in the world there are all kinds of names. Krishna, it's not going to be his name. It's glorified. Buddha, who won't make it. Muhammad, Mary, Ellen Harmon White, Mary Baker, Eddie, Joseph Smith, Pope John Paul. Reverend Moon, Moses, Caesar, no. Not their names. Not my name, not your name. Not our church's name The name is Jesus. Jesus is his name. It was a name given to him by the angel Gabriel in Matthew 1. 21. His parents didn't even get to choose it. It came directly from heaven. Because the name communicates something. It's a derivative of the Hebrew name Jehoshua or the shorter form Joshua. It means the Lord who saves. Jesus means the Lord who saves, or simply it means Savior. Jesus, Savior. That's why he's called the Savior of the world. That name, Jesus, is to be glorified by this church Philippians 2 9 and following God highly exalted Jesus and bestowed on him the name which is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every knee will bow of those who are in heaven and on the earth and under the earth, and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. It's a great name. John Phillips says that Satan fears that name and demons flee before it. And he is to be glorified, notice, in you, in you, in the church Jesus has chosen to be glorified in the church. This is mind-boggling how much he's invested his reputation and his name in the church, in us. He is in us, and we are in him. 1 John says that. 1 John 4:15: whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him, and he in God. It's a mystical union. And so glorification will come together. When Jesus is glorified, we'll be glorified. It all will come as a package in the end time. Paul talks about that. He said, You have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. I don't know, I can't figure that one out. When Christ, who is our life, is revealed, then you also will be revealed with him in glory. That's when we get our glory. When he's glorified, it goes together. And so this tremendous glory will be shown to us in the future as well. 1 John 3. 2, beloved Now we are children of God. It has not yet appeared what we will be. We know that when he appears we will be like him, because we will see him just as he is. In the beatific vision, we will see him and instantly be transformed into Being like him. But it's not just the future glorification that Paul's talking about here. Please notice the glory in us starts now. It's present glorification as well from the works that we do, the works by faith. Jesus is to be glorified in his church right now. The glory begins now in lesser ways, though there'll be a full display of it in the future. We work by faith now and we ask God to fulfill our desires for goodness now. Because we're happy to see Jesus glorified right here and right now, this year. He is our Lord right now, true And we are his servants working for his glory right now, and we want him glorified right now. These Thessalonian Christians had attached themselves right then and then to the name of a deity, and the name of that deity had a very poor and mocked name in that society. After all, the God they worshiped was put up on a Roman cross where they killed criminals and traitors. And they worshiped this guy named Jesus who was crucified on the cross in Judea of all places. And they all, that name was mocked and that name was scorned. They were gathering together to worship a crucified deliverer. And they had the scorn and the mocking of society upon them, but they gathered together to lift up that name right then and there. And it took Decades it really took the better part of three centuries, but eventually that entire Roman Empire would lift up the name of Jesus Christ So the church can even in the West sometimes be called the Roman Church. Why is that there? Because those Christians suffer and kept lifting up the name of Jesus. It's wonderful. But I'm afraid far too often nowadays the church has not properly glorified the name of Jesus They've dragged it down by their sin and their hypocrisy. And so it's in the mud. And Jesus' name is marred today. But God will glorify it, and He'll glorify it in our lives if we let Him. It is a name that will deal out retribution to those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. They may mock it now, but they will not mock it then. Third and last, and very briefly, the power of your prayers, the last lesson in the last part of verse 12. According to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace is an operating power in the church, and grace comes from God and from Jesus. Grace enables your prayers. Grace, of course, is a word that indicates that we don't deserve even to be praying or to be heard by God. Grace is unearned. Grace, we could say at one level, shouldn't be given to us. We don't deserve it. Grace, the very concept of grace, removes all personal merit. Grace is humbling. You have to receive grace to become a Christian. But once you have grace, grace then lifts you up. It exalts you. Remember what Jesus said, everyone who humbles themselves will be what? Exalted, and whoever exalts themselves will be what? Lowered and brought down. When you humble yourself and you lay yourself bare before God, grace takes a hold of you, and grace becomes then the power that enables your prayers and it lifts up your life and it strengthens you. Grace is there to introduce us to Jesus Christ and wipe us clean from the filth of sin. Grace then sustains us all throughout our walk here upon earth and bears our prayers to God. And as the hymn says, Grace will lead me home. It's there with us all the way to the end. Grace envelops the believer from beginning to end. Only grace can turn sinners into saints who pray, and God who's holy will listen to them. Grace, grace, marvelous grace. And the operating power of grace right here among us, working for us at Hope Bible Church. The operating power of grace is here. I can pray for Hope Bible Church, and I can pray an audacious prayer like that that says May God fulfill all of our desires for goodness, because I know also what the Apostle Paul knew, and that is, two thousand years into church history, God's grace is still here, still working Trust in it, there's a power in it. Pray for the church with an understanding that grace is really there We are not left unequipped for the task that we've been given. We could ask God to do these great things that Jesus would be glorified because of Beautiful, enabling, sufficient grace. Even when we're down and we feel weak and we feel we can't get anything done, even then we have no excuse to pray for the church and see what God will do Because Jesus promised in 2 Corinthians 12 to Paul, who asked for his thorn in the flesh to be removed, and Jesus said, no, no, no, and he left them with a trial. And then he said to Paul, My grace is sufficient for you. Do you believe in the sufficiency of Jesus Christ for the work of ministry that we're engaged in as a church? There it is, my grace is sufficient for you, for power is perfected in weakness. And then Paul got the point, and he said, Most gladly therefore I will rather boast about my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may dwell. in me. No excuses. We have the power of grace bearing our prayers to God and working in us now to help us. Let's get our hearts now ready for the Lord's Supper and be thinking about your life and how you can dedicate yourself to the Lord even more. Doug?