So welcome on this Sunday morning as we gather with God's people to enjoy Him together to have fellowship in Christ, to encourage each other in our pilgrimage walk And to worship him and the congregation of the redeemed. Okay, so so far in our class we've talked about inspiration That is, the word of God is from God. God is a source The Word of God is not the Word of Man. It is not the ideas of man. It's not the imagination of man. But God has revealed that to us through the prophets, through the apostles, through the spokesman who wrote the word of God exactly as God intended it to be. And in the original autographs, it is inherent, without error, it is infallible, meaning it will not lead us to And the word was recognized by God's people as being from God As soon as it was written, as soon as the prophets proclaimed the word, the people of God recognized it to be the word of God. So We go from inspiration to canonization, that is the recognition of God's Word, and the church itself. recognized the books written exactly as they were written. Um Paul when he wrote the readers in the churches they knew it to be the Word of God. They received it as the Word of God Now, sometime later there would be some debates about some books of the Bible However, um it these were quickly we resolved. Um you know and again that was primarily due to the fact that Some of the books were not recognized by everybody because the books had to be copied. They had to be um um distributed to all the churches that were just growing and growing and and expanding geographically Um you know some books like the Gospels, they were recognized by almost everybody, but other books like Jude and Revelation, um those were not quite so well known And hence there was some debate about these books. But within the early few centuries, these books became recognized by all Christians, and there's been no debate since then. So then we get into the process of transmission, the copying of the Bible, because you know the manuscripts themselves Um, you know, they don't last long. Um and you need more and more copies. This is a manual process, a human process And again it's prone to errors. Um copy the the books, but they would introduce errors themselves. Most of these are minor. Some of these would be corrected by others who themselves would introduce perhaps new ones. But we have today good text and most of the modern translations that we read translate from what we call the Nestle Atlan Text. And now I want to get into the some of the aspects of translation. What does it take to create a translation. What does it take to create a translation? Or what would be a good Translation. In fact, I want to give you a little pretest. I want you to turn in your Bibles to Isaiah chapter 9. And verse six. Now I should point out this passage is messianic. Is recognized by both Jews and Christians to be methantic. In your copy of the Bible, it says this. For to us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor. Mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. That that is in your translation. However, this passage up here is is in the Tinek, the English version of the of the Tanakh, published by the Jewish Publication Society It reads this. For a child has been born to us, a son has been given us, and authority has settled on his shoulder. He has been named, in quote, the mighty God is planning grace, the eternal father of peaceful rule. Now, the question is which translation is correct? Now I should now I'll I'll I want to point out this This there is no this is not a question of a spirit reading. Both both translations are from the same Hebrew Text. So you don't need to know Hebrew for this. You yourselves can come up with a correct explanation. So the question is, what is that correct translation? You don't know about correct translation, but this seems to be more direct in word for word and not necessarily grammatical order. Okay, okay sure. Now anyway let's let's begin by by asking this question. What's the difference between the two Yes, Debbie. In the second half of the arch translation, the thing shall be called is teacher and we had the custom on that one. Okay. And then instead of wonderful counselor, they said what you got is many grace. Okay Okay. Yes. Um yet there there is a change in the in the tense, I uh I do believe. Any other differences you can point out To me it seems like this version is giving a summary of what they think the script Okay. Okay. See notice this there's some juju Tonet translation is in quotes. Okay. And what's in quotes is not a name or an attribute Or a character that we would think of as being a name. This here is not a name, but a meaning of a name. Okay. Whereas in the in your translation it gives you four specific names. Four attributes. These four names are describe the character, the attributes of the Messiah. What has this is not a name. This is the this is the meaning of the name. His name, this because you would never call someone the mighty God is planning grace, the eternal father, a peaceful rule. No, that the that That's the meaning of the name, it's not the the name itself. Like summarizing his character. Um well um it's really the meaning of the name, that is, um, names in biblical times had a meaning. They were not just used for identification like like we typically use names now. And so someone could have a name with this meaning. Okay. However, is this the correct translation the meaning of the name or the actual names themselves? How would you know? Yes, Ron. Uh at least trying to follow the historical grammar grammatical hermeneutic what is the author trying to communicate at that time would be some meaning. So if you wrote El Shaddai or El Roy or Adonai We read that unless we actually study what it means, we wouldn't know what it means. So this is uh like you said it's actually communicating the meaning more easily. Okay, okay, it does communicate the the meaning of the name, but should it communicate the meaning of the name or or the actual name? Should be human and giving so we can understand. Okay, yeah, sure. Okay. But still, we could understand the meaning of this name. Okay But what's what is expected here? Are we to read the meaning of the name or the name itself? I think the name itself, because otherwise it's given to your own interpretation of wit. what's important to communicate it. Well if you whatever the text says is what should be translated, not what you take from. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay, that's you. Um Yes, uh I mean yes sh sort certainly the this this whole meaning of the name could be interpreted many different ways However, what is what would you expect here? A meaning of a name or the name itself? Yes, ain a I I just think of the name only because it says for a child and since you're talking about this child there's your then tell us what the child is called. Okay. So he's saying, oh yeah, okay, so we're talking about a facetic person, um, but we still don't know yet if it's a name or the meaning of his name Yes, yes, yes yes, yes, David. So they say he had the name here. Okay. Okay. Okay. Yeah, I mean I'm b there's a truth to that, but still what in in the text Guarantees that we either have a name or the meaning of a name. I'll give you a hint Always look at at the bird. The verb. He has been named. Okay. This is his so this should be his actual name, not the meaning of the name. Now whether the verb is in past tense or in future tense, it really doesn't matter here But what we should expect when scripture says he has been named is it uh his it is his actual name. Okay. So that is why our English versions are are translated correctly. I would call this a more sectarian translation. Because obviously The Jews who translated this version had new nos that we Christians have to be attribute this verse to Christ. So So they probably translated this way to sort of a cover up um any reference to a person with these names. Instead they attribute to a person whose meaning Whose name is Has this meeting? Um are there any other other questions about this? Any comments I don't understand how I mean I understand the meaning of the name thing, but I don't understand the difference between how someone could translate wonderful counselor The mighty God is the mighty God is planning grace. Like which is not in the text at all. Um it's not even the same meaning. Well to be a counselor and to be pledging various well if you look closely at at the meaning of this name, you will see that there are four names here. You know, plan plan and grace is basically wonderful council counsel. Peaceful ruler is Prince of Peace. Okay. Um now the birds of course supplied, which is not which by itself is not a problem. Um English has to have those verbs in it. Um for it to read. Correctly. Okay. But I just want to do brain this brain see I'm no proceed for bringing this up So we can see that translations do matter. So are you saying that to be to be planning grace It's the same thing as to be a wonderful counselor like in meaning It could be. So so if I was planning to counsel my friend In my head I should be planning Greece in what I say. Is that a way of thinking of this? No. No, no, no, I I'm I'm just saying this is the way they translated the phrase. It seems like they just made up. Yes. No, uh it strikes me that you know when you see in most translations there's four different aspects of the of this name Um, there's four names. But here they've reduced it down to two by adding a verb and translating in a sense interpreting what mighty God is and what eternal father is. And so it just it's a strikingly different. than most translations that would have the four different names distinct. So it it is interesting that here they are Um almost I compare it almost to a New Living translation where they're trying to give you really the understanding of the text rather than a direct translation of the text. Right. And where I would have a problem with it is I want a translation. Um and then to go through the process of interpreting, that's the hard work. Alright, but here I just want a translation. Right. Tell me what the text says. That's right. And then we'll find out what it means. later right. Yes. It's funny too because the Jews don't believe that Jesus is the Messiah. So of course they are they're looking at this through a completely different interpretive creative. Well yes, that they are. Yeah. So so so that so so so that's why I would call this a um sectarian translation. Okay. So let's go back to Well okay. So our principals and I think I'm on page um let's see what page sixty-six I think. Or Um and I and we talked about in fact I th I th I think we're down to about number seven. But I'll w I'll we'll be sixty-nine. Sixty-nine. Okay. Um so the so we talked about the translation. We've also emphasized that a translation must be in the vernacular language, the language of the common people. Because if you're going to pray, if you're going to seek God earnestly, you're going to speak in your own Common language. It will not be a remote, majestic, high class language the king's language for for example um is gonna be your own Okay. And again, this is how the scripture has been traditionally tr translated. For example, the Jews in the 3rd century BC translated the Hebrew Bible, the Old Testament, into Greek. What we call it a Septuagint. The Greek is not the high Greek of the philosophers. It is the spoken language of the people. And um now let's To talk about one more aspect. The maintaining the original meaning of the text is very important, but not is not enough. The Bible must also be understandable. And there are often trade-offs. And here's what the Bible, here's where the Bible translator and the Bible expositor as Mike had mentioned, must cooperate. For example, consider these six translations of 1 John 2, verse 1. Translation number one. He is the atoning sacrifice for our sins, he speaking of Jesus, and not only for ours, but also for the sins of the whole World. Number two, he is a propitiation for our sins And not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. Number three, he himself is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours alone, but also for the sins of the whole World. Translation number four. He himself is a sacrifice that atones for our sins And not for our sins, but for the sins of the whole world. Translation number number five. He is the ex In translation number six, he himself is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only, but also for the whole Now you will notice that there are at least three distinct translations for this one Hebrew word. Number one, propitiation. Number two, atoning sacrifice or the sacrifice that atones. Or number three, expiation. Now, what do these terms mean? And what's the author's intent? Propitiation and expiation are theological words introduced into English in many other modern languages. You might never hear these words otherwise. I mean just ask your neighbor, what does propitiation mean? You know, that's a word you're not going to find in the news media. Um you're not going to find it in someone's novel. It's it's it's just a word that people don't use. Um but propitiation means appeasement or satisfaction or the turning away of breath. Think of propitiation as being God focused, God turning away his wrath. In this sense, Christ's sacrificial death on the cross satisfies the demands for God's justice, thus appeasing God's holy wrath against our sins. That is, propitiation turns away God's wrath. It satisfies God's wrath. The punishment that was due to us was put on Christ. Now, number three expiation means taking away guilt through the payment of a penalty or the offering of an of an atonement In this sense, Jesus' sacrifice cleanses us from all sin's pollution and removes the guilt of sin from us. Think of a piece of of of expiation as being more a focus on the sin. The sin is removed Okay. Now some equate these two terms, um but there is a difference. Expiation is somewhat weaker of the two terms. And could only refer to covering our sins, almost synonymous with atonement. Now most English translations favor propitiation over expiation for this Greek work However, the meaning should rest upon what Scripture says about what Christ's sacrifice accomplished on the cross. And so the idea means so we have to understand what does what did Christ's death on the cross mean for us? Now atonement means to cover our sins. And that is certainly what the Old Testament sacrifices did. When you stand in the Old Testament, you would take a sacrifice to the priest, and the two of you would offer that sacrifice up, and that would cover your sins. Now technically it did not take it away. It just covered it up. The fan's still there. The payment has still not been paid. It's just like dust under under the rug. But one day you've got to deal with that dust. Now, this term does not necessarily imply that sins are removed. Indeed, old Sagram sacrifices it could not take away sins. The concept of a lamb taking away sins, that's New Testament. So now the question is: are all three of these terms equivalent? Are all three of these terms acceptable? So to answer this question, we've got to look at what's the author's intent, right? So the translator has to consider what the author's intent is. And he has to understand what did Christ's death accomplish for our salvation. Now in most most translations in the English, the translator gives you the word forpitiation. Uh because you know that's the that's the stronger of the two terms is true because We also because um we have propitiation. That is the wrath of God is turned away. Yes, we have our guilt removed, our sins are removed, but that by itself does not particularly mean that God's wrath is turned away. So we have full salvation, which means God's wrath is completely turned away, is completely satisfied with Christ. Um and so we use the term propitiation. However, that's that's um But not about English, because we have these terms for appreciation in English. But let's talk about some translator who's going to um go to Pavy New Guinea And um try to translate the Bible into a language that may not even be written yet. So um that word propitiation is not going to be there Right? Um so so maybe there was no particular term in the vernacular language for either propitiation or for the somewhat weaker term expiation Would a term like appeasement or satisfaction be appropriate? Would the term atonement be acceptable? Or would the translator need the help of a biblical expositor to teach the meaning of the only available term in a Bible? That is, yes, maybe you could use a toning sacrifice. But just teach when we but when you begin to exposit that passage, say atonement means more than just cover over. It means takeaway, it means the wrath of God is completely satisfied. Yes, a real life example. Uh I think I heard it on uh Living Waters podcast. So for example, in the Thai language if I remember correctly, the the word free equates to worthless. So trying to translate the free gift of God or free grace of God is very difficult because it equates to worthless. Yeah, okay, sure. Yes, that's right. Now it is possible for translators to supposedly introduce a new term. To enrich the vernacular vocabulary. For example, I mean William Tyndale did this a few times, gave us the word scapegoat. That word comes from William Tyndale. We use it all the time. It's very well known. It comes from William Tyndale. But in many cases, introducing a new word doesn't fly very well. Yeah. And one more point that I will bring up about these six translations Go back to translation number three. Notice this term, this phrase, for the sins of that is in the Tyrex. Now what the Bible translator is trying to show you is that those words are not in the in the in the he in the Greek text. But they are supplied. They're supplied because it's necessary to make it read well in our English So that's what now every translator has to do has to do that. They don't always tell you what words they supply, but it's just necessary to translate a Greek term in to make it read well in um English. Now there there is one one little drawback of this, and that is In modern English, we don't use italics to indicate supplied words. Italics means emphasis Right. Okay. So um so you have to have to have to keep that in mind. The Bible is a little bit different than any other English book. I heard atonement is also one of those words that Tindale made too. translate to English shirt, you know, because it just means that one minute. Yes, okay. And then Okay. Okay. Because again a translator also has has to recognize that some words have to be are um cannot be precisely translated into another another way. into a into another language. And also some words might just be dropped because they are unnecessary unnecessary. So whether the the translator adds words or removes words or um you have to make sure that the meaning is true to the Text. So the Bible translator faces many such challenges in his quest to enter the Word of God into the into the receptor language that is by its nature dynamic. Language is dynamic. Um and um unwritten languages are even more dynamic. But we can be helped by these principles. One is compare other translations to fill in the details that one translation might miss. Since we don't know Greek Well most most of us don't know Greek and most of us do not know Hebrew. Um we have to use we we could use a di uh t other translations to kind of help us Feel in the details that one translation might miss. And also go to the commentaries. Um I mean that's what they're all that's what they are there for. Um they'll tell us what these words mean and Also note that a translation differs from an interpretation. And a translator must give us a translation. not an interpretation. Although it's not always pop possible to do so in all cases Because the interpretation is left to the expositor. It's left to you, the reader. The translator is there only to express what's in the text. Otherwise, the translation might have its own opinion and overshadow God's word. So translation can be thought of as an abbreviated form of exegesis. An exegesis that does not have the space to explain itself or justify itself. And therefore most trans translators um avoid footnotes. Um For the better translators, labor to find words or phrases that don't require explanation, but still keep as close as possible to the original text. You know, I um you know I did not bring my mass beef vibe with me, but I but um but I did I did notice it on one verse In the nasty in my um that the editor put in a three page footnote. No. Nobody needs a three-page footnote. Nobody should have to read a three-page footnote. Um but having a three page footnote in a Bible seems rather suspicious. I mean um you know it's not just well this word could mean this Um but it it's um um it's more of a sermon rather than Just explaining what the text means. But so the Bible the biblical text actually forces you to think. Yes. So How do translators so words change meaning over time. Yes. So how do these translators Go back into biblical times and understand how words behave. I mean, do they use other literature Um back in that time to gain a greater understanding or compare scripture with scripture. Well go okay. Oh okay, so go go get so so we talk talk talking about two things. One is what does a Greek word mean? Okay. In that way, the cotter will look at everything He'll look at the writings of the of the early early church fathers. He'll look at how people used Greek back in those times um in that. Okay. Now in your t translation, words do change. The language does change. English does change. Um and so the translation should be updated p periodically Okay. So so uh the the first I I guess I was going with the first one where um they did look at other writings of the early fathers And to get better understanding about something what something good Greek words meant at that. That's right. I mean yes, I mean we do have the Mesoalan Greek text. So so so we know what the text is But now what the meaning of these Greek words are, um, you know, you y we do have centuries of uh of um scholarship. So we know pretty much what they mean. But there's always more to know, more to learn, more to confirm. um more research being done. Yes. Like the verb is, but also they're looking at the syntactical context like Which of the Greek words were seminator and masculine or stuff that are neutered and then just fighting that Kazakh does also alter interpretation some Greek wording that would also like Yes, that's right. Yes. Yeah, yeah, you know speak speaking of how the Greek is written, I mean you But how it's used in the context and also whether a word um is um um either see grammatically masculine or feminine you know those in uh in all that has has has to be consistent Now many languages do have grammatical gender. English does not. But when you translate Greek into another language that is grammatically Gender. Those the langu language also has to be c correct. Okay. So the Bible text actually forces you to think, yeah, um I mean there's questions that we have. Um and the translator has to respect that he he's he's not going to tell you exactly everything, removing every doubt that we may have, or or answer every question that we that we might have. And so the translator just cannot just simply give the reader a a um simple explanation and then It's done. So let's talk about a lesson from the New Testament. Acts chapter six. The Ethiopian official. No. He comes to Jerusalem to worship Yahweh, God, at the temple. You know, he's a he's a gentile, but he's a Jewish convert And he re and he returns home in his chariot. And as he's doing so, he's reading from the Stiptuagent, the Greek translation of the Hebrew text, in his reading from Isaiah Chapter 53, as Philip the Evangelist, approaches to inquire if he understands. Now, let's keep this in mind. He's reading from the Septuagint, which we know has a very poor translation of Isaiah 53, verses 7 and 8. So of course he does not understand it because the translation is poor. I mean he knows Greek, but the translation is very poor So now he cannot understand what he's he's reading. So the Holy Spirit sends Philip to provide a more accurate translation and ex Exposition by which the Ethiopian official can respond to the gospel message. So that's that's what we have in this account So then here's our some lessons. One that even though the Word of God was smothered in flawed Greek and was in a second language, that scripture was still able to speak to his heart. Yet that poor translation hindered the Ethiopian from believing in Christ until Philip came to explain the meaning more accurately. So understanding commences, begins on a linguistic level level before it proceeds to the spiritual level. That is, you have to be able to understand what you read. It has to be in a language that you can understand. Now whether it's accurately trans translated or not, that's beside the point. You still have to be able to to read the text And then that helps you to move on to the spiritual understanding of it. But the understanding of the text is never instantaneous or total. It can and does improve with time it becomes sufficient for all practical purposes. That is, yes, we can know some passages very, very well. Yeah, we can improve our understanding, but what we do know is oftentimes sufficient. You know, we don't have to read a hundred good commentaries to unders understand this passage Um we probably already understand it, you know, ninety-five percent, ninety-nine percent. So yes, one can understand the Bible even if it's poorly translated, but this is not really translated from the responsibility of rendering the the Scriptures as clearly and adequately as possible. So here's the common principles of the network transl um translations. Number one, common language is has priority over dialectical, literary, or technical language. And um words and constructions understood by everyone takes precedence over those known only to a highly educated or to those of one region of the country or those in any particular age group. That is the verbal translation should be understood by everybody. Again, languages are dynamic. They change. And so the translator has to be current in that receptor language Now, also, number three is very interesting. In societies that are predominantly dominated by men, the language of women has priority over that of men. Why would that be so? Why would you want the language understood by women or used by women to be the language of the of the tr t t translation. Okay, right. Okay, sure. I mean we can't be more Can't be more articulate. Yes. So women are primarily homes to children. Oh my thought is it makes sense that And but it it's important for women to understand the Bible because that they have to teach you know future primarily to teach future generations of the faith and pass on responsibility. a faith to their children. And essentially children have to make that fate their own. Right. And they have to take this responsibility for it because they can't do that. They've not been taught to do that. Yes. Yes. And also think that the kids are probably most likely to understand and speak closer to their mothers, their fathers. Okay. Yes, yes. The women would speak to what Okay. Okay. Um I did I think maybe at certain times in certain cultures the men were educated and sometimes don't have to learn. And find some interface. Right. Okay. Yeah no TK. Well all of these not true there's you know, women are more are more ticket Um their vocabulary is often, from a personal perspective, much broader than that of men. Men um are more technical, they're more precise perhaps. Um but there's more more person to person language from we we we can. Um and you know they they are they all they they they may get They may be isolated from the higher culture of s of society. So that's why a translator needs to look, does this make sense for women? Another reason is just look at the conversations in the Bible. Many of the longer ones differ from with him Yeah and you want the conversations to sound like that of a um a um a um a of a women similar. You know you want merry magnificent Magnificent to sound like that of a w woman. You don't want it to sound like a man, right? So So women do Yes, yes. Yes, Rose. This I know that God ordains their family, that the their man should work, the woman should take care of the the of the house. So Sometimes the women were called housewives. Housewives to take care of their children and they work in the house. And to teach them as uh Proverbs twenty-three says, he said we should teach the children uh the word of God and when they grow they will not depart from it. But now every woman wants money or faith or something we want to be like the man, which is wrong. So I think when we want our family to be an God But then we must go back to the roots and teach our children the words so that they will grow and be like Christ. Yes, that's that that's right. Yes, so so so so we need a translation that the women can't understand, that the children can't understand, that everybody can un o understand. You know, so um textual consistency has priority over verbal consistency. For example, a Hebrew or Greek word may have a different meaning in a different context. That difference must be carefully observed. No translation should automatically translate a specific Hebrew or Greek word by the same word in the receptor language. And and basically what that means is the translator should avoid um translating the same the same Greek word exactly the same, no matter what the what the context is. It's the context that determines the tr the meaning or the or the or the translation of that meaning And also, um, the translators must preserve the cultural integrity of the biblical text. That is, that the biblical text should read. Um should read a biblical um um crun culture here. See for for example. Let's consider One of the more difficult parts of the Bible to translate, and that is the species of animals. Or plants, for the example. For example, in ancient Israel the wolf was a peril to sheep. So you so the wolf is has most of the time a very negative connotation. The wolf is a is something bad. But what does a translator do if the culture knows neither wolves nor sheep? Do you merely substitute another predator or another domesticated animal? Or to put the question another way, is the text preserved, if the translators use it, you use it another form to preserve the meaning and the same truth. Or do you teach the biblical form using the same biblical terms? That is, do you use sheep and wolf no matter what the culture is? So that's what a translator has to answer. For example, let's look at the lamb, the sheep. As important as understanding the wolf in biblical culture, it's very much expedient to understand the sheep. Jesus Christ is the Lamb of God There is a petolia of rich illusions preserved in Scripture across the swept of salvation history. Yeah. The Lord is the good shepherd. Um G G Jesus says, uh I know My sheep and they know me. They they hear me on the door of the sheep folk. Things in many, many, many, many, many more Uh and this has to be preserved. You cannot, you know, merely substitute a pig for a sheep. I mean I mean if or oh or leopard for uh boof wolf. Reading like oh we like flying at guns uh does not capture the biblical meaning. Okay. Um so if a culture if a if a society does not know anything about sheep Well, what does a translator ha do? Yes. I don't think there would be a reasonable place of responsibility on the readers. That that there has to be some kind of responsibility upon the reader to study. Well yes. Yes. Yeah, I mean the the um translator will have to you know explain what sheep are, explain what a wolf is, explain what any other other thing is. Um and that and that takes teaching, that takes time. Um and that and it takes Some wisdom to know how to do all that. Yes. Yes, right. There's probably or there's often translators' notes that could uh have a few pages to talk about decisions like that. They could say like they use sheep because they don't know what sheep is and then have sense or two about what it is. Well yes. Yes. Yeah. Yes, there are times that that may be necessary. And likewise, for the sake of accuracy and faithfulness, the translator must Not change the ecology of Israel to something that resembles the home turf. For example, snow is snow. It cannot be rendered rain to those living in a tropical climate Nor is raining in Israel the same as a monsoon in India. Nor can the fields be changed to a jungle. The Bible's cultural, geographical, and historical details must be left intact. And again, this deals with many, many, many other things. Like Let's go back to Papua New Guinea. They have no concept of the Babylonians. or the Persians. Um you know how do you how do you translate the new t the old testament into some unwritten language and explain, well who are these Babylonians? That involves teaching. Larry, it's it's been a while since I've heard. So do you know you probably don't know off the topic, but how many more languages will be there a Bible translated I've heard that there is about two thousand languages that have that do not have a complete Bible in their language. Now, some some have portions of the Bible, but there are some languages that have nothing. So um so so so so again There must be goals of translation. It must be accurate, appropriate, it must be natural, and Has to have form. Accuracy means that the message of the biblical writers of the biblical author intended to communicate must be translated So that the reader of the translation receives the same message. Appropriateness means that the message is expressed in a style that reflects the attitude and the intention of the author. So um you know when when um when um you know Paul says and say in Romans chapter 12 verse 1 I therefore I urged you Brethren, by the sure mercies of God, that has to be expressed. It's not just it's it's it it's not just Paul dictating or just making a useful suggestion And he's not just using his apostleship for this, you know, he's appealing to them The naturalist the naturalness means that the translation is such that the readers feel that their language was used in a way that they would use it, not in a way that would that that would the awkward grammar or vocabulary that makes the reading difficult. That is, um When you read your English translation or or someone use reads their own translation, that should be the same language. that they would use if they were to, you know, y you know, in their education. Uh you know, words Words have the same meaning. Grammar has the same meaning. Okay. And also the form. in which the original was written should be should be reflected in the translation as much as possible. For for example, Paul did not write the same way as Peter did So in the translation, Paul should be different than Peter. I think I'm going to stop right there. And we'll finish up next week with some challenges and nuances of translation. Because we're not quite finished with this topic Um so it I'm let me pray