Okay, welcome. Now you have before you a very precious book. It's a wondrous book. Um it's a book of books, a library, a collection compliment. two major sections, the Old Testament and the New Testament. And they're written by a group of men, uh about forty of them. Um and um the writings um um arisen from about the year uh maybe 1450 BC to about the year ninety-five AD. Is special. It has transformational power. It changes lives. It's God's book. It's God's revelation to us. Um and without it we would know nothing about God. Um and though completed nearly two thousand years ago, um we have this wondrous book before us. It's well preserved. in our own language. And the Bible throughout history has been by far the most read, most published, most quoted. Most translated book of all. Indeed, even our English language that we speak today is largely due to the translation. Translation of the Bible into English. In fact, most languages impact upon the trans translation of the Bible into that language. So it's an amazing book. The Old Testament is consistent of thirty nine books in our English Bible. In the Hebrew Bible it's twenty four. Um and it's written in Hebrew and Aramaic over the span of over a thousand years from approximately four 1450 BC to about 400 BC, from the period of Moses through the period of Malachi, the prophet. And now other religiously and historically significant books were written during this time and during the next few centuries, but none are considered the part of the what we call the canon of. s scripture and we're going to talk about that very soon. Um the New Testament is consists of twenty seven books written in Greek over a span of of about maybe about sixty years. During the first century, during the age of the apostles, and Christians have recognized these books to be scripture, the canon just as they do the Old Testament. Books. So we're going to discuss these four principals during this class. There's inspiration, canonization, transmission, and the translation. And we're going to begin by by um by um talking about the internal evidence in the Bible about how or or the principle by which we can say that it is inspired. Um there's evidence. Um and then we're going to talk about That canonization of scripture that is God's people recognizing the inspired word as God's word. And putting that into the Bible that that we have it today. And then we're also going to talk about the transmission. You know, once it gets into the Bible, how is it transmitted throughout the many, many centuries? until the present day. And then we're going to spend some time talking about the translation, particularly the history of the translation of the Bible into English. And we're going to see that the Old Testament in the New Testament take div take take take different paths. Um in um but um but there's very good evidence from and both paths that that we have the scriptures transmitted to us Very, very, very close to what they were originally. Um and then also um then uh now This journey throughout time is going to be about three thousand five hundred years Now, there's no way I can cover that in detail. There's no way we can cover that in detail um in this class. But we but but um but we will cover enough and to to sort to sort of help you um imprime your um interest into delving dwelling dwelling more into it. um in future times. And um we're also going to learn some of the technical jargon. that the translators use um to to so that so that we can help understand more about you know what goes into a translation. And then I have l listed on the bottom of page two the primary books that we will serve as a guide and and for some reason I forgot to to embrace them this week. There's Norman Geiser, William Nick's book. from God to us, how we got the Bible, and also a book called The Origin of the Bible from Philip Comfort. Um so those those are are going to be the two main guidebooks that we um um that we will use. So um and again, if you have any questions, p just please don't ask. Okay, so that's talk about the inspiration of scripture. And let's begin with a with a definition. In fact let's begin with with a Biblical definition. 2 Timothy chapter 3, verses 16 and 17. Paul writes and says this. All scripture is inspired and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for training in righteousness, that the man of God may be adequate. equipped for every good work. The word which we have translated inspired in our English Bible, that's a word in the Greek that is that is given by the word theopodos. Literally it means God breathed. You can recognize that theo Um that's God. In the p word p p ponustos, um, that's uh word from which we get say words like pneumatic, pneumonia, pneumonia. Um in the Greek it's um it means it could mean breath, it could mean wind, it could mean sp sp spirit. Um so literally this word means God breathed. And this word is actually the this is in this verse it's the only time it's used in the New Testament. You know, Paul kind of makes this word up. So it means God breathed what we call inspiration. Now a single word or a single phrase is used by Jesus. Um okay, thank you, is used by Jesus um when he is being tempted by Satan in the wilderness just after his baptism. He says this, it is written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God. In this case, Jesus is quoting from the book of the Lord. of Deuteronomy. And then another second major passage on inspiration is from the book of 2 Peter, chapter 1. Peter writes No prophecy ever came by the impulse of man, but men moved by the Holy Spirit spoke from God. Okay, these men moved by the Holy Spirit, we call them Prophets. Their messages that they received did not originate from them from themselves. It did not originate from their own impulses. They were God moved. God spoke to the people through the prophets. From Hebrews chapter 1, verse 1. And that these prophets spoke search their own writings to see what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicating when he predicted the sufferings of Christ in the subsequent coloris from Second Peter chapter one. It's further indication that these that their words um were not self-initiated. Now, the Bible is inspired in the sense that spirit moves men, wrote God breathes words. Inspiration refers to the writings themselves, not to the human authors. But inspiration in the broader sense is also the process that these God breathed words became written for us in propositional truth. And so there are what we call three elements of inspiration. There is a a divine causal causality. That is God initiated The revelation, revealing his word to the prophets and then cu and then through them to others. God is the ultimate source and the original cause of this revealed truth. It's from God. It's not from man. It's also a prophetic agency. The prophets were not merely recording secretaries. They wrote with full intent and consciousness in The normal exercise of the literary styles and vocabularies. Their personalities were not violated by a divine intrusion. Just like you know, we have in ourselves. else has believers, the Spirit of God. But that divine intrusion doesn't eliminate our personality. Same with the the promise as they wrote. A question? Oh no? Okay. And then there's also the written authority. The final product is the written authority of the Bible. Which is possible for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness. Scripture derives authority from God. Note that it is the prophetic writings and not the writers as such that possess and retain. The resultant divine authority. Though the writers have passed away, the prophetic writings live on. And so inspiration is God's, is the Holy Spirit's superintending over the writers so that while writing according to their own styles and personalities, The result was God's word written, authoritative, trustworthy, and free from error in the original autographs. That's from Moody High Handbook of Theology. And note here something that when we talk about inspiration, inspiration implies inerrancy. That is, God's revelation is accurate, it is free of errors. Now, technically inerrancy only applies to the original autographs. Not necessarily to the to the copies. But any copy. copy has the authority of it of an inner of an NRC only insofar as it it is an accurate reproduction of the original manuscript. And as we talk about transmission and translation We're going to talk about just how good that transmission process was. Well okay. Um and then from another simple definition on page four of inspiration is from Tom Leek. Um he says a simple definition of inspiration is that scripture is God's word. Word. It comes out with the mouth of God. It does not originate with man's thinking or man's speech. It is not the word of man, but the word of God. Well I just want to um point out from our what we teach document, um number one, the Bible is verbally inspired. Every word of scripture is God-breathed. The Bible does not simply contain the Word of God. It is an inspired Word of God. The Bible does not convey to us simply inspired thoughts, but actual inspired words from the breath of God. God. Therefore it is the perfect treasure of heavily in direction And number two, God spoke in his written word by the process of dual authorship. Yes, both God and man are the authors of Scripture The Holy Spirit so superintended the writing through the individual personalities and different styles of writing of the human authors, the prophets, that they composed and recorded God's word to man without error. Whether it's in the whole or in the part. And also number three, the Bible does not simply become the Word of God as it is understood by us and accepted by man. Rather it It is the word of God, whether or not man understands it or not. Um or sets it. Okay. Yes, Jan. Um going back to point number one, I I think it's good to note it says in the about the middle, the Bible it does not simply convey to us it's inspired thoughts but actual inspired words. That's why the translation that you use is so important because in Bible study I always laugh when I see this as this is the NIV study Bible. It it it can't be. The NIV is a thought for thought translation, not a word for word. If you want to know the Greek words, you have to go to a word for word translation such as the Nazi. for the E S D and it's so important. You know, people get mixed up on that, but a thought for thought it's not it's good for reading, but it's certainly not good for Bible study. So you gotta study the original word in the word. for word translation. Right. Okay. Yes. Yes. Okay. Um on number two, um, on page four, I'm still on page four. Um inspiration is verbal. That is the written words they do matter. From the book of Exodus, we read this. Then Moses recounted to the people all the words of the Lord. the ordinance ordinances. And all the people answered with one voice and said, All the words which the Lord has spoken, we shall do. And Moses wrote down all the words of the of the Lord. And also just notice that this it was the word of the Lord which came numerous times to the old testament prophets. For example, Jeremiah. Isaiah chapter 22. Thus says the Lord, Stand in the court of the Lord's house and speak to all the cities of Judah and who come to worship in the Lord's house all the words that I have commanded you to speak to them. Do not omit a word. Okay. And also on number C Note the many occurses of the phrase, it is written. If you read the Bible, you will see that phrase numerous times. For example, when Jesus confronted Satan in the wilderness, three times Many times it's recorded that Jesus b began what he said with, it is written. And these words, the Apostle Paul says, are not taught by human wisdom. but are taught by the Spirit, who combines spiritual thoughts with spiritual words. But the m natural man, that is the unregenerate, cannot accept the things of the Spirit, because these words are spiritually a Praised. And also, inspiration extends to the very words of the Bible. Indeed, even the smallest Hebrew words. word was from God. Jesus would say, for truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the law until Your all is accomplished. Even the smallest pin mark is not going to pass away. Now this is Contra to the modernist view that at best only the concepts are inspired, but the words of those of the prophets who express these these divine concepts as best as they could humanly understand. Um page five. So in summary, the inspiration comprises two conviction Convictions. Number one, the words of the Scripture are God's words. Scripture identifies the Mosaic law and the words of the prophets spoken and written as God's own speech. Very often, when the New Testament quotes from the Old Testament text, written, for example, by Moses or David or Isaiah, the New Testament writers express these words as what God has said. Um it's not merely Moses said this, it's God said this. And also man's part in producing the scripture was merely to transmit what he had received. Each biblical book is in one sense the literary creation of its author, but theologically, from a standpoint of content, the Bible regards the human authors as having contributed nothing of content. The prophets professed that they spoke the words of the Lord. Jesus professed that he also spoke words given to him by the Father. And the apostles taught and issued commands in Jesus in Christ's name. And was so war acclaiming so were claiming Christ's authority. And then on letter H Biblical inspiration should be defined in the same theological terms as prophetic inspiration. That is, that the whole process by which God moved these men who had chosen who who whom he had chosen and prepared to wrote exactly what he wanted written for the cons for the communication of saving knowledge to his people. and through them to the world the whole world. They go inspiration expressed verbal by its own nature, for it is God given words that the God breathed scriptures tends. So when we talk about inspiration, when we say we believe in inspiration, um uh it means a lot. And And um and um um we'll we're going to see that scripture does not disappoint us when we say we believe in um in um C C C C C inspiration. Number three. Um inspiration is primary. That is, it's full, it's complete. Extending to every part, both book and book and verse. As Paul would say, all scripture is God-breathed. And um so all scripture has four doctoral authority. For all scripture is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. And also Paul would say that say that concerning scripture, that whatsoever was written in formal days was written for our instruction. And Jesus and the New Testament writers amply illustrate their belief in plenary inspiration in the Old Testament by quoting from every part of the Old Testament has authoritative, including its most disputed teachings. But it's no part of the scripture claims less than full and complete authority. And also inspiration conveys final authority of the written document. As Jesus says in John chapter 10, Scripture cannot be Broken. It's unbreakable. It comes with the authority of God. Jesus would often say to the scribes and the Pharisees, has it not been written in your law? And so the issue is settled and must be accepted. Also in Luke chapter 24, Jesus would say, all things written about me in the law of Moses and in the prophets and in the Psalms must be fulfilled. There's a duty for it to be fulfilled. And again, Jesus claimed that the scripture has its authority for such things as cleansing the temple, for rebuking the tradition of the Pharisees, as in Matthew chapter 5. fifteen and for settling doctrinal disputes. And um again Luke chapter sixteen Jesus would say it is easier easier For heaven and earth to pass away and for one dot of the law to become void. And we also note that inspiration extends both to the Old Testament and to the New Testament. Now now when Paul said all scripture back in Second Timothy chapter three, at the minimum This would include the Old Testament, because that's what they had at that moment. However, Paul certainly would include other writings as scripture too. I mean I mean when he says all scripture is given is God breathed, you know he's making A truth statement. But he he that he expects his readers to uh to Belief. I mean he he's he's not gonna write on his own some some new thing and expect his readers to obey it Honor it. Um so when Paul says all scripture, you know, he's going there's actually other books that he's referring to. And primarily he believes that what he's writing is worthy to be obeyed because it is from God. And we're going to see um in these next few weeks what all scripture means. Uh it I mean it does include every single right writing. that anyone could c could write. Um number B. Peter confirms that the letters of Paul are scripture when he wrote believers to regard The patience of our Lord to be salvation. Just as our beloved brother Paul, according to the wisdom given to him, that wisdom, Holy Spirit wisdom, he wrote to you and also in all of his letters, speaking in them of these things of these same things, in which the these these are some things that are hard to understand, which the untaught and unstable distress What? As they do also the rest of scripture to their own um before. That is, Peter has in his library some some of the writings of Paul. He has them in his library because he counts them as Scripture. Even back then, before we had the four canon, these writings were being circulated. And Peter had copies. And number C, um notice this quote from Paul. Paul quotes from Luke number through Luke chapter 10, verse 7, for the scripture says. says, you shall not muzzle the ox while he is threshing. And the laborer is worthy of his wages. Now the significance of this quote From 1 Timothy chapter 5, verse 18. It's not so much a fact of the quotation. But notice what Paul is doing here. He is quoting from both the Old Testament. This this um this Phrase, you shall not muzzle the ox while he is perishing. That's from the law. He's also quoting this phrase, the laborer is worthy of his rages. Well that's from Luke in the New Testament. So Paul quotes Luke's gospel authoritatively to give a command to the church concerning the support of elders. Um and um we also note according to Second Peter chapter one verses twenty and twenty-one that all prophetic writings are inspired. But the New Testament also claims to be a prophetic light. I mean John, um, in his revelation, says, I testify to everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book, Revelation. If anyone adds to them, God will also add to him the plagues that are written in this book. And if anyone takes away from the words of this book, of this prophecy, God will also take away his part from the tree of life. And from the holy city, which are written in this book. So Paul so back here, John, is writing has a prophet. He's received revelation from Christ. So what we see is that the New Testament writers, as well as the Old Testament, writers rot prophets, clearly understood that they were writing that their writing is from God. And hence is authoritative. I mean and again going back to Paul in 2 Thessalonians Chapter 3, verse 14. And if anyone does not obey our instruction in this letter, take Special note of that man and do not associate with him, so that he may be put to shame. And yet do not regard him as an in as an enemy, but admiring And again Paul would say in Galatians chapter 1, verse 8, but even though we or an angel from heaven should preach the you a gospel contrary to to that which we have preached to you, let him be accursed. Now that word accursed is a very powerful term. Um and that's a term of judgment. Um and that'll be a term of God judgment. Um and So so so that implies that what Paul is writing, he's not just writing a friendly letter letter person to person, person, person to church. Um about what he thinks. No, he's writing the words of God. And these words are meant to instruct the church into into instruct pastors. Um it's not just Paul's opinion. Um here And um Okay, that let's go on to number six, but there are no questions so far. You guys are very are very, very quiet. Um Okay. Um inspiration involves a variety of literary sources and styles. Now, already mentioned to you that these prophets, these apostles, these biblical writers, um would did not just dictate, were not just dictating um We're not just we we we feeding word for word dictation um um but what they wrote um is from God. Um and that's a mystery. Um but um but nowhere does scripture imply word for word dictation, even though oftentimes it comes very, very close. You know, like the Ten Commandments, where the writer quotes God speaking verbatim. But scripture also includes narrative prose as well, and poetry. Hebrew poetry. I mean it's not it's not English poetry, even when when it's trans translated into it. on C English. Um and is is written in a in a common language of the people. But there is still a very marked difference in vocabulary and in style among the writers. I mean mo Moses writes differently than Isaiah. Luke writes differently than Mark. Paul writes differently differently than Peter. Um so there is this personality um and that is not ab uh not that is not oblivious. So, inspiration is not to be understood as a uniform divine dictation exclusive of human sources, personalities, and varieties of um of expression. The divine direction and control under which the biblical writers wrote was not a physical or psychological force. It did not distract, but rather it enhanced the freedom, the spontaneity, and the creativeness of their writing. Um and again when we talk about inspiration, I mean sometimes we we say you know you know that uh um writing the writings of Shakespeare are um inspired Meaning we think they're really, really good. Um we we think of uh the Michelangelo's statue of Did David's is fire. You know, it's But that's not what we mean that's not what we mean when we talk about biblical inspiration. Biblical inspiration is not the artistic inspiration of great literature, although biblical literature Liter literature is great. Um inspiration we we race not to the literary quality of what is written, but to its character, has divine revelation. In primary, Scripture has transformational power, unlike anything else. Now, and for example, Luke. Luke um chapter one And we'll see that Luke begins his gospel saying this. Insomuch as many have undertaken to compile an account of the things accomplished among us, Just as those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and servants of the word have handled them down to us. It seems very fitting for me as well, having investigated everything carefully from the beginning, to write it out for you in consecutive order, most excellent theopolis. so that you might know the exact truth about the things you have been taught. So Luke is the historian. He is the he does his research He interviews eyewitnesses. Um he lays out his material in Quran a logical order. Um and he does the same thing with the Perk of Acts too. He does his he does his research. Um he he talks to eyewitnesses. Um Um and so that is his Taj Kyle. Um and um so scripture now there Sometimes there's the scripture quotes writings, sayings, phrases that that are not of that are not of Torah titive for um for example um Acts chapter seventeen Paul would say we just um um pick it up with uh with uh verse 24. And Paul says to these Athenians um at Mar's heel she will get their just to talk about philosophy and you know the all the all the good ideas that man can come up with. Paul says this the God who made the world And all things in it, since he is Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made with hands. Neither is he served by human hands, as if he needed anything from us. Since he himself gives to all life and breath and all things, just everything that you have, it comes from God. And he made from one Every nation of mankind to live on all the face of the earth, having determined their appointed times and the boundaries of their habitation, so that they may seek God if perhaps they might group for him and find him as though is not far from any one of us. For in him we live and move and exist. And even some of your own prophets have said, for we also are his off point. Um so um Paul is quoting one of their philosophers who said that. Now he's now Paul's not claiming that the writings of that philosopher are divine or inspired. Um he's just making a mak making a quote to to s to sort of remind these guys that that Rice saying is not something that's brand new. Um How come it? Um many years ago one of my teachers he was married to a Russian lady and he said that in Russia their pro poets are the equivalent of our pastors in America. And for a long time I wonder why Why is that? You know, what it but if if you don't want the word of God and you don't want to be taught the word of God, then you have to go to these other people who sound like they make more sense. And and I think this is what's going on here. It's Uh the Athenians they had prophets. They didn't have the real gods, so their prophets were their pastors and representatives of not their poets were representatives of the deities. Oh Okay. Yes, it is. Well yes. Okay. Are there any other other other questions or comments? Uh when when it comes to uh revelations, uh how would you classify that? Is that a uh in some parts is that a dictation or um uh uh that that is the referring to uh John to tell discharges and emphasis and all that stuff. How would how would that be classified? Yes, okay. Um John says that that he received visions. Now a vision is a communication from God to the prophet. It is it is unlike a dream when the when the prophet would be asleep. A vision is when the prophet is I mean he is awake and fully alert. Now the vision itself um can be can be considered like a dream, but it's a dream that where the prophet is um is awake. So the so so so the world That that no one else would see. Um but i um so this is so John records what what he saw. Um and Okay. Okay. And John had never seen such things before. That's why so many Much of the book of Revelation he says, and I saw something like a locust or like this. In his experience then what to to say it was. That's right. Yes. Anywhere. Yes. So when we say the God agreed the word, um, and especially in the light of what Jesus says that I speak of the words of the Father Does the inspiration actually originate from the Father or is the entire Godhead implicit in collecting the inspiration? Um the well, when we say that the words come from God or originate in God. Um you know you know we we do speak of God as a sin. And in all in all three members um has have um have some some role in in that um in that communication. I mean the spiritual say that times God said this other times the Holy Spirit suppose spoke this. Um and um so so it's not so this communication is is is is not from from from member exclusive of the of exclusive of um of the um uh uh uh other two. Right. Okay, thanks. As far as Revelation goes, if you just turn to Revelation 1-1, it clearly says the revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him, him being Jesus Christ, to show to to his bondservant the things which must shortly take place. And he, Jesus Christ, sent and communicated it by his angel to his bond servant John. So it down a whole string starting with God, John verse 2, who bore witness to the word of God, not the thoughts of God, the word of God, and to the testimony of Jesus, even to all All that he saw. So this is a whole vision that John saw, but it originated from God through Christ, on down through the angels, to John, and ultimately to Christ. Okay. Okay. Um well we're on page seven, so let's go on to I mean I mean I mean now now we say scripture is um Scripture is inspired. Uh but now let's look at the evidence for that. Let's look at that at the supporting um eviden evidence from Scripture that that the word is inspired. Um now The Old Testament claim or inspiration is based upon the fact that God communicated to the people through the prophets, and that these resultant books were written by God's prophets, were preserved in a holy place. Moses placed his law in the Ark of God. Deuteronomy chapter 10, verse 2. And that was preserved for future generations. So So that as Deuteronomy six says, that you may teach them diligently to your sons, and shall talk to of them when you walk by the way, and when you lie down and when you rise up. This word that God gave was not just intended for that for that curr for for that current generation. It was intended for all generations. You teach your sons and your in your in your daughters, your children, and they in turn the next generation will teach the next generation after that generation after generation after generation And so this word is placed in a holy place. It's it's special, it's set apart. The people recognize these writings as God breathed. It comes from God. And each prophet would add his inspired writings to this collection. Now the key to inspiration of the Old Testament is that the authors of the New Testament were of the Old Testament were prophets, if not by name, the children in Raw. You know, by, for example, David. But you know he is he is not typically referred to as a profit but a king. Um and then the prophet was the spokesman for God or the mouthpiece of God. And this is indicated by various names of the prophet. You know, he is the man of God, indicating that he was chosen of God. He's a servant of the Lord, indicating his occupation. He's the m m messenger of the Lord. He's that indicates his mission for God. He's the seer, indicating that the divine that the truth is has the divine source. He's the man of the Spirit, indicating that he was prompted by the Holy Spirit Spirit. He's also the watchman, indicating that he is to alert the people. And to indicate that God's words to the prophets were authoritative. Um chapter 3 verse 22 when pe when Peter would say, would quote from the Old Testament and say, I will rise up a prophet from among their countrymen like you and I will put my mouth my words in his mouth he shall speak to them all that I command him and it shall come to about that whosoever will not listen to my words which he sh shall speak in my name I myself That's a quote from Deuteronomy chapter 18, verse 20. And the Apostle Peter identifies this particular prophet to be Jesus Christ. But such a statement could also be made to any of the other other other other prophets as well, including Moses. They all were given words of God, um, they were all to speak and those who heard had the responsibility to listen and obey. And so um and again another proof that the words of Moses, the law, is divinely authoritative. Look at Joshua chapter one, verse eight. Joshua was exhorted that This book of the law, that is Moses, shall not depart from your mouth, but you shall meditate upon it day and night Okay. So so this law was not just man's law. It was not just a creation of man. But God was commanding Joshua to meditate upon this word day and night. This word is important. Don't let it get away from you. Don't let it slide off you. your mind. And um and also after the temple worship interruption of the Babylonian exile, the people returned to what Moses had had had written. and Ezra would say, then they appointed the priest to their divisions for the service of God in in Jerusalem, as it is written in the book of Moses, the law. And and okay, so we know that Moses wrote sure. Um but did anyone else do it? Well Joshua did it did it too, um on number six Um quoting from Joshua chapter twenty four, verse twenty six, and Joshua wrote these words in the book of the law of God. So each of the so include so from Joshua, all to all of the succeeding line of prophets, each would write their words in a book. And those words would be gather gather gathered up by the people of God and recognized to be worthy of inclusion within the books that are recorded in that holy place. Um and um I'm going to um to um stop right here on number seven verse eight and we'll can we'll continue that next week.