Okay, um we've talked about the Mesoritic text. This is a text, a Hebrew text. Which has been copied by the Jewish By those who are trained and are diligent to copy the biblical Hebrew text The text that we have today of this Methoretic text has been confirmed. Um by us by many sources. It has been confirmed by us by many sources. One is we have the ancient Samaritan Pinitus abbreviated Sam P and the academic literature. And this gives us confirmation on the first five books of Moses, what we call the Pentateuch. We also have the Septuagint, which is again another secondary source. Again, it's a translation But we can look at the translation and make some judgment as to what the original text, what what what the text of the Hebrew text would have been Or what the people thought that it was. We also have several other translations, such as the Coptic translation, the Syriac translation. Um translation and also other Greek translations, such as what you know the Jews at least made made three other translations into um Greek. We also have the um the a few Hebrew manuscripts from ancient from ancient times We also have in our day that dead sea scores. So all of these give some confirmation has to the what has to the book fidelity of the Hebrew text. Now that's not to mean that this text is Perfect, pristine, complete. There are variants in the Masoretic text. And I'll show you one And for this one, we don't particularly need to know Hebrew. We can look at the King James Version. We can look at uh our modern versions And we see that the King James Version translates this verse, which is Isaiah 21, verse 8. And he cried, A lion, my lord, I stand continually upon the watchtower, and I am fed in my ward Whole nights. Now you might think, you know, what does that mean? Well, in your modern translation, such as the NASPI or the or the English Standard Version The translation is this. In the outlook called, O Lord, I stand continually by day on the watchtower, and I'm stationed by night at my guard post. Now that's a that's a somewhat clearer um r rendering of this verse This word lion that King James Version translates is a variant. Now They did not, and the King James translators did did not know that it was a variant. So they went with the Mesphoric test And I should point out the text that the King James Version translators used was called the Barn Bed. Text. Bomb group. Um text that that's not quite the one that we have two text. What well should say it's not the one that's used today. This one dates to about fifteen twenty-five. So that's one variation. Also, there's another variation that the King James Translators caught And translated it correctly. And I'm going to read Psalm 22, verse 16, and the King James Version. For dogs have comp have compassed me. The assembly of the wicked have enclosed me, and they pierced my hands and my feet They pierced my hands and my feet. Now, the Methodic text is slightly different. In it, that phrase is rendered like a lion. Now it's unclear about what that means if you translate it. But that is a variant, and the King James translators knew it to be a variant. So they did not religiously keep to the Masonic text. They did compare other manuscripts, they did compare the Latin Vulgate, they did compare the Septuagint, they did compare other translations such as the Coptic. And all modern trans translations, English translations use They pierced. Now one might wonder how why is the mesmeric text slightly different here. You know, I mean there's there's a reason. What is that reason? Well, we have to make a judgment here. Um and it could be that the translators of that when the heat Masoretic text is translated that Maybe this word pierced is um is um s it is to the Jews Something that they don't expect of the Messiah. Because again, the Jews also look at this text as somewhat messianic. But they also know that Christians use it very abundantly to speak of the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. So any other questions about the Mesoretic um t um text? So okay, well let's talk about the New Testament Now I want to um draw your attention attention to one thing. Think of the Methodic text as being The product of textual criticism by copyists who live in some geographical region. For the Meseric text, it's Babylon into um in um in um Now for the Jews, they have a rather centralized centralized religious system and so these choriz here had monopoly over the copying of the text. If you were Jew To hear God's word, you would go to the synagogue. And the synagogue would have a copy of the Hebrew text. And that coffee would have been produced by the Meshoretics That's their official um text. Not anybody would be allowed to copy the t text in a um Okay. Now Christians are not so centralized. And for Christianity there's been a numerous I'm I'm centerous of textual criticism. Because again, every text that we have today is a product of textual criticism. Because back then Even even back in the early days of Christianity, people understood that copies differ. Because copyists would make errors. I mean they they were careful, but not perfect And so you have all of these copies that are somewhat different. So there are certain Centers of textual criticism that would try to standardize the t text. So the integrity of the Old Testament is the fact that we we we we do have a good text, but it's one text. And but it's somewhat substantiated by this evidence. So we can we we can make a judgment call and say the myth of the text is Very good. Okay. It still has some variance in it But those are pretty men in this group. In fact, even if we look at this this this verse right here in King James Version, if that's all we had today You know, it's not going to going to change what we believe at all. So now with the New Testament text we have Um many more manuscrow. They are not nearly as good as It's a Meshritic text. But we have many more of them. And because we have many more of them, we can make um comparison and determine why, where the divisions are, and how the they got there. Now I might also add, no matter what text that you see today And it's basically two. Um the the um the um the um differences between the two Are minor. There's nothing that will impact any doctrine that we So let's keep that in mind. Um I don't I don't want you to get to get the impression that there's all kinds of changes. Most of the changes are maybe misspelled words, transposed words, maybe words added or words omitted. In fact, most of these changes You would not even notice in your English translation. For example, if a word is misspelled in the Greek, you won't notice it in your English translation Now, the New Testament, as far as we know, was originally written in in uppercase characters in the Greek. with no spaces between the words. And punctuation was Almost non-existent. Now the reason for that is that that is that people wanted the text to be copied rapidly. Also the fact that for the most part You did not have your own personal copy. You went to the to the to the assembly of of your brothers and sisters in Christ and they would have one copy for the whole church. And um so there was someone designated to read, and that person would know You know, where to put the separation of um of the words. How is it common for Greek to be written that way? Um no. Okay. So this was like a New Testament thing that yes, it's it's a it's primarily to s speed up the copying process Now, after the sixth century, these unjules were gradually replaced by what are called minus school manuscripts. These are written in low case letters with appropriate word breaks along with more defined punctuation. Now I also might add this. People back then were very accustomed to having differences between the books. If I had a book and you had a book back then, we would if if we make comparison, our books would not be the same. Okay. So there are three main types of menus scripts. There's the paparis manuscripts. These date primarily from the 2nd and the 3rd centuries when Christianity was illegal and the scriptures were copied on the cheapest materials. which is the Paris. Now again I should say it's not that they were really, really cheap Um but they were but they were um um not as durable um We have to date approximately 140 of these papyrus manuscripts, the earliest of these being the John Ryland's fragment, which is designated by in the academic literature by the by the letter P 52. I should say also I'll also this. I'm going to use the English letter P, but in the academic literature what you will see is this. And have to have that have me praying to say so that I find my cursing. That's why you'll see. Same thing. Now that that very strange looking character is a gothic black letter uppercase P Um but um that's but that's too difficult for me to to um pr produce so um Th and the other other um other papari too, um there's a Chester Betty Papari There's three manuscripts produced in the night purchased in the 1930s by Chester Beatty and by the University of Michigan on a from a dealer in Egypt. Again these paper's documents were are usually produced are are usually purchased on the op open up open antiquities market. And they again all these papari are fragments. Then there may be a few verses to maybe a chapter maybe a portion of of of a chapter um the the Bonmar papari um This there's a four of them. They're purchased in the 1950s and 1960s. Now all most most of these we know only recently. They were they were not known to to the early um um to Christians in previous generations. Um another noteworthy find is the oxyweinkas papyri, which is Thousands of fragments retrieved from ancient rubbish dumps in Opsy Rhincos, Egypt, around 1900, which contained portions from the New Testament. Apparently the monks at this monastery were using these fragments to Um um I'm not like tires to keep warm in the winter months. Um So, and now um the later manuscripts were written on vellum or parchment, which is a more durable material And uh minuscule manuscripts date from the ninth and through the fifteenth centuries when printed works were replaced by those written in a modified cursive Um these are generally of poorer quality than than d than the ancients. That is, the manuscripts show more variation. After the fifteenth century, we have the printing press. And so handwritten manuscripts were no longer a mate. Yes. Um I always had it my understanding, and maybe it was incorrect based upon Paul saying bring my uh parchment so my understanding is maybe the original what Paul would have done would have been on the parchment, but the copies are patterns Is that a more correct statement or incorrect or don't have any information to substantiate that? I'm sure Paul used a more durable material than the and the Papyrus. Yes. So I so I so I think the originals were somewhat more durable than what Christians used as copies Okay. Now there are several of these um gr what we call the great unsiols. Um I'm gonna explain what they are. There's the Codex, what are they called? The Codex Vanicanus. It's death it's designated in the academic literature by the letter B It's perhaps one of the oldest of the Untural manuscripts. This dates to about 325 to 350. Now, it was unknown to Western scholars until about 1475 when it was cataloged in the Vatican Library. Um it does it it it does contain much of the Bible Most of the Old Testament, which is the which is the Greek trans text, that's the Tugan, it contains most of the New Testament And it contains the Apocrypha with some omissions. Um and um but the text from Hebrews chapter 9, verse 14 to the end of the New Testament. including all of Revelation, it's not there. Oh, so noteworthy in this codex is the fact that the long ending of Mark is missing. And also this this um the um account of Jesus with the woman caught in uh in adultery. That's also missing. Now by self what is missing May not matter. Because again, something may be missing because just it's fr because it because the manuscript could be fragmentary Um then also there's this Codex Science Sinanicus, which is designated by the Hebrew letter Elus, in the academic literature. And if you want to know why it's designated that way, it's it it's because we know this is a B. There's going to be an A, and then there's something else that that academics want to designate before A. And that is a Hebrew character of a So that's why it's best it's designated that that way. Manuscript dates to the mid-fourth century. It contains um all of the New Testament Along with the Apocalypse, the official of Barnabas, the shepherd of a of a homophurus. And this codex was discovered by German count Tischendorf in 1859. On a visit to the monastery of Saint Catherine at Mount Sinai, that's the traditional site of The encoun of the encounter with between God and Moses And most much of this codex is today displayed on at the British Library. So if you want to go there, you can see it. And this person Tischendorf, we're going to see him many more times. So this is a document, a manuscript that's been known to us since the eighteen sixties. But not known before that time. Also, there is the Codex Alexandrius. This dates to about the fifth century and contains most of the Old Testament and most of the New Testament. This codex is named for Alexandria, where he resided for a number of years before it was brought by the Eastern Orthodox Patriarch Syria Luc Lucarius from Alexandria to Constantinople in eighteen twenty-one And later it would be presented to King Charles I in sixteen twenty-seven. That's the king of Spa Spain. There. So And then there's also the Codex Euphemia which has portions of every New Testament book except for 2 Thessalonians and 2 John. The Codex perhaps originated in Alexandria in the early 4th century And this manuscript is actually from has actually been recovered From a text that was erased and written over by someone else. That is That is, this this document, this manuscript, was actually recycled by someone to write out a sermon written by E. Frem, a fourth century Syrian father. That is, it was erased and then reused again And it was brought to Italy around 1500 and and very and several people made an attempt to read what had been erased It was Tischendorf that came up with the means to read this document. So he was the first to read the nearly invisible textual remains completely. And today it's found in the National Library at Paris. So we so so so so now we have A so s yes so so so now we have have our ALF A, B, and C now. And then also there's one more. Um Washington Tonianonos. Dates from about the fourth to the fifth century. This document was purchased by Charles Freer in 1906 from a dealer in Cairo. The manuscript contains the four Gospels, portions of the epistles of Paul, except for for Romans, Hebrews and from the Old Testament it contains the books of Deuteronomy, Joshua and Psalms. This codex is notable in that it contains not only the long ending of Mark, but also an extra assertion following verse 14. And you can actually see this in Washington, D. C. It's at the Smithsonian Freer Gallery of Art. Where you can look it up online. So we have have these five anti-o menus. Oh yeah. Most of which were unknown until recent times. Now, let's talk about why these why these are so important and why there's a little bit of controversy to today about. Um all of these come from Egypt. Primarily because where there's um two reasons One is there was a center of textual criticism near Alexandria. And from even the year 200 on onward for a while, there were these copyists who applied textual criticism to the text to come up with a standard text. And um they were very good because They were worked along because they they were in a place where it was known for for textual criticism. The Jews did their textual criticism. The um Greeks did their textual criticism. That was a big business back in those days. Also, the fact that in Egypt In most of Egypt, it's dry and um um so it so manuscripts if they all preserved Do best it's best in Egypt. Um because it's dry and the water table is low so So you don't get the mildew and and all the water damage that you get in most other places And again, these copyists would apply their principles of textual criticism And they were careful in copying, but they also made their mistakes. Sometimes they would spot their mistakes and correct them, or spot someone else's mistakes and correct them. But even when they did that, they often they sometimes could Produce their own new mistakes. So even in this process of of standardizing the text, there were still variants Some of them would be identified and footnoted or annotated so that later people would know where the text deviated, deviated. And that was done primarily to help people make a judgment You know, if you know if you had two variants or more variants, you know, how do you decide which one's true? Well you'd have to to judge based upon several several factors. And so that's what they did. And again I should also point out that each book has its own history of sexual criticism. Um, had their path. The Rev Book of Revelation had its path. And some paths were better than um others Now in the second century the written text And the oral tradition existed side by side. And what that meant was that if you will copy text, You would already know what it it it is. You have read it before, you've heard it before. You knew it by heart. And so when you're making coffee, sometimes you might be tempted to rely upon your memory. And so that's one reason why there would be variance, because sometimes your memory was not as good as you think it should have been. Also these copyists were not just copying the Bible. They were copying other things too, sermons. other things and sometimes you know the early church fathers would quote Scripture, but not quote it verbatim. They would quote it paraphrase. Um and um so If you heard the paraphrase and then went to the scripture later and to make a copy of it, you might tend to the paraphrase. Now I should not point out I I should point out that people who copied the scriptures did so carefully. Um but they were not perfect. Um they uh in the um So so so so that this kind of brings up the point. Who is the best copyist? Is it someone who knows the Bible Or is it someone who doesn't know it very well? Because those who don't know it very very well tend to be more of well let's look at the word and let's look back let's look at the word again and let's look back. It's a it's a slower process. Is it a better process? Well, there's some judgment call on that Because, you know, let's just note. Christians frequently saw their copies burned or banned. Um so So they had to be careful and they had to be very diligent to copy And this is not they had a they held a high view of what they were copying. I mean they were dying for this truth. So they're not going to change intentionally Now that the the Christians did not have their religious rules that the Jews had. I mean they didn't count every word or every letter or um or or every paragraph. But they worked heavily. And they did have a system. Um and uh in number six I I um said that um That there were practices of textual criticism. There were practices of of of copying the text. For example All of early papyrus show that early Christians who copied the text used special abbreviations to designate divine names. The Nomiya Sekla. such as Jesus, Lord, Christ, Father, etc. This writing system presupposes that they're working. Standards even from the very beginning. The establishment of the practice would not have left it to the whims of either a single community or individual scroll. So there were so there were certain practices that were kept But again, it doesn't mean that there that the topping process was perfect. It it was not. So it was left to these To other people to look at these copies, compare them, and determine well what must have been the original text So we saw with the Jews there was there was one process of textual criticism, what we call the message. In Christianity there's multiple ones. And I want to um list them out now. There is a number A, the Alexandrian text type There's B the Western text type. There's the Byzantian, the Byzantine text type, there's also the Caesarea text type. Think of these as places where the church leaders with the monks with the collides And the copyists would gather to compare manuscripts to produce what they would think is a Um is the text as they think it would should have been Now, the two main ones are A and C, the Alexandrian text type and the Um the I'm in the Byzantine text type. In I'm in the Byzantine. The Western text type There's actually very few menus scripts of that type. There's also a cesorian which are which which again are very few. Very few have survived up to this present day Now I should point out this. Any manuscript that you see doesn't necessarily have to fall into one of these four. There could be a combination of these text types. This um um El Zambian text type, think of it as a Egypt. This visiting text type Um think of that as a Asia minor. This is a more geographically wider region. Egypt. Also, most manuscripts that we have today Maybe eighty eighty percent of them are of this visit visiting text type. Now We system El Zendrian text types began in El Zandria, Egypt And they were influenced by a great academy of textual criticism which had already begun work preserving other ancient manuscripts, such as the Iliad. And um it's been said by Scottler Zun said So the the Alexander corrector strove in every in every ever repeated efforts to keep the text current in this sphere free from the many faults that had infected it in the previous period Then we the second century. And which tended to crop up again even after they have been marked as poorest These labors must time and again have been checked by persecutions and confiscation of Christian books and counteracted by the continuing currency of manuscripts of the older type. Nevertheless, it resulted in the emergence of a text type of text which served as a norm for the correctors in provincial Egyptian Pretoria. The final resort was a survivor of a text far superior to that of the second century, even though the re the reviv revisers being fallible human beings rejected some of their own correct readings and introduced some faults of their own So he's saying this is a good text type. There's been a lot of labor It's not perfect. Um, you know, they made a lot of corrections. They also in introduced their own variations. Sometimes un and sometimes they um just did not know what they were doing. And um so they did some elementary editing to to kind of s smooth out some of of the readings Um so that's one school of technical criticism. Then there's the Western text type, or the popular text, that was by that was introduced by Lucian of Antioch He attempted to standardize the popular text by the removal of Avost. And the conflation of variant readings into a recension That is, what he did for the Western text type is he took all of these manuscripts that he had and he made one. And from there he made his copies. And he did so by looking at the variations And sometimes combining them, um, and even when there was not a variation, he might still change the text so that it will read better. Yes. copies that were being made in various ways and forms. They were not meant for public distribution, correct? These were only again di at at this point when they were doing all of this, were these being disseminated, sold, given weight, whatever to the general population or were these simply for certain people to have an it's maybe monks or whomever to to have what he does, whether he's m made in multiple, multiple um copies or just one um both both are true. Okay. Um yeah. Monks kept their copies. Um, you know, they considered themselves to be the ones who preserved Um the text. But these copies would would also be Right, do they go to a church, but would they just go to say the priest or the pastor, whomever Would they just go to one person? In other words, they weren't making multiple copies for everybody in the congregation to have a copy of that. That's correct. They they they would make cop generally the church would have its copy. Individual people like you and me would probably not, unless we were filthy rich and we could afford someone to copy. Make a copy for us. Mm-hmm. Well that if you don't mind that just helps because They the the the thought of them making maybe fifty copies in a lifetime, which I'm sure is a lot, but making fifty copies in a lifetime to me was lower the possibility of errors versus making five thousand copies in a lifetime. You know, in other words, it seems like there had to have been because it was forced to be handwritten. Yes. It seemed like it was time consuming and there had to be particular attention paid. Right. These manuscripts will not mask. produced. They were copied one manuscript at a time. Um so whether they made ten copies or or t or twenty copies, even though all those copies were not exactly the same. Larry, can you also clarify and maybe correct the usage of the word textite? Would we in modern terms use like font? No. No. It's not a font. But it's also not a it's not a different language, it's Greek, but it is Greek. Again, a text type would just be I um I um it's cursive versus printing. Um It would not necessarily be a different font or um or why is style. It's um it's um um um It's just a different family see it's just a different family of manuscripts Um it um it would um if you trace a manuscript you could completely you would see uh a manuscript comes from a p parent Up to the that parent would come from another parent. And that's that's the text type. Okay, so it's just a groupings of hey he can All these copies, oh we see it comes from this family. All these copies we see. That's right. That's what it means. Yes, that's that's what it means. Okay. Um Yeah, you will see s you will see manuscripts that are a combination of two because someone has taking a Byzantine manuscript and an Alexandrian manuscript and and made it in s in a sort of in sort of compared the two and kind of made made a copy from that from those two. So The um Western Texas not as trustworthy as the Alexanian, but it does often preserve the original warning. That is when a variant has support from both the text types, it's likely to be true. It's likely to The Western text type became dominant as the need for more Bibles grew after the Roman persecution ended. during the time of Constantine. Constantine. As the years went by, fewer Alexandrian manuscripts would be produced. Um that's probably because in uh you know Egypt the Egyptians would Gradually sh stop speaking Greek. They would go back to the native l native l languages. Oh so there's a there's a question as as to um um why there are so few of these left. Namely those five major ones. Well, that's because something happened in Egypt. And around the year six hundred or so about, that is the Islamic militants came through all of Egypt and all of uh all of northern Africa and they wiped out churches. They wiped out almost everything. They burned Bibles. Um they they um um they just annihilate aided churches forced conversions and so at that point there was nothing left But these manuscripts survived until later Until they were found later on. Um again, it's dry, um, so they were preserved until they w they were d d d discovered by scholars during the past couple couple of centuries And again, that's just note that scholars have secondary sources for confirmation of the early biblical texts, quotations But again, the Church Father may have quoted a pre-existing variant. And again, the writings of the Early Church Fathers they they they were copy too. So we have them so we have copies of copies of them. And a quotation could be verbatim But could be a loose citation, a paraphrase, or perhaps an illusion. Even if a quotation war from memory Um the memory is is not always so good. Now So the two major text types that have survived are these two here. I'll stand on the end and um on the end of Bizantine. Now, most modern translations go for the Alexandrian text types. It's not that they ignore the Byzantine Um but they typically follow the out the z the zillion um um textile. And the reasons are these reasons here. The readings are more abrupt, which means that Um there's less likelihood that a c that a copyist would have made some editing changes to make it read some material The readings have used use these few fewer words. So it's less likely that copyists would have added words to smooth out the reading. There's also greater variation among the synoptic gospels gospels because the visiting text does have the reputation of kind of minimizing the differences between the synoptic costs. That is, they try to make it make it as close to each other as they could. And the text also has readings that are considered to be difficult. That is, the text is not polished. And the major major reason is these date much earlier. These visiting documents Most of them are maybe after the year one thousand. Um most of the the there's a few that that that were date back soon soon sooner than that. But these ambians go way back in in time. So if you believe that the more ancient text is a better reading, then the Alexandrian text is a text to God. Now, but that's not to say that modern Bible translations always use Allexandrian textiles. Because they also had the Byzantine text. They also have the Septuagint and the Cothic and everything else. The Latin Vulgate, everything else. And no Bible translator would ignore those. So the most well-known minuscule of the Xamanian text type is minuscule number 33 for the 9th century. This codex contains many of the Old Testament prophetic books and all of the New Testament books. And note this except Revelation. And we're going to come back to this again. Why is Revelation missing? And if it's missing missing so often How do we know we have the correct text for Revelation? Well we'll get to that very soon. And again, but like every other manuscript, it's damaged It's imperfect. Not only do you have these variations to continue with, you also have just uh physical damage. System smudging, water water damaging, damage, um tearing, um, and a codex just falling apart with with the whole pages missing So the Western text type has this reputation of almost turning the text into a sermon. I think one noted I think and I think he's overcate overstating his case just to make make a point when he says words even positive change, omitted and sorted with surprising freedom when it seems that the meaning could be brought up with free force inf force. So that's how some scholars view some of these fanus groups. And we also have um the um the NCO Codex Biz, um which is a Western type of type type of type of manuscript. Wait away, what here? So we have um A, B, C, W, and now uh um D D between um um W. D and W with a with a A by H Okay, this this codex in book form is the oldest bilingual New Testament manuscript. It's written in both Greek and Latin, of course the Latin being a translation of the Greek Um and this is this codex was discovered in fifteen sixty-two and shows numerous variations Along with numerous corrections that have been made over over for the centuries. And this illustrates another point The Jews typically destroyed manuscripts that were beyond their useful life. Christians did not. They just annotated them and and and just kept. Um And the Byzantine text type is again has the most surviving manuscripts of the Greek New Testament. And it underlies what is called the textus receptor or the received text or the tr used for most Reformation era translations of the New Testament including into the vernacular languages. So this would include Tindills Translation, this would include the Geneva Bible, this would include King James Version And um this compared to the Alexandrian text type, the distinct Byzantian readings Tend to show a greater tendency towards smooth and well-formed Greek. These readings display fewer instances of textual variation between a parallel synoptic gospel passage. Passages. Also these readings are less likely to be present to present contradictory or difficult issues of exegesis. So again, it's been it's it's it it is a product of textual criticism, just like every other menu script And um next week we're going to to um talk about more examples of text tool criticism about how we do tech Tech tech textual criticism. And then we're going to um talk about these two types of a little bit more. Because when you have two different text types common today, there's going to be some disagreements People all go and say, hey, this is the best, or this is the best. Well, how do we judge? We're gonna talk talk talk about that. Um are there any questions? I know I've uh talked talked a lot about names and that that may not that that may not be houseword uh houseword terms. Um but I but but I br but I really have tried to Simplify it for you. Um any questions? Okay, well let me pray in