Good morning. Um we are on page eighteen of our notes. And we be and we ended the last time talking about how is how is a book considered to be in the can of scripture. And we looked at um on page si seventeen we we um we are mentioned on page on page eighteen we mentioned that a book to be considered to be canonical would have to be written by a prophet or an apostle or some spokesman of God. The book would have to claim We have to have some claim of divine authority. The second issue, the the the the the the second criteria on page nineteen is that the writer would have to have the credentials from God. Um the Bible came through spiritual. So each biblical author had a prophetic gift function, even if he was not explicitly called a prophet. Um and also having from God also implies that the writer is who he claims to be. And the third criteria, number C on page 19, is does the book speak the truth about God, about man, about history? God cannot lie. So his word must be true, it must be consistent. No factual or doctrinal errors could ever be inspired. Now note that just because the book is true, just because it speaks true does not necessarily imply that it will be made canonical. And um so um but I thought a book that is canonical would speak the truth. Um you know, um note that that in Acts Book of Acts that the Brians would search the old Testament scriptures determine whether or not not what Paul taught them was in accord with God's past revelation. So again These Koreans were searching their sc scriptures, the Old Testament in this case, to determine if pa what Paul was preaching, if that is consistent with God's path. Revelation. So the book would have to speak, would have to be consistent with that. So note that many of the apocryphal books were likewise rejected because their historical anonymies and theological Pharisees made it impossible to accept them as from God, even if there were some authoritative statements. And some early church fathers even questioned the book of James. And, you know, could this book be inspired if it contradicted Paul's teaching on justification by faith and not by works? So, but once it was accept understood that there was really no contradiction between Paul and James, then the book of James could be accepted into the canon. Others questioned Jude. Because it quoted some non-canonical books. But once Christians understood that Jude's quotations granted no more authority to those books, that Paul's quotes of pagan philosophy. Um then the acceptance of Jude followed. Whatever complementary support canonical truth derives from other books, it in no ways leads canonical value to Those books So does the book speak truth? A very important criteria Next, on number D, does the book possess life-transforming power of God? For we know that the Word of God is living. It's active, with the result that it's useful for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for training in righteousness, that the believer may be mature and equipped for ministry, as we've seen in second Timothy. Chapter 3, verse 17, verse 16. Jesus said that we will know the truth, the truth will set us free. And so and so false teachings such as false alarms that Paul identifies in Sec Second Thessalonians two verse two brings neither edi edification nor freedom. So is the book Author Authoritative with life transforming power No, so some have questions the Song of Solomon on account of its supposed sensuality. But this is a book describing miracle love. Others have questions ecclesiastic. On account of this supposed pessimism. But this pessimism is focused on what this world has to offer. And the book concludes with the admonition to remember your creation. In or from the days of your youth. So that's the fourth criteria. There's one more. Was the book received and accepted by the people of God for whom it was written? Now, determining a book as canonical is assured when the book was received, collected and used as God's word by those to whom it was originally Given. For example, the books of Moses, we've seen those who accepted immediately Um and the books of the Old Testament Testament were also recognized immediately. When Joshua wrote his book, it was also added to the canon, added to the holy place, restored there, collected Preserved. And we see the pattern that scripture would indicate that when these books were written by the prophets They were collected and stored in the holy place and recognized as such, recognized as the Word of God. There was not some vast time period of just Evaluation. We saw also that Daniel himself was reading the prophet Jeremiah. And he was relying on the prophecy of Jeremiah. So that was also the word of God. But that book Jeremiah had only been completed just a few decades prior to that. So um So um so in so in number three on page twenty, the New Testament books were written, they were copied, they were delivered out to to the churches, but not uniformly across all the regions. We're we're talking here about the the about the New Testament. Um the geography of the New Testament books was much wider than the o that of the Old Testament books which were largely confined to Israel. That is that holy place for the Jews, well that was Jerusalem. There was a temple. Um but Christians they had no such holy place. Um they had no such geographical capital city Um so when when for example when Paul wrote to the Romans or when he wrote to the Colossians, um these were widely different. dispersed churches. And so these books would be accepted by these churches. They would be accepted by the Christians who received these books. But but but again it took time for these books to be widely circulated throughout the Roman Empire. So although each church collected its own library of books, the churches would differ in what books that they would have over time. And hence if the if a book was somewhat limited in its distribu distribution, it would also be limited in how it would be received by by the church. So there's a difference between books being received by the church and church in books received by the Jews in the Old Testament. The reception is much more immediate in the Old Testament books by the by the Jews. But even though n not all the churches would be w would be receiving these books at the time, we know that these books were received by the churches that receive these let letters immediately. So there's a ac so there's actually a twofold acceptance for these New Testament books. Um That's why as you read these lists of canonical books throughout the second century and the third century and the fourth centuries, these books, these lists will change over. over time because not all of these books are widely known. And then number 8. The nature of prophecies is of prime importance in determining chains and ethnicity. If a book claiming to be a to be prophetic seems to have some indisputable falsehood, then the prophetic credentials must be re examined. Well God cannot lie. So the other four principles are a check. And also note this the divinely inspired and authoritative Books are the sole basis for doctrine and practice. So no article of faith may be based upon any non-canonical work. And basically What that means is that um is that um you is that you would not be Expecting people to obey something, some article of faith that is n that is absolutely that's not found. in Squirk Scripture. What's not included in Sugar Scripture, there's much more discretion. Larry. Yes. Um can we go back to E number two? E number two. Yes. The third sentence says the Old Testament books were all written within Israel with the exception of Daniel. Esther also was not written in Israel. Oh yeah, okay. Okay, sure. Okay. Okay, yeah. Perhaps so. We're still coming to Esther, you say, later? We w we will post that book, yes. Okay. Yes. Yeah. That's right. We will. Um okay. So on bottom page twenty, we're going to talk about the development of the Old Testament canon. Um let us know that each contributing author of the Old Testament Was in some sense unaware of how his portion would fit into the overall plan. The Apostle Peter reminds us that these prophets were seeking to know what person or what time the Spirit of Christ within them was indicating as he predicted through them, through the prophets, the sufferings of the Messiah and the glory that would follow. Yes, they saw the future. but not in great detail. They saw the coming of of the Messiah. Many of them even saw the sufferings of of the Messiah. They all saw the glorification of the Messiah, but how all that fit together, they were not always aware of that. So neither these prophets nor those who collected these prophetic writings were consciously constructing the overall unity of scripture. That is, they were not Writing out what they thought would be the future. This is not, again, all the books are not are revelations from God. They are not the works of man. So we've seen that the basic there are three basic test steps in this process that we call canonization. One is inspiration, God gives inspired authoritative writings through the prophets and the people of God they recognize these writings as inspired. They also don't recognize writings that are not inspired. Even though these writings may have some value either religiously or or um or c otherwise. But these particular particular books They collect and they preserve. They begin to copy them generation by generation. So now in our English Bible, the Old Testament has those. forty nine books and they'll group into three or four commonly accepted categories. You know, we know we we may call call them the Pinateuk, the five books of Moses. Um the next one is generally the the um the historical books. We also have the prophetic books and also the prophetic the poetic books in the in the prophetic books. And the groups in the Jews would group the same material today. has twenty-four books into three categories, the law, the prophets, and what they call the writings. Now I said yesterday something about twenty-two books. So um but if y um but if but um depending upon who you read um um you know some ru some ancient writers would such as Josephus would say those twenty-two books, some others would say there are twenty-four. It's because Josephus would combine Ruth with judges. He'd also combine limitations with Jeremiah. So whether you see twenty-two or twenty-four or out of thirty-nine, it all means the the the the same thing. Yes. When was the apocrypha stuff added? Um I will soon get to that. Yes. Now but I do want to say something about these categories. Um which so so we say there were three categories, but it wasn't the fact that all the books in each category Were collected together at the very beginning. At the very beginning, there was really only two categories. There was a law, the books of Moses, and then the professional. Books because each prophet would basically reiterate what God said in the law, reminding the people to obey the law so they can have the blessings of the law. of the of the law, and warning them that if they continued in their sin, they would have the curses of the law. So that's why there's really the law and and the prophets. But as the books were collected, they were also rearranged. And then you would have this third category card the writings. So there's a distinction between the acceptance of a canonical book and its placement within the library of books. That is, the presence of a Jewish threefold division doesn't imply that the books of that specific section was accepted all as as a single group. In terms of acceptance, each book was placed in the library as it was finished. That is, in in in essentially its chronological sequence. Um not Till later, for some reasons still unknown, were the Old Testament books arranged into three broad categories that we see today. This threefold classification arose no earlier than the second century um B C I think that's B C yeah B C with the first reference being in the in the apocrypha book of Cyric, which speaks of the law and the prophets in the other books of our fathers. So there's a threefold division there. Even though we're not even sure what the writer means by The other books of our fathers. What's in that third category? We don't know. Um now the Jewish placival philo five uh mentions this threefold division in his first century in the first century AD. Joseph Josephus also mentions this division in against the Upper Opion, the five books of Moses, the thirteen books of the prophets, And then he says there are four remaining books containing hymns of God and precepts for the conduct of human life. So we can assume that that includes Psalms. And Proverbs of that third category. So the Jewish Talmud of the 5th century A. D. 11 books in this third section called the writings. And this is the first time that we actually know what's in these writings. Psalms, Proverbs, Job, Song of Solomon's, Ruth, Lamentation. Esther, Ecclesiastes, Daniel, Ezra, Nehemiah, which is dear one book, and chronicles And this is the same list that we see in the Jewish scriptures today. So we see that there's a varied number of books in this third section across these early centuries. This implies that these Books were not merely late editions. There were no new books and no new redactions of these books during this time. This does not invalidate the theory that each book was placed in the collection very near when the book was finished. And that means that the that the people did not change the books. They just rearranged it. Again, it's very important that we recognize that there is this These are periods of the Old Testament books. Being written, being collected, being preserved, and the kind of of of the new test demand books here. But there's this Middle time between about four hundred um B C to t um t t to the the first century. Of this time that that the Jews recognized this to be a period of prophetic silence. After the time of Malachi, the succession of prophets ceased. The Jews recognized that, and from this period, from 400 BC to to New Testament times, no books were added to the canon of the Old Testament. The books were preserved, yes they were, they were read, they were maybe re- rearranged in their sequence, but they were not changed, they were not modified, they were not redacted. Um now that's that um um So that um brings see brings up up uh up uh when I do and I do want to show that if I um well let's see There we go. You're just in gift in time too Um you you know, I you know, I I still have the Bible of my father in law. This is the King James Version and it dates back to 1950. So this is an old Bible. It's not a new one. But I do want just to point out Let's see slideshow. That that um that um you know in most Bibles you will see that there is a A book introduction where the um um editor or the publisher has given you a summary of that book. And um In this particular Bible of my father-in-law, this is what is says for the book of Ecclesiastes This book, at least the first portion, Ecclesiastes chapter 1 through chapter 2, verse 11, purports, a very important word, purports, to come from Solomon. The weight of the evidence. Evidence points to a date much later than Solomon. The author explicitly states That he was king using a past tense. The language itself and references to Greek culture indicate a late date. He was written probably shortly before 180 BC. Now, based upon what we said, is that could that be a valid claim? No, it's not. Because 180 BC, that's right here. That's the prophetic silence. There's no books written during that time. Also, the book purports to come. From Solomon. Again, that's another red flag. Jews would never accept a book that was not written by Solomon, that claimed to be written by Solomon. Solomon had to be the, had to be the be the on the C C author. And so whenever you see this trade a late date, that's a red flag. So that's That's just a one practical application um for knowing about How these books were written, how they were accepted, and also this period right here, a very important period, in which we know that there could be no Nothing written during this period that that we see in our Bibles today Okay. So um Yes. So is that the idea of the apocryphile? They stick them in now with four hundred. reason why we reject the Apocrypha. All those books, well most of the books, were were see were written um either in this period of prophetic silence or short or short surely thereafter. But but but for the Jews, none of these books work were except. Josephus in the first century AD claims there's twenty-two books. None not even one of those twenty two books could be anything other than what we see today in our Old Testament. Roman Catholic Church. They just did a sweep and grab everything? We will talk about the Roman Catholic Church precinct. Yes. Yes. So Um okay, so so again um I think I'm on page twenty one verse um down at the bottom on on D, I think. The book of second Mac megabies, which is an apocryphal book. Speaks about the law and the prophets. Again a twofold division. The Kwan Rom community also consistently referred to the Old Testament as the law and the prophets. Even this fringe Jewish group of the first century believed in a closed canon. That is, that there was not that there was a continuing prophetic silence period in their day. Um and also Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus would say the law and the prophets were until John, John the Baptizer. And Jesus would say on these two Love commandments depend all the law and the prophets. Um and on page twenty two up at number G. The only potential reference in in the New Testament to a threefold division of the Old Testament is in Luke twenty four, verse forty four, when Jesus spoke to the two men on the road to Emaus That all things written about me in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled. But we see that beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he explained to them the things concerning himself and all the scriptures. So it is probable that Psalms is specifically mentioned because of its messianic significance. um here. So again, the canonization of the Old Testament is in two stages, the law and then the prophets. Each prophet reminded the people of what Moses wrote, including the Blessings for obedience, the curses of judgments for disobedience. In short, by about four hundred B C all twenty two books had been collected, um, and they were finished as they were accepted although not necessarily placed in chronological sequence. The book placed last in the Old Testament canon was apparently chronicles, even though a few of the minor prophets such as Malchi extend beyond the chronology of chronicles. Um you know, for example, all twelve of the minor prophets are one book in in in the Jewish Old Testament. And also Jesus spoke in Luke chapter 11, verse 44, verse 49. For this Reason also the wisdom of God said, I will send to them prophets and apostles, and some of them they will kill, and some of them they will persecute, so that the blood of all the prophets shed since the foundation of the world may be charged. against this generation from the blood of Abel, which is Genesis, to the blood of Zechariah, who was killed between the altar and the house of God. Zachariah being Being recorded in the book of Chronicles. Yes, I tell you, it will be charged against this generation. That is, Jesus is pronouncing judgment upon the people of Israel. Israel, for they had all these prophets, the law they had all these prophets, all this witness, and what did they do? They rejected it. The prophets, they killed every single one of them. Um and they rejected um others um So so again this this is one more evidence that we see that the proper books could not be accepted be because um um Those books are are outside of this sequence. Number eight, liberal theologians in those espouse the tenet of higher critical. criticism have long claimed that many of the Old Testament books were written much later than what is apparent, partly to explain away the occurrences of predictive prophecy. These skeptics would claim, for example, that the book of Daniel was written after the time of the Maccabean revolt, which which is again in that period of prophetic silence, because the author of Daniel makes so many prophecies that were fulfilled within that time period. period of the Greek Empire, particularly concerning that s that that Seleucid ruler and Pygus the Fourth. That is, these skeptics accuse the writer of of writing after the fact. But this is a period of prophetic silence silence, as we've seen, and the Jews were very much aware of that. No, there's no way the book of Daniel could could have been even changed within that period of prophetic silence. And for it to have been redacted and and written after the fact that would no longer be the word of word word of God. And so so we can say basically Upon all this, the Book of Daniel was written when Daniel wrote the book. When he claimed to write the book back in the sixth century In Babylon. No, so Jesus himself said Daniel was a prophet. Um he spoke of the the abomination that that that um of the he you know Jesus spoke of himself spoke Himself spoke of Daniel as a prophet and warned the people of the abomination of desolation which was spoken of through Daniel the prophet, standing in the holy place. Yes, this is predicted prophecy, and scripture is full of it. That is what makes scripture special, authoritative, inspired by God, not the work of man. We only accept. So, liberal theologians also err in postulating that a group of redactors who continue to modify the book well into this period of prophetic silence. With purported redaction attempts because the original writings would have no errors to correct. The process of redaction, if it existed, would undermine the scriptures for these reasons. Redactions violate the wrong way. Repeat warnings from God not to add to the word which I am commanding you. Redactions also transform fixed autographs into fluid material. Redactions also deceive in that another writer arguments the writing in manuscripts as though the original prophet wrote that. And this is just one more principle on which a book would be rejected if it were redacted. No so redactions undermined the test by which a believing community could verify the prophetic nature of the writing. For example, a prophecy revised. redacted, a prophecy changed, would be a different prophecy and perhaps hide what should have been seen as a false prophecy. And again, as I've said a few times to be before. All of this would would have taken place in this period right here, the prophetic silence, and we and we can and we can conc conclude um that no no such change changes could have been made. Um okay. So with that let's go on to the extent of the Old Testament canon. And he was on I'm I'm on in in in int introduce a few words um for your edi edification. Not that not that you would use these in normal no no normal speech. Um There are four categories. First category is called Omologuma Cumina. Homolo cumina. And what that means is that the category of books that were never seriously challenged by any of the rabbis within the Jewish community. And this book, this category would include all of the thirty-nine books except for five. Um Song Solomon, Ecclesiastes, Esther, Ezekiel, and Paul Purb perbs. Those five books. So we're about to get to 'em, two 'em, C C C Esther. And then there are the books disputed by some. And this would include this is called the um um tau gumia. Um this includes the song. Solomon, Ecclesiastes, Esther, Ezekiel, and Proverbs. These books were in the Jewish canon by 400 BC. They that they were there, but sometime after that, some rabbis um would question whether these books should be there. And so they were re-examined. Um although question Yes. Why would you question the video? I will soon get to that one. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay, okay. Um now really in in hindsight none of these books really had any serious objections. They were all debated but kept in. Of Solomon on number I. The Son of Solomon has been challenged due to its sensual nature. But scholars affirm that it is a book narrating marital intimacy. But this has it less The tendency of both Jews and Christians to I'll loggalize the tourist. But the book is a strong response against the teachings of the Gnostics who claim that since the flesh is evil, then marriage is considered somewhat less holy than celibacy. Um that is um this book was questioned but it's a book on marriage. Um And it's a book that many Jewish scholars and Christians as well have tended have tended to on C C allegorize. I mean, how many times have you heard that Bonus Solomon is is a story of Christ's love for his church? Okay. Well, it's not. How many servants have you ever heard on the song of Salomon? Yeah, right. Right. So okay, go so the book, um, yeah, in essential in s in some place. Yes. Um but it does have a high view of mim heritage. Um so let's go on to number number two, Ecclesiastes. Well that was challenged because, well, it's pessimistic, isn't it? Um but it's Pessimism is focused upon what's under the sun. And although the book does not um so in in the book ends with a focus on the creator. Okay, so this book was what then remained in the canon. No more objections to that one. Esther. Well, let's look at Esther. Well, Esther appears to be a secular of his a secular of his. And um but the scholars recognized that these Jews were religious, yes, they were religious, and they did exercise faith. Now though the book did not explicitly Mentioning God, there's a clear divine providence which is protecting the Jewish people from those who threaten to destroy them. And so, after debate, this book was left in the canon. It it was recognized to be um inspired. Um You know, so um Ezekiel, well that's a interesting book. Some books question Ezekiel as being anti Mosaic in his teaching. Um that is, some rabbi said, this book is contradicts the law of Moses. So they all got together, debated it, but in the in time no one could point any con about no one could point out any contradiction. So this book is left. In the canon. Proverbs. Some of the questions Proverbs do to its apparent contradiction found in Proverbs chapter 26, verses 4 and 5. Where we read, do not answer a fool. Fool according to his folly, lest you be like him, and to a fool as his folly deserves, lest you also be like him That seems on the service to be a contradiction. But has the rabbis investigated it, they dis they determined that it's really Hebrew on Hebrew poetry Very legitimate Hebrew poetry and so there was there was really no contradiction and so the book is kept. So yes to not accept problems just based on that one single verse? Um that would be that that would be the main reason, but I'm sure the I'm sure that that that that that that there may have been more re revisions. Um but yeah. Just that one verse. If there would have been a contradiction there, that would have been reason to reject it. But again note that the book had already been accepted. Now for them to to reject a book late later, I'm not quite sure how that would have come about. Okay. Then on the Bottom page twenty-three, um, number twenty on on letter C, it was it's this is the books rejected by all. I mean there's no acceptance of these books. In in in these books are called the So deep pig. So deep pigway. And the fourth category is are the books accepted by some. And and the d and these are called the and this was a question of uh of about fourteen books. Now I I want to say a little bit more more about the Sudate P Pigrapha. These books consist of very spurious writings filled with religious fantasy and myth. Frequently speculating on something not explicitly covered in the canonical books and falsely attributed to two biblical characters, prophets, and kings. This collection of books comprised about three books. Written between 200 BC and 200 AD. Examples of the of the Sudate Pigrapha include the Book of Jubilee, the Book of Adam and Eve, the martyrdom of Isaiah. In the two books of Enoch. The Jews labeled these books spurious because of their false claims to divine authority, the very highly fantastic characteristic. Of events and their questionable teachings. So this is a collection rejected by all. Now, the New Testament book, Jews, Does quote one of these books. 1 Phoenix chapter 1, verse 9. But this quote acknowledges only a truth Contained in the book. I mean, even though these books were reject for all, I mean there's some things that are true, could be true. Um you know, legend often does have a kernel of truth in it. Um but this citation from this book doesn't give any authority to this book. Um only that it only Jude is only claiming that this that this book contains some a met does contain one element of truth. That is, Enoch was a prophet in that he spoke of future times. So it's not merely enough to demonstrate that the book is quoted to confirm that it is canonical. Instead it's necessary to to demonstrate the nature of the quotation. In this case, Jude quotes from the historical on C on C C C C C Enoch. And so so just because you can find a book quoted someplace else doesn't mean that that that that it that it can be canonical just as much. Okay, now let's talk about the Jewish Apographa. Now now I've told you be before that I have two books that I've used as a guide. Um in the list is on page number two. Um those books. For this next session, I have actually used material from this book here It's called reasoning from the scriptures with Catholics. That sounds interesting. And this is writ ri written by Ron Rhodes. So this will be will be the guide to our next section. So we'll so we're on page twenty four Now Roman Catholics will claim that there are seven books and four parts of books of the Apocrypha that belong to the canon of Scripture. These books they call deuterocanon, which means second canon. And grant that these apocryphal books Equal in status to the the remainder of the New Testament books. Note that a part of a book is intended to be interpolated within the book. You know, for example, there are um several editions to the book of Daniel. I'm I believe they have a Daniel in Daniel chapter 13 and Daniel Daniel chapter 14. So these books, they were placed in the canon as a result of the proceedings of the Council of Trent back in the mid-16th century, which is which is the Roman Catholic response to the challenges of the Protestant Reformation. Recall that Martin Luther had criticized the Roman Church for not having scriptural support for such things as selling selling indulgences. And for such things as praying for the dead. Um and so so he challenged the Roman church to return to the Bible. Return to Scripture. What did the church do? What did this Roman church do? Well, they just took several of the apocalypse books and just added them to their Bible. Um So they now had scriptural support for this and their other distinctly Catholic doctrines, such as justification by faith plus works, and not merely by faith alone. For example, the Catholics found support in the book of 2 Maccabees for praying for the dead. And they found also support for their doctrine of purgatory and things of that nature. Now, how can the Catholics justify this? Well credit. Well well here's what they do. Uh number three. They claim that the Tituagan this is the Greek translation of the Hebrew Old Testament That predates the time of Christ, which we'll talk about very soon, but had also the Apocrypha books in them. And then and there and they then assume that this means that they that the Apocrypha books belong belong to the canon. They also claim that some of the early church fathers, such as Aranius, Torturian, and Clement of Al Alexandra, used the Apocrypha books in public worship quoted from them regularly. They also claim that MCCT MCCT C the C C Augustine viewed these books as inspired. They also claimed that the early church and Christian community accepted the Apocrypha because with When they looked at these early Christian catacombs, they found painted on them scenes, religious scenes, historical scenes, some scenes that are described in the Apocrypha books. And they also claim, on 25, that that some of the early church councils, such as the Council of Rome in in AD 382, the Council of Hippo, in A. D. three hundred ninety three and Council of Cartridge in A. D. three hundred ninety seven gave support to these up to these a pop of books. So that's their claim. They have that's how they justify what they have done. Yes. Who are the authors of these books, of these different Jewish uh the apographer books? They are Jews. Yes. Um we j we don't always know their names because some of them wrote under the pseudoname of someone else. Um but the Jews rejected that. But the Jews divinely inspired. The Jew d the Jews used the books in in some way, but they did not consider them to be inspired. And they settled that four hundred years BC, right? That was that was settled before the prophetic silence period. Well these powerful books were w were written W within that during it the true canon was settled before. Yes. I mean I mean I mean I mean I mean I you know once w once the Jews got in Got in into this period, they already had all these books. And they saw that the that there was no more props. And so they did not add any more books. Okay. Now note on number four that the pop-up of books do not claim the divine uh authority. None were written by a true prophet, because the Jews knew that, because there were no prophets during that period. None of them were confirmed by divine miracles. happens quite a bit in the Old Testament and also the New Testament as well. None contain any predictive prophecy which would have served to confirm confirm divine inspiration. Oh, so one one author, the author of 2 Maccabees, can concedes that this book is an abridgment of another man's work and expresses concern as it whether a good job was done or not. So that's a good trying that no that book's not inspired by God. Okay. Okay. So we can conclude that these books do not have any measure of divine authority. Also, note this. The New Testament writers never quoted from these books. The Nubus from allusions throughout the New Testament from the canonical books of the Old Testament. I mean only Song of Solomon and the Esther are not quoted in the New Testament. But even if there was a reference to some up apocrypha book, this would not not would not imply that this book would have the stamp of divine authority. Just because you quote it doesn't mean that that the book has some inspiration to it. Now, the Catholics claim that in Hebrews chapter 11, verse 35, when we read, women received their dead by resurrection, and others were tortured, not accepting their release, in order that they might have They claim that is a quotation from 2 Megaphys, where seven brothers and their mother were tortured and killed because they would not renounce their faith. But Even if this passage in Hebrews alludes to this apostrophe of books, this is not a a quotation. And the author of Hebrews was not sanctioning this book has inspired. The quotation that The verse in Hebrews could refer to any number of historical cases, not just the one in 2 Maccabees. And also note that this writer of 2 Mac MacBee doesn't even claim divine um the divine inspiration. Okay. Um C. Um Number six. Some of the early church fathers, such as Origen, spoke approvingly of some of the books of the Apocrypha. But this doesn't necessarily imply that it held these books on par with the remainder of the instruction. inspired books. Milito, the bishop of Sardis, writing in AD 170, delineates what he considers to be the O canon of the Old Testament, which are all All the books we have today, with the exception of Esther, but none of these are of the apocryphal books. Athanasius in A. D. 367 mentions some of the apocalypse. Apocrypha books such as The Wisdom of Solomon, Judith, and Tobit. But as that these are not included in the canon, but appointed by the fathers to be read by those who newly join us and who wish for instructions in the world in the word word of godliness. So yeah the early church fathers were using some of these books occasionally, but they were not on par with the rest of the New Testament. Yeah, yeah. Yes. He was wrong about that. He was wrong about that. You don't need these. Right. You know, just like we are today when we make mistakes or we think something that isn't true, just because this person said so and did so doesn't mean that what he was saying was just to be true because you don't need these books for a godliness. If he meditated upon second Timothy chapter two verse fifteen and se sixteen. He would know, no, you'd that yeah, you don't need these books. That's why. Okay. So and also The biggest reason is that the Jews themselves rejected these books. I mean if the Jews rejected these books, there's no reason why we Christians should should accept them. them. You know, for example, Josephus lists 22 books in the canon, none of them in the Apocrypha. The Jewish Council of Jemena, which meant in 1890, rejected the Apocrypha as Philo, the Jewish philosopher or teacher of the first century, quoted from virtually every book of the Old Testament, but never once quoted from the Apocrypha. Also there are several historical errors in the in the books of of the Apocrypha. For example, the Book of Tobit narrates a story dating from the time of the Assyrian Empire, but states that Nineveh was captured by Nebuchadnezzar. In on my in on my in on my we see us. Instead of by Nebuchadlezzar, the father of Nebuchadnezzar, and Siloxes, the king of Media. So such historical errors are indicative of man-made doctrine. documents where the author is hindered, perhaps unknowingly, by a lack of correct historical doc documentation. This second century BC author apparently did not know the name Neville Pulesar, who lived in the 7th century B. C. So the author used a name from Daniel and also a name from Esther. And also the apostles. contains unbiblical doctrines. A few of them include that the world being created out of pre-existing matter. The idea that giving alms and other good works can make an atonement for sin. Um, you know that's even contradictory to the law of Moses. Um the invocation in the intercession of the saints, the worship of angels, and the teaching that there exists a purgatory. So if God inspired all three of these things, the Old Testament, the New Testament, and in the Apocrypha All three would have to agree, but they don't. So um you know so note this. We know from Josephus that there are twenty two books in the first century. Okay. So that gives us pretty much indication that that the Old Testament did not have these books. But even if you assumed that the Septuagint had these books in them, it's very interesting to note that Jesus and the apostles quoted freely from all of these books of the Old Testament. But somehow they either overlooked the old the apocalypse books. That was either because the apocryphal books were just there but they just ov overlooked them, or else they just were not there at all. And also note this. Jesus frequently confronted the religious leaders for misunderstanding What Scripture says, or by ignoring what Scripture says, or by having their own traditions above what Scripture says. But Christ Christ never confronted them about adding their own books to scripture or taking away books. Okay. So again another indication that these apocrypha books just were not there. Um nor any other book that had either been added or taken away. And again, um I see where where am I um um um number twelve. Um that there were certain uh uh Apo Apocalyptical scenes on some of the early Christian catacombs is not as convincing argument. The presence of artistic works is hardly a test for canonicity. Particularly in in the light of the other shortcomings of the So again, that's not really a convince convincing argument. Oh, so the church councils, yes, some of them did give some type of of approval to these books. But as Martin Luther famously said, church councils err. They have aired. Um and the church councils, particularly in North Africa, during the late uh fourth century, these were heavily these were heavily influenced by um on the TCT C Augustine. And of course, in in Augustine did consider some of these books to be inspired, useful, and so his influence did matter. But um um but uh but eventually all these books were rejected. Um And as great and as influential as Augustine was as a theologian in those days, his views on the Apocrypha were not widely shared. So in conclusion, um and um I'm going to wait till next week for this part here. Um because we are now out of A time so. So there me pray