Okay. Uh think about the world that we live in. It's uh from when we read Romans eight verses twenty to twenty two I'm not sure about you guys, but I don't wake up every morning thinking in these terms about the world like this. That I'm going out into a world that's filled with frustration and corruption. Um That's not always my mindset when I'm waking up and going out into the world. I I don't know about you. But that is the world that we live in How do you describe this world that we live in? What's i we we say corruption, and I think most of us Christians would say the world is corrupt. Right. Bondage. I don't think of decay. I I don't think of the world that's that's decaying or I don't think of groaning as in pains of childbirth. Right? Um when when Paul uh Says that this groaning in pain of childbirth is an example that reminds of us of life, the process of life. Right? And therefore we can remember that there is a redemption process as well. There's a purpose for that that tower birth. And uh we can look at our our our lives and and see that as the same way But also, I think, as he said, we we have to deal with Satan. How often do I think I go out into the world thinking that all these things I've got to deal with? Right, and how am I going to how do you navigate through that when you're thinking uh that this is the how do you deal with a broken and corrupt world Um so let me hear you. How how do you go out and deal in a broken and corrupt world? Okay. Well you know what Peter says, right? About Satan. You know that that uh we have to deal with Satan. He he he prowls around like a roaring lion seeking those to uh to devour Why don't we do this? Why don't we look a little bit closer at Deuteronomy 11? Verses 4 to 23. Take notice of of of the reactions of Israel. Yeah. Numbers eleven, I'm sorry, class I'm looking at you and I was like, wait a minute. Okay, numbers eleven. Can you s first five first? Okay, and the Lord said to Moses, Is the Lord hand shortened? Now you shall see whether my word will come to you or not. What do you see in this this this wilderness where the the people of Israel. Right? In verse one they complain. Um you see in verse four and five, wailing and longing for the past Verse 13, they're they're they're going after the leaders. They want Moses out. Uh verse 20, it's like uh rejecting God and God's plan. Is that not when you When you in the wilderness, when the heat of your life comes upon you, how do you react? Do you react something like this? Do you complain? I'm not one who is always saying that, God, what are you doing? Sometimes I do. Right? But my initial reaction is I'm either going to complain It's not me I'm blaming. What about you? How do you how do you normally react in in in in your when when when things go wrong in your life, when you are in that place of heat, as you will, how do you normally react? So this is what God is teaching us. It's it's not Really, um, he's showing us how people react in this wilderness. What we do in the wilderness situation. So let's look at, go to Deuteronomy 8, verses 2 Through 14. And I read, and you shall remember the whole way the Lord your God has led you these forty years in the wilderness that he might humble you testing you to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep his commandments or not, and he humbled you and let you hunger and s and said you with manner, which you did not know, nor did your fathers know, that he might make you know That man does not live by bread alone, but man lives by the word of God that comes forth, that comes from the mouth of God. Your clothing did not wear out on you, and your foot did not swell these forty years. Know then in your heart that as a man disciplines his son The Lord your God disciplines you. So you shall keep the commandments of the Lord your God by walking in his ways by fearing him. For the Lord your God is bringing you into a land, a land of brook of brooks of water, of fountains and springs flowing out in valleys and hills, a land of wheat and barley, of wine vines and fig trees and pomegates, a land of olive trees and honey a land which in which you will lead will eat bread without Scarity in which you will lack nothing, a land whose stones are are iron, and out of whose heels you can dig copper, and you shall eat And be full, and you shall bless the Lord your God for the good land he has given you Take care lest you forget Lord your God by not keeping his commandments and his rules and his statutes. Which I command you today, least when you eat eaten and are full and have built good houses and live in them, and when your herds, flocks multiply, your silver and gold is multiplied, and all that you have is multiplied, then your heart will be lifted up And you forget the Lord your God who bought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. So look at what God is doing in the wilderness. The wilderness wanderings. Um So God has is now showing them, right, what he will do for them in while they were in the wilderness. Uh he's he he blesses them, right? He he He tells them that that he will uh he provides for them and the wilderness times in the wilderness is when we know that this is the time that we're not to forget God And God will bless us through the times, things that we're going to. So life in the wilderness, it's all about g God exposing us, changing us, and maturing us. He has not forgotten us or promises that he will not he will never leave us. So our wilderness times are those times where we grow Right? We see what God is doing in our lives, and He's drawing us closer to Him so that we won't forget who we are in Christ, who provides for us. Does that make sense? How how have you grown in times what we can call the wilderness? How have you grown in those times? Would anybody like to share about situations in their lives where they have grown? But God has molded them and shaped them. Well, there have been, you know, many times in my life where Uh even now, for example, um parents are getting older, my parents. And this is the time that I'm being shaped and molded to care for my parents. God a he's been experiencing a lot of anxiety, right, having to care for them. Uh anger having to care for them. Just going through a lot. And I'm asking God exactly, what are you doing in my life? What am I supposed to be doing? Right? And so He's showing me How to be humble, how to be compassionate toward my parents, how to give up time that I don't want to give up You know, so when I think about how God has treated me the same way, yes gay. Yeah, these situations That we find ourselves in. I think for me, and I know probably for you as well You've gone through some really hard situations and you come out on the other side I believe, I know for me is trusting God more than I did in the situation. Um, understanding that obedience is important, trusting God. Um And remembering that even though these situations come into our lives and we go out into this world that's corrupt, um God has has not left us. He's always with us. And r regardless of what the world may bring to us, and regardless of all the situations and trials that we go through that we're in. He is always there, working in us, drawing us to him, causing us to examine ourselves in the situation. Taking our minds off the situation and putting on what's what's what is God doing in my life? Right. Um I also say, you know, as a counselor, people come in to counseling and where are they? They got heat. Right. They got heat. They got a lot of heat. They're struggling. And the focus It's not on what God is doing. The focus is I need the heat to cool off. I need you to do something. I need you to take away. No one comes in thinking about what is God doing in my life right now. In the heat of life, what it can do is Draw you away from God, even the people of God And and and as as we as as Christians, brothers and sisters, we need to know how we can come alongside of one another and help in those areas to point out to point people back to God, to to get people eyes and ears and and and and get them back to God, to seeing what God is doing in their lives as opposed to just focusing on the situation. Remembering who God is, remembering who we are in Christ, trusting in the promises of Christ. In times of heat, who do you call on? So based on what you just said, who will we call on? into what I'm thinking. How often do we wake up in the morning or we we go out and come across a a challenge, so to speak, in our life? And who we turn to. We try to figure out everything ourselves. We don't go to the sufficiency of scripture. We try to do it in a way that comes to our mind. How am I going to take care of this? For me, quite often, it's a moment that God helps me recall what He's been teaching. Teaches that he doesn't leave me nor forsake me. He is looking as forecasts about that he is Um he gives us the power to complete everything, to to do anything that he brings our way, talking about content. We suppose we'll be content in him alone, not trying to figure out everything ourselves. So for me, that that's a big thing. And then when God gets me through one particular situation, it should be a reminder next time that He has gotten me through this previous moment of stress, challenge. Right? Get me through another one. And that gives me the peace. So for me to constantly think about what scripture says. And then God knowing that God gives me the strength to apply it to every situation gives me peace. It might be a while and I'm thinking It's been a while, Lord, but I know you're teaching me something, teaching me all this character. And I know that He loves me. wants to build all kinds of character that will bring him glory and also to be used you know within the body of Christ. Amen. Yes. So in verse 4 it says that their clothing didn't wear out and their feet didn't swell. And in another passage it mentions that their shoes never went bad. And so I imagine for this enormous group of people, somebody had to notice. Like there had to be a mom in a And so I imagine it was much easier for those people who noticed like those little susp sustaining feats of God and so like in my own struggles I try to see those those little places where my clothing's not wearing out despite all of the wear and tear and it helps it helps to realize that this is that this That is a great point. It is those small things, I think, if we can begin to see what God's doing in our lives. Those those those small things sometimes make a big difference In how we handle these situations that we come into life. And the other thing is, how do I help a brother and sister as well There's a relational part here too. It's how can I help you when you are struggling? with change or whatever that heat, whatever that that problem that you're dealing with. How do I how do how do I help my brother? How can, you know, I need to be able to bring him back thinking about who God is, who you are in Christ, trusting the promises of God You growing in this, those small things you're you're talking about. There's so many people forget who they are in Christ. And the and the promises of God, yes. Uh you're asking the the point of hey how can it help someone Don't know how I'd answer that question, but I would say how can I help myself or how have I helped myself in that? In many situations, the first question I ask myself is Do I have any control over this situation? Did I have any contributing factors of commission or omission? And not that I'm not going to take responsibility, but a a a quick question is, was this something completely out of my control? Driving the work, stuck in traffic. Could I have done anything about it? No, I always look 15 minutes early, so I can get there 15 minutes early. So completely out of my control, nothing I can do about it. From experience, maybe other people have also experienced this where you Hopefully progress from the flesh being on autopilot to the spirit being on autopilot. And what I'm saying that is You get into a situation, the heat kicks on, the flesh immediately responds, and then later you regret, you repent. you prey on it. Next time the same situation comes, you slowly move the needle to the spirit of you're you're you're in it, but you still the flesh kind of took over. And then hopefully at some point in time you get to the point where you you're seeing the problem before you even hit it. And then that's when either A you're letting the flesh take over or the spirit's going to take over and say, no I'm not going to respond, but it requires constant prayer to keep the flesh in control. I mean the the spirit in control to not let the the flesh go on autopilot and sometimes you end up dipping down into that and you end up repeating the process. So it's not a one and done thing. It's a constant uh uh cycling Go ahead, Gabe. Yeah, I just want to appreciate all the comments that you all were making. Um but I want to press in to just emphasize what you were saying, Mike, in terms of uh how do we help one another. We had the lesson a few weeks ago on change happens in community. I think your your question is is touching on that. Uh and this is where we recognize that because the heat in our lives distance circles can have the tendency to blind us or we just respond you know by squinting our eyes because you know it's so blinding. Whatever, we're blinded to the truth. We we just need And and so that that includes, you know, yes, we ought to be in the Word, we ought to be be looking for the evidences of God's grace which are all around us. It's not like we have to go on a search and find. We just gotta open our eyes to it. Yeah, but then when we're struggling and we will struggle, that's when we need a brother or a sister to come alongside and and we can even ask that question, help me to see what I'm on. Help us see the evidence is God's word is and that's just so vital that we open ourselves up to others and seek out that Yeah. And that's how we fulfill the one another in the New Testament, right? The speaking to one another and speaking of spiritual psalms. That's how we Speak the truth and love to one another, those are the occasions that we desperately need one another to minister its work to God. So well we're uh almost out of time. Uh talk about the heat. Um this is classic. I was I was feeling the heat while I was standing here. Right? And I'm looking at my notes and I'm like Where does this come from? These are not the notes that I'm supposed to have for this class. So I'm in the heat. I'm really thinking about okay God. These notes I printed out are the Very very rough rough rough draft of the class when we were reading the uh the the uh uh Deuteronomy instead of Numbers So I'm feeling it, right? I'm saying, so how am I gonna get out of this? Alright. This is this common heat. Right? Simple sit situation Right? Now I can take that and go a lot of different places, be filled with anxiety. I can beat myself up, blah blah blah blah blah And the rest of the day can be just messed up. And all those who come in contact with me, like my wife, will fill it as well. Right? For what was God trying to teach me here? And this is what I'm asking. So what are you trying what are you do what are you teaching me while I'm standing up here going through this because you know somebody's gotta do something. Your burden is my burden. Amen. Romans 828. Amen. So y you know, and then it's just those real simple things like that, right? Those real simple things like that is is how I see God's working in my life and and coming to me and teaching me, right? Prepare better. Make sure, double check. Small things like that. Right? Handle his word with very, very good care. You know, I can go on and on and on. Or I can, you know, pile it on. And say you nothing, you this, you dish, you death. But I thank God how he has worked in our lives today. And so the one thing we always want to remember, regardless of how rough things can be on any given day Just know that God is working to expose, change, and mature us. He hasn't forgotten us. He hasn't forgotten that the things he has promised to us will come to will come true. And so let's let's stand on that. Let's stand on what God has said. Trust in His promise. Trust in His word. That He will do what He says He will do. And we are who He says we are. So let's pray.