Well I tell you I really rejoice in my spirit when I hear y'all singing like that. You're singing like you really mean it this morning. It's the way it ought to be every morning, yes? Well, 'tis the season when football fans are jolly. Not just that their last name is Jolly Because from Thanksgiving to New Year's we have some great games to watch, don't we? I really enjoy relaxing, watching a good game with some friends. It's nice. I tell you I don't really enjoy at all all those intrusive commercials. A few I have to agree are well done and make me chuckle. But many of them, frankly, are absurd. You really listen to them. We know what the marketer's strategy is, what his aim, what he's trying to accomplish, all the dramatic music, nonstop, fast action, sex appeal, galore Ridiculous humor, celebrity salesmanship, shock and awe. Viewers are urged to purchase everything pretty much from drinks to cars based upon Impulse, lust, fleshly desire. Rarely do you feel like you get the facts or the truth Of course, um that marketing strategy works today, doesn't it? It works. They wouldn't be wasting all that money on it if it didn't bring them money. It it it works. Let's just face it. I mean, it it works The marketers are cashing in on our feeling-oriented society. How did we get to be like this, so feeling-oriented, so undiscerning, and uncritical, and unwilling to think through things? Well, those of us who brought up in the media generation, we know, don't we? We've been blessed with all this technology, TV, video, DVD, Internet, all that we have. Got IMAX, iPod, and All these different things now. But all this stuff makes us accustomed to the very best, to the greatest kind of entertainment that can really put on a show and keep our attention every single second We kind of grow up expecting that. Constant stimulus. If we don't have it, our attention gets lost. We tire quickly. It's got to be something new, dazzling, and interesting. Otherwise, we just click the channel and move on. And I think because of that, and many have studied this and I think have proven this, that we have a reduced capacity, maybe the better way of putting it is we have a reduced desire. To concentrate on anything that's lengthy, lengthy oral or written discourse. We just don't want to do it or just don't know how to do it anymore. We want everything to be embellished by visual stimuli and that kind of music that makes us feel good. We want it. We demand it. Frankly, people, I think, unlike at other times in history past, have little desire to sit, listen to a logical speaker like we do every single Sunday here They would rather have something else on their own. They would choose to rush out, get a DVD and watch that. That's what they like. That's what they turn to. And you know where I'm going with all of this this morning, don't you? Unfortunately, we Christians are hardly exempt from the cultural depletion of our attention span. This affects us as well. This affects the way church is done today. Many pastors are told they have to Live by the slogan, if you can't say it in twenty minutes, don't say it. I can't even hardly get an introduction done in twenty minutes. I don't know how you can give God's word its due in 20 minutes. I I just don't get that. Adding to this problem is, I think, just the pace and the complexity of modern life. You know that. When you came in this morning, your mind was already probably Many different places right now you're struggling not to think about that other thing and to concentrate on the sermon because you know you're supposed to do that You know, between our demanding job schedules, draining work tasks, multitude of errands to run all over town, fighting traffic while we're doing it, multiplied schooling commitments to parents, lessons for the children Trying to keep the home and the lawn and the car in tip-top shape, returning phone calls and emails and text messages. And then now this time of the year, added on to all of that, we have the holiday demands And that makes it even that much more hectic, and our mind gets splintered in other directions. Life just seems to jump around, doesn't it? I mean you're going from one thing to another, to another, to another, and you can hardly put your attention on any one thing for a period of time. What does that do to us? Well, don't you think it hinders meaningful reflection on God's Word? I think it does. I think that when we're harried and busied in our minds, it's more likely to spawn irritation in us And just discontentment, a dissatisfied spirit. And yes, that comes out of our mouths eventually. Then we have a complaining mouth. I think we need to tell ourselves sometimes to slow down and concentrate. Think on some things maybe that we wouldn't choose to do that. Have someone maybe force it upon us to think a little bit And have some meaningful reflection. I want to ask you, who are you listening to in your life right now? Who are you giving a lot of attention to in your life right now? Do you know Is it really God? I know that's the correct answer. I'm listening to God. Is it really God? Are you focused in on what God is saying to you at this stage in your life and what you're going through? You know, God has actually commanded us to pay attention to the things he says, to give our full attention to what he is saying to us. Just like parents, sometimes we're talking to our kids and they're looking around, we're like, stop that, look at me and listen and make sure you're getting what I'm saying to you. You know how irritated we get? Well, God is so patient with us But he wants our full attention on him all the time. And we so rarely give it. Psalm one nineteen, you know, you could read through that whole psalm and get this, but Verses fifteen and sixteen says, I will meditate on your precepts and regard your ways. I shall delight in your statutes. I shall not forget your word. That's all about concentration, people. See, from a mind that's focused that way and directed that way comes, are you ready for this? A thankful heart. A thankful heart. That's right. A settled and peaceful and thankful heart. That's what I want to talk to you about this Thanksgiving Sunday, and I want to do it all from just one little verse. That's right, we're going to spend 45-50 minutes looking at one verse and we're going to concentrate on it. It's Ephesians chapter 1 and it's verse 3. It's the first verse in the body of this great letter. that Paul wrote to the Ephesians. I want you to open up there if you haven't already. If you don't have a Bible, maybe you can look on with someone next to you or just listen carefully. You're going to hear it a lot this morning anyways. Ephesians chapter 1 verse 3. Here it is Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. In Christ. That's a pretty important verse. It says a lot. It's not hard to understand, really. I mean you've probably read it many times before in your Bible if you're accustomed to Bible reading. It has twenty-five words in it. We read it through in about ten seconds, or we could do it faster if we wanted to I can probably give you a fill in the bank blank quiz right now covering what it says and I'm gonna guess that you're all gonna pass with flying colors Let's see if I'm right. I'm a former school teacher. We'll try this out. Question number one. Who does Paul bless here in this verse, anyways? Answer? God the Father. Very good. You all know the answers. Question number two: Who is God the Father of? Lord Jesus Christ. Question number three. What does the verse say that God has done? He's blessed us. Right? And what has he this is the last question now. If you get this, you get perfect, okay? What has God blessed us with? And there it is. I told you, everybody gets an A plus, class is over, time for recess, yippee. We didn't need to learn anything else this morning, or did we? See, I guess that just kind of illustrates my point. It's possible to read the Bible, understand the Bible at a surface level, and really not spend any time thinking about what it means, how rich it is. How it should impact the way we think and live. We might not really grasp its meaning or its importance. I mean, these are precious words. These are bountiful words. They're just filled with meaning. You know, the Bible is not just any other book. It really isn't. It is God's book, right? It is the voice of God Almighty to the world today. It is an infallible instruction to people. When God talks to the world, he talks through the Bible. And sometimes we say, I wish God would God would talk to the world. He has, and he does. God speaks to us through the Bible. Every day we're listening. And these words are meant to be eaten. They're meant to be digested. They're meant to be fully absorbed until they become part of our life energy, until they're part of us. That's what God expected. Let me put it to you another way. Unless your reading of the Bible changes you and impacts your thinking and your actions. Well, you haven't even read the Bible yet. You haven't even read it. Many churchgoers and Bible readers are too impatient. Or they're too undisciplined, or they're just too distracted to really benefit from God's word. How do you benefit from God's word? Well, you go to church, you sit down, take a few notes. No. You have to get the meaning. You have to absorb it into your life Again, I say the very pace of life itself works against us at times. If we don't offer a pause and consider long enough what it really means, we don't let the words kind of wash over us and renew us Did you know that the Spirit of God could take these words this morning and change your whole attitude and your entire mood? Yes, he could. Did you know that You can have more spiritual energy to do more work for God if you were to focus on these words, understand them, believe them, and continue to think on them well beyond this worship service Sometimes we excuse our lack of time devoted to the Word of God because we don't think there's anything else to dig out of the verse. It's just, well, there's the obvious, that's it. What else is there in there? But I want to ask you a few questions right now. What is it that prompted the Apostle Paul to want to bless God in such a way at the beginning of this epistle? What are these spiritual blessings that he's so enamored with? Can I experience these blessings? Have I already, and I don't know. And if I can experience them, how am I supposed to appropriate them in my life? Well, let me just press this on you a little further, okay? It's Thanksgiving time. But why? Why, why, why are we not more thankful? Well, we might have different answers to that question, I guess. I think simply put, our problem is a lack of prolonged and thoughtful exposure to the meaning and the careful application of the Word of God. What do you do when your skin is dry? Don't you have to apply lotion on it and rub it in there until it becomes nice? And you have to do that over and over and over again, right? Until it's all nice and moist. You know how dry the ground was a couple of weeks ago until the rain started coming, right? And it started to soak into the ground and rain upon rain upon rain. And sometimes it takes all day to soak the ground like that, right? That's what our souls need. Our souls become dry. Our souls need the water of God's word, and you can't just have it rush over you. It needs to soak into you until it becomes part of you. And that's what God wants to do with you. Rich doses of God's word over a long period of time, undistracted by the cares of the world. And then it begins to revitalize you, then it begins to mature you, then it begins to redirect you, then it begins to change you, and then you begin to understand the power of God in your life. And that's just the lesson I want us to learn from Paul's words here. Two blessings he speaks of here. First the blessed God, and then the blessed Church, the blessed God and the blessed church. Focus with me at the beginning of the verse first, the blessed God. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. That's how Paul begins the body of this great letter. He's blessing God. This is not a religious formality with Paul. He wouldn't write that way. It's a heartfelt desire. You wish you could be in the room with him when he was writing it. I'm sure he was exuberant. What then really did prompt Paul to bless God? Well, maybe he was just having a great day. He was feeling good, and he had his favorite music playing, and he was feeling good, and he sat down and he wrote this. No, I don't think so Maybe he just finished having a rich Thanksgiving meal. Oh yeah, they didn't celebrate that back in ancient Rome. Well, maybe he just landed a great new job. No, and back in verse 1 it still says he was an apostle of Jesus Christ They were kind of made fun of in the world. They were abused and persecuted. Well, maybe he just um something else happened to him that was great. He inherited a nice new home overlooking the Mediterranean Sea and he was happy about it. And he's saying, Blessed be God Well, no, actually, in chapter four, verse one, if you kind of peek ahead, it says he was in prison. Yeah, that's right. Therefore, I, the prisoner of the Lord, and he goes on to talk about it. He was in house arrest. In Acts chapter 28 and verse 16, it tells us. When we entered Rome, Luke is writing this, he was with Paul, Paul was allowed to stay by himself with the soldier who was guarding him. He was in house arrest. That's where he was when he wrote this. In fact, he wrote Ephesians, Colossians, and Philemon all at this time. You know, I think if I were in prison, my epistle might start out something like this. Oh, I'm suffering hard for the Lord Jesus Christ. Things are really tough here. Brethren, pray for me. That's not what Paul was saying. That's not how he starts Why not? Why not have a pity party? Well, because uh before writing Ephesians, Paul's mind was not inward focused on himself. His mind was not outward focused on his circumstances. But his mind was what? It was upward focused on what God was doing. God is doing something in your life. Do you know what God's doing in your life? Are you aware of what God is doing? Sometimes people think they know and they don't know. Well, how do we know Paul was focused on heaven? How do we know Paul was focused on God? Well, from what he writes in the next several verses as you go on in verse four and you see what he's thinking about. This is what's on his mind See, Paul has been thinking carefully about all the abundant blessings that God had given to Christians, to the church, in his Son Jesus Christ Notice the word heavenly is right there. His mind was in a rapture mode. His body's still down here on earth. It's in prison. But he was up there with Christ feasting on truth. He was up there in joyous, victorious truth. His heart and his mind were filled with awe and with thankfulness. Right where he was down there on earth, nothing has really changed for him But he was changed. He was changed in his mindset. So when he sat down and he started to write this epistle, he started to write about these blessings, look at it, they just pour out of his heart. I mean, think about this He's just he's just coming out of his heart and onto that ancient school, and he's writing about them. They just come with one blessing after another in verses four and following. One wave of God's gracious work and activity upon a Christian, upon another His blessings really form a precious string of 202 Greek words in a row, all one sentence in Greek. He doesn't stop his sentence until he gets all the way down to verse 14 Verses three to fourteen is one sentence. He can't stop talking about it. He just goes on and on and on with all of the blessings that it there are to be a Christian. But before he rolled on with how God had blessed the church, he just first expressed that genuine heartfelt eruption of praise towards God in verse 3: Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Why, Paul? Why are you in that mode? Well look at it. Verse three. Because he blessed us with every single spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ. Do you see it? Do you get it? Verse 4, because we were actually chosen and elected by God in eternity past. Verse 5, because he predestined us to adoption as his very own sons. Do you have any idea what it means to be a child of God and to be in that privileged position? Verse seven, because in him we have redemption and forgiveness through the blood of Christ Do you know how much pain and sorrow throughout all of eternity we have escaped because of what God has done in Christ? Verse nine Because he has made known to us the mystery of his will. People go into school and university all over the world today, and they don't know what the mystery of God's will is. And we know it. We have an understanding of what God is doing in the world Verse 11, because he's given us an inheritance. Do we have any idea how rich that inheritance will be? Verse 13 says, He's sealed us with the Holy Spirit of promise now. guaranteeing our future inheritance. That means we have security. We have a guarantee. We have peace of mind right now. Verse 14. Because all of this was done to the praise of his own glory. In other words, everything that's happened to us and is happening to us, all the good things that God is blessing us with all go to a great cause The cause of God's glory, the cause of praising God. In other words, our lives are worth living. Our lives have incredible meaning and purpose And that's why he's erupting like a volcano here in praising God. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. His mind is just rocketing up there to a heavenly perspective on his life. You know, if you really want video action, you want to know what's going on. Go up there with the Lord Jesus Christ in your mind. And now look down upon your life and ask yourself, what is God doing in my life today? What is going on? And look at your life from God's perspective. There's that old cliche. Let's twist it around a little bit. Paul was so heavenly-minded that he was feeling very earthly good. He really knew his life from God's perspective. Now you might be sitting there and thinking, I can't be like that. I mean, come on, Pastor Leek, that's the Apostle Paul. I mean, he's an apostle. I mean he's he's supposed to be like that. He's in Scripture and all that. Listen, Paul was not naturally a spiritual man. It's kind of an oxymoron, isn't it? No one's naturally spiritual. We're all born with a sinful bent. We're born with spiritual ignorance. We're born with resistance to the law of God. We're born with blind selfishness. Just look ahead of chapter two and verses one through three. It says we were dead in our sins. We were sons of disobedience. By nature, we were children facing the wrath of God, all in Ephesians 2, verses 1 through 3. We weren't good We don't naturally think this way. Paul didn't naturally think this way. He was born the same way that we were born. So all of this outflow of praise to God from Paul's mouth was a result of the work of God's Holy Spirit where? In his own mind, right? Listen, Paul regularly and purposefully and systematically contemplated the rich truths of God's Word. And that is the secret to being a happy and a thankful person. That's the secret. We're not even going to charge you extra for that this morning. Why was Paul happy? Why was he so thankful? Because the word of God was the bread that he ate and it was the air that he breathed. That's why See, unlike the average Christian today, who would rather read books focused on his felt needs, listen to some CD about a popular topic, Paul did a different thing. He said, I'm going to listen long and hard to God There's a pastor out there very popular, Joel Osteen. Many of you know about him. He has a best-selling book now called Becoming a Better You. He's very popular. His message makes people feel good about themselves. He looks good, he talks good, he's smooth. He's a positive self-esteem kind of a guy. Put faith in self and prove self. That's his message. You'll feel good. That's not Christianity, people That's not Christianity. I don't want to become a better me. I want me to die. I want me out of the way. The scripture says the only way I can ever experience true life in God is if Tom dies and Christ lives inside of Tom. And then Tom's going to be happy. And Tom is going to be a thankful person He's not teaching Christianity. His book doesn't even mention the name of Jesus Christ. It virtually says absolutely nothing about his life and his work. There's an utter absence of Bible truth and doctrine in his preaching in his books. Read it for yourself. You'll say, where is it? I mean, Paul engaged his mind on truth about God. Paul didn't think like Joel Osteen. He didn't write like Joel Osteen either. He thought about the great words of God and the great works of God, the things that God had done in Christ, and he wanted to think on those things and write on those things, and those were the things that made him happy. Paul was a Christian And there's a huge difference. God transforms people from dead sinners into exalted saints in Christ, and he blesses us. with every single spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ, not in ourselves. And so Paul wrote about that And one of Paul's main purposes in writing this section was so that his readers by the way, who were his readers? You know who his readers were? They were not great educated people. They were just people Just like you and me. They were normal folk. He's not writing all of this truth. Sometimes people say, you know, doctrine, it's just for those who are theologians, doctrine and teaching, all that stuff in Ephesians, that's just for mature and advanced Christians Who was he writing to? He was writing to normal people. Some of them didn't know how to read and write. They're just normally educated people, just common folk, and he wrote all of this stuff for them to listen to this so they would learn and know. He wrote so that they would have their hearts and minds impacted by the same thoughts that he was thinking, one joyful and thankful mind being imparted to another. Come and share in the joy and thankfulness that I have because of the thoughts that I have. I want to just show you this. Look down at verse 15 through 19, because I think he makes his intent for writing this entire section very clear. In verse 15 he says, For this reason, he writes, I too, having heard of the faith in the Lord Jesus which exists among you. See, he hadn't even met many of them. He had never even taught them before He says, I heard of your love for all the saints. I do not cease giving thanks for you while making mention of you in my prayers. And here's what he's asking God for. Look at verse seventeen That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give to you a spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of Him. I pray that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened, so that you may know what is the hope of his calling, what are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints. and what is the surpassing greatness of his power toward us who believe. You see, he wants Christians to experience what he is experiencing, to see what he sees, so that we will bless God the way he blesses God. If the eyes of your heart could just see for a moment what he sees by faith, then you would have a vision of how God, how great God is, and how God is working in your life. Just look a little further in Ephesians chapter 3. He erupts again into a benediction in verse 20, at the end of that chapter, Ephesians 3. 20. He says, Now to him who is able to do far more abundantly beyond all that we ask or think, according to the power that works within us And he goes on to continue to bless him. To him be the glory in the church and in Christ Jesus to all generations forever and ever. Amen. Oh, don't you see that a Christian has to know, a Christian has to understand, a Christian has to perceive the greatness of truth. We have to get it. In fact, that's what Ephesians chapter 1 through 3 is all about, theological truth. So we think about it. So when you get to the last part of the letter in chapters 4 through 6, it's all about how to live the Christian life. You think the Christian way first, then you live the Christian life second. It has to be like that. You can never live with Christian joy, you can never live with Christian power if you don't get the truth Chapter 1, for example, tells about God's election. Chapter 5 talks about having a spirit-filled thankful life. Chapter 2 talks about Grace that we have received that's undeserved, that comes to us only by faith. And then chapter four says, Now live in humility and kindness and and enjoy with one another. In chapter three it talks about what God is doing through the church, what he's revealing even to heavenly places about the church, and then in chapter six it says you go out and fight a spiritual warfare against all of those enemies of the church. That's how it is. You learn truth, you live truth. That's how it is. So many Christians want to get a quick message. You know, Pastor, stop talking about all that doctrine Give me three steps to overcome my depression. Two ways to deal with this loneliness I have in my heart. Teach me to stop being angry. That's what I'm dealing with this morning. Look, I I'm not against helpful steps. That's fine. That's okay. But it is a mistake of the worst kind to think that there's any way to become a strong, effective, thankful, powerful Christian, apart from thinking about the vibrant truths of God's Word Basically what's going on in your mind right now is you got your thoughts in there. And I got my thoughts in there. Thank God nobody else can read our thoughts sometimes, right? Thank God those little bubbles that come ahead you know above the head in cartoons don't really happen to us. We'd be in a lot of trouble. But see, there's a lot of our thoughts up there. They need to be pushed out And we need to have God's way of thinking come in and take over our thoughts. So now we own them as our thoughts and we go, you know what? I like your thoughts God better than mine. And when we do that, you know what's going to happen to us presto. We're going to become happy people. We're going to become thankful people. Because we're not going to be listening to error. We're going to be listening to To God. That's what needs to happen. That's what sanctification is. Dr. Martin Lloyd-Jones wrote of this verse here in Ephesians. Whether we know it or not, our main trouble as Christians today is still a lack of understanding and of knowledge. Not a lack of superficial knowledge of the scriptures, but a lack of knowledge of the doctrines of the scriptures. It is our fatal lack at that point that accounts for so many failures in our Christian life. Our chief need, according to the apostle, is that the eyes of our understanding may be wide open, not simply that we may enjoy the Christian life and its experience, but in order that we may understand the privilege and possibilities of our high calling. He's so right. I mean he's so right. You know, I liken the Christian life often to a tree. Now if you want, you know, your fruit to be ripe and to be good and to be abundant, then you have to have your roots down deep in the soil, right? If your roots aren't good, the fruit's not going to be good. Well what are your roots? Your root is your faith What's your faith have to be in? The Word of God. It has to sink deep into the soil of God's truth. The more you understand and receive God's truth, The deeper your roots of faith, go down into that, and then the taller you grow, so to speak, and your fruit comes out. You want more love, you want more joy, you want more peace, then dig into God's Word. That's what it means When you make up your mind that you're going to think on these truths, just like Paul did. You're not going to ask for the latest technique. You're not going to cut corners or ask for shortcuts. You're not going to be looking for three ways to improve your self-image. You're going to come to know God, and you're going to come to know him well. Then his power will be in your life more deeply. You know, it's very, very hard to crave cheap substitutes when you've tasted the real thing. And so if we keep hollering about these kinds of things, because some of us have tasted the real thing, and we don't want you drinking from a substitute. Now let's go back to verse 3 again. Because Paul truly understands I told you it takes a long time to introduce these things, didn't I? Because Paul truly understands what God has done, he writes, Blessed be God. That's the word eulogatos. That means That he's speaking well of God. He's speaking well of God. Uligatos. It's similar to praise. He's extolling God's virtues. He's speaking good of God. He's blessing God. In the book of Revelation, we see that blessing God is the preoccupation of the heavenly beings. Chapter 5 and verse 13, they say, to him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb, who's the Lamb? Jesus Christ be blessing and honor and glory and dominion forever and ever. That's blessing God. That's speaking well of God They have been given actual sight of God Almighty. They're in heaven. And they just can't stop blessing God. They see him, and as those created by him, they can't help it. They just sing and they bless God. His presence is too overwhelming to them. You know, the blessing God was a regular practice of those folks in the Old Testament, too, who were believers, way back in Genesis 14, verse 20. A guy named Melchizedek, King of Salem, met Abraham after Abraham's victorious battle. And he says, Blessed be God most high who has delivered your enemies into your hand. The Hebrew word there for blessed is barat. And when it's used towards God, it means to adore on bended knee and speak very highly of. In the Old Testament, God had a name. He was identified in different ways. He was identified with how he was working. He was the God of Abram, then the God of Abraham, when his name was changed. He was the God of Israel. You know, sometimes people say, Why would God choose one nation to be his? Well he did. That's his prerogative. He did it. So it's his universe and that's what he chose. He's called God most high because there were supposedly all these other gods and God was above them and beyond them. He's called the Lord God Here in the New Testament in Ephesians we read him, and his name is the God and Father of who? Our Lord Jesus Christ. Let it be known the God that we're going to bless, the God who has given us blessings, is not just any God, take your pick up a kind of God, any God will do that kind of a God. Oh no You need to know his name. He is the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, and we must get his name right. That title, by the way, reveals that Jesus is both a human and divine. Do you see that? As a human, he responds to God as the Father. He says the Father is his God, the God and Father, and that He also is the Divine Lord, the only begotten Son of the Father. So as the divine Lord, he calls God Father. And as a human being, he calls him his God. He is the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus used both of these titles to show that he was God, man, and one person, when he was speaking to Mary Magdalene on the day of his resurrection in John 20, 17, he said, Stop clinging to me. For I have not yet ascended to the Father, but go to my brethren and say to them, I ascend to my Father and your Father, and my God and your God. He's human and divine. There's a mystery there. So when the heart responds rightly to God, the Father of the Lord Jesus Christ, we then become worshipers of God and we bless God. Well now let's dig into the second half and some of these rich blessings that God has bestowed on the church. The blessed church. That's the second half of verse 3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, and here it is, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenlies, in Christ. Now, this statement is like a divine gush of wind. It's got so much in it. And this verse just foreshadows and I think summarizes all of the spiritual blessings we already talked about that just. Flow from his mind to his pen in verses 4 through 14. See, even before I get into this, I have to say, I know some of you are saying there are times, maybe even right now, I don't feel like blessing God I don't feel like giving thanks to God. There's an illness in my life or my family, you might be saying. Things are going hard at work. You have a wayward child, real difficulty going on in the marriage. Maybe you're lonely and you don't want anyone to know, but you have no partner and you're lonely and it hurts. And you're unthankful. And you know I can only say to you, because I know that hurts, but God gives us a way out of that hurt. He tells us quit looking at your life the way you're looking at it, and look at your life the way it really is, the way I am making it. have made it. Get this perspective. What has God done in your life? Well let's just favor this clause one phrase at a time. The first phrase is He is the one who has blessed us Let's stop there. Paul's writing of God's goodness here. God has blessed us. He has blessed us with good gifts. And why would God in the heavens just totally holy and he has absolutely no need of anything that we have Want to take time to bless me, a needy sinner. Why would he even do that? Well, because of God's magnificent benevolence. That's why. Because of Ephesians chapter 2 and verse 4 that says God is rich in mercy. In James chapter 1, it teaches us that every good and perfect gift comes down from the Father above. Not some of the good gifts that we have, but all of them come down from God. Why is it that people gripe when God doesn't give them what they want? But say so few thanksgivings for the things that God has already given them? Is that not a sin? Why does he have to give us anything? He's under no obligation. But God has blessed us. It is within God's basic nature to want to bless his own people. That's who the us is there, by the way, the church, believers in Jesus. We're nothing special, but God is special. Or he gives abundant blessings to the undeserving? Do you have a reason for blessing God this morning in your heart The psalmist said in Psalm twenty eight six, Blessed be the Lord because he has heard the voice of my supplication. Blessed be the Lord God, the God of Israel, who alone works wonders, and blessed be his glorious name forever. Something wonderful that God has done in your life? Oh, yes, God has blessed you. You may not see it, you may not know it, you may not even want to acknowledge it, but God has blessed you The next phrase, the second phrase says, what does he bless us with? With every spiritual blessing. Every spiritual blessing. The word spiritual, pneumaticas, in this context, it does not, listen, it does not mean spiritual as opposed to material or physical. A lot of people read it that way. That's not what it means Yes, it's true in the Old Testament that God emphasized material blessings more than in the New Testament, but it is also true that Christ promises followers that your physical needs would be met if he sought first the kingdom and its righteousness. Matthew 6. 33 So what does pneumatica spiritual really mean? Well the emphasis of that word is that these blessings are spiritual because, listen, they are related to or are pertaining to something the Spirit of God has given to you. They are from the Spirit of God. They are spiritual gifts because they come from the Spirit of God. Romans 1. 11 refers to Spiritual gift, same word is using using there. Pneumaticos. In Romans 7. 14, it refers to the law of God as from the Spirit of God, and therefore is holy and good. In Ephesians 5, later in verse 19, it talks about spiritual songs that are sung while under the influence of the Spirit of God. So when Paul says that God has blessed us, and that's past tense there, with every spiritual blessing, he means that we have been blessed with all that is possible to be dispensed to us By God's gracious love through the agency of God's Holy Spirit. They are God's grace blessings. They are spirit-associated blessings. This is really a fabulous truth right here. It's a truth we could easily spend an entire year thinking about and unfolding in Scripture. One thing I want to emphasize from this statement right here now is that we have to learn not to ask God for things that God has already given to us. Do you know how ungrateful a child seems who's been given a shiny new bicycle, forgets about it, leaves it on the front lawn? comes in and says, I want a new bicycle. What's the point of doing that? You just got one. That's how often Christians are. We've been given so many blessings, we possess them in Christ. You don't even know we have We don't know how to use them. We don't know why they're all that important. We're not even moved by them because we don't understand them. It's just amazing. Churches in their prayers, just for example, many churches will pray, God, send the Holy Spirit. Send the Holy Spirit Send the Holy Spirit. Brothers and sisters, the Holy Spirit was sent 2,000 years ago into the world. That was called Pentecost. Father, let your Spirit come down upon us in the assembly. Have you ever heard that? Why? He already has baptized every single believer in Christ. We're totally immersed in the Spirit of God in Christ already. Don't you believe God's word? Don't you know what He's done? No, we often don't even understand that blessing. There are no missing ingredients to how God has blessed us You want a joyful, effective, consistent, holy, loving, and blessed and full life. He's given it all to you. There's nothing else that you need to get All the good things that could be dispensed by the Holy Spirit of God are already ours in Christ. But we don't know. We don't understand. We don't even know how to use them. And so we're not even thankful. And then we go turning to other things to bless our lives. You know how dumb that is? There's no understanding to that. Oh, he's praying that the eyes of their heart would be open. Then he's given us everything. He's given us the full package. We already won the jackpot. Why do we act like we have it? Oh, sadly, there's so many of us Christians that don't always believe this And we don't appropriate the rich blessings that God has talked about. We have this fat bank account. We don't even know how to make a withdrawal from it. We don't understand. Oh, it's not a question of gaining something you don't have, it's a question of learning to use what God has already given to you. Open the eyes of their heart that they may understand Paul prays. Praying for Christians, people who are already saved, people who already have the Spirit of God, but they don't fully get it yet. You say, well, what do I have already? Pastor, what is mine already? Oh man, don't you know? Just a few things about eternal life. Eternal security, eternal significance, eternal happiness and joy and peace, eternal inheritance, eternally accepted by God into his kingdom. Eternal participation in the kingdom. As the text goes on to talk about what do we have? We have predestination from time past, we have election, we have redemption, we have forgiveness of all sins. We have total salvation and deliverance. We have the illuminating work of the Spirit of God. We have knowledge of mysteries. We have a seal that seals us to eternity. All of the stuff that the letter of Ephesians talks about, not just in chapter 1, but in 2 and 3, and throughout the rest of the New Testament, we have all those things. They're all ours Every single spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ. Oh, let's just focus on that last phrase. Two ends there, do you see it? In the heavenly places. In Christ. We are in the heavenly places because we are located now by faith in Christ in Christ. You know, sometimes people are in church, but they're not in Christ. They haven't yet given their life to Christ, so they're not saved, and they're not part of the body of Christ. You can become part of the body of Christ today. You can be in Christ. You turn from your sin and believe in Jesus Christ. It's that simple. You died on the cross for your sin. He rose again victoriously. He grants you eternal life today. If you just believe, just turn from your sin, confess your sin, and believe. Man, God has so bathed us in Christ. We don't know. We don't even know. In the heavenly places in Christ. Literally, that is in the heavenlies. It's a plural word, in the heavenlies. That phrase occurs five times in the New Testament, and do you know it always occurs in Ephesians? That's why some people call Ephesians the epistle of the heavenlies. It's all about what you ought to know and see and understand about God's work in you. Ephesians chapter 1 and verse 20. God seated Jesus at his right hand in the heavenlies, it says. Ephesians chapter 2 and verse 6. This is astonishing. God raised us up with Christ and seated us with Christ in the heavenlies, in Christ Jesus. Ephesians chapter 3 and verse 10, the manifold wisdom of God is now being made known through the church to the rulers and the authorities in the heavenly places. I don't even understand that verse. Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 12, our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the powers, against the world forces of this darkness, against the spiritual forces of wickedness where? In the heavenly places. We're struggling against the heavenly places with spiritual demonic powers. We're in the heavenly places. We're to be focused on what God has done in placing Christ in the heavenly places. We're on display in the heavenly places. It's amazing. The heavenly sphere, it includes heaven, but it's not restricted to that. It is the whole spiritual realm. J. Robinson calls it this The sphere of spiritual activities, that immaterial region, the unseen universe which lies behind the world of sin. Think of all that you could see if you could see that, because that's real. Sometimes we think the physical universe is more real than the spiritual. Listen, the physical universe came into being because there was a spiritual universe that brought it into being. It's the base of reality. We are in Christ, and because we're in Christ, we are in the heavenlies with Christ. We're blessed in Christ with all spiritual blessings. God hasn't withheld anything from us at all. He's given us every single thing that is good. It's not simply that our spiritual blessings are from the spiritual realm, nor is it simply that Christ is seated highest in the spiritual realm. But it is that we, down here on earth, right now, are already in him. And we have been blessed in Christ with all blessings of God's Spirit possible to be bestowed on us. In Christ, in the heavenly places. And that is true about you and me, even right now, if you're a believer in Christ Now, I don't know about you, but I'm going to feast on this this Thanksgiving. This is going to be my meal. And I just pray, I pray also, I just joined the Apostle Paul in praying that your souls never, never lose sight of what God has done and is doing. in your life, that you can give genuine thanks, and your mind will be caught up with heavenly thanks. Amen? After we pray, Alan's going to come. He's going to lead us in another blessing. A blessing of a child dedication here at the end of our service. I want you to bow with me and we'll just pray. Our great God and our Heavenly Father, we know that as we speak these words, we need the power of your Holy Spirit to impress them on our hearts and to open our eyes. We would pray for all of the believers in here that you will help them to feast on this truth, that they will have a love towards you and the desire to praise you and love you because of the rich ways, the rich ways You have blessed us all in Christ. Open our eyes. Help us to see. Help our hearts to tune to what you're saying and not listen to the world And not listen to our own mind when we start thinking that we have been not given so much. The lies that we believe so often that we have not been given this and we've not been given that God, help us to focus on the truth, on your truth, on your word, and help us to feast on it, that we might indeed give genuine thanks to you this Thanksgiving and throughout the whole year And yes, we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.