So welcome. Um last week we talked about the English translations from the text and we covered Tyndale's trans trans translation, but it was an incomplete translation. He completed the New Testament. He also completed several of the books of the Old Testament. Um before he was betrayed by a friend and he was imprisoned and then executed And about that time there's there was there was a change of administration in in England in Hen King Henry VIII decided that he was going to break from Rome and he was going to create his own English church, what we call the Anglican Church. And his advisors recommended that he authorize some translations Um into English. So we begin with Coverdale. Coverdale was A colleague of William Tyndale, he helped William Tyndale, but he was not near as proficient in Hebrew and Greek as Tyndale. Tyndale was super when it came to understanding. um Hebrew and Greek. Coverdale used um part partly the lesson Volgate and partly the German text of Marx and Luther. Luther. But Copadel's Bible was was essentially that of Tyndale. Then then um then um John Rogers um came up with this Matthew's Bible John Rogers came up with the Matthew's Bible, which is essentially Kindle's Bible. What he did was whatever The New Testament was Tyndale. The Old Testament, whatever William Tyndale had translated, such as the Pentateuch and some of the historical books, as well as the book of Jonah Jonah, he um He took what Coverdale had done, re-removed it, replaced it with Tyndale's writer Bible, and he wrote and he created Doug Matthew's Bible, but again that's mostly Tyndale. Then Coverdale um worked with Maggie's Bible to create the Great Bible by taking out all of the notes. Most of most of the footnotes. Um to create the great Bible. Um And then um after King Henry VIII passed away and his son passed away, you had this reign of terror. college um um and a person on the throne known as bloody mary and she wanted England to go back to to Catholicism. And she persecuted Protestants Put many of them to death. Some of them escaped England and went to Geneva. Um and they translated the Bible, what we call the Geneva Bible. And um now this Bible is actually the first to be completely translated from the Mesoetic text in the Greek text because some some some some some some some some of these bibles were cr were translated from German and the Latin Polish Now this Bible was Protestant. And so the bishops really did not like that Bible. So they created their own translation called the Bishop's Bible Bible. And um This so do you have these two competing um Bibles? Most people preferred the Geneva Bible Very few um preferred the bishop's Bible. It was more of a pulpit Bible. Bible. So then King James came to the throne and he was encouraged to authorize a new translation of the Bible. What we call the King James Version. And here. And this was supposed to be a revision of the Bishop's Bible. So within the span of less than a hundred years, we go from Chindale all the way up to King James. So you have a host of translations, a host of Bibles, within a span of less than one hundred years. Now, the foundation of all these Bibles let's just review what that is For the Hebrew text, Old Testament text, there's the Mithraic text. Text. For the New Testament, there's a Greek text, what we call, what will soon be called the Textus Recepus, the Received Text. And this is from Erasmus and from a person named Barnos. And some faith. Each of these men um would would um would um um revise the text that they had, try to to in try to improve it And so you have all of these texts right there. Plus you have that Latin ball gate, and you also have that SIP2 again. And you also have a few other translations that they consult with, whether it's it's the Armenian translation or copy. translation. And also for Coverdale there is the German. Okay. So this is this is the it so so this in red is the foundation. So today we're going to look at that foundation a little bit more. And see how that is worked out in the upcoming centuries of academic success scholarship. So if you turn on your in in your notes to I think um let's see what Page 61. I didn't mention passing from last week that when the King James Version came out Um it has a few deficiencies. Um in the and this is this is the problem In the Old Testament, they they use the Mythric text, which is a good um um um text But they were s somewhat unskilled with a Hebrew. For the New Testament They were really, really good at Greek, but this TR text was somewhat Because not only must you have a good text, you also have to know how to translate it So those were the two issues that we see from the King James Version. Oh, and by the way, I I do want to mention, you know Umbron has has um has um um has um umbrella a copy of the nineteen fifty-nine Geneva Bible. Now this is not an this is not an original but but a reprint. Now Um the thing too that I want to note here with this is I kind of wish that I had a an original Geneva Bible and an original King James Bible Bible. Because um The font, because if you look at the Geneva Bible, even with with a sweet print as well as the original, you will see a Roman type Okay, just a type that we are accustomed to. Type that's easily readable to us. The King James Version, when that came out, it used you it uses it used a topic type. Much more difficult to read. Course the people back then could It's almost weak t to us today. So That's one reason so that's one reason among many many that when it came to the two competing bioles Okay, sure. Oh yes. Yes please. Um okay. If you look at the two competing competing each Bibles, which are now King James and Geneva. Most people prefer the Geneva. Uh and there was various reasons reasons for it. One is it is easier to read The second reason is Protestants especially trusted the Geneva Bible They didn't particularly trust this King James Version. And the reason is the Bible is it's a government Bible Um it's it's a church it's is a church authority Biden. And um like for example the pilgrims, they kept their Geneva Bible and they brought the Geneva Bible to So for a long time you had these two compete P Py by was until gradually the King James Version version would just um would just be accepted. Okay. So The reason is after the King James Version was published in 1611, you had new and better manuscripts coming to light. And so when you know such as Codex Alexandrieness, Codex Sinus Sinatus and Codex Valus. Studied, textual critics work to analyze the variant readings and produce a better Greek text And their text is an attempt to examine all the available text, read text, determine what is most likely the original. And some scholars devoted their entire lives to this work, and while others would build upon their work. For example, British theologian John Mill. He labored 30 years of his life to improve the Texas receptors. And he worked primarily with the Codes Alexandri Greenus. And he would die two weeks before, two weeks after his work was published in 1707. So he's someone that that we can look up to. You know, he um he um helped us a lot. The next guy, Bingle, he also um developed um more enhancements, more improvements to the Texas Receptus. And it wasn't what's important with Bingo is he cleaned up the book of Revelation. Because if the Texas Receptus had any weakness, it's the Book of Revelation. And this is because Erasmus. When he came up with this Greek text, he first published it in fifteen sixteen. He used about maybe a dozen or less menus quests. None of them had a complete copy of Revelation. Well what was he going to do? Well, this is what he did. He had a commentary on the book of Revelation with the Greek text embedded So he just took the Greek text out and put it in the in in his Greek text. But there's a problem with that. The last few pages were missing from this commentary. So what did he do? Next. Well, he took the Latin bulgate The Latin translation of the Greek text, and he translated back into Greek, and he added that to his version of the Texas Ritters. I think. So we can see at least two major issues with this Texas receptors. So now there were others who published their versions of the t of the Greek text So he said to his publisher, go grab someone else's book of Revelation and put it with mine. Because he wanted to improve his Texas Receptors. Well, the problem was that this other guy had copied from him. So that's how We get some some issues, some weak weaknesses with the Texas receptors. It was never cleaned up, but Bingo tells us In Denoso there was this guy named Carl Lot. Um he um He published a new text based upon fourth century manuscripts scripts. And so what he did was, instead of basing his work on the text of the preceptus He built another the foundation based upon this earlier earlier menus And this has become known as the critical text. So now you have these two texts. Texas receptors and the critical text. And others would be dealer from both of them. For example, Samuel Tugillus would publish a new text based upon the early manuscripts and citations from the early church fathers. So he would build upon the critical text. Another person is Tischendorf. Who discovered the Codex Cynaticus? He collected other manuscripts and produced several versions of the Greek New Testament. And then you have whisk Westcott in a in a in a ho um a port They labeled together for 28 years to produce several editions of their Greek New Testament. Also, you have Nethel, German biblicals called him Nethel, he published his first edition of the Greek New Testament in 18 His son Edward Nessel continued to publish new editions, and since nineteen fifty-two another German scholar Collar Carland joined the effort and they produced several other editions of the New Testament known as the Nestle Allen text or abbreviated in NA. So in the latest version, I I think is the twenty-eighth edition of abbreviated NA28. And this is used by most translators for our current for our modern day um translations. So by the later 1800s there were several group Greek good Greek New Testaments including that of Turgellus, Tishidor, and Westcott and Hort, which differed from the traditional Texas Recepus Additionally, there was a growing accumulation of knowledge of various Greek words. Hence there was a good need for a new English translation Based upon a better text with more accurate rendering from the original languages. So now we begin our modern um um trations. And so I just listed a few here John Nelson Darby, leader of the Penneth Brethren. He was the first and he and he published a translation largely based upon Codex Van Nacanus and Codex Sina Sonaticus, eighteen seventy-one. His students would also publish the the Old Testament. So that's the first modern translation based upon these newer manuscripts that were discovered, which which which actually predate all those from the Texas Receptus. The next one is Brit British colour Watherham. He published a new translation based up on the on Tragillus text in eighteen seventy-two. Also Irish biblical scholar Samuel Davidson produced a translation based upon the text of Tigendorf in 1875. No, so Robert Young produced his Young's literal translation using Texas we septists in the Mesorit Mesoritic um Text. Now I I should point out one thing about translations. Nearly all of our modern translations, in fact, even King James III, they are produced by communities. Multiple people. And that's good. Um because that that um that um decreases the probability that someone's theological pint is going to be evident in the in the trans to tr to translations. You typically want to avoid translations at all. Just translated by one person. No matter how Good he is with these ancient languages. So that's why these translations never never did catch on. Or one um reason. Okay. So the first major committee effort originated from Ken Canterbury in eighteen seventy to sponsor a new revision of the King James Version, chosen sixty-five British scholars Also, uh selected a few American guys to serve as associate members on with the understanding that if their suggestions are not incorporated in um were not accepted, they they um they would appear in an appendix And they and they were promised, and they and they had to promise that they could not publish their Bible for 14 years. So that was the agreement. So they made significant changes to the King James Version to reflect the better textual evidence reflected in that text of Tugellus Tijidor and Westcott in Umuhort. They also corrected many of the mistranslations from the Old Testament, from the King James Version Because they knew Hebrew a whole lot more, a whole lot better than those of the King James translation. So their Bible, English Revised Version, appeared in eight eighteen eighty-five. And for the most part, it was ignored. You know, people just loved their King James Version. And they didn't see any need to update to this new transit translation. So Yes, it was a good tr t translation, but It takes more to have a recognized Bible than a good translation. You have to have it accepted. And um if and if it's not accepted, well, it just gets lost. So the Americans They came back with their own version, their own translation, but what they call the American Standard Version in 1905 For the for the most part, it's a whole lot better than the than than the English revised version. I mean, they had 14 more years of research. So, yeah, it should be a better translation. Also, the American Standard Version finally We moved the apocalypse. It's been there all this time Well was it a Catholic Bible then? What? Apocrypha? Even though it was a Protestant Bible, it still the the Apocrypha was still there. But like did they put it in 'Cause I know some Bibles do that. Well well well very bad. Oh so okay, okay. Cob Covid. He put it right in right in he put the paper right in in the mid middle. Okay. But when the King James Version was published in sixteen eleven, it still contained the apocryphal. Now, granted some versions did not have the have the apocrypha. Um but the apartment was still there. And um so not until the American standard version was the apartment We we re we we removed. And so so also the American Standard Version uses the name Jehovah. Has the covenant name of God. In contrast to the word Lord, all an uptake, uppercase, that's used in the English revised version Which is a copy of the King James Version. So So now we have these two modern translations which are really not that much different than the King James Version. Yeah there are words updated some of the but the Elizabeth language is still there. For the for the most part. Even though people did not speak that Elizabethan era language, people caught it majestic. Um but that's um but that doesn't mean that it's better. Right? Um because stuff something else happened around this time. And that is people began to look at these papyri that they discovered from Egypt. And there were Thousands of these documents written in Greek. And it was a Koine Greek, common Greek Marketplace Greek, the Greek of the people. And people begin and people began to realize that this biblical Greek is not some Some sp specialized divine Greek. It's the Greek that people spoke So if the Bible was written in the Greek that people spoke, then why not have the Bible written in and English that the people spee speech speech speak. Okay. So that was the the emphasis of a whole host of modern Translation, yes. What about the Old Testament? Was it the Hebrew with it wherever Hebrew that people speak or more like high majestic? Um It's also the common language of the Hebrew people because um it's in the conversations Um and yeah, I mean there this there's no doubt that the Hebrew is the common language because the Greeks the because the because the because the Hebrews did not have you know some high royal Hebrew. It was it it was a Hebrew of the people Okay. So the first of these efforts to translate the Bible into present day English was this twentieth century New Testament published in nineteen oh four based upon the text of of a Westcott in Um important. And what's interesting in this translation is that is that the New Testament books are placed in chronological sequence Not in the order that we see in our Bibles today. See, for example, the book of James is, I think, before the book of Romans. I'm not sure. Um also The text is also in a one column paragraph format. Um no most You know, you know, some Bibles today are two column for page some are one. You know, you and I'm sure you have your own preference as to which one you So as far as whether you enjoy reading it or not, that depends a lot about how the text is presented on the um page, but this Bible had it one column. Also noteworthy is that the translators they were not PhDs. Um they were ordinary people, just like you and me, except they knew Hebrew, they knew Greek. Also, um Whenever a translation is done, um you know, it's um it needs to be updated oc occasionally because, you know, English changes Words change, um knowledge increases um what you thought was really good one year after doing some research in five years you may think you know that needs to change so there are updates And plus you have more and more menus, it's called QIF, which gives you more and more information about what variants are should be removed or or what what what are the what are the more likely readings of the um text So there was a effort to update the English revised edition, and so what came out was a revised Standard version that was published in nineteen forty-six, the Old Testament, and in the Complete Bible in nineteen fifty-two And what's noteworthy about this is the very first copy published was given to US President um Harry Two women. Now so um that the um trans translators Would also add would use the traditional Mesphitic text, but they also began to look at the Dead Sea coros And incorporate some changes based based upon that one And they also use they they use the seventeenth edition of of the Nestle Allen text. And they also used some additional changes in the Pauline epistles due to the Chester Betty papyrus P46. They also did this. The story of the woman caught in adultery, that text that I um said a f a few weeks ago was likely that it wasn't original, at least to the Gospel of John. Well they took it out Now what happened was there was an uproar. People did not want it taken out. So the next edition they put it back in You know, um and again they took out the long ending of Mark But the next edition they put it back in. People just did not like it when translators took out portions of of the Bible, even if it was well likely that it's not original Now, this revised standard version was for the most part accepted, except by one group of people. By conservative Protestants, even evangelicals, you know, us. Because basically the translation of one verse Isaiah chapter seven verse fourteen. The RSV translated this Verse, therefore, the Lord Himself will give you a sign. Behold, a young woman shall conceive and bear a son. And shall call his name Emmanuel. Okay, this Word young woman was problematic Because even evangelicals continued that the translation should be virgin, behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son. And um basically the conservatives are correct, even though the Hebrew word translated here, young woman, could be translated young. woman. It's always an unmarried young woman. And the text itself demands that the word be translated virgin. And um so That's one reason why the the the um RSV wasn't well accepted, at least by conservative even tailors Also, the RSC did one more thing. Now if you remember, if you had m we memorize if you had memorized John three sixteen when when when you were young You probably memorized it in this way, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. Okay. Well, the RSC took out the begot, his only son. In fact, your English Standard Version, the one that we use here, also has only son. Now, why is the word begotten Um so why was that taken out? Well here's the reason. Okay, deep deep. I'll deep. First of all, that's this note. The word begotten originates from with us. When he translated it from the Latin Vulgate into English, he rendered the term only begotten son. And that's why, and that's because it's in the Latin Book. But Jerome had mistranslated that term Um that the um the tr that the actual Greek word monogenes denotes only or unique or one of a kind And it does not have anything to do with birth or generation. Um Um even though it it the the text does mention God as Father and Jesus has son. Now, should it be there or not? Well some say, well, let's let's um let's um identify why price is on or unique He's the only begotten son. But that's not a translation. That's an interpretation. And a translation Should be a trans translation. It is not in interpretation. The the pastors and the commentator, Terry writers, they're the ones who will tell us what that word means. Um so even though um there are some trans translations such as uh NASB No, so the legacy standard Bible that uses the word begotten here. Technically, the term could adequately be translated only son or unique son. Okay, so so that's why you don't see that word begotten in the RSV or the ESV, or in many other modern day translations. It's an interpretation, not an X, because a translation is not Because a translation is not an interpretation, it's not an ex jugical com commentary. So only begotten becomes only son. Now The revised standard version also had a a revision of itself called New. New Revised Standard Version came out in eight in 1989. Um it um it began this process of Thinking more about how do you render terms in it, say in the King James Version that I'll masculine. Um you know when when the King's Any Commission uses the word man, it's not always males, it's all people. So the so we use a new mandate called in references to men and women, masculine-oriented language should be illuminated As far as as can be done without alternating passages that reflect the historical situation of an ancient Um the patriotic culture. So um so so so the these all Um so in more recent recent times is there there's been this move move to move some text away from masculine what words that people in culture think as masculine into some more of a gentle neutral um Um Transla T translations. Now there are also a number of paraphrase Translations. A paraphrase is is essentially someone Writing um recording the textual the biblical text in His own web. Now um now technically A paraphrase is not a paraphrase because a paraphrase requires that the words be altered in a in an in a single Translation. If you're going to translate it say from Greek to um English, it's really not a paraphrase But a paraphrase just means that the editor has rewritten the text. in a way that he thinks it should be read. Now, of course you have to trust that edit the You know, there's a good news bible published by the by the Milton Bible Society in eight in 1966 and 1976 And it's written in basically very simple English. Now there's nothing particularly wrong with very simple English. I mean, it is the English, I mean they're trying to write it in common everyday language Which is a good thing. Um now the um the um the issue is sometimes Um the um editors, the translators can make it almost too simple for for see f um see f For example, the Good News Bible translates the covenant name of God has the Lord. It makes no distinction between the names Yahweh and Adonai. And all of our Bibles, we can tell from the text that there's a distinction between the names of God in the Old Testament. Um there's a name Yahweh and a name Adonai. And as I've I've as I told you, in most trans in most trans t in most Translations. Whenever we see all uppercase, that's the name Yal. Whenever we see Lord in lowercase, that's the name Adam. But when say the Good News Bible translates Lord has Lord you don't know Now that's the best that's best not to um you know over criticize the Good News Library Well I'm j I'm just saying if you want to understand these names, then you got to use something else besides good news Bible Also um has has um um those who try to simplify the text Um they proved to be not all that theologically sophisticated. Well, example, the virgin birth. Let's go back to the virgin birth. Isaiah 7 verse 14. I say it's weakly translated, almost to the point of smothering the doctrine and confusing the prophetic prophets Because the Good News Bible says this. Well then the Lord Himself will give you a sign. A young woman who is pregnant will have a son and will name him Emmanuel Where's the virgin birth there? It's gone. So so so this is A very, very poor translation. And so there were many more other Um paraphrase um translations. The Living Bible Um published by Kenneth Taylor in nineteen sixty-two. Again, it's not a committee trans um translations. He um just rephrased his the Bible into contemporary s speech speech because he he claims Its purpose is to say exactly as possible what the writers of the scriptures meant to say is simply, expounding when necessary for a clear understanding for the modern reader. But some have criticized this trend this paraphrase as being almost too interpretive. I mean, but again, that's the nature of paraphrases. Now I might also add one more problem with paraphrases, is this. In the Bible, in the text, when you read, say, Paul or when you read Peter, you see there's a difference. Paul does not write like Peter does. If Peter does not write like Paul does, the two have their different styles. But with these with these paraphrases, the readings sound like they're from the same person. In fact they are. Because they've all been written from one person's point of view. So so you can't see any difference between Peter and Paul. Then you have the new international version. It's a completely new translation of the original languages. It's not based upon a previous version like most translocations. This is done by an international group of scholars who thought to use vocabulary common to all major English speaking nations. So that you know, if if you lived here in America, or if you lived in South Africa, or if you lived lived in England, or if you lived any place else, that English is supposed to This Bible is a Bible that all English speaking people would understand. Um it's also what we call a dynamic equivalence, which means that it's Thought for thought, not necessary word for word, like the English standard version, or that or the NASB Or the King James Version is more thoughtful thought, which doesn't make it run But um again, if you want to do a word study Um it's hard to do so with a dynamic equivalence by title Then you have the new King James Version, published in 1982. This is based upon the Tusuk version of the of the Bible Omhibra, based upon the Bin Ashur text. In comparison with the Satugan and the Dead Sea Kroos. Now the revisers of the New Testament were convinced that the New that the New Testament textual Christians had followed a wrong path over the past century, so they chose to use the majority text or the M text, which is which is basically a revision of the Texas Receptivist The majority text is essentially what you have if you looked at all of the manuscripts and just counted Words. You know, if if something appears fifty-one percent of the time or more, it's in there. If it's forty-nine percent, it's out. Okay. So So what they did was they they revised, they updated the King James Version And they also footnoted where the King James Version differs from the modern text. And the reader is assured that no textual debate That textual debate does not affect one in a thousand words of the Greek New Testament. Furthermore, no established doctrine is called in question by any doubts about the correct reading in this or that text. The Christian can approach this New Testament with confidence. So again, they replaced the Elizabethan English of the New King James Version with more contemporary American English. not completely eliminated. Um but they did try to sort of sort of Keep that so-called majestic English. Now Um you might think that those who love the King James Version We just jump on the new King James Version. No. That's not what happened Many people would would still keep their original New King their original King James Version because of this Look t t two reasons which I'll talk about probably next week. That that that what I'm what I'm t Amy pass out to you Keep it but bring it back next next week. And they also updated the MC 63 language of the King James Version. For example In the King James Version of 1611, for example, there was no quotation marks. So, you know, when did the quote begin? When did does it end? You don't particularly know. You d you you you you kind of have to guess But in modern English, we use quotation marks. And so that's what the New King James Version uses. They also capitalized pronouns having a divine reference. Okay. Now So with so we've seen that the American Standard version of 1901 is old by now. So it's um so it needs to be up updated. So the Lochman Foundation published a new American Standard Version, or the NASD, beginning in 1663 and 1770 I mean 1963 and 1971. And that was to go to adhere as closely as possible to the original languages of the Holy sc scriptures to make the translation in a fluent readable style according to um to um current English Usage. So it has the reputation of being accurate. It also has the reputation of being somewhat hard to read. And then um it also used a single format, not the double column format of the original 1901 edition. And they but that would change. And um they would take they would continue to to um update that The the text is a there's a revision in nineteen seventy-seven. There's also an a revision in nineteen ninety-five. Now, here's where many Christians kind of wish this had never happened Because in two thousand twenty the NASB decided to make some gender inclusion adjustments. Now some some some some of them were not all that um bad Um like for example, let's look at um see this is um um see four hit see Gee, this is Philippians chapter 3, verse 1, in the Nasbee 1995 edition. Finally, my brethren Rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things again is no trouble to me, and it is a safeguard for you. The 2020 version says this, finally, my brothers and sisters, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things again is no trouble for me and is a safeguard for you. Notice that transfer notice the change from brethren to brothers and sisters. Now, is that a change that we could live with? Yeah, maybe. I mean I mean br the term brethren You know, you know, we we recognize that as a term that does does not include men. It includes men and women. Um and um Um so brothers, brothers and sisters are fine. Um now, of course now Paul When he said that, he used one word, brethren, because back then everybody assumed brethren can mean any person Okay, so that changed, yeah, not bad. I mean that's a that's okay. Now the other change is Psalm 195 Is it nineteen five, yes. Okay. That's bee in nineteen ninety-five said, which is has a bridegroom Coming out of his chamber, he rejoices as a strong man to run his course. The 2020 version says this Finally, my brothers, no, this, which is like a groom coming out of his chamber, it rejoices like a strong person to run his course. No. Is that a grid change? Is it a pool change? Well let's just note this. A bridegroom We all know what a bridegroom is. A bridegroom is a man. He is he is he is going to be married soon or just been married It's always a a man. So um so the nineteen ninety five edition Is consistent in that it says, which is as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, rejoices as a strong man to run his course But now the translators wanted to make it more gender inclusive. So what they did was they translated the word man to person. Okay. But to do that, they had to change bridegroom to grim, because a bridegroom is always a man. But what's a grim? Well, you know, in in in today's culture, same-sex, so-called same-sex marriage, a groom could be anything. So Now, now, granted, they kept the pronoun his, which is as a groom coming out of his chamber, but what's the point of translating man as person If you know that the person is a man, it's not anyone else. Uh and but let's just admit the NAS V is not the only version is not the only translation that that is doing this. Um many others are. NIV is, unfortunately, NASB is, and there's others And um Okay, we are out of time. Almost. Are there any questions I know I've code I've code a whole lot. But Okay. So next week we're going to talk about What's this debate between the Texas Receptors and the critical text? Why Is this even a debate? Also, we're going to talk about going into the translation of the Bible. You know, what are the principles that translators use When they translate from the Greek text or the Hebrew text into English or into any other language for that matter So let me pray