Well, let's open our Bibles again to James 1. We continue to think about our response to the Word of God. I like this series because all the pressure is on you. It's not about preaching well, it's about listening well, even if we preach preach badly up here, you know. But I got a quote from a preaching book, Jim Shattox. He teaches uh homiletics in one of the seminaries, I think in Louisiana. He's written a book, uh, The Passion-Driven Sermon. He says, just imagine the extent of divine presence that can be known when we are completely surrendered to the supernatural sufficiency. and authority of God in Scripture. He said, just imagine that. When we proclaim the word, we bring the work of the Holy Spirit to bear on others' lives. So I can't make the Holy Spirit work, but He works through His Word. My role is to be The preacher's role is to be the mouth of the Holy Spirit by letting the word speak, not coming up with a new message. And then the Holy Spirit works. He goes on. The work of the Holy Spirit is as inextricably linked to preaching as heat is to the light a bulb emits. When we present the light of God's word, his Spirit performs God's purposes of warming, melting, and conforming hearts. I like that he writes that it's about hearts, not just mere external behavior, right? Now you know if you hang around church enough, you can act in a way that makes it look like you are really mature you're a Christian. You can do the out external things, you can even learn to speak the right words and everybody thinks you're something. And And uh even in my profession, you have to be very careful not to let it be professional. It it has to be personal, has to be real, has to be sincere. And so that's where the hearing comes and why it's so important in your heart. Now, we're going back to James 1, verses 19 to 21. We're going to resume in the middle of that if you're joining us today. You got two messages behind you you'd have to go back and listen to, and you'll know why. But It's uh instructing our hearts to respond to the Word of God. Wonderful and interesting portion of God's Word. Let's read it again, even though we're through most of it. Read all of it. James 1, 19 to 21 This you know, my beloved brethren, but everyone must be quick to hear. Now remember, he's talking about hearing the Word of God as a primary application here. Here, slow to speak and slow to anger, for the anger of man does not achieve the righteousness of God. Therefore, putting aside all filth By the way, watch our mouths, right? All filthiness. And all that remains of wickedness. In humility. Receive the word implanted, which is able to save your souls. That's that last part we're going to be dealing with today. In humility, receive the word implanted, which is able to save your souls. Well, God tells us we need to respond well to the Word of God. You know, when God talks, people ought to. Yeah. You know it. There's no one more important to listen to than God. God has decided not to speak directly from heaven He's decided to choose men to communicate his message through, to breathe into them supernaturally a message. Have them speak it or write it. Once it's written, the revelation is delivered. Now today, we're not receiving new messages from God. We're not receiving New revelation. We're not receiving direct communication from God, even in that sense. So the way we're going to hear God is to listen to what God has spoken. Fortunately, we have with us today the Holy Spirit who takes the Word and makes it alive. That's what should be happening in all our hearts as we're listening to the Word of God. The Spirit of God is our inward teacher, as the Spirit of God is our outward teacher from the So we have the doctrine of inspiration, verbal, plenary, confluent inspiration that results in an authoritative, inerrant Bible. That brings us to a text, and then inwardly the light bulb should be going on, the ears should be open, the heart should be warm. That's the inward illuminating work of the Spirit, which is not adding new messages to the Bible, it's taking the old message And giving it fresh understanding and application in your life. So all that bibliology, study of the Bible, the doctrine of the Bible, lies behind this text. Okay? Now, we're going through seven correct responses to the word. The first one was be quick to listen. In particular, listen to the word of God, in particular in the church gatherings. Second, be slow to speak it. Not everyone should be ready to be a teacher and speak the word of God. They need to listen and study, get themselves ready after God has worked on them, then speak Third way to receive God's word, this is all review, is be slow to anger. Last part of verse 19 and in the verse 20. Anger is the byproduct of quick speaking and slow listening, we saw Anger towards others in church or towards the Bible or towards the preacher or what or God or whatever hurts our reception of God's Word. Instead, we should be listening, making the changes God wants us to. And remember that our anger, our kind of anger, the anger we get in angry for our reasons, never advances the righteousness of God. It just doesn't help The fourth strategy here, the fourth response was to put aside sin. That's so needed. Verse 21. Therefore, in other words, not that way, don't be uh getting angry, but Because that doesn't advance the righteousness of God. Therefore, here's what you ought to do, putting aside all filthiness and all notice the double all there, all filthiness and all That remains of wickedness or the abundance of wickedness is a better way of translating it. Putting that aside. Clothing. Imagery. Take all that dirty and tattered and disgusting filthy soiled garments that you have on. Metaphorically speaking, spiritually speaking, and get rid of it. It's not helping you any. Don't hang on to it. Don't act like it's something that you have to have for happiness in your life and find meaning. No, get rid of it. You'll hear the voice of God better You can't properly receive the word. You can't benefit from the word of God merely by living the way you want to live and coming in here and hoping to learn something new and have God change you. It's not going to work that way. Sin can be loud and it drowns out the voice of the Spirit and it uh throws cold water on the fires of the Spirit. Now today we come to number five, six, and seven. The fifth way to respond to God's Word is to welcome the Word. Welcome the Word. Look in the middle of verse 21 here. I'm going to explain this. It says Putting all that filth aside, receive the word implanted. That's the part I want you to focus on. Receive the word implanted. Not engrafted, the word means implanted. Now, receive is the main verb of verse 21. This is what we're supposed to do. Here's the command: receive it. What am I supposed to be doing? Here's an exhortation from God: receive the word. You had the negative already, put off this stuff, but the Bible never leaves us with a negative. The Bible doesn't just say put stuff off. The Bible is not don't, don't, don't. It's don't, don't, don't, and Do do do. There's all this that you're supposed to do. You're supposed to always have something you put on. There's always a positive response To just try to suppress bad things in your life, it never works. It only works for a while and then it bobs back up again because you've never replaced it With a new love in your heart. See, your heart loves those things. That's why you're struggling with sin in that area. So if you tell yourself After hearing a sermon, I need to really stop that. You're not going to stop it. You're only going to stop it for a while, and then that same desire in your heart kicks in and you go right back to it That's why the Bible says you need new affections. You need something you love more than that. You're going to have to warm up to something else so that now you look at this new thing that you're supposed to love. We'll get to that And you look back at the old thing and you say, that's what that wasn't so great. Why did I like that? Why did I think that Those kinds of sins were going to delight my soul. You know, I drank and drank and drank from that well and never really satisfied me. Now I'm learning, wow, this really does Satisfy my soul. It's not just something pious we're supposed to say because we go to church and we're Christians. It's true. It becomes an affection of your heart. You're like, I love, I love this. I love the new thing So we need something new to delight in. But notice that James drops the clothing analogy. No pun intended there, but he just drops the clothing analogy, and instead of going on and saying something like Paul might say, put this off and put on Christ. He changes it and he says, now I want you to receive the word implanted, and he brings up an agricultural illustration. And notice The word is already implanted in us. He says, receive the word implanted. That means it's already implanted in us. Why is that? Because the eternal seed, that is the word of God, is already planted in you. Whose name's writing to believers. So it's already implanted in believers You already have the Word of God in you, in other words, you've already received the Word of God. Now I'm talking to those of you who are believers. You already have it inside of you. God already implanted. When did He implant it in you? He implanted it at the time of salvation, right? At the time of regeneration. That's what we just learned. Look back up at verse 18, right? He says, In the exercise of his will, that's God, he brought us forth by what? The word of truth, the gospel, the scripture. So that we might be a kind of first fruits among his creatures. He already implanted the Word of God in you at the time you were born again, when you were regenerate, when you were given new life, the Word was planted inside of you. We are not like unbelievers who hear the word and reject it. Who hear the word and just try to ignore it. Who hear the word and turn our backs. We're not like unbelievers. We heard The word, the gospel of Jesus, and because of the sovereign work of God, because He implanted the Word in us, our ears were open, our faith emerged, and we were born again. receive that word. It's already in there. It's already implanted if we're a believer. But then he still says you have to receive it. We have to receive it. Receive it The word. Word, the word, word is that same word for Christ when it says the word became flesh and lived among us. It's the Greek term. term logos. We get our word logic from it. It actually is not just saying a word, any word, some silly word that someone might say. When we talk about the Word of God, we're talking about the reasonable message of God. We're talking about the the spiritual logic of God that is is lodged inside of his word. His word has persuasion from heaven. His word has understanding that comes to our minds. And when we receive the word, we're receiving all the meaning of the word. You get it? It it means something, and then that that something that it means has resonated in our conscience, in our thinking, and all of a sudden we're like, no, I I believe that. I embrace that, that's mine And so we receive the word. But he still says that it uh should be received. And that might seem a little strange. already implanted in us. By the way, that term uh implanted, it is uh it's uh hopox legominant fancy word that just means. This is the only time in all of the Bible that it happened. It's a one-time word here. And uh that's kind of interesting, but as they do research on the word, what it means is to put a seed in the ground. That's basically what it means. It's implanted. So the seed is the word of God. The ground is your heart, and it's already put in there, right? And there's another little truth before I get into this Other parts, another little truth I think that's important here, and that is that the the seed, the word, is not naturally in our hearts. We're not born in this world with a seed in our heart. We have to be The seed has to be sown. The seed has to be given, right? We have to give the seed. And someone did that for us. Someone spread the seed for us. And it lodged in good soil and it was received and it was believe because you're a believer. We have to do the same thing for others. It's not naturally in their heart. Sometimes the philosophers or those from Eastern religions or false religions of some kind, they think that the light of truth is already somehow implanted inside of human beings. That all we really need to do to help human beings is tell them something like, follow your own heart. Why? Because the truth and the light is already on the inside. No, no, no, no, it's not. The Bible says there's sin inside, that no one knows the heart, that the heart is dark, the human heart is not good, it's fallen, it's evil, it has its own motives, it's proud, it doesn't see God right, it doesn't worship properly. And so because of that, the seed's not naturally in the heart. It has to be implanted then. And it was implanted in your heart. And we can be used by God to help the Holy Spirit use it. All right, now let me get to that question. Why is it, if it's already implanted, does James have to give us this exhortation that says, Receive it? It's already in me. Already received it. Yes, you already received it in one sense. In fact, this word receive, decom I, the verb, it uh is used of the Bereans. All you know Brian uh community can like this. Acts seventeen eleven it says Now these were more noble minded than those of Thessalonalica, for they received the word with great eagerness, examining the scriptures daily to see whether the They received the word with great eagerness. Now this term can be just used in a normal sense of receiving something, but often it has takes on a little bit of an extra meaning in that they welcomed the word They welcomed the word. They received it with gladness, with eagerness, with open arms, that kind of a meaning. In fact, the same word is used of Rahab, the harlot, in uh Hebrews eleven thirty-one. It says, By faith Rahab the harlot did not perish along with those who were disobedient. This is talking about the the city of Jericho, right? After she had welcomed the spies in peace. That word welcomed is the same word here, received. In Colossians 4. 10, it talks about Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, Paul writes, sends you his greetings, and also Barnabas's cousin Mark, about whom you receive Instructions, if he comes to you, welcome him. That's the same word. Welcome him. That's the idea that it's taking on here. You already have the word implanted in you. Now, as a believer As someone who has the word implanted in you, welcome the word in your life. Welcome it. What does that mean? Be warm towards it. Be enthusiastic towards it. Embrace it. What happens when someone walks in the front door that you really want to see? What do you do? Oh, you're here. And people that you you know you don't want to see, you're like, what do you do? What are you doing here? Towards the word, what are you? Are you just sort of a bystander like what are you doing here? Or does the word of God come to you like, oh You're my friend. I embrace you. That's the idea for the believer. When you are reading the Word of God in your devotions, when you're hearing the Word of God, there should be that openness, that friendliness towards the Word. You know, it's uh I think sometimes our response to the word is just we hear it you know preached or it's something like you know Bravo jolly good sermon Pastor A pastor, a preacher would much rather hear, the word is working in my mind and heart. It's changing me. See. Then you're like, ah, someone's someone's listening out there. That's good. I know you're all looking at me. I know your ears are open But you don't know if you're listening, you're hearing in the inner man. And that's what the Spirit of God is trying to do in us. Why? Because the Word of God is The power, the ingredient, to transform you in every way that you need to be transformed. Your thinking needs to be changed. We say come out to the missions conference. Why do we say come out to the missions conference? Because your mind doesn't think missionally enough. You need to have your mind renewed. And those of you who have already had your mind renewed, you need some fresh injection that that Gives you stronger convictions about it and moves you to action. We asked you to come out to a conference, we're like, why do you need that? Because you need to hear the teaching so that it continues to What does the word do for you elsewhere? Is it it leads you? You're gonna face decisions this week. I don't know what they are. I'm gonna face decisions This month and next month. You need to have the word constantly in your mind so you know how to make a good decision about it, right? It directs you. It controls you. See, the word of God controls you. I don't want to give control of my life over to anyone. Well, you're never going to be a good Christian without that. You have to, all you control freaks out there, listen up A, you're not in control of anything. And that's a whole nother sermon, so I'm not going to preach on that. You are not in control of anything. But God, through his word, wants to be more in control of your thinking through his word. What else does the word do? It corrects you. You say, I don't need any correction. It's that other guy over there needs correction. No, he needs the correction in the area that you can tell he needs the correction in. What you don't know is he's sitting over there thinking the same thing about you. You need correction, dear Lord, help that person. Because we can always see well what the other person needs correction, but not who? Ourselves. No biggie, no biggie. I don't need any change, no biggie. That's a biggie. No, that's not a biggie, it's a small thing. But the Spirit of God using his words trying to correct you, sanctify you, empower you. You see, I get kind of cowardly when I have to open my mouth because you're not in the word, you're not letting it control you. See, I feel weak and beaten down by life. Well, we all get tired. But uh those who wait on the Lord renew their strength, right? It feeds you. Some of you are not nourished as well as you ought to be, so the word is there for you. I like Dr. Lee's uh comment here in the Holman commentary. He says, We must not quarrel or quibble with God as we Receive his message, tying it back to don't get angry. Dr. J. Adams, the father of the modern biblical counseling movement, says: rather than angry, become docile. Subtle, easily bent, and directed by the word. Someone see who's receiving and welcoming the word is they're already formulating in their mind, this is how I need to change. This is what I need to do. Here's how I need to respond. Let me write that down. I don't want to forget that, you see. Others are just like, 37 more. minutes. I just got to endure this. No, no pliability. No molding from God. It's not about enduring us. It's about God changing you. Another way of putting it is when you welcome the word, let the word into all the rooms in your house. You know how it is, you have guests over here like, please just stay downstairs, don't go upstairs. Use this bathroom, not this bathroom. The Word of God wants to be the kind of uh guest doesn't want to be a guest at all, actually. That gets to visit every room and and help redecorate every room. How about that for intrusiveness? The Word of God wants to move into every room. So you bring him into the kitchen, like, ah, I'm comfortable. He can hang out in the kitchen. Well he's got to get upstairs to the bathroom. To the bedroom, too. You've got to let them into the laundry room. The dirty laundry. You gotta let them into the laundry room. And the attic. What do you got stuffed away in the attic? That the word needs to transform. The dark basement. What do you got down there? Turn the light on down there, right? Oh, oh, look what we have down here. Every room of your life. Does that make sense? Every room of your life. Let it change you. The word of God should have welcome entrance in every part of your life. In other words, be radical about the reception of the Word of God. Don't hold back. It's you holding it back. It wants to flow. Shake yourself out of slumber, some of you. Some of you have bad habits of just sitting and listening. Sitting and listening. But not changing, not absorbing. You know, you've got to be like a sponge, not like a rock. And by the way, those old yarns that were passed down from grandma and Aunt Louise, you know what I'm talking about? Whenever they contradict the word of God, you've got to let go of those two. Bless grandma, she did the best job that she could. But you let go of whatever you've been taught. in your family, in your background that doesn't square with the word of God. You've got to change. You've got to be molded. You've got to be shaped. Yes? And forget all the polls out there. 58% of Americans believe. Whenever I hear that, like they're all wrong anyway. Would would we care if ninety-eight percent believed? We don't care. Because they don't know the word. They're not in the word. You're in the word. Your your opinion should be different than the majority in most of the cases. Well who's right, the left or the right? How about they're both wrong? They don't get a God-filled light at all. R. Kent Hughes in his commentary asks, Is the Bible relevant? Do you thrill to read it? Is it sweet to your soul? Do you find it always unfolding more riches? Or it's kind of like, you know, it's the same stuff, you know, same stuff. You're not really engaging your spirit. Go back to our scripture reading, Psalm 19:8. The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. Does your heart rejoice? Sweeter also than the honey and the drippings of the honeycomb. You like honeycomb? You like honey? Ah, so nice, huh? Put a little in the tea, put a little on some bread and butter. That's how script Should be to you, to your soul. You love it. You can't wait to be in it. It changes you. The welcoming of the word should lead to obedience. Look at verse 22 real quickly. He says, but prove, we're getting to this next week. But for next time, be a couple weeks from now. But prove yourselves doers of the word and not merely hearers who delude themselves. So receive the word. Do it each day. Receive the word each Sunday. Be like Deuteronomy eleven eighteen. You shall therefore impress these words of mine on your heart and on your soul, and you shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontals on your forehead. Love it. You got the idea, right? When people talk to you anywhere, anywhere, anytime, what should come out of your mouth is what's in your heart. Scripture I'm not talking about in the shake your finger at people and lecture them and make the Bible seem cold and stale and harsh. I'm talking about it warmed your heart. Now speak it with warmth for other people, right? You love the God of the Bible and the Word, and you just you just keep it just gotta come out. And if they don't like it, then who cares if they don't like it? Let them run You speak it because it's in your heart. That's what should happen to you. You're meditating on scripture and you bump into someone and you talk, and within a few sentences, out comes the word. There it is. That's how it should be. Because you're constantly receiving the word well. How about Deuteronomy 3011? For this commandment which I command you today is not too difficult for you. Nor is it out of reach. It is not in heaven that you should say, who will go up to heaven for us to get it for us and make us hear it, that we may observe it. Nor is it beyond the sea that you should say, Who will cross the sea for us to get it for us and make us hear it that we may observe it? But the word is very near you, in your mouth and in your heart, that you may observe it. There it is. What a blessing we have to have the Word of God. This is the key to living the Christian life. If you're looking for the secret to the Christian life, there is no secret. It's this. Let the word of Christ richly live in you. Constantly. That doesn't mean that you go to a good church. That doesn't mean that you have your doctrine all set straight. Sure, those things are important. That means daily, in an active sense, the word is rich inside of you. You're constantly letting it letting it bubble up and be in your mind and your heart You wake up in the morning and you think scripture. You go to bed and you're thinking scripture or some application of scripture You sing songs of Scripture because they last longer than these sermons do, right? In your head, yes. You're singing them, and they better have some good words in them, otherwise, you're singing heresy. Sing good stuff. You know, the the Beatles were talented. You know, the Beach Boys, they had a good sound. Elvis is supposed to be the king of rock and roll. Earth, wind, and fire can make people move. But none of them will minister to your hearts. None of them will change your life, right? The songs of Scripture go deep and help take that word and just percolate it through your mind and heart. Sometimes you ever wake up in the morning and you're singing a song and you've sung it about you've gone through it like five, six, seven times and you're not even aware what it is. No say what song am I singing? You're like, oh I shouldn't have listened to that song, yes, but it was terrible. It's in my hand, I can't get rid of it. It's resonating in there. Put scripture songs in there that'll go well. Isn't that what it What it says in Ephesians is the key to being full of the Holy Spirit. How can I be full of the Spirit? Listen, do not get drunk with wine. This is Ephesians 5, for that is excess or dissipation. But What am I supposed to do in place of that? Be being full of the Holy Spirit. Speaking to one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Thank God for our music ministry. Do you pray for that? That they'll help fill our minds with good things. Singing and making melody with your heart to the Lord. Really, much of the Christian life comes down to having a a real understanding of the Word of God and a lower and lower view of your own ideas, human wisdom, human words, human dreams. Human advice and yearning. Give me more Bible. Give me more scripture. Transform my thinking. Let me hear God. Let Him talk to me in my heart. And to be excited about that. Alright. I think you got the idea. The sixth strategy is, and this is the sixth way to respond to the Word of God, and this is to humble your hearts. Humble your heart. Backing up just slightly in verse 21. Do you see two words we skip? In humility. You see them? In humility. Inhumility means the attitude of humility is the way to receive the word. Inhumility, with that attitude Receive the word. So this kind of goes with the other. It makes it easy. How do I get my heart so that my heart wants to receive the word? Answer in humility. In humility. So easy to say, hard to do. How do I welcome the word best? Answer with an attitude of humility. Humility is a godly quality. It's a quality stressed in this very letter. James 3. 13. Who among you is wise and understanding? Let him show by his good behavior his deeds in the gentleness, that's the word here actually, of wisdom. Also, chapter 4, verse 6, God is opposed to the, you answer it, the proud, but gives his grace to the humble. So simple. Who does God favor? The humble. Who does God help? The humble. Where's God's power active? In the humble. Where will the word of God flourish? Well, in what kind of a heart? The heart of the humble. It's an easy quiz, isn't it? Jesus taught the same thing. James is his brother. Jesus said, Come unto me, all of you that are weak and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you. Learn from me, for I am humble and gentle of heart, right? That's who he is. He starts to be attitudes with blessed are the proud and loud. See you've got to make sure you listen. You've got to use discernment. But if you went to one of the success seminars in business, that's what they'd be telling you. At least some of them. Assert yourself. Put that foot forward. Let them know how good you are. Hmm. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Wow. Kingdom means riches and honor. What is humility? Now we get into trouble. Actually, this isn't the normal word for humility here. It's a word that usually is translated gentle, proud taste. It's used in Galatians 5. 23. As part of the fruit of the Spirit. Sometimes it's translated meekness, but meekness is not weakness. Meekness is having ability and strength and knowledge and understanding and capability, but holding oneself back and not using it in any way to promote yourself. You could assert yourself, you don't. You control it. It goes along with self-control Humility is not being a pushover. It's not being spineless. It's not being a coward. It's not being, well, you know, I just you know I'm just a humble kind of a guy That's just me. That's not humility. Humility is not accommodating evil. A gentle humility starts with an inner attitude. It respects other people, what they need. Says, here's how I can serve other people. This is what I want to do. It's not brash, it's not self-asserting, it's not braggadocio, it's not cocky, arrogant, rude. Overbearing people are not humble. People who have to get their way so that they have to get their way are not humble. People who are hard to get along with, you have to walk on the eggshells around them, are not thinking humbly. People where you have to make sure that you've got to be very careful and think of 12 things you shouldn't say before you come up to them, because you're not sure they're going to explode. They're not humble. You're not sure how they're gonna react. Humble people are approachable people. The world does tend to honor the loud and the proud. Christ honors the humble, the meek, and the mild. Now some people think they're humble when they're really not so humble, so let's talk about counterfeit humility a little bit. bit. Because I gotta get all this out of the way so we can really be humble. Because if we think we're humble and we're not humble, then it's not going to help us any to inhumility receive the word. So that's why I'm doing this, okay? And this is for me. I have to think about that. How do people Pretend to be humble. We got a lot of good actors, you know. A lot of good actors. Well, one is they put on the face of humility. And with the face, the words of humility. And we can do that in church. Oh, we can do that well in church. Oh, I'm relying on the Lord. I've been struggling, but the grace of God is active. Now that might be true, those are good words to say, but they might just be words. Sometimes people put on a face of being humble. Sometimes people talk very softly. And you think, oh, what a humble person. Someone who talks softly is not necessarily humble. By the way, someone who talks loudly isn't necessarily proud either. Some people fool others And I hear some of them, oh, that person's so humble. Why do you think that? They talk about, well, because they just talk like this, and you know, how can I help you and it's just that. It's like could you speak up again to your word you're saying? Sorry. That wasn't humble. But it is counterfeit. Absalom was like that. Everyone in the kingdom was coming to Absalom and they kissed him and he welcomed him. And said, what can I do to help you? And all the time he was planning his little rebellion against King David, his father, right? And then he got going, he saw who he was in his horse, and he was the man riding in the town, into Jerusalem. By the way, he got hung up on his hair. He got killed. Pride got him, didn't it? Humility is not being humbled. By circumstances, boom, something happens to you, you're laid out. Ah, the Lord has humbled me. Yeah, but you're not humble at heart yet. He just he just whacked you You just low, you just lost your job, you know. Whatever. You've been humbled by circumstances, but if all of a sudden you're back up like that and you got the riches and the power and the honor again, are you really going to be humble of heart? No, you just slap down, that's all Humility is not questioning God's word. Oh, this is the one for the postmodern society. Heard Bill Clinton, former President Bill Clinton say once, well, I'm not so proud as to say I know what the truth is. So those of us who say we know what the truth is and we're certain about it, we preach it, we must be proud. That's a postmodern thinking. It comes out of agnosticism. Nobody knows the truth, so don't you ever say that you know what the truth is. Because if you say you know what the truth is, all the rest of us have already decided that no one can know the truth, so you can't know the truth, so you you shouldn't say that, because if you say that, then you're going to be fraud Well, how about we just know the truth because God told us? Actually, turn that around, I think it's proud to question God's word. Let's see. God is the Almighty God. He's the everlasting King. He knows everything. He never learns anything. He never forgets anything. He knows everything that absolutely could be, even contingent that's there. So when He says something, then it's It's not just true, it's certainly true. So if we know who he is and we question him, that's pride. That's arrogance. Who are we to say we know so much? That we can question the word of an all-knowing being. What kind of pride and arrogance would say that? But that's what the politicians say now. Carl Sagan. He's quoted as saying, Who is more humble? Oh, this just gets me. Who is more humble? The scientist who looks at the universe with an open mind and accepts whatever the universe has to teach us. Or And you know who he's talking about here in the next part of this quote. Or somebody who says, everything in this book must be considered the literal truth and never mind the fallibility of all the human beings involved. End quote. Wow. We're arrogant for believing this book. He's humble for denying the book. That's how backward he was. Now you can be quite humble and quite certain of truth, and you can be quite proud and agnostic and Hold postmodern beliefs. Alright, so what is humility and gentleness? Here's what it is: huge definition coming, ready? It is a low view of oneself. Ouch. I'm not very humble. I I hope that definition is wrong. In an age of psychology, the last thing you want to do is say that a low view of self is a healthy thing. I mean there are whole Christian psychologists that have said that's the number one evil is having a low view of self, low self-esteem. But not this word, but the normal word for humble just means that. It means a lower view of self. And pride means a higher view of self. It's pretty simple, actually. The mountains are proud and the valleys are humble. Even the pictures of them in Scripture that that which is low, down there, humbled, is Humble, that which is up high, the towers, the cedars of Lebanon. They're proud. Which one are we in the way we view ourselves? Which one are we? In humility, self is never elevated by self. Scripture says, let another person praise you and not your own lips. Man, that that was a wonderful thing that you did. Praise God, he's using me. It's his power, it's not mine. I'm just happy to be used. Right? By the way, don't say awesome shocks. I know that's old school, you younger people don't even know what aw shucks is When you get the compliment, let your light shine before men in such a way that they may see your good works and not glorify you, glorify God. You know it. Some people go through life, it's like, I praise me because I'm fearfully and wonderfully made. You you made yourself? I think that's not what the Psalm says. Humble men and women accept God's dealings with them. Here's where I know I had to grow a lot in humility because I'm like, the Lord's doing that? Why isn't the Lord doing this? Lord, this is what you should be doing. Lord, I thought I was supposed to pray for this. Lord, how come this hasn't happened soon? I guess somehow I think there's something in there that I deserve better. Are you like that? A little bit? Come on, are you? This isn't the way my life was supposed to go. It's pride. Sorry. Sorry to be the bearer of bad news. There's still a lot of indwelling pride there. Pride's a bad thing. That kind of pride. St. Augustine long ago said, Do you wish to rise? Begin by descending. You plan a tower that will pierce the clouds, lay first the foundation of humility. Jesus said: whoever wants to be the greatest, be the servant of all. St. Augustine also said humility is the foundation of all the other virtues, hence, in the soul in which this virtue does not exist, there cannot be any other virtue except in mere appearance. That means every every supposed virtue and characteristic I have in my life that I've been learning from Scripture, if I don't have humility, it's it's pretentious. to show. Thomas Watson, great little book men, called The Godly Man's Picture. They made us read it for seminary years ago. I was enthralled with it. Question, how may a Christian know that he is humble and consequently godly? You're like, yeah, how can I know that? Answer. Answer number one. He's got all these answers. I won't give them all. Answer number one. A humble soul is emptied of all swelling thoughts of himself. Bring those down, boy. Bring those back down. Answer number two: a humble soul thinks better of others than of himself. That's Philippians 2 language. How you treat your your wife, men? Better than yourself? We'll save that for Father's Day I'll skip the answer six. A humble soul is a Christ magnifier. The humble saint loves Christ entirely. Ever talk to somebody that has a lot of Bible knowledge? I'd like to stop them sometimes and say, Do you love Jesus? Just ask that simple question: Do you love Christ? Answer number seven: a humble soul is willing to take a reproof for sin. A wicked man is too high to stoop to a reproof. This is how I know. Like when we're training leaders, I don't want a proud person becoming a leader. So what do we do with the leaders in training? We correct them a lot. No, that's not the way to do it. No, you didn't do that well. No, you've got to change that. No, you're not ready yet. Because if they can accept that, then they're Humble. Ready to they're ready to stand in front. Answer number nine. A humble Christian likes that condition which God sees best for him. A proud man complains that he has no more. A humble man wonders that he has so much. And there's more. Great book. Humble people, I said, are also easy to get along with. They don't have a bunch of idiosyncrasies that you gotta dance around. Check yourself on that people. Check yourself on that And humility is a welcoming and helping of others. There's someone you can approach and talk to, and they they will tell you what you did was wrong, but they won't immediately judge you. That's a humble person. They're a valuable friend. Humility is the opposite of pride. Spurgeon, in his sermon called Pride and Humility, unmasks the fantasy that pride produces in us. He says, as only Spurgeon can, pride is a groundless thing It standeth on the sands, or worse than that, it puts its foot on the billows which yield beneath its tread, or worse still, it stands on bubbles. I like that. Which soon must burst beneath its feet. Of all things, pride has the worst foothold. It has no solid rock on earth where upon to place itself. We have reasons for almost everything, but we have no reasons for pride. Pride is a thing which should be unnatural to us, for we have nothing to be proud of. What is there a man, what is there in man of which he should glory? Our very creation is enough to humble us. What are we but creatures of today? And he goes on. Can you see now why humility is such a great strategy in response to receive the Word of God? I mean, doesn't it just flow out now? If I have that kind of an attitude, then the preacher can be great, mediocre, bad. I'm listening to the Word of God. I'm just trying to find out what God is telling me. I just want to change You know, I'm not I'm not like, well, you know, I already know that. I'm not going to listen to that. I'm I'm not like that. I'm listening for what God wants to teach me. I'm like the words of Mary the mother of Jesus. Be it done unto me according to your word. I'm here. I'm moldable. Take me. Control my life. Or Paul, who says, I'm not worthy to be called an apostle. Nevertheless, what I am, I am by the grace of God. Grace is unmerited favor. Or the words of Isaiah. He sees God and he says Woe is me, I am a man of unclean lips. There's a man who's confessing his sin. He has a true understanding of his self-image, and he reflects it properly in the face of a God who is holy, holy, holy, as it as the seraphim declare that passage. Humility says the words of Jesus, I have come into the world to do thy will, O God. Humility says in the words of Job, I repent in dust and ashes. People who study the Bible a lot are not necessarily humble. Please understand that. Knowledge does tend to puff up. And as a church with a lot of Bible teaching, we need to be careful of that. I think unfortunately intelligent men can get all interested in the rigors of studying Bible history and archaeology and theology, and it becomes very exciting, all the things to discover and learn. And they think by the very act that they've done that and then stood up in front of people and preached. Or taught, or said hallelujah, or gave glory to God in some way like that, that that must mean that their heart is humble. No, it does not. Bible students are often too full of themselves and their intellect. And that's why they know a lot, but they don't bear a lot of fruit. That's why their ministries never flourish. Because if you're learning the Bible properly and God's really teaching you from the Bible as you learn all of those doctrines and as you Get excited about apologetics and archaeology or whatever sub-theme of scripture that you want to pursue, and I'm not discouraging any of that. But if you learn it properly, what you learn is Christ is your life. And apart from him, you've only earned a hell. That's so humbling. It's so humbling Think on it, beloved. For thus says the high and exalted one who lives forever, whose name is holy, I dwell on a high and holy place, and also with the contrite and lowly of spirit. in order to revive the spirit of the lowly and to revive the heart of the contrite. Jerry Bridges in his book, The Pursuit of Godliness, says the person who is truly humble before God is also humble before God's word. When King Josiah heard the words of the book of the law, he tore his robe, saying, Great is the Lord's anger that burns against us, because our fathers have not obeyed the words of this book. 2 Kings 22, Josiah realized that the word of God was the expression of the will of God, that it was to be obeyed, and that failure to obey would incur the judgment of God, he writes As we search the scriptures, we must allow them to search us, to sit in judgment on our character and our conduct. We must not treat the scriptures only as a source of knowledge about God But also as the expression of His will for our daily lives. Far too often, it seems, we approach the Bible just to increase our knowledge of the facts of the Bible. Shame on any of you young people who grow up in a church like this and you don't tune your ears to hear the word of God. Shame on you. All you're storing up for yourself is pain and chastisement from God in the future. Learn the way of humility now. Everyone, humility brings peace. Humility brings contentment. Humility brings joy. With a humble person, tested and tried by God, he'll do great things through you. Seventh and last, and I gotta hurry. Believe in Scripture's unique power, and that's how it ends. The scripture, receive the word implanted, which is able to save your souls. What is able to save your souls? The word. The word that's been implanted is able to save your soul. So, what is the response we should have to God's Word? What is a good way of receiving the Word of God? And here's the answer: believe in the power of the Word, believe in its unique power. Scripture is unique. There's nothing like it in all the world. It can do for you what no one else and nothing else can do. Believe in it, it has power. By the way, the word able is the word dunami, the same word used in Romans 1:16, for I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God. Same word, the dunamas, the power, it's a related verb. God's word is power. It doesn't always seem that way because people listen to it and walk away from it. But whenever anybody is going to get saved, they're going to get saved because they hear the word of God. And when God wants to save and moves to save, it is the Word of God that accomplishes that. Paul told Timothy from childhood, you have known the sacred writings which are able to give you wisdom that leads to salvation through faith, which is in Christ Jesus. When Paul was leaving the church at Ephesus and speaking to the elders, in Acts twenty he said, I commend you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified. The word is able to save. The word has power to save. We're about to hear some baptism testimonies, and we'll see that. The word saves. The word has power to so-zo, that's the verb, to save us, to deliver us. There's a hell coming. There's a wrath of God that's coming. There's the anger of God that will fall. Just because it hasn't fallen fully yet, doesn't mean it won't. It's coming, but the word Has power to save us. It says actually to save your soul. Some of you will say, well, what about the body? Actually that word Suke is often used to mean the entire human being, and I believe that's how he's using it here. It's not that God is interested only in saving your soul and forgetting about your body. You could translate this: it has power to save you Soul, body, mind, the whole thing, it's used that way in a number of passages. And salvation Is the greatest thing that you have to look forward to. If you could think of one thing that you wanted to make sure you had, it wouldn't be good insurance in this world. It wouldn't be a nice place to live. It would be I want to make sure I have salvation What do I get with salvation? Complete forgiveness of all my sins, a home in heaven, an eternity that's glorious, a redemption. I get an inheritance which is imperishable and cannot fade away. Salvation is so much more. Makes you a child of God, puts you into the family of God. Gives you blessings that will continue to unfold, the new blessings unto the ages with more and more and more. That's what salvation is. When the Word is able to save you, the Word is able to bring any and every blessing you could possibly want. That word, that foolish message that the world mocks is the very power of God to save your soul. Corinthians chapter 1, verse 21: For since in the wisdom of God the world through its wisdom did not come to know God, God was well pleased through the foolishness of the message preached to save those who believed. God came up with a message that proud men would never believe, so that they wouldn't believe in their pride and be saved, because you can't be saved when you're proud. He came up with a foolish message in the eyes of the world. A Jew killed on a cross as a criminal to save us all from our sins and to give us a glorious kingdom in the future. What kind of a message is that to proclaim to the world? But it works. It changes lives, its power. God was well pleased to use that message rather than any other message in the world. How did you get saved? What did you have to do? How much money did you have to spend? How many things in church did you have to do? Answer none of that, right? You got the word and you believed it, you grabbed it, and it's able to save your soul. Only had to get the word. Only had to get it once. Only had to grab onto it and believe it, and I'm saved. The word is able. I heard the word. I heard the good news of a Savior who died on a cross for me, paid for my sins, rose literally bodily from the dead to show that he had power over death Turn and promised me, if I believe in this message, he'll raise me from the dead and I have everlasting life. And there's nothing I can do to earn it. He'll give it to me as a gift. That's the word. That's the gospel. And he promises everyone who believes they can have that. Why is James telling believers who have already believed and have already been saved that the word can save them as if it's future? Because some of our salvation is future, beloved. We're so used to saying, you know, when were you saved? Ah, I was saved twelve years ago. We're going to hear that in testimonies. I was saved three years ago. Or six months ago. Whatever. We think of salvation as something that's what? Past. Most of our salvation is still future. There's still a deliverance to come. Having been saved, justified, we have a future salvation where in the complete sense Our whole body, all about us, is saved. Peter talks about that. You are protected now by the power of God through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time We're going to be transformed, saved, and delivered from everything that comes upon the world. That salvation is future, and that's why he tells them, hang on to the word Receive the word. The word is able to save your soul. If you want to know how to persevere through this world, if you want to make sure where the roll call is called up yonder That my name will be called. Hang on to the word. The word is the power. It's the gospel that saves. You don't need anything else. It's the word of God. That's what you need. It saves. Your word I have treasured in my heart that I may not sin against you. I shall delight in your statutes. I shall not forget your word Your testimonies are my delight. They are my counselors. Teach me, O Lord, the way of your statutes, and I shall observe it to the end. Turn away my eyes from looking at vanity and revive me in your ways. Establish your word to your servant as that which produces reverence for you. May your loving kindness also come to me, O Lord, your salvation according to your word. All of that from Psalm 119, a wonderful follow-up, if you would, to this series on hearing the Word of God. Yes, there's a danger in being around the Word too much. And not receiving the word. Sitting there, growing dull of hearing, making no changes. There is a danger in that Don't let that be true of you. We're going to pray now and then we're going to turn the service over for our baptismal portion of that. Heavenly Father, we are grateful for Your word. Open our hearts and ears, according to your new covenant promise, to write it on the tablet of our heart. Allow us to be moldable, receptive, lovers of your word, treasuring in our hearts. Help our leaders not to become so familiar with the word that they pass through it quickly as a lesson to prepare. Help our newest members to treasure your word. Help those that have gotten tired and beaten down and worn out to respond to your word anew. And find in it their greatest treasure, what we ask in the name of the incarnate Word of God, the Lord Jesus. The last verse of the song that we sang right before the sermon, All Creatures Ever Got It Came, we're gonna sing Let all things their creator bless. The word should be coming up any second here. Nope. Can't find them. Okay. Let all things their Creator bless and And worship him in humbleness, oh praise him, hallelujah.