Thanks to everyone who came out to support those that were being baptized, not just last Sunday, but some of the others as well. It's a wondrous thing to be at a baptism and hear testimonies. I think the wondrous testimonies presented at baptism time, they really give us a sense of how God is working in people's lives, don't they? They really show us what God is doing. It's exciting to hear it. It's refreshing to know. Here's someone, God is working in their life. Here's how God worked, and you hear and see about that. Things like, I once was lost, but now I'm found, was blind, but now I see. And you can see in one way or another what God has done. They say how God got a hold of them. Now they're hungering for the word of God. They want to worship, and that's a new thing in their life. They never had that before One after another, down through the ages, down through the centuries, just think of that. People have humbly stepped down into the baptismal waters, whether it's a swimming pool or whether it was uh the Jordan River, wherever it was. And they told of how God has converted them, how God worked to change them, change them from the inside out. You know, usually people at their baptism know very little theology. It's kind of fun to listen to it. They know very little about what the Bible teaches about conversion, about the new birth, and all those doctrines But their experience is real nonetheless, and it's a precious thing to hear. These experiences just fill our hearts with amazement. We see that they are trophies of God's grace, and they are People in whom the Holy Spirit has worked, we like the angels rejoice over even one sinner who repents. Amen? But you have to admit that along with these faith-building kind of testimonies, there are some confusing stories we hear some people telling. Accounts of people who claimed a Christian conversion, but after a time we can tell they no longer follow Christ. Or sometimes we hear of supposedly Christian people converting to another religion. Maybe they've uh decided to turn Buddhist or Muslim We even hear of Protestants who have converted back to the sacramental rituals of Catholicism. And we wonder, what is that all about? What's going on? Were they unconverted all of a sudden and went back? Do they need reconversion again? What is conversion really? Is it mere human persuasion that can blow this way with one persuasive speaker and blow again that way with another? Is it just the psychological stage one passes through, as some tell us? Well, clearly, we believers need more than a testimonial approach to understanding conversion. Testimonies are great, but we need a biblical doctrine of conversion. A doctrine that encompasses not only the human side, the side of the human decision that we hear about, we can see and talk about that But what lies behind the human conversion, that hidden and mysterious and sovereign work of God and his spirit on the heart and the soul of the convert In other words, to understand the totality of the picture, to know really what's going on in conversion, how it all fits together, we have to peer into God's revelation and hear what God says about it and what's going on Well, today we're going to do just that. We're going to look at one verse of God's revelation that speaks both of the human side and the divine sides of conversion. So it's a valuable verse for that understanding and this doctrine. It's 1 Corinthians chapter 6. If you haven't opened there already, do so please. And verse 11. 1 Corinthians chapter 6, verse 11. Just one verse, but a lot we're going to focus on in this verse. I'll read it for you. Apostle Paul writes to the Corinthians, and he says in verse 11, he writes in verse 11, such were some of you. But you were washed, but you were sanctified, but you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. And in the Spirit of our God. Just a little reminder here. Paul was writing this to remind the Corinthians of something very important. Something they seem to have forgotten as you read through this letter, and that is you Corinthians are converted. Now sometimes they don't sound like they've been converted. There's a lot of sin and fleshliness and pride carnality in this letter as you can You can tell as we're going through it, Paul's saying, I want you to remember you were converted. In fact, their conversion was what made them Not among those Paul labels as unrighteous who would not inherit the kingdom of God. Look back to verses 9 and 10. We talked about that last time, that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God And it was their very conversion that made them not among the unrighteous. But why is Paul reminding the Corinthians of this right here in the letter? Well, because he's giving them further teaching. Why taking one another to court, as he talked about earlier in chapter six, or not dealing with that man decisively, was engaged in sinful incest in the church back in chapter five. Why all of that was incongruent with who they were now as converted people. Their behavior sometimes did not match their Christian calling, and Paul is simply calling attention to that fact They now have a new identity in Christ. They're changed people. They're new in Christ. And that conversion that they had, that conversion truth, was to drive forward how they lived their life. But that wasn't happening all the time in Corinth. Why? Not because of pride. It was because of pride. All throughout this letter, we hear the Apostle Paul dealing with pride in the Corinthians. This church wasn't seeing the truth too clearly because of pride. Now you remember back in chapter 4, those of you that were with us, you remember Paul described himself as a loving spiritual father to the Corinthians. Well, as a father, he had a hard time trying to help his spiritual children here. I mean, on the one hand, these Corinthians needed a lot of cutting down the sides. And he's always talking about, don't boast, your arrogance is not good, and all these other comments throughout the letter On the other hand, clearly the apostle doesn't want to crush their spirits. He's not trying to destroy them, he wants to build them up. And so his goal is not to tear them down, but to exhort them. He even started the letter this way. All the way back in chapter one before he got into all of the problems they were having with divisiveness and all the rest of that, he said in the first chapter, I thank my God always concerning you, talking to the Corinthians For the grace of God which was given you in Christ Jesus, that in everything you were enriched in Him, in all speech, and all knowledge, and He just keeps going on with all the gifts that they have in Christ, building them up Showing them what God has done in their life. Well, he's trying to do that again right here. He's building them back up. He's been chopping them down as a father, trying to humble their hearts so they would receive truth, and now he's building them back up again. It's kind of crazy, really. You have to imagine this, that the apostle is writing to the Corinthians to remind them who they are. Who they are. They should know who they are, but Paul's having to do it. Well, they knew. They knew they were converted, but they needed to understand it better. See, some of us might be like that too. You know you believe in Jesus Christ. You know you've been changed, but you don't understand your conversion all that well. You need to know it better. And I think this will help you. See, you can be converted. You can be a true Christian, be saved, and not really comprehend what God has accomplished inside your life. And you need to listen and know and understand. In fact, I'm convinced that most Christians, though they could probably give some kind of a testimony about what God has done in their life and talk about the outward things that they saw occur in their life at some point in time, they don't have a good grasp of the doctrine of conversion. Don't really understand it all that well. Someone once told me at Grace Community Church back in Los Angeles, John MacArthur's church, that during baptismal testimonies they heard more heresy and false teaching than they did from Colts. And you know, and we can excuse that because there are babies in the Lord and they're standing up and they're just talking and they really don't know all that's happened to them. I mean when I was saved I didn't really understand I think that's funny and that's excusable with uh with babes in Christ, but it's not very good for whole churches and those who have been following Christ for a long time not to understand conversion. You need to understand it. You need to understand your own conversion. You need to understand what God has done in your life. Why? Well, because when you understand your conversion, it's going to guide you, guide your living, guide the way you think about yourself, guide the way you live. Yes, I know it's basic, but it's also crucial. Because everyone knows that if your direction is off just a little bit when you begin your your journey somewhere, by the time you get to your destination that that one degree of angle that's off can result in hundreds of miles of being off course down the road. If we misunderstand what God has done in our conversion as we live the Christian life, we can stray further and further from what God wants us to do and to live. I think the Corinthians are exhibit A. Did they know they were converted? Yes. Did they know about salvation in Christ? Yes. Did they know about the cross of Jesus Christ? Yes. But he tells them all about the cross in chapter 1 and 2 all over again because they really didn't get it. They were misunderstanding things at the base of salvation, and it was leading to a lot of incorrect living and functioning in the church. And so that's why I'm excited about this message. I think it will be very helpful to all of us. We're going to do a two-part message on the theology of conversion. on the theology of conversion. We're going to use this one verse as our base text. We're going to start here. We're not going to stay here. We're going to look at everything we can in this verse, but we're going to go to other verses to to color in the full picture of what conversion is about and what God does. And I just pray it will really, really benefit you. I mean my aim is the same as the Apostle Paul's. It's not to argue theology It's to give you truth that transforms your life. Truth that transforms. Gordon Fee, I think, in his commentary, states it very well. He said theology for Paul is not an abstraction. But the application of the gospel to life in the real world, right where you're living, this is where it will help you. Because God has changed us in Christ, we're exhorted to understand that change and live according to that change. So it's about changed. We're going to use this one verse to answer right now I have seven questions. It might end might end up being more. Seven questions about Christian conversion. That's what we're going to do. We're going to answer seven questions about Christian conversion. Conversion. I'm not going to give them all to you right now. Leave you hanging. Give them to you as we go, one by one. Here we go. Question number one. Why is conversion even needed? And we have to start right there because some people would ask that question, why are you talking about conversion? Why is it even needed? Why does someone need to be converted? Well, I want you to notice again the very first words of the verse. The Apostle Paul writes there, such were some of you. Do you see that? Actually, there's one word in the Greek that was not translated in the Nazbi update. Shame on them. Tisk, tisk. It's the little word and. And so it should read this way. And such were some of you. That seemingly insignificant little word there immediately connects this verse, verse 11, back to which verse? Verse 10, right? And even before that, verse 9, what's the connection? Well look back at verses 9 and 10. There's a list of sins. Sins. Which furnish an adequate description of what the Corinthians were like before they heard about Christ and were converted. Some in Corinth Paul saith from verses 9 and 10 were fornicators. Some were, look at it, what were they? Idolaters, adulterers, effeminate, homosexuals, thieves, covetous, drunkards. Revilers and swindlers. He gives the whole list right there. This is what some of you were. Those former lifestyles is what made up what this church used to be made up, I should say it that way. These are the kind of people that Paul had to evangelize when he arrived at Corinth. He met this kind of people. He preached the gospel to them, and they were the ones who responded to the gospel. In fact, that verb, again seemingly very insignificant, just that being verb were, such were some of you, adds a little more color also. It's in the imperfect tense in Greek And that shows that they were continuously in this state before conversion. So it wasn't that they dabbled in the sins a little bit here and there. This was who they were. This was how they lived Many were characterized by these very sins, the Apostle Paul writes. And these are sins that Paul warned: if they did live a lifestyle like that, if they did practice these sins, they would be excluded from what? From the kingdom of God. So it was serious. Now I think this big this gives us enough of a beginning reason to know why we need to be converted. Why do we need to be converted? It's a good thing to be converted. Without conversion we'd still be living these sinful lives and we would be rejected from God's kingdom. Good enough reason? I think so. If those who practice these sinful lifestyles don't get into heaven, don't get into God's kingdom, never see the millennium with all of its blessings, well it's obvious why we need to be converted. It should be obvious By the way, if none of those sins hit home, in Galatians 5, the same apostle writes, and he adds some more sins to this list that keep us out of the kingdom of heaven. He talks about immorality, impurity. Sensuality. Idolatry, he mentions again. Sorcery, those who dabble in New Age and occult and things like that. Enmity, strife, jealousy Ooh, what's that doing in there? Jealousy. Outbursts of anger, disputes, dissensions, factions, envying, drunkenness. Carousing and things like these, and he says it again, of which I forewarn you, just as I have forewarned you, that those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. We learned all of that last week, yes? God's kingdom is an exclusive kingdom. It has exclusive demands. It also has exclusive privileges. Membership has its privileges in God's kingdom. This is true, but if you continue to live that way according to those lists and sins, better be warned you have no membership, so no privileges. Without conversion, you don't make it into the kingdom. You get rejected. You get no inheritance. Hopefully, God's got your attention right now, if you're not sure that you're a converted person. Now remember, for the Corinthians, all of this was about humbling them. I just say it again. Back in chapter 4, verse 8, he said, So that no one of you will become arrogant on behalf of one against the other. Pride was a problem. Back in chapter 5, verse 6, he says, your boasting is not good. The way of the cross, we already heard it sung about today, the way of the cross beneath the cross is a humble way. It's a lowly way. It's a way of shame in this world. It's a way where people don't acknowledge anything great about you. But it is the way of Christ. It's the way of the cross. It's the Christian life. When you remember who you were before your conversion, it's humbling. I want you to turn to the letter of Ephesians, which the apostle also wrote, and to chapter 2, and let's be reminded of what we were before conversion Keep your finger there, 1 Corinthians, and turn to Ephesians 2. Verses 1 through 3 He's writing to believers and he's he's reminding them. He says in in chapter 2, verse 1 of Ephesians, you were dead in your trespasses and sins. That's not very flattering. In which you formerly walked, according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, of the Spirit, that is now working in the sons of disobedience. Verse three. Among them we too all formerly lived in the lusts of our flesh, indulging the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath even as the rest. And then he goes on to talk about God's great mercy and love. Look later there in chapter 2. Go all the way down to Verse 12. Verse 11 and 12 talks about remembering who you were. Verse 12 says, remember that you were at that time separate from Christ. Excluded from the Commonwealth of Israel, expression of God's kingdom at that time, and strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope And without God in the world. Remember who you were. That's the message. Remember who you were before conversion. Before you were saved, you know, it's kind of interesting, don't you think, how people get so irritated when you start talking to them about the gospel and they think you're trying to convert them, right? Are you trying to convert me? We need to get one of those t-shirts that just says, you know, yes, I'm trying to convert you. Just let them know up front, this is what we're doing. I want you to know as soon as you start talking to this guy, he's going to try to convert you. It's my job, it's my role. We ought not to be ashamed of that at all. Of course we're trying to convert them. We care about them. We want them to have a hope that's real and not be deceived. We want them to be in the kingdom with us one day. Yes? It's why we talk to people. It's why We get into those uneasy conversations sometimes. We do it because we care, because we love. Aren't you glad that someone stepped into your life and attempted to convert you, to be used by God to convert you? I'm I'm excited about that. I'm happy, I think, about that day a lot. Before you became a Christian, I want to ask you, what were you? What were you? If you could stand up and just let the truth come on out, what were you? It's funny how people recollect the past, different ways of describing it. I was an entrepreneur. Alright, that's the way you can put it You know what you really were were a worldly businessman. You um foolishly pursued the perishable things of this world and not the eternal things that mattered. It was dumb. You made a big mistake, but God has forgiven you. And God has rescued you. Some people say I was a fun-loving kind of a person. That's who I was. No, you were a fornicator. You were a carouser, you were a drunkard, you were a reviler. That's how God would describe it. A little bit different, isn't it? A little different designation I was at the top of my class, and then I got thinking about religion. Well, you might have been at the top of the class, you were at the bottom of biblical learning. There wasn't anything there to be proud about I was a nice person. I just got along with everybody. Yeah, because you were a coward and never spoke up for the truth. See, you uh lived by the fear of man. You wanted everyone to like you. You didn't want to live for God Thank God for Paul's frankness right here, right in the letter to his beloved church in Corinth. And it says, Such were some of you. That little list that came beforehand. You're rebels, you're disrespectful of God, you are lawbreakers, you are unbelieving of the promises of God, you're involved in sexual sin, you're twisted and perverted in mind. Truth humbles Cleans away the layers of spiritual makeup, caked on our public image, like we like to have. Reveals the ugly spiritual face beneath. That's the truth. That's the truth. Now turn back to 1 Corinthians 6 if you would. The summation of the entire life before Christ, before conversions, right back there in verse 9, he calls them unrighteous. Well that's why Jesus said in Matthew 18, 3, listen to this. Truly I say to you, unless you are converted and become like children. You will not enter the kingdom of heaven. Until you're humbled, you won't even enter the kingdom of heaven. You've got to be converted. You have to be converted. So people show up in church and they've been baptized, but they've never been converted. They've never been changed. He says you have to be converted. Let me just read it one more time. It's the words of Christ. Truly I say to you, unless you are converted. And become like children, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven. Pretty strong word. We're going to give a Biblical definition of conversion here soon, but just for now, it just so you know it means transformation of life. It means change. It means to be turned from one way of living toward Christ. It's summertime now, so people like to be out there and they're convertibles. Pull the little top down when it rains, put it back up. That's a conversion of the top. In conversion, Christian conversion, it's not just something superficial like that. It's a total transformation of our lives. People who are converted are converted in total, in their entire being. True conversion can only occur when people then are truly honest, truly humble, and truly open to God in their life. Why are so many people left unconverted when they hear preaching? And the answer is they're constantly resisting the message. They don't want to hear it. They put up some defense, something that they're saying, this is not for me. God says it's for everyone. I remember asking someone at the Discover Hope outreach that we had or our table there at the last outreach. She was walking by. I said, Who's your hero? And she said without hesitating, I am my own hero. I said, Oh, well, maybe you'd like to read this, because it says something a little different Many people don't think that they need conversion. They're saying basically, I like the way I am. Okay. Okay. But God doesn't He doesn't like the way you are. And he made you. And you messed up what he made. You twisted and perverted it. He gave you life and righteousness, and you messed it up, and he doesn't like it. One day I was standing around in CVS while my family was shopping, and so I saw Max Luceto's new book there called God Thinks You Are Wonderful. Nothing at all, man. It's a short and fluffy book with many pictures. This write-up I found online, I think I read it all the way through. I think it gives a pretty good summary of the contents. Everybody needs to know that God thinks they're special. I can't read this without being sarcastic. You know me. A warm-hearted gift, appropriate for almost anyone at any occasion. God thinks you're wonderful is the perfect way to say you are special. Who wouldn't enjoy pages of smile-producing affirmations such as, if God had a refrigerator, your picture would be on it? He can live anywhere in the universe and he chose your heart It's just one sound bite after another telling us God likes us. No, he doesn't. No, he doesn't like us. He cares about us, but he doesn't like us or the way we live. That googly-eyed God who's just enthralled with every single person who reads the book. I don't know, I don't know what God that is. He likes sinful and rebellious people just the way they are? What Bible is Max Luceto reading? What God is that man even talking about? The God who wiped out every man, woman, and child on the entire planet in a flood and saved only eight human beings because he loved them so much? He treasured them. Had their name on his bumper sticker. Beloved, that's false teaching. That's a false God. That God doesn't exist. It's an idol. Jesus said, unless you repent you will all likewise perish. You know what that meant? A violent perishing All you need to know about what God thinks about us and our sin is to look at the cross. That cross tells us how violently God rejected sin. Listen, if his only begotten Son was treated that harshly because he had our sin on him, what will we be treated like if we keep our sins to ourselves and don't accept the sacrifice of Christ? You have heard that God loves you, that is indeed true. But don't misunderstand, God will still judge you. His love is a love of compassion. His love is a love of patience. His love is a love, yes, of pity. But it's not a love of like. We are lawbreakers. We don't deserve anything but judgment. That's what Romans 5 says. God demonstrates his own love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. For if while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his Son, much more having been reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. Enemies Psalm 711 says, God is a righteous judge and a God who has indignation every day. Every day he gets angry at the sins of this world. That's why Hebrews 12, 29 says, Our God is a consuming fire. He is to be highly reverent. So conversion is needed. That was just the first question. It's needed because of sin. It's needed because of judgment, okay? That's why it's needed. Second, question number two, is genuine conversion possible? Is genuine conversion even possible, or is it just pie and sky? Well, please look back at those same words we just looked at. We haven't gone too far this morning. And such were, say it again. Some of you. That they were no longer living that way anymore. Oh, I know, I know, I know. We've read a lot about the sins of the Corinthians, and there's a lot of sins of the Corinthians. But here he plainly says that there had been a radical change even in the way that they behaved. They were not in that category anymore. They were not living their lives as that those lists, that list that we see in verses 9 and 10 The verse emphatically states that they had been converted, and their conversion had changed their behavior. They were not those things anymore. Those who, in other words, used to be fornicators had stopped that lifestyle. Didn't mean that they never sinned in that regard. It means they were no longer living that way. Those who used to be thieves had now changed. They were working more and giving more rather than stealing. Those whose mouths needed cleansing from all the reviling they were speaking, they were learning to speak differently. A change had occurred. Yes, even in the Corinthians. And yes, those who were homosexuals and effeminate, he says, some of you were those things. What does that mean? They were changed. They were changed. God changed them. Obviously, there's great hope then in this statement if you read it correctly, slowly, and carefully. Listen, if God could change them, this pathetic group of Greeks in ancient Corinth, a city of sin, really Filled with immorality and idolatry. And by the way, they had no psychotherapy and had never heard of Sigmund Freud. And somehow they got changed, somehow they stopped those behaviors and found joy and peace They were changed. Hey, if God can do that with that ancient city and those people there, He can do it with you. Yes? He can change you. You have to believe that. You have to believe in his power. Titus two, eleven and twelve. For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation to all men, instructing us to deny ungodliness and worldly desires. And to live sensibly, righteously, and godly in the present age. You can deny ungodly desires and live sensibly in the present age. The grace of God can do that. The alcoholic often says, I can't help it I turn to the bottle for comfort to ease the pain of life. The bottle is my friend. Well, that's one friend you should lose. Doesn't help him. That friend destroys his body. That friend breaks apart his family. That friend deceives. With friends like alcohol, who needs enemies? Those who practice sexual sin often say, I can't help it. It's an addiction. But God says He's changed millions of fornicators and adulterers before you were even born and his power can change you. Someone put it this way. Jesus saves from the guttermost to the uttermost. We believers more than anyone ought to be convinced of this resident power. Galatians 5. 16 says, walk by the Spirit, and you will not carry out the desire of the flesh Romans 8. 13 says, For if you are living according to the flesh, you must die, but if by the Spirit you're putting to death the deeds of the body, you will live. The Spirit of God is putting to death the evil deeds of our body. So, yes, conversion is possible. And there should be great optimism in all of us. Question number three. What exactly is biblical conversion? Now we already said that it was change, it was turning to Christ, but I want to get more precise now. What exactly is Biblical conversion. Well, I want you to notice how the next word in the verse points to that change. He says, such were some of you, and now we finally get to the next word, but That's the word Allah, not the Muslim name for God. It's just a conjunction. Allah. It is the transition word from one side to the next From a life formerly lived in those sins listed in verses nine and ten to the one they presently live for Christ You see this conjunction three times in one verse. He says, but you were washed, but you were sanctified. But you were justified. Now when you see something like that repeated three times in one verse, what does that tell you? It tells you he's emphasizing it. That's emphasized there in the verse. It means Paul really wants to point to the change. This verse is about transformation. This verse is about change. You were this But now, but now, but now you are this. And that's what's changed in your life. Christian conversion then is a radical departure from what you used to be, from your past. In the first part of the verse, it speaks of the greatness of their prior sin. Now he begins to speak of the greatness of their transformation Many of the commentaries on First Corinthians pick up on this. I want to read some of them for you. Thomas Schreiner in his commentary says this God's grace does not mean That God benignly accepts humans in all their fallenness, forgives them, and then leaves them in their fallenness. God is in the business not of whitewashing sins, but of transforming sinners. I like that. John MacArthur writes, It made no difference what they were before they were saved. God can save a sinner from any sin and all sin, but it makes a great deal of difference what a believer is like after salvation. Leon Morris also says: the tremendous revolution brought about by the preaching of the gospel comes out in the quiet words, and that is what some of you were. It's a revolution. It's an entire revolution in your life. Even Spurgeon points out what real conversion is He preached, another proof of the conquest of the soul for Christ will be found in a real change of life. If the man does not live differently from what he did before both at home and abroad, his repentance needs to be repented of, and his conversion is a fiction. Not only action and language he preached But spirit and temper must be changed. Abiding under the power of any known sin is a mark of our being the servants of sin. And he goes on. It's radical. It's a abrupt about faith. It's conversion Now let's slow down a little bit. Let's give a more detailed theological definition of conversion. Wayne Grutham in a systematic theology writes this. I'll say it slowly. Conversion is our willing response to the gospel call. Conversion is our willing response to the gospel call, in which we sincerely repent of sins. And place our trust in Christ for salvation. In other words, conversion means turning. Conversion really has two components. It has two parts to it Conversion is both repentance and faith. There's both repentance and faith. Repentance and faith, some have said, are like two sides of the same coin. They're not describing something different, it's just a different emphasis. Repentance is a change of mind. You hear the truth about Jesus and you change your mind about the way you wanted to live, and now you've turned toward Christ. Repentance is like a U turn. You're going in one direction and now you're heading in exactly the opposite direction back toward God Faith is the other side of repentance. Faith is when one is turned, is placing their confidence now in the promises of God. Faith is resting in Christ and resting in all the work that Christ has done for us. Repentance is turning from an old belief system and an old lifestyle to a new, and faith is resting in the new, resting in Christ. Faith and repentance are how we accept the offer of the gift of salvation from God. And together, faith and repentance express what our conversion actually is, what our turning to Christ is. Some of you have taken the fundamentals of the faith class, and you'll note in those materials that it speaks of conversion this way, starting with a conviction of sin, that you're a sinner. And then it's expressed by repentance from sin, turning away from that sin, and turning to Christ to live a new life of righteousness. That's what it is. That's conversion. John MacArthur in his book Faith Works writes this: Conversion and repentance are closely related terms. Conversion occurs when a sinner turns to God in repentant faith. It is a complete turnabout, an absolute change of moral and volitional direction, such a radical reversal is the response the gospel calls for. Both repentance and conversion are included in one verse in Acts chapter 26 and verse 20. Let me read it for you. Paul is speaking of his own ministry, and he said that he kept declaring both to those of Damascus first and also at Jerusalem and then throughout all of the region of Judea and even to the Gentiles, that they should Repent, here it is, and turn to God, performing deeds appropriate to repentance. Repent and turn. Conversion involves repentance. So conversion takes place in a conscious level of the sinner. In other words, the sinner is very aware of his conversion, he's very aware of his turning, he's very aware of the changes going on in his mind. Sometimes he's so aware there's even weeping and mourning and sorrow for his previous life. It's what 2 Corinthians Calls a godly sorrow. In 2 Corinthians 7. 10 it says, For the sorrow that is according to the will of God produces a repentance without regret, leading to salvation. But the sorrow of the world produces death. There's a regret that you've lived a certain way, but no real change. And then there's a sorrow that leads to a desire to change and put faith in Christ. That's a godly sorrow There are many, many examples of conversion in the Bible, and I think they really help us to understand conversion because they illustrate it and we can look at that. I want you to Turn back to the book of Acts and I would like to show you a few of these conversions because they're not only faith-building, but they also express what true conversion is. Turn to chapter 3 of Acts to begin with And verse nineteen Acts three nineteen And here Peter is preaching and he says, and I'm going to give you snippets of this, you'll have to read the larger context. In verse 19, he says to the Jews, Therefore repent and return. There it is. So that your sins may be wiped away, in order that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord, and that he may send Jesus the Christ appointed for you. He's telling this to the Jews. That word, that verb return is epistrepho in Greek. It means to just turn, to turn back. There also is the story of the conversion of the Ethiopian eunuch in Acts chapter 8, if you'd flip there Philip was used in this case to intervene in the Ethiopian eunuch's life, Acts 8 and verse 30. Philip is transported supernaturally to talk with this man, and as they're talking, he becomes convinced it's true and he wants to get baptized. Look at Acts 8:30. There it says Begins to speak of how Philip ran up and heard this man reading Isaiah the prophet. He gets into the chariot with him and he explains the meaning of the gospel to him from the Old Testament scriptures, and then you come all the way down to verse 39 and You see that verse 38, that he's baptized already. They stopped the chariot and got out. He's baptized, and then Philip is snatched away supernaturally. And the eunuch no longer saw him, but went on his way rejoicing. Why? Because his life was converted. His life was changed. He had a crisis encounter with the gospel, and everything in his life on that moment changed. The most famous conversion in all of the Bible is Saul of Tarsus. Acts 9. Acts 9, you don't even need to change the page. Verses 4 and 5 He literally he was converted in more ways than what. He was on the road to Damascus. He was traveling. Look at verses four and five. He's traveling there to actually take the Christians and put them in the prison He's going there because he thinks he's being a good Jew and the Christians are teaching something that's false, and on the way he literally meets Jesus Christ, and a vision of Christ comes to stops him dead in his tracks And changes not only his direction, his purpose right there on that mission, but his entire purpose in life, so he becomes the great Apostle Paul. In verses 4 and 5, you see that he fell to the ground and he heard a voice saying to him, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? And he said, Who are you, Lord? And he said, I am Jesus whom you are persecuting. And God changed his entire life. He started preaching Christ. He was persecuting Christ, and now he's preaching Christ. That, beloved, is a conversion. That is a U-turn. And actually he kept going on the road to Damascus, but when he got there, he had a different purpose. Look at Acts 11, just for some more examples. I mean there's conversion after conversion after conversion in the book of Acts. Acts 11, verse 20. 1120 says, But there were some of them men of Cyprus and Cyrene who came to Antioch and began speaking to the Greeks, also preaching the Lord Jesus. Verse 21, and the hand of the Lord was with them. And a large number who believed turned to the Lord. Do you see that turning is is the conversion. There's that verb again, epistrepo. They turned to the Lord because the hand of God, his power, was working with him. We're going to talk about that power in a few minutes. In Acts chapter 14, also in verse 15, if you flip there. Acts 14, verse 15. Paul's preaching on his first missionary journey, and they're wanting to worship him and Barnabas. And he c he tries to stop him. He says, What are you doing? Verse 15, men, why are you doing these things? We are also men of the same nature as you and preach the gospel to you that you That you should what? Turn from these vain things, these idols that you're worshiping, to a living God who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and all that is in them. Why are you worshiping non-gods? Worship the true God And he's trying to convert them right there. Acts chapter 15 also in verse 3. Just notice the next chapter, 15-3. Therefore being sent on their way by the church. They were passing through both Phoenicia and Samaria, describing in detail the conversion of the Gentiles. The Jews up to this point in time for the most part have been those that had been Turning to Christ, and now there were Gentiles that were being turned to Christ, and they're describing this turning of the Gentiles to the Messiah, to the Jewish Messiah. And it was bringing great joy to all the brethren, it says That term conversion there of the Gentiles is epistrophe. It's the noun that's related to epistrefo. It means a turning, a conversion. So in all these examples you can see that man is is converted and the people were active. They were believing and they were repenting and they were turning and man was active in that response to the gospel call. They're not puppets. They have a real choice. They're making a decision, a choice. They're active in conversion. Man repents and he places faith in God. And thus he actively and purposefully and consciously turns to the Lord because he's aware of his sin and he's aware of the danger that he's in. And we we could even take time to go to the parable of the prodigal son, where he came to his senses and he said, I will return home to my father and he will give me a job and I won't have to eat this This pig slot. And there it was the conversion where he said, I will return, I'll turn back, you see. In the Old Testament it was the same thing. Man's conversion was commanded. Listen to Isaiah fifty-five, verses six and seven, that says, Seek the Lord while he may be found, call upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts And let him return to the Lord, and he, the Lord, will have compassion on him and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. Ezekiel 33 and verse 11 Say to them, As I live, declares the Lord God, I take no pleasure in the death of the wicked, but rather that the wicked turn from his way and live. Turn back, turn back from your evil ways. Why then will you die, O house of Israel? And God calls on them to repent, to turn, to be converted. And so that's what conversion is. That is what the Bible describes as conversion. Now turn back to 1 Corinthians 6. We're just going to begin one more question here. Question number four. And very importantly, how does man's conversion Relate to God's work. How does man's conversion relate to God's work? We all know God is active in salvation. How do these relate? Well, it's kind of interesting that this verse, verse eleven, really does not describe in detail what man does. It describes in detail what God does. The repentance and conversion and faith, the turning by the Corinthians, aren't really described in the verse, but they are assumed, they are really implied in it. The conversion is strongly implied because it states they no longer live as they used to live in their sins. There's the conversion. But this verse actually focuses on the work of God. In change. A work that is done simultaneously with and in conjunction with man's turning. God's work and man's turning work mysteriously together Man is commanded to turn, and he does turn, and he does believe, he's active in that, but it is only made possible because of what God does, God's work. The divine work on the human heart ensures man's conversion. In other words, people convert because God is already at work inwardly in them There are three works of God, this verse describes. Three works of God. Three works of God which accompany the conversion of men. Don't think of these as three steps. that need to be taken. Don't think of them as three stages that God works us through. They're not in a chronological order. They're not meant to be. These are things that happen to us all at the same time. Paul's just emphasizing three to show the wealth of what God did in our life at that time They happen exactly at the same time that we believed and we're converted. But they're not our work, they're God's work. And of course, each relates back to the sin that was listed before. Sin is considered to be something that is dirty. It's from the old life, so the old life needs to be washed away. Sin is considered to be contamination, something that would pollute us, and so we are set apart from it as sanctified. Sin is considered to bring us guilt, and it does because We break the law of God, and so we are pronounced to be innocent now before the throne of God based on the work of Christ. God washes, God sanctifies, God justifies. We don't do that to ourselves Like I said today, we just barely get started on this, and I'm just going to go a few minutes more and begin this. I want you to begin to see this, and we'll pick up next week. The first work of God is washing there. Do you see that? But you were washed. That's so joyous. We Americans like to be clean. Well here's how we can be spiritually clean. Washed is the verb apaluo. It's a compound verb, really. It stresses the complete washing away of sins, the complete cleansing of our person, the complete removal of all spiritual dirt. It's a verb that's in the past tense. Why is that significant? Because it points to something that's already done. It's already accomplished. He's not saying you are being washed. He says you were washed. It already happened. Your bath is complete. You were washed and washed by God. God is really the one effectively doing the washing. We have to cooperate with him, but he's doing the washing. Now, some people think that this is referring to baptism because it has the image of water and washing here. Also, because the only other time this particular verb occurs in the New Testament is in Acts chapter 22 and verse 16. Which refers to baptism and washing away your sins. It says, now why do you delay? Get up and be baptized and wash away your sins, calling on his name. But baptism is not in our context here in 1 Corinthians chapter 6 And since washing is joined with two other words, that is sanctified and justified, it's clear that he's referring to a spiritual washing, a washing away of sins, a washing away of that old light. Baptism merely pictures the washing away of the old life that God does inwardly. In First Peter chapter 3 and verse 21 it tells us that It says, baptism now saves you. In case some people got the wrong impression of that, Peter finishes what he says. Baptism now saves you, not the removal of dirt from the flesh, not cleansing the outside. Nothing like that could ever affect you and wash you. But an appeal to God for a good conscience as whether faith is active in God. Some can actually be baptized, right? And Charlie's told us about this almost every single time we have a baptism Some can be baptized but not be clean. Judas was like that. John 13, 10 said he was unclean, but he was already baptized. Well, what does this washing refer to? It refers to an activity of God. It's the washing of regeneration. It's the washing of the rebirth, the renewal. Baptism stands for that. Baptism symbolizes that. In Titus 3. 5, we have an explanation. He saved us Not on the basis of deeds which we have done in righteousness, but according to his mercy. Listen, by the washing of regeneration and renewing by the Holy Spirit. Washing, this kind of washing is a work of the Holy Spirit of God. Regeneration in Titus 3. 5 is a compound word. It joins the word palin, which means again or to redo something. And the word Genesis, we get the word Genesis from that, a beginning or a birth, so it means a new birth, a reproduction, a renewal, a recreation. That's what it is, regeneration. And the washing of the regeneration by the Holy Spirit is the work of God based upon the mercy of God, not a human effort. Regeneration is imparting new life, washing away the old and imparting a new life to the believer. Regeneration is when we are born again. We're born from above. We read earlier Ephesians chapter 2, verses 1 through 3, and I stopped. Before reading verse four. Well, here's verse four. We were dead in our trespasses and sins, and we come to verse four, but God being rich in mercy, because of his great love with which he loved us even when we were dead in our transgressions made us alive. That's regeneration. He made us alive. We don't make ourselves alive He caused us to be born again, to give us a new birth. He washed us. He regenerated us. We can no more respond to the call of God than a dead man can respond to someone calling his name, unless you're Jesus that can call people back from the dead like Lazarus. God has to first regenerate people so they even have the ability to hear the Word of God properly, to have ears to hear, as Christ said, He who has ears to hear, let them hear. They can't believe, they don't want to respond, they have no impulse towards God because they're in sin, in a sin nature. The best description of the sin nature I think is after the original sin. When Adam sinned, he ran in what? He hid. He didn't seek for God. He didn't want God. When God started calling, he hid, and he didn't want to be anywhere near God. He fled. It took God's initiative to bring him back. He wasn't responding. He wasn't believing. He wasn't turning. God had to bring them back. Save him. Impart to him spiritual life and clothe him. Killing the animal is a symbol of him being covered, his sins being covered. God has to do the work. God has to regenerate. God has to do the washing. There are many, many verses in the Bible. Which teach that the necessary and primary work of God is what brings people to salvation. Just listen to some of these. Psalm 80 and verse 7. O God of hosts, restore us And cause your face to shine upon us, and we will be saved. We can't even restore ourselves. Oh God, you do it. Restore in Hebrew is the word shoot. It needs to turn us back. It has to do with conversion. You convert us, God. You bring us back. It's his power that has to initiate it. In Acts chapter 3 and verse 26 it says, For you first God raised up a servant and sent him to bless you by turning every one of you from your wicked ways. God is the one turning you, that verse says in Acts 3:26. Acts 11, verse 18. When they heard this, this is the Jews that are hearing about uh the repentance of the Gentiles. When they heard this, they quieted down and glorified God, saying, Well then God has granted to the Gentiles also the repentance that leads to life. If God hadn't granted it to that group of people, they would not have repented. He had to grant the repentance It starts with God. 2 Timothy 2 and verse 25, Paul writes: If perhaps God may grant them repentance, referring to some sinners Leading to the knowledge of the truth, God would have to grant them the power and ability to repent. For them to turn. Jesus said it in John 6. 44 No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. That's a powerful term that has to do with pulling and drawing him close. This truth is so emphasized in Scripture. I don't know how it's missed in so many theological traditions. I guess it's because our inflated view of man We just easily gloss over this important truth and not think about it. That God is the beginning and the end of every aspect of our salvation, beloved. Just listen to a few more Philippians 2. 13. For it is God who is at work in you both to will and to work for his good pleasure. It's what he wants to do in your life. He's sovereign over you. Hebrews 12, 2. We are to be fixing our eyes on Jesus because he is the what? The author and the perfecter of faith. Author means the originator. He gives us faith. It originates with him. Philippians 1. 29. For to you it has been granted for Christ's sake not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for his name's sake. Suffering is viewed as a privilege there. But believing is also. It has been granted to you to believe. To some, it hasn't been granted to believe. Ephesians 2:8:9. For by grace you've been saved through faith and that not of yourselves. What's the that? The whole thing. It is the gift of God, yes, even your faith, not as a result of works, so that no one may boast. Matthew 13, 11, Jesus answered them. To you, he's talking to the disciples, to you it has been granted to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it has not been granted. Acts 18 27. And when he wanted to go across to Achaia, the brethren encouraged him and wrote to the disciples to welcome him when and when he arrived, he greatly helped those who had believed Through grace. How'd they believe? Through grace. 1 Corinthians 12, 3. Therefore I make known to you that no one speaking by the Spirit of God says Jesus is a curse. And no one can say Jesus is Lord except by the Holy Spirit. He's got to produce it. Lydia and Acts 1614 is the conversion of a woman, and it brings together both the human and the divine side so beautifully. It says there in Acts 16:14, a woman named Lydia from the city of Thyatira, a seller of purple fabrics A worshipper of God, now that's in the Old Testament sense, was listening, listening, to Paul preach. And the Lord opened her heart to respond to the things spoken by Paul. She was active, she was listening, the gospel was being given, but she only responded when the Lord opened up her heart, opened up her mind to understand. That is why Louis Burkhoff, a reformed theologian, speaks this way of the relationship between the human and the divine in conversion and regeneration. Listen. He says a conversion that is not rooted in regeneration is not true conversion. And that's why some people, after getting converted, They go back another way. They go back to another religion. They were never born again. The only conversion that's a true conversion outwardly is the one where God has truly caused a new birth on the heart. Again, in his systematic theology, one more quote, he says, the change that is affected in the subconscious level in regeneration passes into the conscious life in conversion. Logically, conversion Folllows regeneration. Conversion logically, not in time, but logically, follows regeneration. It all happens instantaneously. Well, the Corinthians were no longer practicing sinners, at least in the lifestyles described here, because God had washed them. That refers much more than just To a position that they had, but a whole new way of living, a whole new life that was imparted to them through the new birth. They turned away from a life of sin and place their faith in Christ because God washed them. God regenerated them. We'll pick up there and the other two works of God. And how that mechanism works in the name of Christ and by the power of the Spirit next week. Would you join me in prayer? Amazing grace, how sweet the sound that saved a wretch like us. Wretches. Undeserving of anything. Unable even, undesiring even to want to believe in your son, to convert, to change. Thank you for your amazing work of washing. Thank you that you are a God who has so worked sovereignly in our hearts to draw us to yourself. May we learn to live. And worship and pray and do all that we do forever remembering the work of your sovereign grace in our hearts. Because we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.