It is a lamp to our feet and a light to our path. God, fill me with your spirit, and I pray that my mouth will be loose with your truth, and that you would shut up my mouth in anything that is inconsistent with your word. And may it be used to transform us more into the likeness of Christ and to remind us of the work that you've left for us to do Lord, we commit our time unto you. And you need to ask the Lord to forgive you because that's what He has left us here to do. And they should be tasting the the flavor of Christ in our lives. And he prayed to the Lord and said, please Lord, was this, was not this what I said while I was still in my own country? Come on, Jonah. And behold, a Canaanite woman came out from that region and began to cry out, saying, Have mercy on me, O Lord, son of David, my daughter is cruelly demon-possessed. It's supposed to knock you out because you are believing a lie. But here the Lord had another assignment for him, and so he calls him out into the desert. And some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers were conversing with him, and some were saying, what would this idle babbler wish to say? We see them doing that on social media, right? Now with some of your heart, with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind. So even if you are faithful to proclaiming the gospel, praise God. At Church of Corinth, they were off the hook, man. It's not clear to them because it wasn't once clear to us, right? I like to see when I put my oatmeal in for a minute and thirty, it's ready. But an angel of the Lord spoke to Philip, saying, Arise and go south to the road that descends from Jerusalem to Gaza. And they took him and brought him to the Areopagus, saying, May we know what this new teaching is which you are proclaiming? And he went into Hagar and she conceived, and when she saw that she had conceived her mistress was despised in her sight. And you shall call his name Ishmael, because the Lord hath given heed to your affliction. Excuse me, for it is a minister of God, an avenger who brings wrath upon the one who practices evil. So congrats. Yeah. to set up racism or white privilege or any of it because we all need to be focusing on rights. alone. that Alice Father. First and foremost, for who you are. have the righteousness of God in him. But as long as we remember that God's word is of first importance, right? I just want to quickly, you know, kind of share the topic, obviously how to present the gospel to those with different worldviews and critical theories. Just remember these four points, right? Not only that you may not sin against him, but also that you would, the Holy Spirit would use you, bringing his word to your remembrance so that you can proclaim his word to that lost soul. Right? Because of their sin, they are separated from this holy God. You are supposed to repent. They are friends, okay? Throughout Nineveh. Therefore, in order to forestall this, I fled to Starships, for I knew that thou art a gracious and compassionate God. You can make me clean. And what does Jesus say? And he answered and said, It is not good to take the children's bread and to throw it to the dogs. Everyone else was ready to shoe her away, right? I'm going to take notice of this Syrophoenician woman. Your job is to just be faithful to proclaim it. Didn't argue, he didn't debate, he just went and did it. And when Philip had run up, he heard him reading Isaiah the prophet and said, Do you understand what you are reading? In humiliation his judgment was taken away. And the eunuch answered Philip and said, please tell me, of whom does the prophet say this? on all the face of the earth, having determined their appointed times and the boundaries of their habitation, that they should seek God, if perhaps they might grope for him and find him, though he is not far from each one of us Neither is he served by human hands as though he need anything, since he himself gives to all life and breath and all things. They've been around his word, they have some familiarization with his word, then keep pointing to the scriptures, right? That he understands and knows me, that I am the Lord who exercises loving kindness, justice, and righteousness on earth. Excuse me. But Abram said to Sarai, Behold, your maid is in your power, do to her what is good in your sight. And the second is like it. And pray to the Lord on its behalf, for in its welfare you will have welfare. Yet with gentleness and reverence. And if I have the gift of prophecy and know all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith, so as to remove mountains, but do not have love, I am nothing. trying to get people to understand what I think, what I believe, and what I feel. Hey Willie, how you doing, brother? you know with you know when it comes to those that might disagree. He's he's preaching uh teaching through uh First Corinthians the the the uh section that you read. steeped in things like social justice and he's also a little bit gender confused at the moment and we've tried to reach out to him and and love him and we have told him the truth. You know, and so it's really just uh loving your nephew as best as you can, Marg, um, for as long as he does keep that door open. I want to take him to the river today. Word is not going to come back void, so everyone's going to come to no cross. What if you spoke the gospel to him and he and he like destroyed the business? I don't have time for that. And Lord, we just endeavor to worship you and glorify you. Go hiking, I might test. And so we pray. And that we are here to do your work and to build your kingdom and not our own. We ask it all by faith in Christ's precious name. and trying to, you know, make it palatable and trying to make it digestible. Okay? They can do nothing. And so I want to ask the next question is, who do you most resemble when it comes to proclaiming the gospel? He knew that they were a wicked people and he felt that they didn't deserve the gospel. Then the omnipotent, omniscient, omnipresent God. excuse me slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness, and the one who relents from concerning calamity. God took note of this leper. Okay? Then Jesus answered and said to her, O woman, your faith is great. But he answered and said, I was sent only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. No one else wanted to interact with her. And who are you proclaiming it to? Testimonies are a beautiful thing. That Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, and that he was buried, and that he was raised on the third day according to the scriptures. And it was because of a revelation that I went up and I submitted to them the gospel which I preach among the Gentiles. But I did so in private to those who were of reputation for fear that I might be running or had run in vain. But it was because of the false brethren who had sneaked in to spy out our liberty, which we have in Christ Jesus, in order to bring us into bondage. It's like a velvet glove, right? You need to be shaken free from the shackles of sin that are on your neck. The Lord takes notice of him. Do you know how to navigate and point that person to Jesus Christ? And Philip opened his mouth. Loved ones, we need to be making sure that we're prepared to preach Jesus in those divine appointments that the Lord may give us, those divine interruptions, right? And said, now while Paul was waiting for them in Athens, his spirit was being provoked within him as he was beholding the city full of idols. It was filled with idolatry, but yet that did not discourage Paul from doing what he Epicurean and Stoic philosophers who oh gosh. What is it speaking about what they believe? And Paul stood in the midst of the Aeropagus and said, Men of Athens, I observe that you are very religious in all respects. Right? Therefore, having overlooked the times of ignorance, God is now declaring to men that all everywhere should repent, because He has fixed a day in which He will judge the world in righteousness. But others said, Yeah, we we shall hear you again concerning this. You can use general revelation, but make sure you still point them back to the scriptures. And so hopefully you guys still have that in your notes to refer to. The natural man cannot appraise spiritual things. And she had an Egyptian maid whose name was Hagar. bearing children. Moreover, the angel of the Lord said to her, I will greatly multiply your descendants, so that they shall be too many to count. Sarah's maid, Where have you come from, and where are you going? He does not want you tasting the liberty of Jesus Christ. Remind them, no sir, your obligation is to love the Lord your God first and foremost. Tax to whom tax is due, custom to whom custom, fear to whom fear, honor to whom honor. Your own nation and the chief priest delivered you up to me. Okay? And do not fear their intimidation, and do not be troubled. Teaching them to observe all that I commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age We are in a spiritual battle. Praying at the same time for us as well, that God may open up to us a door for the Word, so that we may speak forth the mystery of Christ, for which I have also been imprisoned We have to guard ourselves. Whew, yeah, I I've I I've gotten a nickname already. is that it's hot people are expecting to see everything the same way and we just have to understand that we're not and we need to be pointing deeper to Christ and scripture took me back is that uh often, you know, we use that scripture to talk about the relationship in marriage and and how we supposed to love our spouse. how we supposed to deal with each other in ministry. The that that that love chapter context is is is is responding to one another in ministry and in church, how we supposed to I mean they're arguing literally over who their who their teacher is. They're worshiping over there and it's just beating through the walls. Thank you for for sharing. Um, you know, all sin is offensive in God's eyes, right? Right? couple of minutes. That's a sad mood. same thing. To work this out. And Lord, we just uh thank you so much for this opportunity to be reminded of your word that we are in desperate need of you. And who would be able to stand before you? God, burden our hearts in such a way that we will pray even more fervently for them so that they might come to know the truth as you have opened our eyes to the truth. And for your glory. all of you who have uh persevered thus far. But ultimately, there's been a lot of you know good uh good conversations, good questions, and we're continuing to learn, we're continuing to grow You must deal with sin. are, you know, in this time, it can be somewhat confusing, it can be somewhat um challenging, but remember we have the truth. Is hopefully what you already know, right? Okay? You need to make sure you know that. And so these are some verses that obviously you definitely want to be committing to memory. You know why? Okay, and so um I'm not gonna spend a lot of time um on the gospel presentation because hopefully you all know this, right? Okay? No man comes to the Father except through me. justify them before this holy and righteous God. world unto the light of Jesus Christ. But God wants his word to go forth. So easily recall Jonah, right? That we're thinking that there's a certain group that isn't worthy of the gospel, that there's a certain class that is not worthy of the gospel. But again, it's very important that we examine ourselves and make sure that we're not being like a Jonah. And rather than rejoicing in what God has done, look at Jonah's response. Forgive the uh New York accent there. The same God that had compassion on you, should he not show compassion to your neighbor? But now the faith of this centurion, he's like, Lord, I am not worthy to have you to come under my roof. But he did not answer her a word. So look at the example of Christ, loved ones, when we are tempted to think that because we're saved now, we could just overlook those who are unsaved. Woman, if you know who you're talking to, oh man, you gotta love it. Are you taking the time to point them to Jesus? And regardless of what they have done, regardless of what their past may have been, like that woman in John 4, the Samaritan woman, she had a checkered past, right? Okay? Man, you can't save yourself and you are not God. Why? That Jesus Christ alone is Lord. that, you know, depending on who we're talking to, that we're gonna make it palatable. Um making sure that we make it a little less offensive. Now the passage of scripture which he was reading was this. That's the whole point. But they needed to understand that Christ is the Messiah. And I love picking up the verse one where he says, now when they had traveled through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews. Paul is walking through the city and he's just taking note of what's going on out here. It doesn't throw him off. philosophizing about this and that. Right? The God who made the world and all things in it, since he is Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made with hands. He's listening to what what the poets are saying. For in him we live and move and exist, and even as some of your own poets have said, for we are also his offspring. Through a man whom he has appointed, having furnished proof to all men, and by raising him from the dead. But look at God. Look at what God did. How God may use you. Because if they're not saved, Proverbs 28. Proverbs 28. Lo and behold, and after Abram had lived ten years in the land of Canaan, Abram's wife Sarah took Hagar the Egyptian, her maid, and gave her to her husband Abram as his wife. And we see that in Exodus 2, chapters, excuse me, chapter 2, verses 23 to 25, right? Here we go. The cries of his people rose up to heaven and God took notice of it. God still takes notice of people who are oppressed, but you need to help that person understand that your greatest oppressor is not the white man. What if this individual that you're talking to, you know that they went down to the Capitol that day? Yes, they are. Jesus answered, are you saying this on your own initiative? That I might not be delivered up to the Jews. Therefore he who resists authority has opposed the ordinance of God, and they who have pos and they who have opposed will receive condemnation upon themselves. Do you want to have no fear of authority? It can be very disturbing. We were not supposed to go into the capital and storm it and take it over like the city of Jericho. Don't engage in debate. Does that make Christianity evil? That only gives glory to how much God should throw all of us into an eternal torrent of hell. Whoa, whoa, whoa, okay. When it comes to politics. I know you've heard me throw this joke around, but I'll keep throwing it around until you start walking in obedience to it. And if we have the greatest evangelist Paul saying, pray for me so that I can make the gospel clear, what do you think you need to be doing? Open a door for my loved ones to hear your gospel. That you are Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hades shall not overpower it. His church will last forever. Does not take into an account a wrong suffered, does not rejoice in unrighteousness, but rejoices with the truth. And now we have an opportunity to show that same love for this lost and fallen world so that they may come to know of this magnificent and glorious God. Right? uh kind of brought me back and kind of made me kinda think about that kind of thing. To kind of elevate ourselves amongst one another. And just pleading with them. a simple response of someone not accepting the salvation. It's not, you know, and and it can be discouraging. God, for those whom you may have us interacting with for a very brief moment, help us. And you will keep us in a perfect peace whose mind is stayed on you. Praise God. Thank you for this opportunity. We need your grace to be courageous to do the work that you've called us to do. Let's go before the Lord in prayer, and then we can get started. Make sure that you are proclaiming. And then of course you can't forget to call that person to repentance. Alright? There's a certain uh whatever political or social or ethnic group that is not worthy of the gospel. Praise God. Remember to be a good listener. And he had come to Jerusalem to worship. And Philip the Evangelist, he knew the word so that he was able to even understand that the Ethiopian eunuch was reading about the suffering servant, and now he was able to point him to Jesus Christ. Know who you're talking to. Right? And that these individuals here came to faith. And this is the same God who does not change. Uh racism. For where is your argument for acting unruly? Whenever you're confronting someone with the truth, sometimes they're gonna be looking for that, they're gonna be bobbing and weaving, they're gonna be looking for a way out of that discussion, you know? Right? In order that I may make it clear in the way I ought to speak. Yeah, I have a I have a quick comment there there, Sean. What is gonna last? love and respond and to to each other in church when it comes to the the believer. Right? that you would not stand before him on your own because you won't you won't make it. So great question, Marg, and thank you for sharing. that God's word divides. Thank you again for your attention, loved ones, and uh I hope and pray that you were encouraged. I hope that you are already. And obviously, Jonah had a problem with that. They have a Black Lives Matter sign on their lawn. Take notice of them. We need to be making sure that we take notice of those who could be easily overlooked. Here it is. And people um in the whole town of Samaria, in the whole city of Samaria, they were hearing the gospel and being saved. Are you studying God's Word well enough that if someone asks you a question in the Bible, you will know how to navigate in that divine interruption, in that divine appointment? Alright. So as we're listening to people and as we're engaging with them, we can point them unto Christ. Excuse me, I missed my place here. And now, obviously, after assessing, Paul knew who these Epicurean and Stoic philosophers, he knew what they believed They may refer to you as, oh, you're believing the the religion of your oppressor. Romans 1, picking up at verse 18, for the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who suppress the truth and unrighteousness. being understood through what has been made, so that they are without excuse. Here we go. Okay? Picking up at verse 33. Anyone who may feel that just because things are not going the way that they would want it to go, that that gives them justification to act unruly and rebellious? It's even worse when you're doing it and you're trying to stick Jesus onto it. Seeing Jesus signs at the at the at the Capitol riots. And they're invoking the name of Jesus. See I it's so important for us to have a proper understanding of Scripture. Philippians chapter 3, verse 20, for our citizenship is in heaven, from which we also We're here and we can't help but deal with what we see, right? Um so don't don't you know don't get caught up, don't try to debate. That's not gonna last. And if I give all my possessions to feed the poor, and if I deliver my body to be burned, but do not have love, it profits me nothing. us to scripture completely. So I appreciate that. Oh, I was sitting here trying to figure out whether or not this is a question or a comment. how to direct him back to just just the word. And I don't I don't know how to get his eyes well of course it's prayer and of course it's the Lord, but just when I talk to him, I don't know what to say. That's out of the key. Right? But as you are the vine and we are the branches, we need your constant nourishment. But I know it works both ways. For your amazing grace. Right? Um John 4 and the Lord exchanging with the Samaritan woman, right? Are we pointing, uh regardless of what position they may hold, right? And she heard the good news, and look how the Lord used her. And now as you do that, there are some guardrails that we need to be making sure that we're not going over, right? And that he appeared to Cephas and then to the twelve. God's word will not return to him void. Okay? Where you are in the Lord or whether or not um whether or not you know the Lord altogether. He's preaching Christ, but he's also going to the scriptures. And he would point to Jesus Christ. And so he pointed to the natural rev, excuse me, the special revelation of God, which is different from how he interacted on Mars Hills when he knew that he was dealing with a bunch of philosophers, Gentiles, right, in Acts chapter 17. You can be used to point this individual to the truth of his word. Justice and social justice. As Romans 1 chapter, excuse me, Romans chapter 1 teaches us, they are suppressing the truth and righteousness, right? Thus says the Lord, let not a wise man boast of his wisdom, and let not the mighty man boast of his might. Loved ones, we have the mind of Christ. Stop rejecting what God has made evident to you. You could also take them to John chapter 18, verse 36. For because of this you also pay taxes, for rulers are servants of God, devoting themselves to this very thing. Right? They're watching us. Point him back to the grace of God. Going back to when the Lord was interacting with the Samaritan woman. Don't try to sanitize or sugarcoat history, right? You think that this is going to be, what do you think? We are ambassadors for Christ. If I'm really changed, I don't care who you are, what you've done. Colossians 2. Hey Sean. shared with him some things from the gospel. By pointing them to what they most what they need most desperately, which is the word of God. Right? They have a responsibility. as you're trying to proclaim the gospel to this uh to whoever it is that you're encountering. And so, you know, and thinking about again, just I love how oh man He is in Israel, he is in the land of the chosen people, and yet this Roman centurion demonstrated great faith, and not the very same people that were the chosen people of God. He just points her to the one who she needs to know, right? But particularly, I want to make sure that we remember that when we are presenting the gospel, that we remember to use scripture. And we think of I I think of Paul in Galatians chapter two. Those who would have us to water down the gospel to make it acceptable for them. And his interaction with the Ethiopian eunuch in Acts excuse me, Acts chapter 8. And so here we see, uh picking up at verse 25. He was listening to him. What if you should come across someone who is a critical race theorist? Alright. Praise God. They're so bent on justice. Praise God. Because that which is known about God is evident within them. Oh man, we're still paying for that today, Abram. God taking notice of the the widow and the orphan. Okay? Okay? Remind them. is more important than being obedient to God and his word. Okay? But my words shall not pass away. Give a defense of the hope that is within you because people are watching your life and they want to know why do you how is it that you still have joy in this crazy world? So when we want to just skip past judges, God puts it in there. Don't despair. I don't care who they are, right? Praise God, they can't refuse your prayers. You know, you think I you think I came out of the womb, you know, just wanting to love Jesus? And so it's just um, you know, and not putting so much weight on yourself. The Lord's word will not return to the void. Right? We have a great high priest, and we are eternally grateful for your precious Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord and our God. Man needs to understand that. And it was for his glory, right, that he took notice of her, but also that we would see the faith of this woman and that his disciples would see the faith of this woman And so these are some things that we need to be keeping our mind as we are oftentimes engaging with neighbors, co-workers, friends. Because he said it. And it says, He loves righteousness and justice. 1 Corinthians chapter 13. First of all, you know that they're not saved. Sometimes we like to stay in our little comfort zone, right? Jonah chapter four, even after he finally uh submitted and proclaimed the word And now God has to ask Jonah, do you have a good reason to be angry, Jonah? All right. And so we need to make sure that we're guarding ourselves from compromising the truth, right? I love this. He's taking mental notes. So we need to be taking notice. Romans chapter 13. Leading in prayer, he was at least respectful enough to take off his horn hat. Jeremiah chapter 8. There's some, I mean, let's be real. You can only go and make disciples by pointing people to Jesus Christ. I mean, does your heart break? But the laborers are few. Any other uh questions, comments? with us knowing that God's word is not going to come back to me. It's not man-centered, it's God-centered. No president can save you. Loved ones, we first of all cannot forget the same God that demonstrated compassion and loving kindness to us, do we not desire Him to show that compassion and loving kindness to others? See that, loved ones? Kicked Hagar out of the house. May the wrong done me be upon you. You know that there are so many people groups that have not have not even had an opportunity to open up this book that we so often take for granted We have the promise of Christ. Those Epicurean and Stoic philosophers, they thought that what they were abusing about all day long was gonna last It won't last. Not glorifying your past life, but knowing that you can share that and say, look what God delivered me from. I wanted what I wanted. Wow. Uh oh. The Lord also took notice of that Syrophoenician woman in Matthew chapter 15. You can point them to the fact that God is also a God of justice. They may think they understand justice, but they don't understand justice from God's perspective The Lord Jesus Christ bore our sins on his body on the cross. You want justice? And I just I have to tell you, loved ones, it's um it's a challenge, right? Right? I'm so glad you asked. Our hearts are idle factories. All scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for training in righteousness. And this is why I keep beating this drum. And when we start acting like the world because of external things and worldly things, that's a stumbling block. Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Spirit And you gotta end it with love never fails. But at the end of the day, you're a sinner standing before a holy and righteous God. Yeah, yeah. So it's like the whole work can be there's thank the gospel and lost God sovereignty. You gotta love the Lord, man. Absolutely love to do, which is point people unto the God of the scriptures. Whether it's rioting and looting and burning down stores or whether it's storming a government building. I mean, my goodness. We have to remember that. Excuse me, Matthew chapter 8. But don't be intimidated by it. Boy, pictures won't pictures want to be stuck together today. This individual that you may be talking to, they need to understand. John chapter eighteen, verse thirty-six You come across someone who thinks that they are justified Right? And so don't be intimidated and don't try to sugarcoat it because God doesn't. And when we in the church are treating one another the way how the Lord has commanded us to treat one another, the world takes notice of that. People need to get a whiff of this. And so this uh individual whom uh whomever you're sharing the gospel with, they need to understand their um their true disposition before a holy and righteous God. But God's word is preeminent. Being then the offspring of God, we ought not to think that the divine nature is like gold or silver or stone, an image formed by the art and thought of man. And so what if you're dealing with an individual who believes that they're a victim, who believes that they're oppressed? Show them that the God of the scriptures takes notice of those who are oppressed. Please go into my maid. Say, guess what? Come across an individual who thinks that being patriotic My hope is Jesus Christ. People used Christianity for their selfish gains, for their selfish motives And there's some information that people have and they're they're just coming because they just want to overwhelm you with, oh, you think your Christianity is so good? Because if it wasn't for God's grace, you would be lost in it too. Excuse me. Picking up at verse 21. Because Romans 10. Amen. What do you do? Think about Genesis chapter sixteen, where Sarai had Take them to God's word. from which also we eagerly wait for a savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. It is what it is. Our relationship is out of this world. There are people who have never heard this word. All we have is Christ. And asking him if he's willing to go through the scriptures with you, if he's willing to just hear, you know? Alice father is a unbeliever. And that's hard. Because the Bible starts with God, right? Look at his response. Truly I say to you, I have not found such great faith with anyone in Israel. Amen. Throw those seeds. Verse 11, I love this. And now we see this man of God. Don't get caught up in this world, loved ones. Right? Right? May you be glorified in all that is said and is done. Look at the Lord Jesus Christ. He stays focused. For while I was passing through and examining the objects of your worship, I also found an altar with this inscription to an unknown God. Then she called the name of the Lord who spoke to her. And so what do you do with this individual that you're speaking to? And so, don't get caught up. Don't try to justify your rebellion. Amen. And we thank you so much that instead of pouring your wrath upon us and casting us into an eternity of torment, you poured your wrath out upon your son. And so the next question that I have for you is who are you proclaiming the gospel to? I'm hearing my wife saying, picture, right? And he stretched out his hand and touched him, saying, I am willing. So whose example do you most resemble? who would focus on and would oftentimes take notice of the ones that everyone was overlooking. 5. What if they're one of the uh Christian nationalists, right? And so just in case someone has it twisted and thinking that, you know, that there's a love country above the God who has caused them to live in this country. No, this is not our home. Or the split um of the Southern Baptist Convention, right? And so to conclude, don't forget your mission. Um God's will not come back good. And and you know, it's um it's so hard, right? But uh thank you all for your time. And that person needs to understand that even though God is sovereign, they still are responsible for what they do with that gospel. Now, don't you aim to be an offense because the gospel itself is offensive. Verse 34. And what God ordained for Israel to do, that does not mean that that's what America is supposed to do, right? They may have different opinions as it relates to critical race theories or or being a patriot. 8 to it that no one takes you captive through philosophy and empty deception, according to the tradition of men, according to the elementary principles of the world, rather than according to Christ. Right? Right? Morning Bill, yeah yeah, young morning, yeah. God took notice of her. Your greatest oppressor is sin. In um acting in a manner that is inconsistent with scripture. I mean there's video footage. This individual is stuck into thinking that it's all about the here and the now But the citizenship excuse me, but the citizenship that is of greater importance Thank you so much for the great exchange. You are responsible. I mean here is it he saw the great city of Nineveh repent at the preaching of his word, right? But we did not yield in subjection to them for even an hour, so that the truth of the gospel might remain with you. After saving, you know, 3,000 on the day of Pentecost, after saving, you know, 5,000 on this particular occasion, and saving the whole city of Samaria, here is it, the Lord takes notice of one man. Now the angel of the Lord found her by a spring of water in the wilderness by the spring on the way to shore. Yes. Yes. Because people they're offended by Christ. Just help me to be faithful, to present your gospel as clear as I can. We just commit the rest of this time unto you. God, you are just. There is no righteousness that that uh first of all that is they are unable to do any good on their own. Verse 21. The greatest injustice that was ever committed in all of humanity was an innocent man had to die. And so don't be intimidated when people come to you with some facts. Right? Hey, um had uh uh one quick uh thing uh when you when we talk about how we respond to those in the church and um I mean Christ, he said, You think I came to bring peace? And then picking up at verse five. That's the reason why she would come to the to the well much later than everyone else. Now you need to assess your audience. You gotta always go back to the Lord. Here we go. Pilate therefore entered again into the praetorium and summoned Jesus and said to him, Are you the king of the Jews? What is gonna last? Yeah, just appreciate it, Sean. Hey, is that uh young Mike Moody there? I don't know if you guys could hear uh is that the worship team practicing? But when we went hiking and a couple of the guys like here were hiking with us and I did test. You're missing the picture here, right? So so who do you most resemble? With all the statistics you may have, that's great, but it's not going to save a lost soul. Picking up at um Galatians chapter 2, picking up at verse 1, this says, Then after an interval of 14 years I went up to I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, taking Titus along also. And if this person is unsaved, they don't not only do they not understand justice, but they are suppressing I mean, we could think about the Crusades. Just because someone may um you know have different opinions In Colossians chapter 4. God's light shines brightest in the darkness. He needs to understand that because of the thrice holiness of God, he needs to see himself like the prophet Isaiah. Okay. And Paul did this often, and I love this. He's like, okay, to the unknown God, huh? And so you are interacting with this individual, right? Right? Where is your justification? It's unacceptable. Don't forget that despite your best efforts, remember everything is to be done in love. And so we could get discouraged when we're like, Lord, I gave the gospel. And this will help navigate you through the gospel. And beginning from the scripture, he preached Jesus to him. Evil men do not understand justice, but those who seek the Lord understand all things. Are you ready to stand before this God and face his just wrath? And so it always has to go back to the Lord. God's word has a lot to deal with that as well. Remind them that Romans chapter 13 instructs us to submit to government Love is patient. So we need to simply do that because we love God. And so how that whole relationship of evangelism and the sovereignty of God work, that is beyond my comprehension. Lord, please continue to not only sanctify us in your truth, but continue to renew our minds. And so, you know, there's not um if if you can't if you can't um remember anything God may be using you to proclaim the gospel to them. Are you going to uh be intimidated because they may refer to you as an idle babbler? You shall love your neighbor as yourself. Amen. I hope that this is something that you're already in the habit of doing. Because the gospel is for everyone. There was still that joined and still that there were there were those that believed. Even though they call them an idol babbler, even though, you know, some sneered, some snickered, some said, ah yeah, we'll hear you some more on this later on. We don't have time to debate. That's not gonna help you. You know, just helping them understand that you once were dead in your transgressions You're about to lose that bet there, uh Mike. That's hard to swallow. Jonah chapter 4. No one takes notice of the lepers. And his disciples came to him and kept asking him, saying, Send her away, for she is shouting out after us. Excuse me, Jeremiah chapter 29. Here is it Paul. Right? None of us would be able to. 17 teaches us that faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of Christ. No problem. He who knew no sin became sin on our behalf. Perhaps I shall obtain children through her. At this point, it seems like he is beginning to shut us out. But it's all part of God's sovereignty. But it's just reminding you of what you already know. Do what is good, and you will have praise from the same, for it is a minister of God to you for good. I get so upset with myself when I get distracted. And and trust me, it's it's hard, right? And it's like, that's not your job. And so we hope and we pray that the Lord would bring that person to repentance, but he may use it against them in judgment. I'm going to take notice of this Canaanite woman. And of course, never compromise the truth. And based on his listening to him, he was able to understand where this Ethiopian eunuch was coming from. And so in Acts chapter 13, right, we see Paul, as is his custom, whenever he's going to the synagogue. He's taking note in all of these things. But some men joined him and believed, among whom also were Dionysus the Areathgite, and a woman named Damaris, and others with them. Even Paul is using general revelation to point to the true and living God, and it almost seems like a lost effort. Even when the people were in bondage in Babylon. No problem. We are fighting for souls. Who was taking bets? Thank you so much that you know that we are but dust. It is the power of God unto salvation. Right? And behold, there was an Ethiopian eunuch, a court official of Candace, queen of the Ethiopians, who was in charge, who was in charge of all her treasure You know, Pastor Gabe had given us a wonderful illustration of what social justice looks like and what true biblical justice looks like. But as it is, my kingdom is not of this realm. Jesus Christ Himself did not ordain his servants to fight for him in a way that's inconsistent with his word. But remember it's only by God's grace that we're not like everyone else. Our promised land is not this world. Alright. I'm not perfect, but I serve a perfect God You must love the Lord. Who shall relate his generation? We have his word. Picking up at verse one. If I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, but do not have love, I have become a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal. And he was returning and sitting in his chariot and was reading the prophet Isaiah. And so um I missed my place. Now all the Athenians and the strangers visiting there used to spend their time in nothing other than telling or hearing something new. They're just spending their whole day just philosophizing and and and just continuing to espouse their truth, right? He does not change. See, loved ones, we can't just talk the gospel. Heaven and earth will pass away, but not my word. But praise God, he kept that in his word. And we thank you that you have shown us that because of your holiness Amen. We are to point those who are rotten with sin to the salt, right? All right. No. Be compassionate towards those who, regardless of what worldview they may be lost in, be compassionate towards them. So praise God. Amen. Okay? God gave Jonah that wonderful assignment to go and preach the gospel to the Ninevehites. And here they say others, uh, he seems to be a proclaimer of strange deities because he was preaching Jesus and the resurrection. Another verse to keep in mind. Matthew chapter 22, verses 37 through 40. You're going to present this as evidence to God when you're standing before him on judgment day? And remember, don't get distracted. Think about whatever the popular philosophy is of today. I think that today there are so many of us that are just looking at the looking to try to get people to change their minds or And I did not want God. And should I not have compassion on Nineveh, the great city in which there are more than 120,000 persons, who do not know the difference between their right and their left hand, as well as many animals? She now goes into town and now she's telling everybody about Jesus. And so, some other things to consider when we are presenting the gospel. So Sarai said to Abraham, Now behold, the Lord has prevented me from And so if say, for example, you're talking to someone and they their love of country unfortunately may supersede their love of the gospel. And I'm so thankful for 2 Timothy 3. Uh a few people call me Jeremiah. Right? How would you present the gospel to them? Okay? Right? And so therefore, he's going to oftentimes put us in situations in which we are the vessel that is being used to proclaim his gospel. But the Lord was just using this example to test her faith and to teach his disciples. Or like this Syrophoocian woman, this Canaanite woman, regardless of what their ethnicity, point them to Jesus Christ. He knew his audience. And we see that happening on there's nothing new under the sun. Or maybe your neighbors or or maybe your co-workers. I don't know if any of you have seen it. Thinking about that God's word in defenses. And and and again, right? Yeah. It's Christ-centered. Okay? Um but but you understand what I'm saying, right? Look at God in human flesh. It will prosper in the thing for which he sent it. Let me take you to Jeremiah chapter 9. What have you done? Love you, brother. And so never compromise the truth. Thanks a lot. I gave my maid into your arms, but when she saw that she had conceived, I was despised in her sight. But let every person be in subjection to the governing authorities, for there is no authority except from God, and those which exist are established by God. We are pilgrims. We're here to make disciples. We can't be distracted by the world's events. Amen. Would you please help us to hear your word this day and to continue to hear your word and to walk in obedience? In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Right? And when he had entered Capernaum, a centurion came to him, entreating him, and saying, Lord, my servant is lying paralyzed at home, suffering great pain. God took notice of his own people when they were oppressed for 400 years in slavery They're waiting for you to slip. The laborers are few. Love is kind and is not jealous. But I definitely want to uh uh definitely thank the Lord for Pastor Gabe and for Danny and for Elias and for their efforts in taking to such a big topic Well, good morning, everyone. And when he had come down from the mountain, great multitudes followed him. It's uh soft on the exterior, right? 5 teaches us that they don't understand justice. No, sir. And praise God for the love that He demonstrated towards us and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Just really appreciate you uh bringing that word to us. And each very comes to her periodically been hiking with this for the last three months. Um but that's where we have to trust in the Lord with all our heart. I think we typically start wrapping up uh at about this time, but um There's nothing that they can do to save themselves, right? And so we need to be making sure that, you know, um that we're spending quality time proclaiming the gospel, being effective ambassadors for Christ So oftentimes we um in our communication with one another, we could just overlook the importance of being a good listener. He'll send someone else to water it. Your most self-righteous deeds, it will not save you. But it greatly displeased Jonah. And Jesus went away from there and withdrew to the district of Tyre and Sidon. Paul oftentimes gave his testimony, right? He was led as a sheep to slaughter, and as a lamb before its sharer is silent, so he does not open his mouth She kicked Hagar out of the house. Or did others tell you about me? Because my hope is not in this world. That only testifies to the fact of how much we need a Savior You can still pray for them. That's not true. And may we grow in love for you and for your word, but also for one another and for this lost and fallen world. Axe trap to eight. You love them. I mean look at this classroom right now. Yes. And um, you know, just please keep praying, right? The way how he just so lovingly, you know. And so he would often reference Old Testament texts that pointed to Christ as Messiah. You have the truth. And now some other guardrails to be mindful of. Picking up at verse 13. Who was taking wages? We all stand on equal ground at the cross. It sounds beautiful. You know? Yes. The gospel is of first importance. And she said, I am fleeing from the presence of my mistress, Sarai. It's unacceptable. You know, she was trying to throw Jesus off and trying to get him on a bunny trail. Lord, please open up a door for my neighbors to hear the gospel. Now even though evangelism and sovereignty and the sovereignty of God seem like heavy things And he said, I'm not going to Nineveh. And so when they had solemnly testified and spoken the word of the Lord, they started back to Jerusalem and were preaching the gospel to many villages of the Samaritans. Stop rejecting what God has made plain to you. So don't forget, loved ones. Thank you so much for the gift of salvation. And so you know what is the gospel. And you're like, oh boy, here we go. Wherever the Lord has you, wherever the Lord has placed you, for such a time as this, make sure that you are faithful to proclaiming his word. So know your audience, know who you're talking to, right? He remembered his covenant and he remembered his chosen people But sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts, always being ready to give a def to make a defense to everyone who asks you to give an account for the hope that is in you. But you think that that's an excuse for your rejecting the true and living God? Um I'll I'll leave it up to everyone else to make their comments and questions. Amen. Now, obviously there are um degrees of sin in which God considers an abomination. And remember to point to Jesus as being the only savior. You need to bow down to the one who is. No, no, no. We are able to comprehend things that unfortunately those who are unsaved do not and are incapable of understanding For God made it evident to them. Thou art a God who sees. Oh, bless the Lord. Our Father and our God, we thank you and we praise you. Everybody used to run away from the lepers, but God took notice of him. Like that centurion. He calls him out into the to the dry, arid heat of the desert. We need to be taking mental notes. But we have the mind of Christ. I was like, don't Don't bring Jesus into that. That's what's going to last forever. You need a defense attorney because right now your evidence is going to burn and you will burn along with it This is the young Mike Moody. Um I was listening to Alistair Bag last week and he was Excuse me. Right? But don't put any confidence in your abilities. And so um yeah, and so we pray. But thanks be unto you that we have a mediator, one who lives to make intercession for us. Help us to worship you in spirit and in truth. We need to be making sure that we are studying God's word. And he's using it as ammunition to point them back to the true and living God. Picking up at verse 18. So don't despair. I think it's just a a comment now that I think about it. Thank you. But they're there because they wanted to be there. And so people need to understand who God is. Okay? We are here to make disciples. Jonah had a problem with that because he knew who the Ninevites were, right? You know, thanks, but no thanks. Okay? There is none. We are passing through. Paul is not putting any confidence in himself And so, Lord, we just uh hope and pray that you would continue to use us as ambassadors for your kingdom Come on, come on Right Be cleansed. Stop suppressing the truth and righteousness Now Sarai, Abra Abram's wife, had borne him no children. Remember first and foremost, your gospel presentation should always begin with God. Continuing to point to the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. We like to stay in our little comfort zone and we don't want uh to travel outside of our comfort zone He's like, God, I know you were gracious. It's my New York accent. Are you a Jonah? You need to be set free. He's taking note of what's happening in the culture. Alright. So praise God. Take your eyes off the social issues and just look at the word and let's make sure actually that you you actually are a believer. The fellow said to me real quick in the clock. And Jesus answered, Here we go. No, sir. And I know it's hard. And so that's what we're going to be holding fast to. Right? Amen. You are believing some sort of false religion or some sort of false doctrine that has you thinking that you can get to heaven on your own merit. He knew he was talking to men who knew the word. All right. You do the same thing that you should always be doing, pointing them back to the scriptures. And so there's there is no difference between the Old Testament God and the New Testament God, as people try to cause us to think, right? Let's not try to sanitize or sugarcoat history just because I say, hey, okay, no problem, I'll be the weeping prophet, you know. Praise God. Alright, alright. I don't want to just standing over the pot and none of that. And so that you don't lose sight of what you already know, but also remembering that the gospel is sufficient Be it done for you as you wish. But she came and began to bow down before him, saying, Lord, help me Alright, Jeremiah chapter 9, verse 23. Right? And left to ourselves, Lord, we are nothing. Right? It is what it is. The black church, the white church, the Asian church, the Latin church. It's very important. The gospel is for everyone. And he will be a wild donkey of a man. And uh and and and so so uh It's uh definitely definitely a pleasure to be with you all. First of all, you need to make sure you know what is the gospel, right? Right? Okay? The gospel is intended to be offensive. For his life is removed from the earth. Know who you're talking to, right Of himself or of someone else? But here are some verses that you could definitely keep in mind. Right? So why are we getting caught up with things of this world with one another? Praise God for that word that Pastor Kirby brought last week. So that was one thing that kind of uh Okay? Right? And God will use it. And Abram listened to the voice of Sarai. Your greatest oppressor is the devil, and he wants to keep you in bondage. Let them know in Matthew chapter 24, verse 35, heaven and earth will pass away. And they'll be like, ah, see? We could think about um you know we could think about white slave owners that use Christianity to justify slavery. But we have a God who is over the harvest, so we need to be praying. It's hard when you love someone and they just can't see. Yeah. I mean, right now he's uh taken away from a bustling ministry, right? And he said, Well, how could I unless someone guides me? That's how you guys get down out here. What are you gonna do? So Sarai treated her harshly, and she fled from her presence. The truth is that his word is not going to come back void, includes You know, it's a lot to kind of wrap our minds and our our arms around. Oh, that was such a rebuke. Everyone else may overlook her, but I've taken notice of her Point into the scriptures. No, sir. Your job is to be faithful Or maybe he's using me to water it. And so, Father, I ask that you would multiply your grace towards me as I endeavor to teach from your word But that's that's the example that we need to follow It will accomplish that which pleases him. If someone is so, you notice that they're bent on And we can get caught up in thinking it's real comfortable here. Just point them to the truth, right? I mean you gotta think about Paul and him saying And and you know, again, um, I mean But uh yeah. Favorable, perfect response would be that His words Grant us your sap to be the people of God that you call us to be, so that we will be effective in the work that you've called us to do. Has God put you in a circumstance where you have a neighbor? He is the only one that is worthy of all your love and affection. And who is there to harm you if you prove zealous for what is good? And like, who cares? All I have is Christ. Hey, Super Marvel. Right? And may we press on for his glory. I love his interaction with the centurion. We look like United Nations, man. But we have an opportunity to show them the love and compassion of God We need to be making sure that we are proclaiming scripture. All of God's word is sufficient. On these two commandments depend the whole law and the prophets. The same person who was the shaman or whatever, the guy with the with the Viking horns. I just lost some money because I knew you were gonna cry. And he became and he became angry You're missing the picture I'm saying picture. Philip was listening to this Ethiopian eunuch. Our promised land is out of this world. Because they did not want to um submit to the abolition of slavery. Like he said things in no sort. Their most righteous deeds are but filthy rags before a holy and righteous God. Your co-worker? But she said, Yes, Lord, but even the dogs feed on the crumbs which fall from their master's table Okay? Imagine being ready to talk to people about Jesus, and this is how they refer to you. You need to repent. And Jesus came up and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. And because of that, we oftentimes may be faced with a fight. Bless the Lord. So what you were saying is that we need to go out and protect the Bible Okay? He felt that he knew better Because of what she had done, no one else wanted to take notice of her. It needs to be stuck in your throat a little bit, right? Psalm 33, verse 5. The earth is full of the loving kindness of the Lord. Let me take you to Jeremiah chapter 9. God takes notice of those who are oppressed. Pilate answered, I'm not a Jew, am I? Um any of you have any questions, comments? So that we would learn, right? Pray for those opportunities that you may have with meeting with your nephew When's the light gonna shine on this person's heart? You just don't uh, you know, now that you've heard the truth, now you're responsible. And immediately his leprosy was cleansed Oh, praise God And so, are you proclaiming the gospel, loved ones? Don't water down the gospel. Okay? Did I just how about we just say that every scripture right now obviously is one that I love, right? You point them unto Christ. You know? We have the promise of Christ, Matthew chapter 16, verse 18. And I got through without crying. Alright, so in thinking about God's stop when he comes to him now. We're not responsible for the outcome. I came to bring a sword. Because we're in a culture, we're in a world where we like instant results. Remember that God is holy. I'm going to Tarshis. Never compromise the truth. Right? Love does not brag and is not arrogant. Hey Sean, this is Willie. And and and one of the things that he brought out, a very salient point that kind of And so if um if you're engaging in a conversation with someone who you know And the gospel is the only thing that will set you free. This is a desert road. And I love. The angel of the Lord said to her, further, Behold, you are with child, and you shall bear a son. So Who's that? Yeah. I know you were compassionate. And of course we think of Because the Jews say you guys worship over here, but we Samaritans, we worship over here It's first and foremost, this person that you're talking to. What do you do? The Lord says, and seek the welfare of the city, where I have sent you into exile. God's word And I think it's hard for some of us to and when I'm seeing in the church You guys may be with Paul, but I'm a Cephas, you know. You know, you want to be storing these, you know, storing God's word in your heart. Regardless of what job they may have. 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Okay? This is the greatest and foremost commandment. And praise God. He wants you to see the good, the bad, and the ugly of his own chosen people. Don't despair. No, sir. We see people doing that today. Okay. God ordained Israel to do that at the time when Israel was given the promise to go into the promised land That's our passport 16, right? There's nothing new under the sun. He claims to be a Christian and I don't know how to We are here to proclaim his word. Paul would reference Old Testament texts If you see family members and certain things that they love to post on social media, take note of those things What are some of the things that they believe? And everybody took off their hats. And so, you know But praise God, he did not leave me like that. Thank you so much for the gift of eternal life. Alright? You know? It's a beautiful thing when you hear of this Saul to Paul conversion. If you know that this person has obviously never been in the church, And you you can determine that, okay Thank you. You know The gospel is telling But when it's gonna knock you out. And the spirit said to Philip, Go up and join this chariot. For she said, Have I even remained alive here after seeing him? I mean the truth of the matter is, unfortunately, Christianity has been misused. I know uh brother Mike Moody talked about um the slave bible um a couple of weeks ago. He shows us exactly even his prophets, right? Remember that, loved ones. And you will get the glory in how you seem fit. But Lord, you know our frame. Okay? And behold, a leper came to him and bowed down to him and said, Lord, if you are willing. Because God is concerned. We're not going to package it in a way So you never know Our mind has been renewed. 1 Peter 3. God didn't sanitize his word. Don't forget your mission. Won't last. Yes. All right, sorry. Okay? God will use it. And Sarai said to Abraham, May the wrong done Look at what the Lord says to Jeremiah. America is not Israel. I know it's hard. Or win the bet. Who is the God of the scriptures? Do you have a good reason to be angry? Right? I mean I was disturbed We better be living out God's word. Oh it's a college group. And I am just wanting to plead with you. I I know I've I've been guilty of that, Marg, where I'm like, come on Lord We were talking about that. So here Paul Paul is even My kingdom is not of this world. Render to all what is due to them. Ah, I knew you were just like me. Thank you for sharing that, Willie, right? Come and see the man who has told who knows everything about me. No problem. You think you know what justice is? You're my brother in Christ. It's not you, it's the Lord. Amen. You need a defense attorney Um And her daughter was healed at once. Your knee needs to bow and your tongue needs to confess People need to hear the word of Christ. But not even Titus, who was with me, though he was a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised And they think that they're justified because they're fighting for this country. That the Lord teaches us all scripture. Picking up the verse 2, devote yourself to prayer, keeping alert in it with an attitude of thanksgiving. Uh they said it couldn't be done, but you were pretty much on time. But I was thinking about a nephew of mine who's Anyone else? Fill us with your Holy Spirit and help us to remember that we are your ambassadors Remember that man is guilty. Okay? Who are you proclaiming the gospel to? At the preaching of God's word, rather That person on social media And, you know, I would just want to hang out and just enjoy and just reap the benefits. And here we have it, verse 34. My hope is a living hope. And so don't try to excuse it. Right? And leave it at that and just watch for God God Lord, we need to fix our eyes upon you So I spoke to him, presented the gospel, and when I was done, I overheard other guys doing this Or are you the one who is greater than Jonah? Okay, here we go. And he made from one every nation of mankind to live If you know that you're dealing with someone who has been in the church. Whether you're doing it in the name of someone who was unjustly killed. We all stand on equal ground at the cross. Because as uh as we often Now everyone may not come to the gospel. And I love uh How did Paul know that? Now when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some began to sneer. Let not a rich man boast of his riches, but let him who boasts boast of this. For since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes, his eternal power, and divine nature have been clearly seen Therefore it is necessary to be in subjection not only because of wrath, but also for conscience' sake If someone's love of country supersedes their love for the Lord Jesus Christ, point them to the scriptures And can I just also exhort you to show grace. I don't care how bad it gets out there. And Paul still referred to them as saints Right? But God gets the increase. They did not want to hear the truth. Because we are the salt of the earth And we all know how that ended up, right? We have to guard ourselves from that, friends. Don't ever try to water down the gospel to make it acceptable for whoever it is you're talking to. That could be sometimes intimidating. So much of the Old Testament prophets talk about Don't forget. I just want to share that with you. Yes. Remember that God is our creator. And now you're all fired up. Because if you're not, you need to repent. Slow tank. And I love the example of Philip. And his heart and his spirit was provoked by all that he saw. Man, what an introduction, right? And by God's grace And don't forget to pray. As Pastor MacArthur says, I was a viper in diapers, right? And he arose and went They don't understand justice. Oh boy. But And he said to them, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart. Praise God. The Great Commission is not the great suggestion. Keep interceding on his behalf No. Yeah Christ alone is the only one that can save. And now we see later on in this interaction, right, between him and these What are you gonna do? Then the angel of the Lord said to her, Return to your mistress, and submit yourself to her authority At the end of the day, I'm like, I don't care what you think about I'll divide a whole household. Right? All right, good His hand will be against everyone, and every one's hand will be against him, and he will live to the east of all his brothers And the only way you can make disciples of Christ is by opening your mouth and pointing them to the gospel. Pray. I got through without crying. And so if they're refusing to hear the word Alright. What therefore you worship in ignorance, this I proclaim to you. You think you know what justice is? May the Lord judge between you and me. But if you do what is evil, be afraid, for it does not bear the sword for nothing, for it is a minister of good. Don't get distracted. Amen. Don't think that I said, Yeah. And a lot of the things that I'm going to share I knew that you were going to show compassion for these people, and I didn't want you to show compassion for them. For you are bringing some strange things to our ears, and we want to know therefore what these things mean. Let me point you to the true and living God. So Paul went out of their mist We're to give a defense of the hope that is within us. 15. And if you're confronted with some information, Or they got Biden, Harris. It's intended to, because you need to be shaken up out of the grave that you're in. Praise God that we are merely passing through. We need your grace to walk in obedience to what you have commanded us to do. Help us to pray more fervently for our neighbors, for our coworkers. That is the only thing that makes sinners acceptable in the eyes of a holy and righteous God. And he invited Philip to come up and sit with him. Are they worthy of hearing the gospel? The Lord saw right through it. Um and just showing him the love of Christ I am willing, be cleansed. But Jesus was right there. We are proclaiming the gospel. We don't know how God is going to use you and how he's going to use his word, but be faithful to proclaim it. We can go there real quick. It's a challenge when you see what's taking place in our world and it can be very shocking Um but again these are just some key verses to remember Woe is me, for I am undone. So we are able to understand what true justice is because God has his very spirit indwelling us. I don't know if you have any suggestions. Anyway, um Okay? And then he was able to preach Jesus to him. If all we have is Christ, that's more than enough. Let's pray. And that's that's what's gonna anchor us in these storms, right? All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God Cannot forget that Jesus is the only savior. For I delight in these things, declares the Lord That doesn't give us the right to be rude. Right? We need to be making sure that we're um not getting ahead of ourselves And so now in assessing your audience. We have a dual citizenship. 'Cause we we forget, right? Oh man. And God, we thank you for your word They need to repent and believe it, and that is the only thing that is going to They were the enemies of the children of Israel. Matthew chapter 15 Because he took time to notice as he was walking through the city, he was taking notes. Loved ones. He said, what if you spoke to this person talking about Well I said next time we Therefore now, O Lord, please take my life from me, for death is better to me than life. And God cried. Right? And it's in your precious Son's name in which we pray. That's what we're going to be anchoring ourselves in. We are here to point the loss. For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received Picking up at verse 16. Right? You don't have a clue And he said, Agar Uh bless you, brother. No, don't don't do it. That's all that matters. Loving one another. God, may it be a blessing unto your people. And I know that um, you know, first of all I just want to say, you know, thank you to And so this But even if you should suffer for the sake of righteousness, you are blessed. You need to be praying hard. Alright? Like, isn't it just clear to you? I'm wanting to see the scale fall from their eyes This Syrophoenician woman, because of her ethnicity God is concerned. Right? You point them unto his word. Does not act unbecomingly, does not seek its own, is not provoked. Bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. Okay. Pick it up. Well let me show you why it's not Unacceptable. But the Lord has a divine appointment for him. That's a stumbling block to the gospel. And we do pray for our loved ones who yet do not know Christ. He who knew no sin became sin on our behalf, so that we might And this is the this is who needs to be the main focus of your gospel presentation. Because I gotta love The gospel is like a, as I've heard This is all they spent their days doing I like it down here We need to be living in obedience to God's word because people are watching us He's showing us exactly who we are and where to learn from it. Are you gonna be intimidated? Are they saved? What if you How is it that you still have hope Because we are in a spiritual battle, loved ones. That we have been called out. That's God's grace. Not even hell can stop Christ's church. I can't save anyone So I brought it up in the block and the one person said Father in heaven, thank you Um I hope you're fired up. That's what the enemy la wants us to do. Everyone may not believe the gospel, but that's not your job We have to guard ourselves from that Right? If my kingdom were of this world, then my servants would be fighting. Excuse me Praise God Right? You Christians think you're so special. The Lord saw right through it. And I also say to you. It was close I mean, again They have a responsibility. Verse 18. Excuse me. Excuse me, Matthew 22. I don't have time for that And we need to be concerned Forgive me, loved ones. But that doesn't that doesn't thwart Paul. Don't try to sanitize it. The field is whitened for the harvest. No one stands above anyone else. They're born in sin And immediately the leprosy had left this man. If I'm not listening to what you're saying, how can I even know? The Lord had used Philip to proclaim the gospel. Psalm 33, verse 5. Kind of like um Because we just wait That's the greatest love of all. And so these are some verses, again, just to Right? And he We must not submit for even one hour. You have no clue. For rulers are not a cause of fear for good behavior, but for evil. And don't despair And don't forget AKA the bearded one. Okay? It's awesome. He does not want you being free. I mean, we could find all types of things You know, we've we've Your greatest oppressor is not some systemic Mm-hmm. Yeah, yeah. If we look upon the holiness of God, you will be undone. We are to go and make disciples. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. The Lord Jesus Christ? He's praying in the Capitol. Lord, please. That's all that matters. Right? That we remember to use scripture Come on. But the context is But the Lord took notice of her But it's not That doesn't give us the right to be offensive What are you going to do with that truth? But the Lord took notice of him But the Lord still used Paul. Yes, they are. Um And so as we And so that's what we're gonna hold on to. Because I want to ask you, are you proclaiming the gospel? And he said to him, I will come and heal them. Thinking about Amen And here's this Ethiopian eunuch. And and you know, again, Margot uh No. Are we showing the compassion of Jesus? Praise God. His amazing grace That's our that that should be our response. He wants us to be distracted. I mean, but that's the whole point. Okay? It is what it is. Oh man And that is a lie from the pit of hell. One man. It was filled with idolatry. It doesn't throw him off. Look to the scriptures. Show grace to one another. You hear what I'm saying? And you think about They don't deserve it. No. God took notice of her. And it's awesome. Yeah. Okay? And