Welcome. Um I I I didn't wanna um give you the two books that I'm using pr has a primary guide. This is called called d the the d the origin of uh of of the Bible um by um by um by um well by um the fellow cumbers. And then another book is from God to us by William Geiser. And these are the primary texts, although I will use them speak to other sources as well. Um I think we are on our notes on page twelve, uh inspiration of the New Testament. We've covered the inspiration of the Old Testament, and we've seen that There are many occurrences of this phrase and God, thus says the Lord, um, in the Old Testament, that they indicate that God spoke to his prophets. His spokesman, and they wrote, and their writings were revered and collected by the people of God. And that his word that that God speaks is uh is authoritative. So now I want to talk about the inspiration of the New Testament. Now the apostles, the prophets, and the writers of the New Testament, they did not hesitate to classify their writings as inspired along with the Old Testament. The books were revealed, collected, and circulated in the early church has sacred scripture. And this is in accordance with what Jesus had promised, that the apostolic teaching Will have divine authority. For example, in Matthew 10, Jesus promised his disciples that they would have the direction of the Holy Spirit when he sent them out to preach the Kingdom of God in Matthew chapter ten. Jesus Jesus would say, But when they deliver you up, do not become anxious about what how about how or what you will speak. For it will be given to to you in that hour what you are to speak. For it is not you who speak, but the Spirit of your father speaking through you. What a promise. So that was Jesus promising the disciples that they would have the authority of what he spoke. Also, in Luke chapter 10, verse 16, Jesus promised the seventy when he sent them out to preach the kingdom, that the one who hears you hears me, and the one who rejects you will hear me. rejects me. Again, these seventy were sent out with the authority of Christ himself. And these seventy did return and they s and they were joyful. They acknowledged that that the authority of the God had been even over Satan. Um and on page thirteen, I'm on now on on number number three, Jesus promised in the setting of the Last Supper that the Holy Spirit would quicken the memories of those who heard him. Jesus will say when the Spirit of Truth comes, he will guide you into all truth. Um you know, up to that point the disciples were they had they they had not wit written down anything of what Jesus said. Well Jesus would promise them that they would be reminded of what he had said. By the Spirit of God. And also, when Jesus commissioned his disciples to make disciples of all nations, teaching them to observe all that I can It is a truth that Jesus had himself received from the Father, all authority in heaven and on earth, and who would be with them always, even to the end of the age. This implies that it's that the disciples would write down all that Jesus had commanded them for future generations and that this teaching would be authoritative. That is, this teaching that Jesus gave his disciples would was not just for that one generation. No, they were to teach it to all preceding generations. We both now but let's think about this a little bit and talk about inspiration because we've seen that that the Old Testament was inspired, and yet at one period The prophetic voice ceased. There were no more authoritative teachings. There were no more and the prophets. But would this be unusual for sud suddenly God to begin speaking again? Well no, because the Jews in the first century recognized that the Old Testament was in some ways incomplete. They knew it. They knew that there would be something else coming. They just did not know when. Um now, for example, I mean, when they heard about John the Baptizer, I mean they many many thought he's a prophet. Certainly God is beginning to speak again to the people. And Jesus himself, many people thought he was a prophet. Now God was speaking. And also, this is even found in the Old Testament. For example, going back to the Prophet Jeremiah chapter thirty-one. Um this is this is the announcement of a new covenant. Um God says, beginning in verse 31, Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. It's not like the old covenant which I make. With their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt. Money covenant they broke, although I was a husband to them. And but this is a covenant which I will make with the House of Israel after these days, declares the Lord. I will put my law into their hearts. I will put my law in within them. I will write it and I will be their God and they shall be my people. So the Jews knew there is a new covenant coming. And so the old covenant came with books. So there's so the new covenant would also come with perks. And so um so on number F on page thirty fourteen, we note that the books of the New Testament are the only authentic rec record of the apostolic teaching we have that we have today. The qualification that an apostle must be an eyewitness of the ministry and the resurrection of Christ Eliminates any succession of apostles beyond that first century. We note that when the apostle James was was martyred, he was not replaced. By another apostle. Only Judas was replaced, but this was done on account of the Old Testament prophecy that the office of the betrayer would be given to another man. Man. And we read that in Acts chapter one, verse twenty. Pete Peter um would then um um um we'll Where then um um you know tell t tell the the d disciples that hey we need another apostle a disciple. Yes. Uh where do you get uh apostles today. Is that still uh an office for for men? Um it's out of order, right? Um there is no apostles today. There's no office of apostleship today. That that line of apostles has ceased. Right. It ceased when when John died. Okay. I I understand that too, but I I'm uh you know I'm always curious to you know for the different faiths to still care carry that on uh without the call of God to and then you know to lead them to do what is supposed to be done to carry the gospel, right? Um well um Well the we where the church is built on a foundation of of the apostles. We don't build a new found foundation. We we just we we just carry on on that foundation. That's already the date. Right. Right. Okay. Okay. Okay. Um and that's this note on on number two on page thirteen. The first church was characterized By devotion to the apostles' teaching. That's Christ's teaching. Even Paul, when he received direct revelations from God, he went directly to the apostles concerning the issue of circumcision when some Jewish believers were teaching. And Paul freely submitted himself to the apostles. Um he was saying Galatians chapter two, verse two, It was because of a revelation that I went up to Jerusalem after fourteen years of ministry and submitted to them the gospel which I preached among the Gentiles, so that I so fulfilled that I might be running or had run in in vain. So even Paul, the apostle, who was made an apostle directly by Jesus Christ, and began to preach and began to minister. He eventually went back down to Jerusalem to confirm with the apostles that his teaching is that of Christ built upon the foundation of the apostles. And then um note that Paul states that if God's household, which is the one church, is built upon the foundation of the apostles and the prophets. Christ himself being the chief cornerstone in Ephesians chapter three, Ephesians chapter two, verse twenty. This is now since this is new Revelation since his ministry in other generations was not made known to the sons of men as it has now been revealed to his holy apostles and the prophets. In Ephesians chapter three, verse five. So so this is new revelation. has not been revealed to the Old Testament from the prophets. The church is is a mystery concerning the Old Testament. And so Now there's new revelation, there's new authoritative teaching, and there's new books. Now, um number four, Paul also lays claim to apostleship in each of his epistles. Romans through the Philemon. He concludes Romans with this claim of prophecy. Now to him who is able to establish you according to the to my gospel, the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to Revelation. of mystery which has been kept secret for long ages past, is now manifested and by the scriptures of the prophets, according to the commandment of the eternal God, has been made known to all nations, leading to obedience of faith. So here's prophecy, here's revelation. And um and on page fourteen the New Testament writers, they give imperative commands. I mean they they don't give us suggestions. I mean they they expect us to obey with divine authority. We're not just obeying Paul and Peter. We are obeying God. Um so here's um just one of many, many, many examples uh Um if anyone does not obey our instruction in this letter, Paul says, Take special note of that man and do not associate with him so that he may be put to shame. Okay. So so so that's That's not just Paul's good idea. And furthermore, Paul places his own epistles on par with the With the rest of the New Testament. He says this. He exhorts Timothy to teach these things. These things are what he's recording at the moment, which about which he's writing, and to give special attention. attention to the public reading of scripture to exhortation and teaching. So that implies that what Paul is writing, that's going to be included in what Timothy is going to teach and exhort from. Um so yes scripture is the Old Testament, but it's more. It's these new books. Um and yes, as an apostle Even Paul can even command Philemon to receive and forgive Onesimus for any debt. Although in this case Paul appeals to his co worker in love. So he's an apostle, he can give divine authority, he could command Philemon to forgive Ulyssimus, and that's it. But instead Paul appears to Philemon as a co-worker in love. Number seven, Paul instructs Titus to speak these things and exhort and reprove with all authority that no one disregards you. So again, Paul is appealing to Titus to preach the word because he has authority, because it's based upon what God said. And the writer of Hebrews also affirms the apostolic authority derived from our Lord. He would say, um, beginning verse chapter one, verse. one and then I'm going to switch to chapter two verse three. God, after he spoke long ago to the fathers and the prophets, in many portions, in many ways, in these last days has spoken to us in his Son. After it was at the first spoken to the Lord, it was confirmed to us by those who heard, God also bearing witness with them, both by signs and wonders and by various miracles, by the gifts of the Holy Spirit. according to his own will. So note here that the confirming signs, as we see over and over in the book of Acts and elsewhere, that Jesus gave to his apostles confirming The revelation. And also the books written for one church were many. to be copied and passed on to uh on to other churches. For example, um well but um Um the number ten, at least. Um the books written to one church were intended to be of value for other churches. These books were to be circulated to accomplish this purpose. And Paul wrote in Colossians chapter four, verse sixteen, and when this This letter, this epistle has been read among you, have it also read to the Church of Laodiceans, and see that you also received a letter from the Laodiceans. So these letters were were meant to be cir circulated, copied, and read. And note also that this reading is Public. Um for example, um the apostle John records a blessing for those who to both the ones who reads and it and the one who hears. Chapter 1 verse 3, John says, Blessed is he who reads, and those who hear the words of this prophecy, and heed the things that are written in it, for the time is near. near. So we see this practice of reading and hearing the Word of God. I mean Our brothers and sisters back in those days, they did not have personal copies of the Bible, not even the Old Testament. What they had w were generally copies. Most are actually illiterate. Well yes. Yeah, perhaps so. Um and so um So if you wanted to hear the Word of God, you have to come to church. And someone would then read it in public. That's how you've learned the Word of God. So you would hear it and hopefully you would remember it, memorize it, meditate upon it. Um Um so there's a blessing for those who hear, for those who who read. And um so we see that these books were read to read to the church in public worship in copied and delivered to other churches for the process to repeat. Additionally, the reading of these books in part is part of the tradition of reading scripture publicly in worship service. Hence, these New Testament books were considered to be inspired, just like the Old Testament books. We also see that these books were collected, just like the Old Testament books had been Collected. Number thirteen, um Peter notes that Paul, according to the wisdom given to him, that wisdom, of course, is the wisdom by the Holy Spirit Spirit. It was given to him. You know, this is not Paul's ideas, but the it's the it's the wisdom given to him, wrote to you in all has in all of his letters, not just one letter, but all of them, speaking of them in them of these things in which are some things to be hard to understand, which the untaught and unstable discount. What has they do the rest of So here Peter is is saying that what the church has been doing is they've been collecting these books, and um and that they'll come filling out the canon of the new covenant. And so each church would place these books alongside the books of the Old Testament as well. Now, also another evidence of inspiration of the New Testament is that the apostles were quoting from the New Testament. Testament at various times. Now, most of the quotations are from the Old Testament, the vast majority of them, but there's still a few that Paul would quote from from other New Testament writers. For example, Um first Timothy chapter five verse eighteen, Paul quotes Luke chapter ten, verse seven, has Scripture. The laborer deserves his wages. From Luke. So Paul is quoting Luke. And also Jude quotes from 2 Peter 3, verse 2. But you ought to remember. these words that you have that they were spoken before you beforehand by the apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ, and then that they were saying to you, In the last day there shall come mockers falling after their own lust. So Jude is quoting from Peter. And the early church fathers filled their writings with New Testament quotations and recognized these books. has scripture. For example, Claymot of Rome identified the synoptic gospels of Matthew, Mark, and Luke as scripture. Repeatedly he employed the phrases God said and it is written to designate these passages from the New Testament in all of his writings in the in in his sermons. And such Quotations appearing in the writings of the early church fathers were often undestinated as to the source, but it is clear that these New Testament books were given the same high esteem as the inspired Old Testament crooks. And furthermore, um such high esteem continued across the centuries. Um Syriat of Jerusalem listed the books he considers has divinely inspired. So here's here's someone several centuries late later, and he says the question consists of the twenty two books of the Old Testament and the twenty-six books of the New Testament. Only the book of Rev Revelation does he um does he um miss Um I'm here. Um but that's primarily because he probably was not fully aware of these books. Because um um Had these books were circulated, of course they they were not circulated all over the place at one time. Um a church would make a copy, send it to a a nearby church, um And this would proceed on. So it would take a long time for some books to make it throughout the Roman Empire. So w so w so when we see collections of of books or or or a list of canonical books with some books missing. Um it if not don't assume immediately that the people just did not think these books were were non canonical. Um it's it's it that the it's just that they were not not yet available Okay, so we've we've talked so far about what Scripture says about inspiration, both in the Old Testament and now also in the New Testament. Are there any um apologetical arguments that one can make about inspiration? Um we've seen that there are numerous indicators in scripture that point to plenary inspiration, that is complete inspiration. God spoke, the prophets wrote, the people acknowledged the expressed authority. They collected, they preserved, they read these books in public worship. But all the irrational epo apologetic arguments they also give witness to the divine origin of the Bible. So let's just talk a little bit a bit bit a bit about that. Um again Apo apologetic evidence um is typically not a proof. Um but it does give some credence and in and will help us to form a rational basis. So consider the resurrection of Christ. I mean that's the biggest. It's a powerful argument not only for the deity of Christ and hence is is a ev is it's an argument to to the divine authority of the Bible. Jesus repeatedly predicted that he would be crucified and rise again the third day. And you can see this in the Old Testament. Psalm 22 pictures this crucifix crucifixion. Later Revelation such as Isaiah 53, it gives even more detail in substance. And Daniel sees the this vision that the Messiah is being cut off. And Jesus even points to the book of Jonah to illustrate a principle of the resurrection, that he would that just as Jonah was three days, three nights in the belly of that sea creature um from a human perspective he was dead. Um um he um I mean he was hidden um in And so just as Jonah was three days, three ninths there, so the Son of Man will be three days and three ninths in the belly of the earth, in the grave, dead. And so um and so um we know that when Christ was crucified, that Pilate in the Romans made sure he was really, really dead before they took him off. the cross and gave him to Nicodemus and Jo in Joseph. Um in um the speed spear uh made surfing. He was dead. Um it w it was proof. Um and not only that, the Romans even placed guards at the tomb. So that's it so that they can make sure that that that it's disciples would not just come at night and and risk the body away. Now what's a what's a really amazing is that the foes of Jesus, they believe Jesus has far as the when Jesus would say that he was going to rise from the dead the third day. They wanted to make sure that did not happen. But the disciples they heard it too But they did not understand, they did not believe it. To them, the crucifixion um was Was an event of death, an event of defeat. They were terrified now for their own lives, because those Romans could easily come after them, too. And so they hit. But Jesus did rise from the dead in bodily form. The stone of the tomb rode away. The Roman soldiers fled from their post. Jesus was seen then by his disciples and by many other eyewitnesses during the the next several weeks prior to his ascension to heaven. So these fearful disciples would become so bold that they would stand up to the religious leaders who tried to silence them and and and intimidate them. Peter would say, we must obey God rather than man. The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom you put to death by hanging him on a cross. He is the one whom God exalted to his right hand as a prince and a savior to grant repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins. And we are witnesses of these things, and so is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey Him. So these once fearful disciples, now known as apostles of Jesus Christ, would give the advice in the proclamation of the gospel. Many of them, almost all of them, would be mart martyred. But if they knew at some point that this was a fake, why would they do such a thing that they did? Okay, so this is clear evidence, a really good apologetic that that that what we read in Scripture is very much true. It it very much happened the way The writers expressed it. So this is ev evidence not just for the volunteer of what we read but for the inspiration of what we read. I mean c consider biblical prophecy as Another point. God is not timid about predicting, disclosing, events of the future. Hundreds of detailed prophecies fill the scriptures with many of them precisely already fulfilled even hundreds of years later. For example, Malachi. Malachi prophesies that the Messiah would be born in Bethlehem. is certainly not after the fact um claim. The religious leaders in the first century um would then use this prophecy to identify the birthplace of the of this King of the Jews to King of Herod. I mean this book this prophecy had been on the books for 700 years. Um and um so the um Jews also recognize that many other other prophecies such as the Psalms, uh such as Psalm 2 and Psalm 110 the messianic and um now man might occasionally get something right about the future in advance But the religion of man is impotent in the field of prophecy. There's just no comparison. Again, another apologetic argument for the inspiration Also, consider the Holy Spirit, who is the divine author, who bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God. This spirit also illumines scripture that God gives God's witness concerning his son. Each of us who have been born again, have been regenerated by the Holy Spirit and indwelt by the Holy Spirit. We all have the Spirit of God indwelling within us and we walk by that Spirit And we'll be walking by that spirit forever. You know, when we get to heaven, you will be walking by the spirit. And that spirit is Us um witness that we are his and will illumine His word um to us. The unbeliever could read what scripture says But but for the most part everything is is spiritually discerned and they're incapable of spiritually discerning anything. But we have the spirit within us. And so we can spiritually discern. And also consider that scripture has transformational power. Um It's the living and active word of God has transformed the lives of unbelievers. It's transformed your life and my life too. Um this isn't this isn't human self-help. Um this isn't just moral improvement. Now conversion, yeah, can be um man made. Um but scripture calls real transformation as being born again from above. And Christians throughout the centuries have borne witness that the Bible has transformational power. Another evidence that it is inspired. Also consider the the the many, many discoveries from the field of Field of archaeology. There are numerous discoveries that confirm the historical details of the Bible. This is all the more remarkable considering that most archaeologists Most archaeologists, they're trained and sponsored by secular research universities and do not espouse biblical inspiration. Very few archaeologists go into the field saying, I'm going to prove the Bible is correct. They all go to the field saying, I wonder if I can be the person that can come up with this new discovery that will mock the Bible as being untrue, false. um ever. Um and but um so these arch archaeologists make a special effort to discount the Bible. But When all was said and done, when all the papers are written, when all the papers are judged and and debated, what comes out the Bible is correct. They come up short. That's right. Um I mean So you know, you know, see for example, you know, when I was in college, I am I took this class in um you know the Old Testament. And the um the professor and the text both um were very insistent that the book of Isaiah was not actually written by one man, but by three. And that these three men, these three redactors, these three authors would just um re rewrite the material. throughout the many centuries, um and that the and that the book was all gathered together to claim that it was from one person, Isaiah. Um um however, Um where they discovered the the um dead sea seascoros. They had they discovered in one case, a nearly, a very nearly complete book of Isaiah. Um it it it was a marvelous find. And what do they find in the book of Isaiah that it's one book. There's no indication that the people back then thought of Isaiah as more than one book. Um but um so So again, what people c claim about Bible about the Bible, you know, once the papers are written, it comes back to the fact that the The Bible is right all the time. Also, consider the creation account of Genesis chapter one. Now this is this has um been a been a really point of a fierce debate. Um and we know that that the that The theory of evolution is is dominant. I mean it's it's it's dominant just not j not just in our academic research institutions, but in high school, element elementary school. T V, anything. Media, anything. Big pain theory. Okay. But now if the account is divinely inspired Um we should be able to look at it and figure out does it speak the truth Um apologetically. Well uh I mean we can't prove that, say, creation occurred exactly in six days. I mean that's that's something we we can't really show. But there is one thing we can show. And that is when God created the creatures, both animal and plant, he created them in kinds. And so what we see is there's the cellus dog kind. I mean there's diff different dogs. There's just there's a wolf and a coyote and and so on. But all the Dogs are dogs. Um, they all share the characteristics of some generic dog. Um likewise there's a cat. Um, you know, there's a lion and a tiger, the leopard, and and so on. They're all Different, but they're all cats. They all share the same characteristics of a generic cat. So you and you can look at any cat, just pick a cat by bringing. And it's as different from any dog has has any other cat. Um and we can go on you know t to talk about any other type of creature. Um in s um I'm beetle, I'm butterfly, um bat, what whatever. But what we see is there are there are gaps. There's this dog and this cat and there's a wide gap. And this gap occurs not just in the present world, but if we look at the fossil record, there's still gaps. And yeah, I know Elvis But once the research is done, once the papers are reviewed, once the debates have been done, it proves out that this little missing link is really not a missing link at all. It's just one more feature that has lots and lots of gaps around it, so you have gaps. But now who's who's teaching about gaps. Well it's not the evolutionist. It's it's it's Genesis chapter one. No one else is talking about gaps. But what would what but what do we see uh around us. We see gaps. Okay. So again that's one more apologetic argument that that um we have inspiration of the Bible. Yes. Um as far as creation taking six days, Scripture is very careful to say after each day, there was evening and there was morning day. Day one. There was evening and there was morning, the second day, and so forth. And these people that say, Oh, the each day was millions of years, what's the evening and what's the morning? So scripture is very careful to point that it was six little ways. That's right. Right. Yeah. So now now I'm I mean so I I mean we can't prove every little detail within the Bible. Um But there are enough that we can verify in um there um and some of the difficulties um could be there for several reasons. I mean it could it could be the fact that we just don't have the enough we don't we haven't yet um done all of the historical research that we need to do. Um it's often it's sometimes it may be caused by by a misunderstanding of the translation or the meaning. Um it um so there's all kinds of reasons why There might be some portion that is suspect or the or the or that we cannot give a complete apologetic argument for. But on these I um I presented has has um um um has additional um evidences for um it's um inspiration But for us as believers, the most important one is Scripture says it is inspired. Okay. Um we don't have to prove it. We just have to believe it. Okay. So um are there any questions so far about um Okay, that's I'm on page seventeen. And we're going to talk about the canonicity of scripture. Okay, the word canon is derived from the Greek kanon. It means a rod or a ruler. a measuring device, and the Hebrew Kane, which is a measuring rod, and Paul uses a term to indicate a rule of conduct. And those who walk by this rule Or this canon. May peace and mercy be upon them, upon the Israel of God. Galatians chapter 6, verse 16. So in early Christian usage, canon came to mean the rule of faith. Or the normative writings, that is the authoritative scriptures. So there's a double sense of the word here. The Bible is the canon by which all else is judged in the active sense, it's also in the canon meant to be the ruler or the standard by which a writing was judged as inspired or authoritative in the passive sense. So in the Old Testament times a book qualified as inspired as an authoritative writing only if it was written by a prophetic spokesman of God And these works were collected in a holy place. The works of the false prophet would be rejected and not collected. And according to Josephus, only those books composed during the prophetic. period from Moses to Artisurctes, 4th century BC, were could be canonical. This would cover the period from Moses, who wrote the Pentateuch, to the prophet Malachi. And the Jews recognized that after Malachi the prophetic voice ceased. Josephus again wrote this, from Artisturties until our time, everything, that is, he's talking about Jewish history, has been recorded, but has not been deemed worthy of life. credit with what proceeded because the exact secession of the prophets ceased. So now many other books have been written in that time, such as the um the such the Apocrypha, but none of these books were granted a place in that canon. Now how is Kenos City determined. Well let's talk about how it's not determined. The canosity of a book is not determined by its age or its antiquity For example, the book of Jessar, which is mentioned in Joshua chapter 10, verse 13, is an old book, but it's not in the canon. But the evidence is great that books were received into the canon immediately, not after they have been aged or passed some test of time. For example, the books of Moses, they were placed immediately in the canon. They were placed in the holy place. And also, many centuries later, Daniel would be quoting from the book of Jeremiah. And Jeremiah Jeremiah would have, by this time Jeremiah would have just passed away just a few years prior to that. And um so hence at Daniel's time in his late in his life the book of Jeremiah was already placed there. Also The kinosity of a book is not determined by its agreement with the Torah, that is, the books of Moses. Now it's clear that any book contradicting the law would be rejected. But it's not the Torah that determines the can the canonicity of everything that um she follows. The measuring rod is not the Torah, but divine inspiration. Also many other books that agreed with the Torah were not accepted or inspired. For example, the Talmon and the Midvash both agree with Moses, but the Jews never pronounced either one as canonical. And that's also the same true of Christian writings associated with the New Testament. wrote. Their writings also agree with the New Testament, but their writings are not inspired. Also, the canosity of a book is not determined by its religious or historical value. Certainly any canonical book would have religious value for the community. But again, a book of religious value would not have automatic acceptance. Many Jews and Christians have seen religious value and the Apocrypha, but these books are not divinely inspired. So it's not the value of the book that determines its divine authority, but rather it's the it's the divine authority that determines its value in the canon. Um also the can The canonicity of a book is not determined by the church. Um it's not the church that determines the canon. It's the canon that define that determines the church. No, we're built upon the foundation of the apostles. Um Ephesians chapter 2 verse 20. You are built you are fellow citizens, citizens with the saints and are of God's household. having been built upon the foundation of the apostles and the prophets. Jesus Christ himself being the cornerstone. So the church is not the master of the canon, but it's the it's the servant. We recognize the canon. And by recognizing the canon, that determines who we are, what we do. has a church body. Also, the can the the canonicity of the book is not determined by the extent to which it is quoted. and referenced by other um right writings such as the early church fathers. You know, the books of the Apocrypha, they were quoted, some extensively quoted, in the writings of of of our second century parts. Um they were they were mentioned in sermons and books and and some and and sadly that some of the books were accepted by some Christians Um but these Jewish books were not even recognized by the Jews as canonical, and hence we Christians should not add them to this list as well. So What determines divine inspiration? Well what determines can and I should say. Divine inspiration is what does that. God's word gives divine authority. The prophet writes that word in a book And men of God receive it. God reveals and his people recognize what he reveals. Knesset is determined by God. It's discovered by us. Now, unlike inspiration, which is a completely divine activity, determining the canonicity of a book, that's really us, people, man, um church. Um so has such there is potential for um And so we're going to talk talk about that a little bit. This calls for the people of God to apply sure principles for discovering the books that God has inspired. Again, it's not a fail. proof process. It's possible for the church to have got it wrong. So in this note that this this is not just a theological or theoretical um possibility because granted this There were false books out there. Um in um those books could potentially be be accepted. by those who who who who um who um who d um who have the wrong idea ideas about what should be in the canon. So this is an ever present threat compelled the believing community to review carefully and go that what goes into their sacred collection. Even books accepted by other believers or said it in earlier times might be subsequently brought into question by the church. Yes, God determined the authority of the built in the canon, but are the people of God but the people of God are called upon to to discover these books. So what are the principles that are used to discern these books? That's that's in number seven on page eighteen. Um here's five questions to ask in Number one, is the book written by a prophet or an apostle or spokesman of God? The book will bear claim of divine authority in some manner, although the degree of which will vary. I mean not all all the books are not the same. Um so the So in the divine doctrinal literature, there are divine imperative pronounces about which believers are to do. In the historical books, the exhortations might be more implied. In the authoritative pronounces are most are more about what God has done rather than what God has God has said. Okay. For example, the prophetic books are gener generally very recognizable. I mean They say, the Lord said to me. Okay, that's that's a clear mark of divine authority. But now some books um don't have that. In fact, you know you know, let's take for example the book of Esther. I mean, this book doesn't even have an explicit reference to the name of God. Um so not until it's obvious to all that the protection and therefore the pronouncement of God on his people were unquestionably present in Esther, was this book ever accepted by the Jews? Um they had to really look at this book and see Well, they could see that that this that there's a providence of God at work here. And that's why that book was was accepted. Um, second one is does the writer have credentials from God? You know, the Bible came through through spirit moved spokesmen known as prophets. Every biblical author had a prophetic gift of function, even if he was not even if he was not explicitly identified as a prophet such as such as d David or s um or Solomon. Well that brings us the question of who do you think is the author Progester. Which profit register? Um we don't know. But yeah. So but there's more than More than one more than one criteria. Um so th so not every book is going to fit every single criteria. So now um so Paul identifies himself as an apostle, not sent by men, nor through the agency of man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father in Galatians chapter 1 Verse one. So he would then correct the Galatians, saying, If any man is preaching to you a gospel contrary to what you have received from me, let him be a curse, which is a strongly worded pronouncement of judgment. And so having credentials from God also implies that the writer who is who he claims to be. You know, Paul exhorted the Thessalonian believers that they should not be quickly shaken from their composure will be disturbed either by a spirit or messenger or letter, as if from him, to the effect that the day the Lord has come. What Paul is missing to the to these believe it is, is that is it is it that they received some message, some letter that they thought was from Paul, saying that the day of the Lord had already come. And so that greatly upset them. But now Paul is is then writing it to address that fear, saying, no, I did not write it. Um don't don't be don't be alarmed. Um and um what we shall see is you know, when Paul or Peter wrote these epistles, they did they just did not, you know, drop it into the Roman postal mill and send it to the these churches, what they did was they would send a letter to a courier, a trusted courier, one trusted by them and trusted by these churches. So it's not like you could be in church one Sunday and suddenly somebody comes running up to you and say, Hey, I got a letter from Paul. Now who's this guy? Um Um no, if Paul sent you a letter, you would know it because the person who gave you the letter, you know this person, and Paul knows this person, and you can trust this guy. Um and so um so so again, just because it was claimed to be from Paul didn't make it. Um uh did not mean that it was authoritative. Um there were lots of forges. Forgies. Um In fact, some of the early church fathers were slow to accept Second Peter because they thought the book was a forger forgery. Um and it took a while for that book to be accepted, but eventually it was accepted because the the um the the early church fathers were convinced that the book really did come from Peter. And so um there existed many such books that claimed to be written by a prophet or or an apostle But we're not. Um so none of these books could be canonical. Um And um I think I'm going to stop right here and and we'll pick we'll we'll we'll pick pick this up next time. Um so that being praying