So again, thank you all for coming out tonight and listening to what these dear elders have taught us from God's Word. Like some of you, for these past six months, I have been impacted by events that have unfolded within this nation. I have struggled to discern the truth from the lies when trying to be informed by the news media with all of the politicized noise. I've listened to many sermon bites and podcasts to glean guidance on how to tread in these troubled waters. And then I quickly realized that in order for me to not be tossed to and fro by everything that I saw, I needed to first look towards God's everlasting word to renew my mind I needed his word to instruct me on how to live in this crooked and perverse generation. So that is my endeavor to remind us all of some basic truths from Scripture that we already know in our minds But we need to let it have its way in our hearts to help us answer the question for tonight, right? What should the church do to promote racial harmony? Number one, you heard it earlier today. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind, and with all of your strength. In Mark twelve, thirty, when bring when being tested on what was the greatest commandment, Jesus pointed his heirers to Deuteronomy six, the Sheman Now did we forget that we are only able to do this because the Lord chose us in His before the very foundation of the world? As in Ephesians 1 4 Did we forget that in John 6. 44, Jesus said, No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws them? If God has transformed you by his gospel, Please do not go back to loving the idols or the things of the world that he delivered you from. When we love the giver of gifts for who he is, and not only for what he can give us, that's true love. When we love the Lord our God above our freedom, above our identity, above our comforts, above our rights, above our possessions, and even above our ambitions. Then we can make more of an impact in this dying world for his glory. Now I don't know about you, but I want to be more useful clay in the potter's hand And the only way that that's going to happen is when I get out of the way and love the Lord my God first and foremost. Matthew 6:33, we are to seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, not our own kingdom. When we make loving the Lord our God our primary focus, many of the things that we once deemed so important will grow strangely dim. If you truly desire to see racial harmony promoted in the church, make sure, loved ones, that all of your heart, all of your soul, all of your mind, and all of your strength is directed towards the Lord. Towards the one who made us to be his image bearers. Amen? Number two, love your neighbor as yourself. In Luke chapter 10, verse 25 through 37, we learn that a lawyer tried to put Jesus to the test. Now that in and of itself is really I know people say that, you know, um That there's really, you know, Jesus didn't laugh. There's not really funny things in the Bible, but that's funny to me. That is hilarious to me that a lawyer wanted to put Jesus to the test But the Lord already knew, right? And so he asked the Lord Jesus um what he needed to do to inherit eternal life. Okay? And let's and Jesus very wisely, of course, and lovingly, in verse twenty six says, What is written in the law? How does it read to you? Verse 27. And he answered and said, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your strength and with all your mind and your neighbor as yourself Jesus said to him, excuse me, and he said to him, You have answered correctly. Do this and you will live. Now listen to this. Verse 29. But wishing to justify himself. Here we go. He said to Jesus, And who is my neighbor? Okay. Alright. That is so critical, right? Because that led Jesus now into the Parable of the Good Samaritan. And we are so familiar with this parable that we could almost recite it word for word and line for line. We could also be so familiar with it that it breeds contempt and we could overlook the lesson. Now may I challenge you, loved ones, for just a moment to pause and reconsider whether your actions or who your actions most closely reflect in this parable. We all would like to think of ourselves as a good Samaritan. We'd like to think of ourselves as the hero. But loved one may I ask you, are you being a good Samaritan to the person that disagreed with your views on the virus or in wearing a mask. Were you being a good Samaritan with those whose views differed from yours on politics or systemic racism or critical race theory and yada yada yada etc etc? Did you take an opportunity to show your neighbor compassion? Or did you see them lying half dead in the streets of social media and you just walked on by, or scrolled on by rather Loved ones, I fear that the way some of you have been responding to those both inside and out of the and outside of the church may not even resemble the priest or the Levite walking by Your words may resemble more the robbers that beat and stripped and left the man for dead. Now please don't get me wrong. I'm not talking about compromising, and I'm not talking about yielding and submission for one moment. anything that threatens the truth of the gospel. When it comes to anything that is attempting to water down or add to or subtract from the gospel, we will fight and we will fight hard Because that is of first importance. But when it comes to views on hot topics or or what's trending, I would much rather lose an argument And have an opportunity to win a soul for the kingdom of heaven, then to win an argument and possibly lose an opportunity to win a soul I am here as you are here to advance the kingdom of heaven through the proclamation of Christ's glorious gospel. Paul declared in Romans 10, 17, faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of Christ. Opinions, data, statistics, it may win arguments, but it will not open the eyes of sinners. If you want to see racial harmony in the church promoted Love your neighbor, even when they don't agree with you on non-doctrinal issues. Amen. Amen. Number three, and this is not an exhaustive list. This is not an exhaustive list. I know some of you are getting worried. Just pray for your brother, alright? Alright. Number three, do not be indifferent or ignore when you hear that there is pain in the body of Christ. In Acts chapter 6, 1 through 7, after the early church experienced a boom in their membership, we learn that a complaint came about by the Hellenistic widows against the distribution of food in comparison to the Hebrew widows. Now, once this matter was brought to the apostles' attention, they requested that the church choose seven men to address this important task, since they needed to get to the more important task on the focus of the ministry of the word and prayer. Now what I find interesting is that we are not told whether the Hellenistic widows were being overlooked or not. We are not told how many of the Hellenistic widows felt this way We are simply told that the complaint arose and the complaint was addressed. Now hear me out on this. We should not expect that everyone will always know what is going on in the lives of each other. God is omniscient. We are not. But if you are struggling with something that is happening in the world, you should talk to your brothers and sisters in Christ. You should even reach out to your elders. You heard Pastor Kirby talk about that So that you can receive godly counsel on whatever it is. Don't expect anyone to read your mind or your heart if you have never shared it. My father had an expression that he would often say. He said, He who feels it knows it. I can't expect, if you have never experienced a specific pain that I have felt, for you to know what that feels like. But I should expect you as my brother or my sister to come alongside me if I tell you where I'm hurting Not to be indifferent to my pain or to judge whether or not I'm a believer if I'm struggling with the present reality of being a black man in America. If you want to see racial harmony promoted in the church, loved ones, we are already instructed. Rejoice when your brother has something to rejoice over, and weep with your brother when he has something to weep over. That is how we see racial harmony promoted in the church. Number four. Do not Be afraid to confront your brother if they are out of step with the gospel. Do not be afraid to confront your brother if he is out of step with the gospel. Now, I really love Um this in Galatians chapter two. I love this. Paul says, But when Cephas came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face because he stood condemned. For prior to the coming of certain men from James he used to eat with the Gentiles. But when they came he began to withdraw and hold himself aloof, fearing the party of the circumcision. And the rest of the Jews joined them in hypocrisy, with the result that even Barnabas was carried away by their hypocrisy. But when I saw that they were not straightforward about the truth of the gospel I said to Cephas in the presence of all, if you being a Jew, live like the Gentiles and not like the Jews, how is it that you compel you compel the Gentiles to live like the Jews? I love ones. If the apostle Peter had to be corrected, who are we to think that we won't stumble? Right? And I'm so thankful that Paul said, Am I a servant of Christ or am I or am I a servant of man? Right? Because or do I fear do I fear men? Because if I'm a servant of Christ, then that's who my that's who I need to be focused on, right? And we sometimes unfortunately We we think, ah, I'll just let it go. I'll just let it go. If it's causing the gospel to be misunderstood If it is causing others to be a stumbling block to the gospel, you need to make sure that you love your brother enough to pull them aside and say, hey I just want to make sure that, you know, that we're on the same page with this. Because the gospel is of first importance. I'm so glad that Paul did not say, well, you know, that's Peter. I'm I'm just going to let it go. I'm just going to let it go. No, he loved Peter enough to say, Peter You're out of step with the gospel. But most of all, he loved the gospel and he did not want the gospel to be hindered. And see that's what we got to recognize that if our actions are possibly a hindrance or a stumbling block. Love me enough to come and let me know. But love the gospel enough as well so that I won't misrepresent it Okay? So we all have our biases, we all have our prejudices, we all have our shortcomings and our flaws and our hang-ups, but most of all we have sin. We have sin. And so if if you're behaving in a manner that's inconsistent or or if I'm behaving in a manner that that's inconsistent with the gospel, come to me in love, as I should come to you in love. That's what we do. You know, I don't I'm gonna age myself here, but uh some of you may remember there was this um you remember this uh shampoo company V Dao Sassoon? Some of you remember that. Their motto was if you don't look good, we don't look good. Can we just take that for one second and remember that if your brother doesn't look good, you don't look good If your sister doesn't look good, you don't look good, right? We are one body. And so if if one is acting if my arms is all of a sudden just started to rebel against my body, that is unnatural I have to tend to that. I I have to find out what's going on. Right? And that's the same thing that we should be doing with one another. When something is acting Out of step, out of whack, and particularly when it comes to the gospel, you gotta make sure you're loving your brother and sister in Christ enough to come alongside them. Okay That's why God calls us to the body of Christ, to be one with him and to be one with one another. Number five, how am I doing with time, Kirby? Alright, number five. Alright. Don't forget that what unites us is stronger than what divides us Galatians 3 28. There is neither Jew nor Greek. There is neither slave nor free. There is neither excuse me. There is no male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. Loved ones, tearing each other down because of our differences never advanced the gospel of Jesus Christ. It only hindered it. And did we forget that our Lord Jesus Christ called a tax collector and a zealot both to be his disciples? I wish I was there to see how those conversations went. Because that was two very distinct camps Alright? But what brought them together? Jesus. Okay? So if we focus on what divides us We can argue until the cows come home. Homeschool versus public school or private school. Republican versus Democrat Mets versus Yankees. Not too many Mets versus Yankees. But you get the point, right? We can argue all day. But as you continue to hear, what is it that we love? Each of us have our own individual stories about what is it that we love about this church. And I think about my own Beloved Paul Baldwin, he loved me for me, I loved him for him. He didn't try to change me. I didn't try to change him. But because of the gospel, that love surpassed all of the differences that we had. He liked to go hunting I'm like look brother I'm just gonna go to a fast food restaurant and pick up something to eat. You know? But but I considered going hunting with him because I love my brother You know, I even got a a plaid shirt. What is it? Uh one of the one I I got one at home. I had to. That's my brother, Paul Bodwick, man. That's my brother. And just as we look at all the various relationships that we, you know, have with one another in the church, there's no way. There is no way that these relationships would be able to exist outside of the gospel. It's the gospel that unites us. It's his word that unites us. It's his Holy Spirit that has united us. And so don't lose sight of these things. Paul says, Therefore I, the prisoner of the Lord, implore you to walk In a manner worthy of the calling which you have been called. With all humility and gentleness, with patience, showing tolerance for one another in love Being diligent to preserve the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace. We are called to strive to maintain the unity of the Spirit. And notice that it the Holy Spirit doesn't say uniformity. Right? It's unity, not uniformity. God is glorified in our diversity. Okay? If God wanted us all to look the same, he would have made us look all the same. But we're not. We're different. And it gives him glory. And similar to the beauty of God seen through the varia excuse me, the variety of his creation like roses. Lilies, dandelions, and a whole bunch of other flowers that only Pastor Leek knows. Each flower brings a sweet smelling fragrance to him, and it does the same for us. And so, if you only love your brother or your sister when they look like you, or think like you, or dress like you, that's conditional love. That's not biblical love. And we We're not in darkness anymore. That's how we used to love. We have been loved and we have been shown an unconditional love. Right? And so that is how we are called to live And so if you want to see racial harmony promoted in the church, love your brother and sister in Christ in spite of the differences. Number six, God's kingdom is not of this world and does not rest upon it. One of the immediate benefits that I've seen from studying church history is that I have been astonished By the reality that the church has always had to fight. It's always been a fight going on, both inside and outside of the church However, her fight was always for eternal truth, not temporal. God's kingdom does not rest upon who wins the next election, or who wins the Supreme Court seat, or whatever political race is next. Proverbs 21:1 states, the king's heart is like channels of water in the hand of the Lord. He turns it wherever he wishes. Jesus also told Pontius Pilate in John 1836, My kingdom is not of this world If my kingdom were of this world, then my servants would be fighting so that I would not be handed over to the Jews. But as it is, my kingdom is not of this realm. No matter what political party is in control, the whole world lies under the power of the evil one. Our faith does not rest upon who is in power. If that was the case, explain to me how Christianity is spreading in communist China. Do they say, uh oh, we got no freedom, so therefore throw our faith out the window? How is the gospel advancing in the Middle East? See, we we don't have a clue really what persecution is. When you have to fear being beheaded, when you have to fear being separated from your family and being in prison for naming the name of Christ, that's persecution. Not wear your mask. That ain't persecution, y'all. You see what I'm saying? But when our freedom and and our rights have taken precedence of our remembering that we are slaves of Jesus Christ, we could get it twisted and think this world is all about our best life now. No, my best life is to come. You know, when you talk to people at work and you say, Hey, how you doing? They say, Just another day in paradise. I'm like, no, sir, this ain't paradise. This is not paradise When the thief was on the cross, he said, Lord Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom. He said, Verily, verily I say unto thee Today you will be with me in paradise. To be with Christ is paradise. Not here. So stop trying to moralize this world. We're not left to moralize this world. We're left to evangelize this world. You hear what I'm saying, saints? Stop trying to Christianize the workplace or or or or Christianize politics Evangelize, proclaim the gospel. Okay? And if you if you want to be in there, get in there Serve as an intern, do something, but let the light of Christ shine so that people say, What is it about this young man? What is it about this young woman that makes them just work so diligently and they don't complain and they just they just got joy in their heart. Where does that come from? I'm so glad you asked. Christ. That's you you see what I'm saying? And so when we look at the early church You know, we we we have to remember even as um Pastor Gabe re referenced earlier, right? You had the Emperor Nero. He was on a crusade, he was trying to stamp out Christianity But he couldn't, despite his best efforts, despite his best efforts, God used He even his wicked work to cause the gospel to spread even further. You see what I'm saying? And so Loved ones, our God is in the heavens and he does whatever he pleases. If God allows a foreign nation to take over this nation because he has judged it, God is still in control. We will still love the Lord our God with all of our heart, mind, soul, and strength. And we will still love our neighbor as ourselves. I don't care what ism takes over this country. We will not abandon our faith. Because if we do, then it proves that we were not in the faith to begin with. Now there are two things that people say are certain, death and taxes. I say that there are three. 2 Timothy 3. 12 says, Indeed, all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. We will suffer. Now I don't like suffering. My wife can tell you when I had to get that little eye surgery, I was shaking in my boots. Okay? But that's not really suffering Suffering is when it really comes to suffering for the name of Christ. And if I desire to live for Jesus Christ boldly, I have to prepare my heart and I have to guard my mind and have to remind myself that this is this is inevitable. But I don't want to be ashamed of my Lord. And I don't want him to be ashamed of me. So I'm not endorsing that we just throw away the whole political system and just throw the whole baby out with the bath water. No, that's not what I'm saying. And I'm not saying that, you know, please don't think for one second that, uh oh, Sean's a communist now. You know what I mean? Call the authorities on me. No, no. Alright You know, praise God we have a democracy where we can vote and can look to vote in candidates that mostly closely align with our views. But please, don't put your faith in that person Psalm 118, 8 and 9 says, It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in man. It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in princes. And while we are on the topic, please don't think that you are more of a Christian if you vote one way or less of a Christian if you vote another way. Voting is not a litmus test. Of your faith in Christ, believing the gospel is. Do you believe the gospel? Then live it out. If you want to see racial harmony promoted in the church, make sure your faith in Christ is biblical and not cultural. Do you hear me, church? And last but certainly not least Don't forget what is of first importance. Do not forget what is of first importance. And if you should even ask, what is of first importance? You know where I'm going. You better have a clue of where I'm going. First Corinthians chapter 15 What does the servant Paul, the Apostle Paul, say? Right? 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Now I make known to you, brethren, the gospel which I preach to you, which you also received. in which you also stand, by which you also are saved, if you hold fast the word which I preach to you, unless you believe in vain. For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received, that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, and that he was buried, and that he was raised on the third day according to the scriptures Loved ones, that is where we stand. We stand firmly on the gospel. Okay? And so if we want to see racial harmony promoted in the church, excel at what you are doing. You heard an example of Sister Julie talking about how she was struck by what she saw people serving, cleaning the church, not thinking that that was above them, right? That's what we do. That's what when we live out the gospel. That's what it does. It has a ripple effect. You see? When when someone is moving and you see all these different cars coming in to help that person move That's the gospel's being lived out. And the community should be like, Where what is this? Where are all these people coming from? And that's an opportunity for you to point them to. That's my church. That's my brother and my sister in Christ. That's purple power. He tried to cause me to be blind not too long ago when he, you know, was mopping and you know what I'm saying? We have all these different stories of what has united us and brought us even closer together. Excel in these things. Right? When Morag, Aunt Morag, and Uncle Mel have you over in their home, right? And they're serving you some scrumptious meal. That is a living out of the gospel. When we're showing hospitality to one another, when we're loving one another, regardless of the differences, in spite of the differences, right? That has a rippling effect. And continue to do that. And as we excel in loving one another more, then we gotta go out into this fallen world. And then we gotta love them too. We have to love them too, because it's only by God's grace that we are no longer in darkness. But we have no reason to boast and we have no reason to point the finger Now it's an opportunity to go out and to point that lost soul unto the gospel. Okay? And so Uh my wife is letting me know. Yes, I'm out of time. Okay. Alright. Alright. Well, uh praise God for, you know, just this opportunity and and and this is what needs to happen more, right? Our love is not superficial. If our love is just based on whether or not we agree with everything, that's not true love. Our love is so much deeper than that. Our love is out of this world because our God is out of this world. You understand? Alright? And so let's keep setting our minds on the things that are above.