Welcome. Um we are on page thirty of the notes and we are going to review some of the books that in the New Testament can canon that were questioned or were were somewhat criticized by some people. We call these books the the Ishao Logumina Um and um the first book that was somewhat questioned was w what was the McHebrews. And there were and there were basically two issues. With this book. One is that there's a question about the authorship. Because the writer does not specifically, explicitly identified himself. Now, to be sure, this book was certainly written in the age of the apostles. This was known from the first century. Whoever wrote it, it's not an apostle. He certainly was acquainted with the apostles. So And this app was was apparently known in the eastern part. Oh I think. Yeah. Um it was um known in the eastern part of Christendom Um but not so much in the western part. And so this issue had to be we resolved. Um and the basic resolution was that people agreed finally that the rip book was written by Paul. Now, we actually don't know if it was written written by Paul. Um some believe that, some don't. And I'm not going to to um get into the authorship at this point, only to say that the book that these New Testament books um They don't have to be written by an apostle, just an associate to the apostle. Like for example, the book of Mark. That Mark was a close associate to Peter. Luke was a close associate to Paul. Um so But the but there was one other issue with this book. I'll just um go over to Hebrews chapter six for one moment. This book was used by some cults, some false teachers to teach that a Christian could lose his salvation. Now that was an issue that had Could be addressed. And the question is, does this book, Hebrews, teach that? And the in the Pacific passage in question was beginning with with chapter six, and I'll just read from verse one through Verse 6. Therefore, leaving the elementary teaching about Christ or the Messiah, let us progress on to the maturity, not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works and of faith towards God, of instruction about washings and of laying on of hands, the resurrection of the dead, and eternal judgment. And this we will do if if God permits. For in the case of those who have been once enlightened and have tasted of the heavenly gift and have made partakers of the heavenly of the Holy Spirit and have tested the good word of God and the powers of the ages to come, and then having fallen away, it is impossible to renew them again to repentance since they have again crucified to the to to themselves the Son of God and put him to an open shame. So the question is, does this teach that a s a Christian can lose his salvation? Well I'm not going to to um exposit this scripture at at this moment, but basically the gist of it is that this writer was written was writing to a group of Jews. Some of the Jews had left Judaism and had become Christians and had embraced Christ, but there were certain other Jews that though they had. had come into the fellowship of this congregation, um they had not yet embraced Christ. They had not left the yet left Judaism. They were still in the Old Testament rituals and uh sacrifices and all the pictures and the types of of of the Messiah. Um and so this writer is exhorting them very um with um With a vigor. Don't fall back. Don't go back. Because these Jewish people were in danger of say Hey, I'm being being I'm being persecuted, um, and it's just not worth it. I'll go back to Judaism. And the writer was saying, if you go back to Judaism, there is no hope for you. um you have go on to maturity of Christ. So So this is passages written to those who have not yet embraced Christ. They have Been in in enlightened, but that's not the same as being born again. Um and so they were just at at the verge of of accepting Christ, but they were going to go back. And so this writer was is going to exhort them, don't go back. Okay. So then once that view, that understanding was settled, then this book was accepted. Um and and by wh by the way, ah I want to emphasize one more thing. All of these books, all twenty-five books, they they they have been accepted in the past. They were widely circ circulated. Most Christians accepted them, um, but there were just a f a few who who raised some some questions. So once those problems were resolved, these books were recognized. Now let's go f let's go on to the book of James. It was also questioned. Sometimes it's like we could look at this and say, uh, you know, the question is called uh and that could give us some doubt. But on the other side we could say the this shouldn't tell they were of whether something really got in or and that's kind of all we want. We want them to test every accessory. Stone, rock, everything, right? Yes that's right, yes. So it kind of Hey it's kinda like you know, the uh the old glass half whole kinda you know, what's your pers perspective here in a way. Right. Mm-hmm. Yes. Yeah. I mean no yep, that's right. Just because these questions or some questions were were questioning these books, it doesn't necess that's net that's not necessarily a bad thing. Let's go on to the book of James. Well this book was challenged by some in the Western Church due to the questions of authorship in um in poracity. Again, in time the Western Church came to accept the witness of the Eastern Church which could validate that this that this author was indeed James, and and he's the same as a half brother. of Jesus. And he was also the same as the James who presided over the Council of Jerusalem in Acts chapter 15. Okay. And then there was also a question of does faith does James's out view of faith correspond to that of Paul? You know, we have that that um passage in in James chapter two um where um Um no it's yeah it's chapter two, yes. Um where where um where James says um um Was was not Abraham in verse twenty one was not Abraham our father justified by works? As a result the works faith was perfected. Oh no. Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he offered offered up Isaac, his son, on the altar? No, i you see that faith was working with its works and as a result of his works, faith was perfected. Well, does that conflict with Paul's teaching on justification by faith alone? So there was some debate about this and and eventually everyone agreed that there was no contradiction Um Paul James is not speaking of something different from Paul. Um and so again, James was accepted. And also but also but this question about the about this passage on justification by faith or by works in James, um, that would come up later. I mean even Martin Luther Luther um question this book. Um and um Okay. Okay. So that that's Hebrews and James. So let's go on to Second Peter Peter. Now this book um faced probably the most um um resistance. Um because some had questions about Who wrote this book? Um some claim that the apostle Peter did not actually write this book because they perceived that there was clearly a notable difference in writing style between first Peter and Second Peter. Um and some of course would address this issue by assuming that first Peter chapter five verse twelve implies that Peter actually used a Sylvaniaus to write first Peter chapter one. No, first Peter. Okay. Now what is more probable is that Sylvanus delivered the letter. Um Now, um let's just recognize this. Um there are some differences between the two books Um and um um yeah, there are. Um and another issue is that there's a lot There were a lot of for forgeries that that are um that appear to come from Peter. There's the gospel of Peter Um that's enough. The Acts of Peter, the the apocalypse of Peter. So these books were s were silk circulating. And so when when sort of people read second 2 Peter, they thought maybe this book was just like those other three. Now, this book, 2 Peter, was known from apostolic times, and that's supported by numerous writings from the early second century. And on page 31, number C, I just listed a few of them. There is a passage From Justin Martyr's dialogue with Crypto bears resemblance to 2 Peter 2, verse 1. From this book, Justin Martyr writes, and just as there were false prophets particularly with you, your holy prophets, he's speaking of the Old Testament prophets here, so there are now many false teachers. teaches among us, of whom our Lord forewarned us to beware. Now that that's a passage that looks almost like 2 Peter. Also the Apocrypha Epistle Arnivus declares that a man shall justly perish who having a knowledge of the way of righteousness forces himself into the way of darkness. Again, this resemble 2 Peter chapter 2, verse 21. Okay. So again, these are just evidences that 2 Peter was written in the first century. Um also um the second the two second century Gnostic works, the Gospel of Truth and the and the Apocrum of John, also contain probable allusions to 2 Peter. Also Clement of Rome. He's a now he's a good source here. Let this scripture be far from us when he says, wretched are the double-minded, which double out in their head and say, These things we did we did here in the days of our fathers also, and behold, they've grown old, and none of these things have befallen us Again, this is an echo of 2 Peter 3 verse. Another one, Shepherd of Omhermos seems to allude to Second Peter chapter three, verse nine, when the writer says, Go and tell all men to repent and they shall live unto God, for the Lord is his compassions. sent me to give repentance to all, though some of them do not deserve it for their deeds. But being long-suffering, the Lord wills them, who will call through his son to be saved. Um oh so the book of Jude alludes to Second Peter. Peter warns his readers of false teachers who will come. Um so what Peter says In the future tense, Jude is now saying this as this has come. So um again a quote from John MacArthur. Um There are really only two possibilities regarding the authorship of 2 Peter. Either it was written by Peter himself, as it claims, or it it is pseudonymous in the work of a forger who pretended to be Peter. And if the author is indeed a pretender, he would have been a hypocrite as well as a liar, because he's a deceiver claiming, condemning false teachers for being what he was in doing. He's giving severe warning with divine judgment. Um so um so again, um this is this good indication here that this book was written by Peter the Apostle. On page thirty-two, I just want to com to emphasize that the church um would reject forged drug documents. Anybody writing pseudonymously for someone else that writing would be rejected. It would not be accepted. The Old Testament, the the the New Testament puts a premium on truthfulness. The writer must be who he says he is. So this book would pass the test. Okay. Now, 2 John and 3 John. These books were also questions. Um, not so much um and they were quite primary questions because They were they were just unknown. They were not well known. They were not widely circl circulated. Um and um and plus the authorship as Well, who's the author of these books? He only identifies himself as the elder, like in 2 John 1, verse 1, and 3 John 1, verse 1. But acceptance grew as a two books before Became more widely known, and it became clear that you know the only person who could have written them was John. And also these two books are very similar. in sh style as to first jump. Um so so once these books became known, um they were again accepted because um Um they were they were they were known to be written by John himself. So now we come to the book of Jude. Now this book, again, just like all the other twenty-seven books, were recognized early. by the church. Um and um in this in this um book was primarily questioned because it quotes two pseudo pseudo pigware for books. Um um there is a uh certain quote from from the um um book of um Enoch. And there's also a possible reference to another book called The Assumption of Moses in Jude verse 9. But this book was substantially represented. recognized by the early church fathers Iranius, Clebot of Exandria, and Tutulium. Now, how about these quotes? These quotes were not e essentially different from the citations made by Paul of some of the non-Christian poets. For example, in Acts chapter 27 in Acts chapter 17, verse 23. 1 Corinthians chapter 15 verse 33. No so Titus chapter 1 verse 12. You know, Jews quoting Neither cites the books as authoritative nor vouches for everything in the book. The quote merely cites a truth contained within the book. So just because the book quotes a non-canonical book, it doesn't necessarily mean that either the can non-canonical book is canonical or the con can can can or the canonical book is non-canonical. The two don't cancel each other out. Um Okay. So once that was settled The book was accepted. Um another book in the last book that was sort of under the gun in the Doggett is the book of Revelation. Again, this book was recognized by early church. fathers including Papias, Justin Martyr, um Aranius, Clement of Alexandria, Totorium, um Hippoly kiss origin and a m m method DS. So again, this book is widely known. Um and I might add this. This book was attested by not just one church at the very beginning, but by sep. As you know, John was exiled on the island of Patmos. by the by the Roman Emperor. And while he was on this island, he received this vision from Christ And about this time, either before this time or just after this time, John would receive a visit. By seven people who were sent by the seven churches, and they were sent to administer to John while he was on on Patness. Um and so these seven people um in you might call them missionaries. Um they were sent to administer to John Um John receives this revelation, he writes it down, and now he's going to pass it off to these seven people. These seven what what what see what what is called in the book Angels, messengers, missionaries. And so these seven are going to send this book back to the seven churches. They go first to a to the book to the church at Adam C C C C Ephesus. The book is read. The book is copied. And then the six remaining people continue their journey to the next church, all the way down to the last church, the Yahis. So all seven of these churches attested. That the author is John. Um and um But now here was the issue. There was a bishop of Alexandria from A. D. 247 to A. D. 264. His name is T Dias his name is D D D D Dimesus. Um he was an outstanding Christian leader. Very much taunt on his efficiency on correct doctrine But he actively campaigned campaigned against this book. Um and his issue was primarily questioning the uh the um the apostolic authorship of Revelation. His root cause is the fact that he had he had a very str strong opposition to the m m m to the principle of a m millennial ism. He did not believe in a millennial kingdom. And you know that's a problem if you read the book of Rev Revelation, because Rev Revelation does speak about a millennial kingdom, um very definitely. Um So h so he tried to criticize this book upon the upon the authorship, thinking that if he can discredit that book on that issue, then that book would not be accepted. Um and now he had several objections to this book. Um and I've listed them on number C. Um he says this the evangelist No will adds his name, nor yet proclaims itself throughout either the Gospel or the Epistle. So his criticism here is, well John uh John doesn't identify himself in the Gospel of John. He doesn't identify himself in the epistles of John, but he does identify himself in this book of Revelation. Now, you might think. You know, that's a poor um um excuse. Um but but again the these guys were were going to come up with every single thing that they can come up with. Just just j just to kind of add weight to the argument. Okay. So um now number two on part C, in regard to the general construction of the recognized Johann apostoletic apostolic writings, Dionysius notes that the gospel in the first Peter began with similar ways. In the beginning was a word, and also that which was from the beginning. Um so he's saying that the that since the rip Book of Revelation does not begin that way, then it's not not written by John. Again another flimsy excuse. Um but hey, um one more thing to add. Oh, so he claimed a long list of vocabulary disseminary disease between the gospel and and the epistles that are not shared by The book of Revelation. Now, he also claimed on page 33 that the style of the gospel in the epistle is very much different than we Revelation. Here are his words according to um Jusebius. He says this, the formal, the gospel and the epistle, are not written in faultless Greek. Alright excuse me, are not only written faultless faultless Greek, but also show the greatest skill in their diction, their reasonings, and the constructions in which they are expresses. There is a complete absence of the of any barbarous word or solicitism or any vulgarism whatsoever. So the author had has assembled both kinds of words by the free gift of the Lord, the word of knowledge remained. the word of speech. But I would not deny that the other author, that is the author of Revelation, had seen revelations and received knowledge, knowledge and prophecy. Nevertheless I observe his style and his use of the Greek language is not as so is not accurate. But it employs barbarous idioms, in some places committing downright solicitons. That is His writing is atrocious. That's his claim. Um atrocious. What what on what on concerning what? Um What I mean is is that this this bishop is claiming that the gospel and the epistles of John, they are written in very mm fluent see very You know, it's the k it's the king's Greek. Okay. But the book of Rev revelation, you know, is just um Some more uneducated. Yeah. Yeah, more un more uneducated. So you know, y you know, there are There are grammat grammatical that any high school English teacher would just mark down. Right. Right. So like when you're stranded on an island you you don't care about grammar that much. Right. That's right. That's right. Actually it's very different because it was a vision that we saw and some things we had no words to express. That's right. Okay. Okay. Okay, so there are some lessons to be learned here. Um theological bias can affect one's approach to the Bible and very rapidly Ways. This bishop had a theological ax to grind, and this brought him down to question an almost unanimous tradition that had been handed down to him. Also, you also note that tradition preserved from the ancient church is on the whole quite reliable. Even when some father, church father, went a straight in his writings, there was general A significant response to counterdirect DMCC error. These early Christians were not ignorant, they were not misinformed. We can learn a lot from these church powers. You know, so there's a danger in relying solely on internal evidence for conclusions about authorship when there's a strong consensus in ancient traditions. Different books written by the same author can show differences in construction, themes, vocabulary, to express properly the subject content. In different subjects, there there are still usually many similar similar similarities. Um that is Yes, there are some big differences between the book of Revelation and the other books of John. There are. But there are also a lot of sim simulated as as well. So we can't always be focused directly on The differences we have to be honest and look at both the differences and as well as those that are simple. So now Nemesis' influence would wane when Athanasius, Jerome, and Augustine came to the book's defense. Indeed, Athanasius is generally given credit for saving the book. He valued the historic position of his church above the critical judgments of Dionysius. And even Eusebius, who shared much the same opinion has n Dionysius stopped short of an outright denial of canin canonicity because he knew he was at odds with the with the church in this matter. Okay. Okay. So eventually all seven of these books passed the passed the test. Um but again for for most of the books there wasn't really much Much of a question. It um it was just dealing with some is some C um C C C C T issues that that that had arisen. Um so now Now notes let's look at the notes on the New Testament Apocrypha. Now there's also I mean we've seen that there's an Old Testament Apocrypha, but there's also a New Testament Apocalyp Apocrypha. And um the distinction between the pseudigripha and the apocrypha is not strictly definitive. Neither category was received by The early church fathers as canonical, but in general the Apocrypha books were held in high esteem by at least one church father. It might be said that the Apocrypha books had Only a local or temporary acceptance, accepted by a limited number of Christians for a a limited time. Yet many of these books were distinguished as having some value either historically or religiously. Um problem perhaps because of the moral teachings And so these books would also prove useful for this reason. We find these books attaching the canonical books through quotations, as we've seen. So so again there was books that were rejected by all. There was the the w the Suday Pigrapha and there was books accepted by some people Call of the apocrypha the apocrypha books. Number two, the most popular of the apocrypha books in the early church was the shrimp shepherd of Amherst. An early second century Christian allegory having some ethical and devotional value. You know this this m this might be called the early, early version of Togan's progress. Also, there's the apocalypse apocalypse appear. Um that dates to about AD 150. And it's one of the oldest of the non-canonical New Testament apocrypha. Its vivid imagery had a wide influence on medieval thought, from which Dante's Inferno was done. Derived. There's also the Epistle of Polycop to the Collipians. That dates to about A. D. 108. And it's filled with New Testament content. So Polycop Well, certainly not a claim that his work merits being placed on some canonical the list. But the epistle does have value because again we see in it lots and lots of New Testament. Yes. So they're not writing in terms of okay, I'm going to explain on junk or I'm going to explain on some book. They're writing how are they writing so that somebody says all this could be scripture. Like John MacArthur, if you read John MacArthur, no one's gonna say that scripture is positive. Right. So h how is it like Holly Carter is writing so that someone might say that's a scripture that is Yeah, okay, okay. Okay, um um well Polycop did not write He was not doing that. He knew it. But there were other Christians who sort of picked up on his book and said, Hey, this is a good book. I think I'll keep it. So he's not referencing anyone else, he's just Teaching? Um the pa Policop's books are essentially sermons. He know you know, you know you know um he is a t he is a teacher. But he's not referencing anyone. when he teaches. He is he is he is quoting from the f from the he is quoting from the b b Bible, yes. He is. But but he's but he's not writing new revelation. He is explaining the content to those who are listening to him. What time period was Polycarp? Um he he's a very he's a very early second century. He would be right after So it's like he was writing what we today call commentary. Yes. That's right. Yes. Right. But not in a way that you would know it was obviously commentary because someone I think you would because he quotes the New Testament a lot and he explains it. That's what a commentary is. Yeah. Right. Yes. Yeah but yeah yeah. So it so it's not like it's not like he's claiming it to be in the Bible or to be uh to be a new book. Yeah, but it's not different than what John Bocarthell would write. Because I wouldn't read John MacArthur and say this is violence. Well that's a different kind of Yes, that that's right. None none of us would. But people back then, some of them did. Okay. Okay. And this is one book that kind of got caught up. Okay. And again, um some of these apocryphal books do appear in a few manuscripts along with with several other Canonical books. But just because the book is copied by some, this doesn't imply that the book has equal had us With the other canonical books. Um these are the books that are included in the Catholic Bible up to even to this date? Um some yes. Some other some other more. Um yes. Um if you look at some ancient manuscripts, um you will see embedded among all the other books That there are certain books that that we do not have today. And and again, um these up tees pee the These apocrypha books do not have canonical status for s for for good reasons, primarily They do not have the attribute of apostolic authorship. Okay. So a summary. The last half of the first century saw the process of selecting, sorting, reading, so circulating and quoting the uh the apostolic the the the the the theatre. All twenty seven books of the New Testament were written and copied and began to be circulated among the churches before the close of the of the first century. In the second first half of the second century These books became more generally known as copies of these books were more and more widely circulated. And the writings of the early church fathers also included quotations from these books as authoritative in their against heretical groups, their apol apologetic defence with unbelievers and their exhortations to believers to live holy wives. And these writings were also in circulating. We see quotes from nearly every New Testament book by the middle of the second century. By 150, by the year 150, um we see quotations from every single one of these new t of these New Testament books, all 27 of them, except maybe one. Um now in the second half of the second century we see that these New Testament books were widely recognized as scripture just as those of the Old Testament. That is, by this time Christians were beginning to To put these 27 books on par with their Old Testament. And these books will also be also began to be translated into other languages. languages. And commentaries began to appear. And as you read more and more of the early church fathers, you'll see more and more and more quotations from these books. Um and um and now by the year two hundred we see that every book has been quoted except possibly for Third John. Um and um and it's primarily because it's a small book. It's also um not widely circulated. Um but then um but then um C C C Origin would soon confirm this book and in in um and so by the end of of the second half of the second second Second century by the year 200, we have every single book. And then during the third Um is it yes and then and then um in the second half okay. And then during the third century begin say with the year two hundred and one two hundred and one um we have these these these these um books were widely rec recognized Um the book was translated into other languages. Um in um um Okay. I was our number four. Okay. During the third century the book New Testament books were collected into a single category of recognized books, the canon, and separated from other types of Christian literature, namely those books that were not canon. And doubts about disputed texts were debated and resolved, and non-apost non-apostolytic literature was tested and found lacking, and so was excluded. And so by the dawn of the fourth century, say the year 300, um the New Testament canon was fully settled. Say that year again, we say fourth century. The f by by the dawn of the fourth century, which is the year 300 or 301, if you want to be precise. Yeah. Um and now there was be now there will still be some more church councils that would question some things. Um but For the most part, all Christians would recognize these books. Yes. So so really when you go in you know, early three hundred AD. So you skip forth eleven hundred years to the Council of Trent, but then to pull these books out eleven hundred years later and say, now we've been thinking of these mechanics must have been just a massive It's a huge shift, right? So to do that to that clearly in response to the Protestant Reformation. Right. What gets everything that these church fathers developed in the first three hundred years after after Christ's death. That's right. Yeah. Yes. Yes. Right. That's all that arguments. Yes, that was that was a reference to the Council of Trent, and you know, as you s as we see Martin Luther would challenge the church to go back to the to the Bible, um, find biblical support for, say, indulgence and indulgences in in no you know I mean in purgatory. Well it wasn't in in the Bible, so they just added more books. Exactly. Um I don't know if you know upon all the scriptures from the Christians at that period, between two hundred and uh the two hundred and um eighty four to three hundred that was when he read three hundred and five. Was that mentioned at all? Um well uh well again I'm s again let's just note this. During all of this time, um it's not like the Christians had a had an easy time with life. Um they were consistently being persecuted by the Romans. Um their books were being banned and being burned. Um so So um so they had to, you know, make copies and keep making copies. And and keep Um just to survive. Um and um yeah, so there was d so there was a threat that the scriptures would be burned But again, there's so many copies, so many people making copies, um that that we um Yeah. So Okay, so let's now go on to te to to um textual criticism. Yeah, Jim I just want to talk to uh I I I know I do and I think a lot of times we think back to early church it was kinda fluceful almost. They you know, all these these men knew exactly what the scriptures were, but I mean think about it, it's the environment we change flavors but it's just like the environment today. I mean everything else people have different philosophies. I mean, you know Mormonism. I was witness have a Bible that's really close to us but you know Uh it's always been. Yes. And and we I think we tend to forget that sometimes with uh all these men just new and everything and they're all breaking bread together and they want to fellowship. That was pretty short lived. That's right. Yes, in fact in addition to all the persecution they also had all this false teaching going around too. Um and um so at the bottom page thirty-four, introduction to textual criticism. Now we do not have the original autographs of our God breathed criticism. scripture. We don't even have even have a first generation copy of any original autograph. What we do have are copies of copies, many of which ha have various omissions of a complete text and variations from other manuscripts. And then there are the numerous fragments, some of which might only have a partial verse. And all of these manuscripts are in various degrees of deterioration So how do we know that we can construct an accurate text? Big question. So enter the field of textual criticism. Now here I use this term criticism not to imply that we are criticizing or rendering judgment upon the Bible or upon any text of the of the Bible. In its grammatical sense, the term refers merely to the exercise of judgment. The term implies making discriminatory evaluations among the various t Textual variants found across ancient manuscripts. That is, as we look at these copies, they're not all the same. They're not Xeros copies. Are some differences. Um and so how do we know which is the correct one? Which is a more authentic one. And so again, textual criticism is going to come into play. Again, this tech this This discipline of special criticism, you can apply that to any ancient book. But it's most commonly referred i i i it's most commonly used for uh for the Bible. Most of the of most of the discipline concerns the Bible. If the other ancient manuscripts There's a few of them. B um C P C C Ili um C P C C Iliad is is is one. That's maybe number two. But it's a far number two. It's it's it's it's way down. Nothing nothing e nothing even comes close to what we have in um in the Bible. Um So how do we so so for example, what do we do when we find different variants? Like for example, this look this looks just look at it. Say look look look at First Corinthians chapter thirteen. What we call the the Great Love Chapter. Um this is um written in the midst of a disc discussion on spiritual gift gifts. Beginning in verse 1, Paul writes, If I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, but do not have love, I have become a noisy gong or a clinging symbol. And if I have the gift of prophecy and know all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith so as to remove mountains, But do not have love, I'm nothing. Verse 3. And if I give all of my possessions to feed the poor, and if I deliver my body to be burned, But do not have love, it profits me nothing. Now I'm reading from the New Americans Standard Bible. Yeah. Um but um but number three uh s is um some manuscripts, some ancient manuscripts read Um if I give up my body to be burnt Whereas other manuscripts read, If I give up my body that I may b boast Um like like that's um That's windowed that way in um in the in the em in I beep translations. So why is there a difference? Um well there's a difference because English translations differ because they're translating different Greek words. Some manuscripts have a word for boast and others include something form of burn. The terms look similar in Greek. They would both make sense in the context, but which word did Paul use in this letter? Did he have in mind being burned alive? Has in Martyrdan or does he have something else in mind? Now The earliest manuscripts, that is the most ancient ones, tend to support this word ghost. We must acknowledge that burning was not yet a form of persecution or martyrdom when Paul pinned these words. Or even during the first century. Romans did not burn people at this mistake. I I know Nero may have may have done that a few times, um, but that's not common. So so um so what is it so should should we read this passage as saying, if I deliver my body to be burned Or if I deliver my body to be boast, to b post. And the idea of that is, Paul is saying, if I give up All of my material possessions, if I sell sell everything To feed it for. In fact, if I even go beyond that, if I excel my body in to be a Tolai And use that money to feed the poor. So I give up not only everything that I have, but I give up my own body to feed the poor. If I did all that but did not have love, I would be nothing. Or does he say, if I even do martyrdom so much that I'm being burned, but did not have love, I am nothing. Which of the two is correct? Um well they both kind of make sense. Um So but let's just note that there's a variation. Some say boast, some say burn. Now we could look at the internal evidence, such as the writer's normal style, and the sorts of mistakes that later copyists would commonly make when they copied the text. In this case, you know, Paul never hardly mentions burning any place in his writings, but he often mentions boasting. But when it comes to what errors a copyist must make, we must ask if these two words look Look like each other, and yes they do. And they could if they could easily be mistaken by someone not as careful as they should be. That is someone copying the Bible, would they make a mistake here and say, instead of boast, write burn or instead of burn, write boast. Well they could make that make that mistake. The words are n are very much the same. So we'll so we'll left with this quandary. Now now now I think most Most translations would say burn, but even if it's burn or boast, it doesn't really change the context too much. So it's not like it's catastrophic that we know or don't know what it is. But again, there's not always an easy solution So one needs to to look at all of the textual, historical, and the linguistic evidence to decide, well, when we see uh a variation, how do we know if If it's original or if it's modified. So textual criticism works out Works with these ancient manuscripts to determine the original text with as great a degree as accuracy as possible. And so we can identify the following general stages of textual criticism. One is to apply textual criticism. system, you need the manuscripts. You need to gather as many as you can in whether they're complete manuscripts, partial manuscripts, fragments, or whatever And then you need to collate them, analyze them, look at the reconstruction of the history, the transmission of the text, to identify the various influences of the text. Sometimes um you can decide you you can determine who actually copied it. And and you can t figure out what mistake do they normally make. And then And you you can also look at uh at at the rest of the book um and just look at the theology of the writer in think th and think about what what do you think he would write. Y Yes. You do have to make copiers were not as accurate as the Old Testament copiers who as as I'm told they were priests and if they made one mistake they tore the whole thing up and burned it and started all over again. Because y you don't have as much of this in the Old Testament as we did with the New Testament. It it is true that we don't have as much of it in the Old Testament as we do in the in the New Testament. And we and I'm going to to to talk about the talk about that very simply. Okay. Okay. Victoria? If you're going from Greek to Greek it's not a question. Right? Sure it is, if they made a mistake. No, like the Superintheans. Why wouldn't there even be a question whether it's burn? a voce. You're just going with that Greek word from this page to that page word. So it's a little different if you're talking about translation. Well no. We're not talking about trans we're not talking about trans translation now. Talking about just copy. Why would that be a question if you're going from Greek to Greek? Well whatever it means to be a good thing. If I gave you a book, like the book of Romans, and I wanted you to copy it hand by hand by hand How many mistakes do you think you would make? You know, every one of us would make mistakes. We would k just sometimes we would just because we think we know what the text says we're do we may not e we may not even even look at it in and just keep continue to write. Um and again some some of us are not really good at sp spelling. similar to animal sacrifice. And I believe uh salvation, that's the ultimate salvation is actually one giving himself just like an animal, uh you know, like it did in the Old Testament. So that think broad is the correct uh term that Paul was trying to use as opposed to false. Well some yeah some some will some will agree with you and some won't. So Larry, in Greek are there different dialects? In Greek, like in like in Italian? No. No, no, we'll we'll we'll we we we we are looking at at a a written Greek t text. Because in Italian you could mainly Italian is quite a bit different than Sicilian. So for an example if you go to a restaurant and you order Fisha instead of Pesha for fish, you get urine. Okay. Okay. Okay, well, so if you're copying copying and copying it just takes like a letter to the difference. But yeah, but Even in um to English, there are words that are very very similar, but they have totally different meanings. Yeah. Okay. So um um so I I am I I have um I I have just a t maybe one one one more mini minute here. On page thirty six. The primary sources of scripture are handwritten manuscripts usually Animal sc scans papyrus, sometimes thin metal, and due to natural decay, most of the surviving ancient manuscripts are fragmentary and difficult to read. The writing surface itself is prone to tear Am I? Yes. Okay. And then the writing surface is prone to tear and damage to due to moisture, smudging, soil burning, human error and editorial and tampling within the Copying process are also factors for the many existing variant readings. That is, there's lots and lots of reasons why we have lots and lots of differing copying. And but but we do have some secondary sources as as well that that that may help us. For example, those translations into other languages. So we so we have those copies and those manuscripts that that might help us. We also have um quotations in the from both friend and folk. For example, our early church fathers often help us. two. But again, these sources also are subject to being copied. I mean the only thing we know about the early church fathers is is is that we have copies of their copies. I am out I'm out of time and I don't want to go in go into this this this this next part without time. Um so let me press Okay, we can close