Okay, good evening everybody. Welcome to our forum on Christianity and Culture. Really glad to have you with us Uh Pastor Gabe will be here in just a little bit. Um he's not here because he was exposed to COVID this week. Um he's tested negative for that, but uh the health department is making him quarantined. So that's why he's not here tonight. Just pray for him. He's trying to get to California. And we're just praying that'll work out. I'm gonna pray here in a minute, but just just a reminder, these are difficult days in our nation and I think all of us would agree we're saddened when we see injustice in our land. It grieves our hearts when we see inequality among those who are made and created in the image of God. And so I want to just say right off the bat, um Sean and I and Gabe do not have all the answers, but we do have a good and sovereign God who ordains all things that come to pass. Amen. And we know that all these things that God is orchestrating, they're for our good and for his glory. So we need wisdom from God on how to navigate these matters, these issues. We are thankful to have his holy word, which we're reminded tonight is sufficient for all things. We believe as a church, as a body, that all scripture is God breathed, all scripture is profitable for reproof, for correction. and for training in righteousness. So uh again, Gabe, Sean, and I do not have all the answers. We are weak men. And as Sean likes to say, I think he got this from Aleister Begg, but I hear him say it to me all the time. The best of men are men at best. And so please remember that tonight as we're up here, as you listen to Gabe as well. Um You know, I heard Franklin Graham yesterday pray at the uh at the Capitol, our nation is in trouble and we need God's help. That's a really simple statement, but that is so true. Our nation is in trouble and we need God's help. And we need his help tonight. And I would just ask, this is a prayer for me and for Sean as well, but for all of you. We need to all clothe ourselves with humility tonight As we come together, uh we we need to be those tonight who are quick to hear, slow to speak, and slow to anger And so let me let's pray now and ask for his help in our time together. Father, you're so good to us. Thank you for bringing us together for this evening. Uh thank you for Gabe and for Sean and for their work and just the time we've had to talk through this together and to pray and to plan. Lord, this is a serious issue. It is one that is concerning to you. Lord, you care about your people. You hate injustice. You love justice. You love mercy. And so, Lord, I pray that you would just bless this time, that this would be a time that brings glory and honor to you, that you would be pleased in all that is said and done. We are jealous for your glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. So just real quickly, the format. I'm going to speak for about 20 minutes or less And then I'll take any questions that you might have based on what I'm sharing. And then we'll hear from Gabe. We're not going to try to have him answer questions from his his basement. So Sean and I will try to answer any of those that come. out of his talk and then Sean will come up and then speak and then do a QA from his as well. My topic this evening and again we did a survey and we kind of tried to take the top questions from that survey but my question I want to answer is how does injustice impact those who are not involved? How does injustice impact those who are not involved? And the text I kind of want to go from tonight is 1 Peter 3. eight and nine, especially verse eight. But Peter there says to sum up, all of you be harmonious, sympathetic, brotherly, kind-hearted, and humble in spirit Not returning evil for evil or insult for insult, but giving a blessing instead, for you were called for this very purpose that you might inherit a blessing. I don't believe that I've ever been a victim of injustice. Never been a victim of racial injustice. I don't think that I've ever been treated differently for the color of my skin. I've never been pulled over, I think, because I look suspicious. Every time I've been pulled over, I deserved it I was speeding or I had a headlight out or whatever. Um I've never been profiled because I was white. And I don't believe I've ever been passed over for a job or a promotion because of my skin color. I preached here on June the 7th to four people, and um on Micah 6. 8, what does the Lord require of us? And in that sermon, I talked about seeing the video of the killing of Ahmad Arbery in Georgia, and then shortly after that, seeing the video of the murder of George Floyd in Minneapolis. And like many of you, I was angry, I was sad, I was outraged, and I was confused. All of those emotions at the same time. The Lord had worked in my life over thirty years ago, exposing the racism, the prejudice, the hatred in my own heart And I repented at that time, I sought the Lord's forgiveness, and the Lord forgave me. But as I watched these two men die on video Again, I asked the Lord, what can I do? What more can I do? Or what should I be doing? And that was That was a thought and that was a prayer that I prayed over the next four or five days. And the Lord did not speak to me audibly But I do believe that the Lord gives us wisdom when we ask of him. We read that in James 1. 5. And I thought it would be pleasing to the Lord to reach out to some of my black brothers And have some conversations by phone. And some of you may remember I was driving from Maryland to Indiana, so I had almost ten hours in the car And I just started making calls. I I used my headphones, okay, I did it legally. And um had some great conversations and really I think first Peter three eight In other verses was my motivation for this. All of you be harmonious, and then the word sympathetic, brotherly, kind-hearted, and humble in spirit. I'm not sure if any of you know this or not, but I'm a sports fan. I love sports. I have loved sports since I was a young boy I remember in 1976, I was six years old, I watched the Indiana Hoosiers win the national championship. They went 32-0 that year. Uh remember that game I can tell you everything about that game, even as a six year old. So I cheer for Indiana University, the Indiana Pacers, the Atlanta Braves. Um And the Indian Indianapolis Colts beat Jets tonight, seventeen to seven at halftime. And uh of course the Navy midshipmen But I have friends who root for other teams, other teams that I despise, like the New York Mets. And Lebo is wearing a Mets shirt tonight, very appropriate Or the Duke Blue Devils. But even when I have a friend who roots for a team that I do not like or a team that I don't cheer for and their team loses I may call them on the phone and and sincerity just say, sorry, you know? I'm sorry that your team lost. Feel bad for you. But when I saw the videos of these two men, Ahmad Arbery and George Floyd being murdered unjustly, I felt led and compelled to reach out to my brothers and say In all sincerity, I am so sorry. And what I told these men as I called them was, I am sorry for yet an another injustice towards black people in America. I did not apologize to them for being white. This was not an example of white guilt I didn't offer to pay them reparations for slavery. I didn't bow down to them and repent of my whiteness. I simply called several of my black brothers in Christ and said, I'm sorry. Peter writes to believers, followers of Jesus Christ, who were spread because of persecution, dispersed, and says, Be harmonious, sympathetic, brotherly. I love that word. Kind hearted and humble. in spirit. And I had some great conversations. Every friend that I called thanked me for taking the time to talk. Expressed gratitude for me reaching out to them. And in those calls I wanted to be a listener and a learner. I wanted to be a part of the solution and and for uh no way did I want to be a part of the problem I wanted to be an advocate for justice and not a participant in injustice. Micah 6. 8 again, it's the verse that I just keep bringing up during this time. He has told you, O man, what is good and what does the Lord require of you, but to do justice, to love kindness And to walk humbly with your God. And so as I made these calls, I wanted to be quick to hear and slow to speak, and I wanted to learn. And so I would ask some of these men this question. I would just say, tell me something that I don't I do not know as a white man. Tell me what it is like to be black in America. Or what is one thing I should know as I parent my eleven-year-old black son? And I learned a lot. I learned how black people are sometimes treated in a store that Sometimes when um this is this from the conversations I had that um when black people are in a store sometimes uh they'll see white ladies clutch their purses tighter to them. Um or how is it it is assumed sometimes that Just because they're black in a certain area of Maryland that people think, Oh, you're an employee. You're a target employee, even though they're not wearing the red shirt and the khaki pants. Or how black people are watched when they're shopping. I worked at a sporting goods store when I was in college called Galleons. And uh it was on the south side of Indianapolis. The south side of Indianapolis is very white. And uh every once I mean our clientele is probably ninety-five percent white But whenever black people would come into our store, our store manager would leave his perch from on top where he did nothing but look around, and he would come down to me and say, watch those guys And I hated that. Because I was trying to watch everyone. I I didn't want anything stolen from our store. And for him to say watch them in particular really made me angry I learned how black people are stopped more by police officers and there's not always a reason why they are pulled over. And then I I learned from one of our midshipmen how how he is treated differently in airports. He told me he's like Kirby when I fly somewhere, if I'm in just civilian clothes or like a sweatshirt, a hoodie and jeans People look at me very suspect, but when I travel and I'm in my uh service dress blues, everyone comes up. Thank you for your service. You're a great young man Just something I didn't know and it was really helpful to learn those things. I had some great conversations. I learned so much. I was led to tell many of these men again that I am sorry for what you have to endure today as a black man in America. One of the best conversations I had was with my good friend Reggie Hutchins. He's from Tallahassee, Florida. He is the FDA campus director at Florida State University. He's also the Florida State Football Chaplain. Uh please pray for them. They lost to University of Miami 52 to 10 yesterday. And also pray for him because he and his wife have COVID. But I called Reggie. I've known him probably three or four years He is a dear brother in Christ, and when I called him, I told him the same thing. I said, I'm sorry for yet another injustice toward black people in America. Uh Reggie is a mature and godly man. He's also a pastor of a small church there in Tallahassee. And he said to me, this is what he said. He said, I too am sad that another black man has died at the hands of police. But I am more sad than a man who was made in the image of God has been killed. And Reggie knows me well. He knows my heart. He knows that I'm raising an eleven-year-old black son. And so I asked him, what can I do or what more can I be doing to be an advocate of justice in this world? And Reggie said, Kirby, do you want to do something? Do you really want to do something? And I said, yes, that's why I called you. Okay? And he said, okay, if you want to do something, let's get some men together and let's pray And I said, You got it. Give me a g a few days to think about what that would look like, kind of put it in my hands to s to organize a a time of prayer. And so I said, I need to pray about that and get back to you. And I called him back within a week And I shared my idea with him. I said, I would like to invite four of my black brothers to join us in prayer, and I'd like you to find four of your white brothers. to join us in prayer. And we'll gather every Monday morning on Zoom to pray. Pray for our country. Pray for justice. Pray against injustice. Pray for God's mercy. And that's what we've been doing every Monday morning since early June, and it has been so good for my soul. Uh to pray for our nation, to ask for God's help, to pray scripture to God. Reggie comes up with an agenda for us every week and we We pray through that agenda. It's really based on the Lord's Prayer and just seeking the Lord and praying Scripture. We come together to seek his face and to pray together in unity. I've learned so much, I have grown so much, it has been such a blessing. And Sean has been a part of that call with me. He's one of the guys that I knew I wanted to invite to be a part of that, and it's it's so encouraging to listen to this man pray. Um Reggie gives each of the men like a six-minute time limit You know the story, okay? Uh that's uh w we hope for that, but yeah. Usually over six. So I just want to give some Some application for those of us who are not impacted by injustice. Number one, I think we need to know and understand that there is injustice in our country and in our world. There are some out there who would want you to believe that's not happening. And all you have to do is look around, watch the news, and read your Bible, because this is nothing new As long as sin has been in the world, there has been injustice. It starts in Genesis 4. It's not like we get to another book. It's in the beginning with Cain and Abel. Number two, I would encourage you to have relationships with people who do not look like you. And that's not very hard in Columbia, Maryland. It would be very difficult in Covington, Indiana, where I grew up. And it's not hard to do at Hope Bible Church, amen. What a blessing. The two things that really attracted me to this church When we were on uh was it Oakland? Oakland what? Oakland Mills, yeah. Coming in, hearing the word of God preached, and seeing the diversity in the body. Sitting in the back and just observing that my first Sunday. Number three, be sympathetic to those who may be victims of injustice Reach out to your brothers and sisters. Have meaningful conversations. Be humble, brotherly, sympathetic. Listen and learn. Ask how you can be of help. Because the opportunities are going to continue to come. I love the hearts of some of these athletes, and some people are saying we are going to end racism It's not gonna happen. It's not gonna happen until the Lord comes back, right? I appreciate their fervor, but that's not gonna happen in our lifetime. And so these things are going to continue to happen Especially as we have technology and all these things are coming out by video now. Uh I think I told you in my sermon that one of the phone calls I made was to one of my seminary professors and and we had a good talk and at the end of my conversation with him he said, Kirby, you're the first white brother that's reached out to me and I could hear the pain in his voice as he said that to me. We had a call about three weeks ago Just uh because we're friends and we we're continuing this conversation and he said it again. He goes, Kirby, I just want you to know you're still the only white brother who's reached out to me. And again, maybe um, you know, I I shared this with some people and they didn't understand why I would make those phone calls And I tried to explain to them that this is just something the Lord put on my heart. I thought it was the right thing to do. But even if you're just calling to check on your brother or your sister, why is that a bad thing? I think the more we can do more of that. Just say, how are you doing? Love each other. And then finally to pray. Pray individually about these matters. Pray as a family. And maybe do what we did. Gather some people together for a time of prayer. People that don't look like you. To listen, to learn, to pray together, to seek God's face together, I think that's a great way to strive for unity. in the body. Okay? So that's the end of my time. Uh let me read this though, Romans 12, 9 to 21. So applicable. Paul says, let love be without hypocrisy, abhor what is evil, cling to what is good. Be devoted to one another in brotherly love Give preference to one another in honor, not lagging behind in diligence, fervent in spirit, serving the Lord, rejoicing in hope, persevering in tribulation Devoted to prayer, contributing to the needs of the saints, practicing hospitality. Bless those who persecute you. Bless and do not curse. Rejoice with those who rejoice and weep with those who weep. Be of the same mind toward one another. Do not be haughty in mind, but associate with the lowly Do not be wise in your own estimation. Never pay back evil to anyone. Respect what is right in the sight of all men. If possible, so far as it depends on you, be at peace with all men. Never take your own revenge, beloved, but leave room for the wrath of God, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. But if your enemy is hungry, feed him, and if he is thirsty, give him a drink, for in so doing you will heap burning coals on his head. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. Man, if we just focused on those commands. This world would be a different place. So beloved, just a reminder, this is for our good, and this is for the glory of Almighty God