I apologize for sending out the notes uh so late. Uh uh Ron did his very best to get me to not do that. He texted me last night saying, hey, uh where are those notes? Uh he was very kind in how he expressed it. I'm like Oh yeah, thanks, I'll upload it in a bit. And then this morning he's like, so where this Anyway, so those those are online if you want those or if you have a cot if you need a copy, they're they're in the back. But we're gonna uh now come to our gospel thought number thirteen. And uh it uh we we wanna state it this way, because Jesus suffered outside the gate, I must be willing to give up comfort and bear his reproach, knowing that this world is not our home. So as we kind of get our minds back into this gospel cyclorama, as we envision ourselves looking around at the sea scenes of the cross and Christ's sufferings. I I wanted to do a l something a little bit different. Instead of looking up at the cross, in fact instead of looking at Christ at all as he's hanging on that cross, I wanted to to in a sense turn our back to him and and look at the environment. Again, just get the picture in your mind. We know that Jesus went through the trials and the the torture inside the city. But then finally when he was condemned by the Romans, uh he was taken Taken out of the city, he had to carry his own cross, obviously with help because he was so weak. He had to walk outside the city, taken to uh the hill of the skull, Golgotha, and that's where he was crucified. And so y if you can just imagine whether or not you've you've been there but you can imagine that you're outside of the city and you're seeing uh all all of you know the city and the and the countryside, the hills, the valleys. And that's where you are. You're not inside the city. You're not inside the temple. You're outside the city. That's that's the scene of this gospel thought. Turn in your Bible to Hebrews chapter thirteen. It's gonna be the main Passage for this thought. Hebrews chapter 13. And this is one of those passages that helps us draw out a principle from the gospel, but which we don't normally connect to gospel thinking but because it's so subtle in in in many ways. It's it's explicit and it is clear, but it's it's more subtle than we're used to thinking. Pastor wasn't outside the city where they put the unclean thing? It sure was. It sure was. And we we'll we'll talk about that, yeah. Uh so let me read verses uh seven to fourteen and then we'll draw out some main points. Hebrews 13, 7 to 14. Remember those who led you, who spoke the word of God to you, and consider the result of their conduct, imitate their faith. Considering the result of their conduct, Imitate their faith. Jesus Christ is the same, yesterday, today, and forever. Do not be carried away by varied and strange teachings, for it is good for the heart to be strengthened by grace, not by faith. Foods, through which those who were so occupied were not benefited. We have an altar from which those who serve the tabernacle have no right to eat For the bodies of those animals whose blood is brought into the holy place by the high priest as an offering for sin are burned outside the camp. Therefore, Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people through the through his own blood suffered outside the gate. So let us go out to him outside the camp, bearing his reproach. For here we do not have a lasting city, but we have but we are Seeking the city which is to come. Alright, go back to to verse seven here. Remember those who led you, who spoke the word of God to you, and considering the results of their conduct imitate. their faith. This statement is uh intended to be as general as it's stated. Uh we're to keep in mind, we're to be considering and thinking about those who led us in the past tense. This isn't a reference to current leaders, people who are leading us today, but rather those in the past. Those whose especially those whose lives have ended or those who have lived long enough that they're the fruit of their ministry is is uh is visible but they're no longer uh in ministry. Uh but largely it seems it would be those who uh who have now been promoted to glory. And he says that we are to remember them and their lives and we are to imitate the faith that motivated them. Right? Right, that's that's just gonna say. And one of our prime examples today is Pastor Leek. you know, who modeled for us and shepherded and exemplified uh Christ likeness and living a life uh for the glory of Christ. That is something that is good for us to do. That's why it's good uh to read those who've gone before us, uh not only those in Scripture, the apostles and the prophets, but also those in the faith throughout history who have lived and died for Christ and can be an encouragement to us. And we are to motivate we are to imitate their faith. But what the author of Hebrews does here, inspired by the Spirit, is give us an example of, if you could you could put it this way, the universal leader that all of us can look to. Jesus Christ. Right? So we all have specific leaders who led us, right? So for us it would be pastorally. For others it might be some other pastor. Uh there can be, you know, specific leaders, specific influential men and women in But the universal leader that we can all look to is Christ. Unlike simple men who may be faithful in many ways, but who are also um imperfect, uh we can look at everything that Christ did and imitate him, right? There's nothing that he did that we that we would say, mm, he's a good guy, but I don't want to do it that way. Obviously we can't imitate everything in terms of miracles and and whatnot, but in terms of his character, terms of his attitude, in terms of the way he interacted with people and show showed the love of God and the way he taught, we can we can imitate everything about Christ. In fact we ought to. But before the author says more about Jesus, he includes an unexpected section that almost feels like an intrusion. In fact, as I was reading it, and I I know uh uh as I've thought about reading scripture in the past and you know reading through this portion of scripture, uh there's been many times where I was like, I don't understand the logic here. What's what's why is he talking about, you know, the the food um you know being strengthened by grace, not by foods and the altar and the tabernacle? What does that have to do do with anything of what he's talking about. But this is not an intrusion. And while it does take some careful thinking, he's not only making a a powerful point in this text, he's also setting up what he wants to say about imitating Jesus, which he gets to in verses uh twelve to to fourteen. So we have to start with the context to understand what's what he's saying here, right? Hebrews is primarily written to Jews. Jewish Jewish believers specifically who were being tempted to go back to their Jewish practices because of the pressure that they were feeling uh in in their lives. Uh they were uh drawn back to the law of Moses because their family and their friends and their neighbors were calling out to them, saying, Why are you leaving uh the law? Why are you leaving uh everything that you've known, the traditions of the fathers, for the sake of this false Messiah, Jesus? And so they were experiencing that pressure, uh perhaps Some amount of actual persecution as some were imprisoned and lost their property. And so there was a significant temptation for them to uh to move away from Christ and back to the Mosaic Law. And so throughout the epistle, the author of Hebrews is continually contrasting the supremacy and the glory of Christ with the shadow of the law, with the shadow of of Moses, with the shadow of the sacrifices, uh, and trying to show that Christ is greater and not just trying to show, but actually showing that Christ is greater. Now no doubt, um those who were persecuting their Christian counterparts, their friends, their their relatives, their co-workers, were were saying things like what would what would Moses or what would David or what would the apostles say about you leaving the traditions? Right? They were just ramping up uh the pressure trying to get these professing uh or or these These believers to turn away from Christ. So when the author says here to remember your leaders, he has to make it clear, which he does in verse nine, that he's not talking about those leaders who promoted the first time. the law, for example, like the dietary laws, uh those who kept the dietary laws received no benefit from it, he says. There in verse 9, you can see that and he says, do not be carried away by varied and strange teaching. For it is good for those to be strengthened for the heart to be strengthened by grace, not by foods, through which those who were so occupied were not benefited So he's not saying, hey, look to Moses. What would Moses have you do? Moses would have you keep the law. Look to David, look what David would do. He would have you keep the law. The author of Hebrews is not saying, look at those guys. He's saying look at your leaders. Look at the the men and women who've come before you as believers in Christ who were strengthened by grace and not by foods. Right? The no matter what the FDA says, the heart is not strengthened by avoiding bacon. Right. Uh keeping the law of Moses doesn't earn one favor with with God or draw one nearer to the Lord. And so what he does then is in verses eleven and twelve he signals the supremacy of Christ over the law by comparing the sacrifice of Jesus with the sacrifice that was made on the Day of Atonement. Right? So in the Law of Moses, speaking of the sacrificing the atonement, um, or the general sac sacrificial system, in the Law of Moses, one of the ways that the Lord would provide food for the Levites was through the sacrificial system, right? Some sacrifices uh would be given and a portion of the animal would be burned to God, portion of it would just be uh burned up uh and thrown away because of the unclean parts and those parts would be thrown thrown away outside the city. And some of the parts would be given to the priests for food. So the way that the priests ate the their their continual sustenance was through the sacrificial system. And so in that way, many of the sacrifices benefited the most religiously privileged people in Israel, the Levites and the priests But there was one sacrifice from which they were not allowed to eat, right? And that's the most important sacrifice of of all. That's the sacrifice of the Day of Atonement. Uh the bull and the goat on the Day of Atonement would be killed on the grounds of the tabernacle. The blood would be taken into the Holy of Holies, but the carcass in whole would be taken outside the city and burned. So in other words, the priests could not benefit from the bodies of those animals that were killed to atone for their sin. It's really cool. Those of us who are reading the um quarterly whatever you call it, through the Bible in your group, we just read that Friday and have all those sacrifices in the business. Yeah. Yeah. Now in contrast to that reality that the priests didn't benefit from the atonement sacrifice, look again at verse twelve what he says. Therefore, Jesus Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people through his own blood, suffered outside the gate. Right? The sacrifice on the Day of Atonement was done inside the temple. It was done inside the tabernacle. area and then the body was burned outside the gate. It it it benefited the people in the sense that uh they sacrificed their sin with atone uh for those for those who did that but they didn't they couldn't benefit from it in terms of their sustenance in terms of their food. Whereas Jesus' sacrifice, because it wasn't done in the tabernacle, it wasn't done in the temple, was not part of the sacrificial system. It was not one of the many sacrifices that was instituted by the law of Moses. Right? Uh it was done outside the gate. It was, if you will, a private sacrifice excuse me, the the the sacrificial system were private sacrifices uh done in the tabernacle and the bodies thrown in the trash heap. But Jesus' sacrifice was a public sacrifice. He he was there available for all to see and for everyone to benefit from. Again, the Day of Atonement sacrifice was done in private, in the tabernacle in the temple, where only the priests and the Levites could be. It was offered in the Holy of Holies where only one man could be. But Jesus' sacrifice was out in public, available For everyone. One commentator, Peter O'Brien, says this to eat from the altar is a figurative expression for participating in the sacrifice. The assertion that the adherents of the old cult have no right to eat from the altar that Christians have is to declare that they have no share in Christ's sacrifice and are excluded from its blessings For believers, however, this death, his death, is the source of the grace by which the heart is strengthened. He's commenting there on On verse nine. Again, for believers, his death is the source of the grace by which the heart is strengthened. So, in the course of admonishing his readers to imitate the faith of their leaders, the author of Hebrews here holds up Jesus as the ultimate leader worth emulating. Not only did he provide a faithful model for us to follow, but we are continually nourished by His sacrifice. We're continually benefiting from His work on the cross. And so he concludes his section by giving a specific exhortation on how we are to follow Christ. Look at verse 13. So let us go out to him outside the camp bearing his reproach. Now, you know, I've said recently that every word matters, right? The Holy Spirit is always intentional in the specific words that he chooses to inspire. So if you read this passage closely, you might notice the phrase there right in the middle of verse 13, outside the camp. And that phrase was also used at the end of verse eleven, outside the camp. But that's different than how he describes where Jesus was crucified in verse twelve. There at the end, he suffered outside the camp. The gate. Outside the gate. What's the significance here? Well, historically speaking, Jesus was crucified outside the gate, right? He was crucified at a time where uh Jerusalem Jerusalem was the capital city of Israel, where Jerusalem had walls, and uh in those gate in the walls were gates that would allow people to pass in and outside the city, and so just kind of geographically uh he was actually crucified. He suffered outside the gate. However, by using the phrase here in verse eleven and thirteen, outside the camp The author actually takes us back to the wandering years when there wasn't a city, when there weren't any walls, and everything unclean and rejected, and all the waste had to be put outside. of the camp. As we said, the priests were to burn the carcasses of the sacrificial animals outside the camp. The people were to bury their human waste outside the camp. If someone had leprosy, they had to live outside the camp. If you got unclean for whatever reason and there were a lot of reasons that could make you unclean, you had to be outside the camp until you were clean and could Return. And the principle was that to be outside the camp was to experience shame. And it also happens to be that if someone Someone was receiving the penalty of being stoned for blasphemy or whatever uh what law they violated, that had to be done outside the camp. You couldn't do that inside the camp. So being outside the camp. Camp was a mark of uncleanness, of shame, of judgment. Now think about this. Jesus was crucified outside the camp, as it were. That's what the author of Hebrews is saying here. He was rejected. He was put to shame. He was accused of being a blasphemer and a Sabbath breaker. And so, in the eyes of the Jewish leaders, he was a reproach. And what do you do with someone like that? You take them outside the camp. He was discredited, disgraced And scorned. And so the author of Hebrews is saying, if that's how our leader, Lord Jesus Christ, was treated We shouldn't expect anything different. We shouldn't expect anything different. We should go boldly, he says, outside the camp to him. Stand by his side and take whatever reproach has come upon us because of our association with him as his followers. Now, Charles Simeon, who's a nineteenth century pastor, he rightly draws two implications from this passage. First, he says we have to forsake the world in order to follow Christ. And second, we have to submit to all the indignities that come to us so that we We would resemble Christ. Regard to the first, for we must forsake the world to walk with Christ. Consider Galatians chapter six, verse fourteen. He says, But may it never be, or the text says, may it never be that I would boast except in the cross. of our Lord Jesus Christ, through which the world has been crucified to me and I to the world. We could sing uh no the cross before me, the world behind me, no turning back, no turning back. The principle is I am dead to the world now. This world is no longer my home. This is not where I place my my hopes and my desires. This is not where I gain my identity and this is not where all of my dreams are fulfilled. is crucified to me, I am dead to the world because I am a follower of Christ. Or think about 1 John 2, 15 to 17. Do not love the world Nor the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the Father, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh and the lust of the eyes and the boastful pride of life, is not from the Father, but is from the world. The world is passing away in also its life. But the one who does the will of God lives forever. So if we want to follow Christ, John is affirming we have to discard the world in the sense of we have to no longer love the things of the world. No longer be uh driving after and be compellingly uh enjoying and indulging in the l lust of the flesh and and the eyes and the boastful pride of life. Because those things are passing away. If we love the world, the love of the Father is not in us. So if we're going to follow Christ, if we're going to associate ourselves with Christ, we have to forsake the world. We have to turn away from the world. The only way that we can do this in terms of forsaking the world is to remember what the author of Hebrews says here in verse 14. Look at it again. For here we do not have a lasting city, but we are seeking the city which is to come. The only way we can uh in a lasting way forsake the world it's one thing to say, okay, I forsake the world, you know, make a decision one day and then tomorrow So it's like I need a new car, I need some money in the bank, I need a job, and then our hearts can be pulled in the direction of the world. Right? Jesus talks about the the parable of the four soils and how there there are some who receive the gospel and they But then the troubles of the world and the pleasures of life and the difficulties of life, you know, come and choke out the seed. It's easy to initially say I need to forsake the world, but if we're gonna continue in that decision, we have to remember not only is this world not my home, but I have a home and it's a city that is coming. Right? A city that's coming. It's not here yet. I'm not experiencing it yet, but it's coming. And uh if you know you need to meditate on that. Just go to Revelation. What is it? Uh Revelation twenty that talks about the new Jerusalem that will come down on the new earth. Yeah, Doug. Well, this also uh I'm sorry about jumping. something you're about to say. Points back to Hebrews 11th. And the beginning of 12, where you see the examples of Abraham who gave up his home to go live in a place and he never saw he never took possession. Yeah. And Moses who wasn't willing to live in Kara's uh palace and then you know, which leads us to looking to Jesus, the long term protector of that faith. And so that whole that whole chapter builds to what we're reading about right here. And the same words and the same concepts and ideas about looking to our leaders and then about sacrificing this life to the life of look that lacks and having a temple that Yeah. Yeah. So good. So good. Yeah, I w I wasn't planning to say any of that, so thank you for saying it. Yeah, and and that's where, you know The author of Hebrews in chapter twelve, verse one says, Therefore since we have a so great a cloud of witnesses, and so we we can ponder, you know, as the author of Hebrews says, in terms of considering our leaders, we can look at those examples. And consider Abraham, for example. He was given the promise of a son. He was childless. He was given the promise of a son. He was what 70, 75 years old. And he He had to wait now he wasn't told how long he was gonna wait, but in the end he had to wait twenty-five years for that promise to be fulfilled. Twenty-five years. Now already at seventy-five that was going to be an unusual thing for a man and a woman to have a child at that age, right? But it didn't take very long before it was like, yeah, we're past our prime. We're past this being a national. natural possibility. And so that's why you would imagine it's a few years in thinking, Abraham's thinking, okay, I guess God I I must have missed this e this instruction, but I guess he wanted me to do this a different way than I was expecting. Right? And so he uh I guess Sarah is the one who encouraged him initially to to take Hagar. But year after year after year, and if any of you have been in that position where you're longing to get pregnant and it's not happening. year after year year after year. You you can understand the angst uh and and the the the fear of will this ever happen? Uh and then for twenty-five years they're still experiencing that waiting Now granted they weren't faithful the whole time. They did struggle with their faith, right? There there was multiple times when Abraham uh lied to uh King and said, Oh, Sarah's my my sister, because he was afraid that he would you know die and all of that. So there were times when he wrestled with His faith, but year after year after year, and but then finally God fulfilled his promise. And so we can look at at the the faithfulness of of Abraham, at the faithfulness of mo Moses in a very A significant way and and just be encouraged and strengthened. Uh that and also in Nam twelve, you can see how this ties in with Jesus and fixed his eyes and for him, even though he was despising. Right, right. And that disguised and machine part is very similar to us going outside the city. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, very good. Very good So, forsaking the world to walk with Christ is one of the implications. The second implication, again, is that we must submit to all indignities that we would resemble Christ. That's the way that Charles Simeon put it. Consider this passage from Matthew ten, twenty-four to twenty-eight. He says, Matthew writes, A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a slave above his master. It is enough for the disciple that he become like his teacher and the slave like his master. If they have called the head of the house Beelzebub, uh how much more will they malign the members of his household? Therefore do not fear Fear them, for there is nothing concealed that will not be revealed, or hidden that will not be known. What I tell you in the darkness, speak in the light, and what you hear whispered in your ear, proclaim on the housetops. Do not fear those who kill the body, but are unable to kill the soul. but rather feared him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. And so again, the the theme of this section is: listen, disciples, um the way that the people treat me, the way that I'm not sure, I'm not sure if you're not a very good thing. that the Pharisees and the religious leaders treat me, you can expect that they're going to treat you the same way. Don't think that, you know, this is going to be all uh roses and butterflies and you know wonderful, massive success uh all the way through. Of course when he said this he hadn't been crucified yet, right? So th they didn't know the full extent to which they would suffer like Christ But there's a fundamental commitment that we have to settle in our heart that says, whatever comes to me for my stance for Christ Is what I'm willing to endure. And that's just how it is. And we have situations in this world right now where to take a stand for truth is to be mocked, is to be scared. Scorn is to be rejected, maybe to lose your job. I don't remember if I mentioned it in this context, but I was talking to someone in our church just few weeks ago who lost his job because he refused to wear a a shirt that was promoting the homosexual transgender agenda at work. You know, he walked into work one day and they said, Here's your shirt for today He's like, I'm not gonna wear that And a few days later, they found some excuse, you know, they they made up some excuse to to fire. Uh that's happening right now, and so we have to settle in our hearts, Lord, whatever comes my way, whatever difficulty, whatever mocking and scorning. If I have to lose friends, if I have to lose my job, if I have to lose family, I will bear your reproach. And that's what it means to suffer with Christ outside the camp. We must be willing to give up our comforts and bear his reproach, knowing that this world is not our home. That's gospel thought number thirteen. Gospel thought number fourteen is this. Jesus suffered the way I am suffering. right now and infinitely more so which means I am never alone in my suffering and this is another gospel thought that uh I learned from Milton Vincent so I want to give him due credit his uh his uh understanding of God's Word turn over to Isaiah chapter fifty three. Isaiah 53. Again, Jesus suffered the way I'm suffering right now, and infinitely more so, which means I am never alone in my suffering. Look at Isaiah 53 and just the first two lines of verse 4. Where Isaiah writes, surely our griefs he himself bore, and our sorrows He carried. Oh, we can read the whole verse. Yet we ourselves esteemed him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted As you think about what Isaiah is saying here, these terms, griefs and sorrows that he bore and that he carried, we obviously know that Jesus bore our sin on the cross. He paid the penalty for us that was due to us. But these terms terms right here is not a reference to that. Griefs and sorrows are not used in Scripture to refer to sin. In fact, if you look back at verse three, the same terms are used In reference to Christ and his lived experience, which tells us, because we know he's sinless, that they can't refer to sin. Verse 3 says, He was despised and forsaken of men, a man of sorrow. So that's not describing his suffering on the cross, that's describing the character of his life, that he was a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. When you and I suffer, for whatever reason, in whatever way, we we do whatever we can to remove that experience of suffering from us. Or if somehow We can't make it go away completely. We'll often try some way to mitigate and minimize uh that experience of pain to take the edge off in some way. When Jesus hung on the cross, though, there was no anesthetic that could take away the pain he was experiencing. And even though the Romans uh tried to give him something that would take off uh you know take the edge off the pain if if such a thing was possible. You know, they offered him wine mixed with myrrh. Mark four uh fifteen tells us that he he did not take it. He rejected that offer of relief because he wanted to experience the full brunt of sorrow and grief and pain and the full brunt of the wrath of God. If I can put it this way, Jesus wanted to experience the full extent not only of his suffering, but also of your suffering, so that he could say to you what no one else can say to you, and that is, I know exactly how you're feeling right now. No one else can say that to you. Only Christ can say that to you. You know, because there's nothing new under the sun, we we all experience the same kinds of things, the same kinds of sufferings. Uh there's grief and loss, there's Personal harm, abuse, betrayal, being taken advantage of, uh being lied about You know, and all the rest of the experiences of human suffering we generally have some experience with that, to one degree or another, some more than others. You know, thankfully we don't all experience the the full extent of of uh being sinned against the way others could. But uh but many times we know the kinds of suffering uh that that we experience. That's why Paul says in First Corinthians thirteen that there is no uh temptation, there's no trial that has overtaken you except what is common. He's just saying that anything that you experience is is a common thing. Not that everybody experiences the same thing or in the same way, but there's the same types of suffering that we all generally experience. And so because of that, we can Often come to someone in their suffering and say something like, I understand the kind of thing you're you're suffering right now. We cannot say, I understand exactly what you're feeling right now, but we can say, I understand the kind of kind of thing you're feeling right now. But every instance of suffering is is utterly unique, right? Because we are all individual people. We all have our unique relationships. Our lives are a unique combination of experiences and possessions and hopes and dreams and expectations and desires and more. And so again, while others might experience the same type of thing, that we're going through. No one knows exactly what I'm experiencing right now except Jesus. No matter what grief is in your heart, Jesus took that grief and he bore the full weight of that grief in his body on the cross. No matter what pain or sorrow is in your heart. Jesus told took the full experience of that precise pain and sorrow in himself on the cross. Even though no one else understands precisely what you're suffering, understand that Jesus knows exactly what you're suffering. He's gone through it and he's experienced. So that means we can talk to him about it. We can go to him with our sorrows. We can plead with him with our confusions. We can ask him our questions. And we can be confident that he will meet us. It's as though through his spirit he puts our he puts his arm around us and he says something like, My dear child, I sorrow with you. I have felt exactly how you feel, and I want to be a little bit of a good thing. you to know that I will be with you through this storm. I will never leave you or forsake you. Isaiah 53 here is not the only place we find that Jesus identifies with our sons. Suffering, we could also see that in Hebrews chapter four, verse fifteen, which is a passage we're familiar with. In Hebrews four, fifteen, the author of Hebrews says this for we do not have a high priest who cannot simply Sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who has been tempted in all things as we are yet without sin. The word sympathize there literally means to suffer with. To suffer with. So again, for we do not have a high priest who cannot suffer with us with our weaknesses. A human priest can't suffer with us. Again, he might be familiar with the kinds of suffering but he can't actually be there to suffer with us, unlike Christ. Again, our high priest suffered with us. Not he didn't sin. With the exception of sin, he has experienced everything that we experienced in our griefs and sorrows. And a new note for you. You put down Hebrews fourteen, fifteen. Oh I did? Oh thank you. I have a different copy than what you have, so I I didn't see that. Yeah, Doug. Because when I see in can I say uh 53. What what follows what we just read is um they talked about he's pierced through for our transgressions and crushed for our iniquities and I that Christ bore my sin on itself. Nothing you're not saying anything is uh is outside of that. Well I think what you're saying is verse four is telling us that in some ways, likewise, and that's the the part that I'm kinda wrestling with, is likewise he bore our griefs. Because on the one hand, when Christ bore my transgressions, he took them all away. The pound would be gone. But when you bore my griefs, you're saying it's a different thing. You didn't take my grief away. Inside my heart. I still grieve over these things. saying that he identifies with it. And those two things, as I read it here, seem like they're parallel, but when we talk about it that way, they don't feel as parallel. Sure. Yeah, I think you're right about that. Um and uh w we you said w he takes away our sin. I mean there's a sense in which we experience that too, right? We experience the the anguish, but we can overcome the the guilt. That you know he takes away the guilt so that we no longer feel that because now we're righteous in him. Uh but there's a sense in which there's still that experience of, you know, we actually do sin and and we actually do feel the the the consequences of that in whatever way we do. But he's just taking away the guilt and the penalty of that. I would affirm there there is a a difference there. And I I think scripture places obviously so the greatest emphasis on his sacrifice for sin, and so we've talked about that pretty extensively. But there's also this other element that is more than hinted at. We'll keep talking about that. In fact, turn to turn to Matthew twenty-five. Matthew twenty-five is where Jesus is teaching about the separation of the sheep and the goats in this final in the final judgment And the interesting thing about this passage is that what d what makes the determination of who is a sheep and who is a goat is how they treated Christ. Okay? How they treated Christ. But what is peculiar about this passage is that how they treated Christ is seen in how they treated other people. And and I would uh uh uh believe uh based on the context and what Jesus says here that This is uh how people treated fellow or other believers. Uh how people treated believers, not just anyone in the world, because this passage can be used to promote social justice and I I don't think it it actually does. But look at what Jesus said. Says here, starting in verse forty-one. Then he will say to those on his left, Depart from me, accursed ones, into the eternal fire which has been prepared for the devil and his angels. For I was hungry, and you gave me nothing to eat. I was thirsty and you gave me nothing to drink, I was a stranger and you did not invite me in, naked and you did not clothe me, sick and and in prison and you did not visit me. Then they themselves will also answer, Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty or a stranger or naked or sick? sick or in prison and did not take care of you. And he will answer to them, Truly I say to you, to the extent that you did it to one of the least of these, and that's a key phrase that in the New Testament refers to script uh to believers. Uh i but you did not do it to one one of the least of these, you did not do it to me. Did not do it to me. You see, it's not as though believers are suffering here on earth and and Jesus is enthroned in heaven and he expects us to care for suffering believers as if we're caring for for him. You know, kinda like when when Paul says, Do your work as unto the Lord, you know, caring for sufferers as if we're caring for Christ. Jesus actually says here, I was hungry. I was thirsty, I was a stranger, I was naked, I was in prison. And so I think what we have to come to grips with is this is the union that we have with Christ. Such that whatever we experience In some mystical way, he also experiences. What's true of us, obviously in certain respects, is true of him. Being in Christ, we receive all the spiritual blessings that are in Christ, right? Colossians says we're already seated in the heavenly places with Christ. I don't I don't know about you, but I've never been there. I haven't seen uh the heavenly places, I haven't sat uh with Christ. But it's true in some way. We don't understand it, but in some way that's true. At the very least we can say it's so certain that we can already affirm uh that reality. But it's not Um it's already but not yet, as it's said. And uh the reverse of that is true. In Christ, because he is in us, he experiences all the sorrows on the earth. Think about it in your mind in Acts chapter 9, when uh Paul is on his road to Damascus and he makes it right on time for his divine appointment with Jesus. And what does Jesus say Saul Saul. Why are you persecuting me? Right? He doesn't say Saul, why are you persecuting the way, as the Christians were called? Why are you persecuting Christians? No, he says, why are you persecuting me? Now if Paul had the presence of mind to be able to say something like, Well, I don't know who you are, but uh I'm not persecuting you, I'm just persecuting these people over here. If if he had the presence of mind to say that, he would have been wrong. Because the reality is he was persecuting Christ, because Christ so identified with his people that to assault p uh believers is to assault Christ in a very real and direct way. He doesn't just take personal interest in our suffering. Jesus experiences our suffering with us. As you all know, we have uh four kids, Rachel and I, and what you What you might not know is that uh Chloe, our daughter, our second child, was born, thankfully, full-term, but only after she had two months of bed rest uh to keep her in the womb. And then Caleb, our third son, our second son, third child, he was born a month early, but only after Rachel was flat on her back for three weeks in the hospital. And then Micah, our fourth, uh he was born at twenty-nine weeks, um basically three months early. And uh she was about to go on bed rest, but she went into labor. instead. That uh situation caused her to have to be airlifted from our local hospital to the Seattle University Medical Center and uh and then he was born early Now for those reasons and other reasons she has spent a lot of time in very unpleasant and difficult situations and by the way I do have her permission to talk about this. Through it all or at least I did two years ago. Through it all. Well I've been by her side as much as I could be, right? But I couldn't be by her side twenty four seven. You know, I had to help take care of the kids, which we had lots of help with also, but you know, I had to go home, take care of things. Um there's a lot of times where I couldn't be with her. I had a deep personal interest in her suffering, right? I cared about her, I loved her, I I I hurt for her, but I couldn't experience her pain. When the nurses And the medical techs had a problem getting the needle in her veins, right? My stomach would go into a knot. But I wasn't feeling what she was feeling. She was feeling the full uh experience of of the nerves and the uh and and the pain sensors firing. And when she suffered acute pain, you know, I grieved that there wasn't something that I could do for her. There was no way for me to feel what she was feeling. I was with her in her pain in a sense, but I was outside of her pain. Right? When we say that Jesus is our sympathetic high priest, we don't mean, again, that he walks through us with our suffering like I walked with Rachel through her her suffering. Where I'm I'm with her, but I'm Outside of her. Because of our union with Christ, not only are we in him and he is in us, he feels what we feel. Again, this I this is a mystery. We've got we uh there's a sense in which we've got to be careful with how far we take this, but there is a mystery here which scripture articulates. He knows our pain precisely the way we know our pain. And so for this reason, when we feel like we're alone in our suffering, when we feel like no one knows what I'm experiencing, the reality is that's not true. Jesus knows exactly what you're feeling. He is not outside of our suffering. Question? Yes, Anne. Um this passage in Matthew twenty five that you say is referring to believers. Can you stop? at verse forty five, but there's one more verse. It says will go away into eternal punishment. Believers? No, no, no. The believers are the the least of these that weren't cared for The the people who didn't receive the food and the and the drink and the who weren't visited in prison. The ones who went into eternal uh suffering were the ones who didn't care for the believers. Okay, let me just get that. Okay. Yeah, Joel. Okay. So um the use of the word sympathized in Hebrews for twelve and just in terms of what we've been discussing, it seems like empathy might be a better use of the word there. Sure. Well, yeah, I mean again it means to suffer with and I've always struggled with which ones empathize and which ones sympathize. But uh it's just simply the reality that uh we don't have a high priest who is outside of our suffering. We have a high priest who knows and has experienced our suffering. That's the point that the author is making there. Diane? Um so I'm taking this on to the second time. Again in the Because when I first heard it, I mean I've been a Christian for a a long time. It it's just something that I've never grasped before and it really does change your life. And yesterday, you know, I'm praying with my friend who's been thrown away by our husband many years just yesterday. And I felt like I finally grasped a little bit of a enough of it to praise it and to be able to explain it a little bit better. Like and and it also takes the burden that we feel. 'Cause I'm a very empathetic person and you can feel that burden I look at you. And I don't know you that well, but I know that you counsel so many people and I think how does he deal with that burden? And I you know, other people say that, but if you can really grasp this, that's how Because you're just taking people to Jesus and going, Look Yeah. And and even though that sounds like the gospel that we we basically all know, there's a deeper thing of this. And dear Margot says a bunch of us Milton. Milton is the part of that that goes into this. And you can just listen to it every single day to help it and it'll continue to change you and uh anyway I'm grateful the lesson starting to understand it. Thank you. Yeah, well I appreciate your uh no the your encouragement but how you're taking it and using it. it to be a blessing to to someone else. And and what you how you describe the the prayer there or at least w tal talking about praying is this is where the concept of lament is so helpful to us because uh lament is is crying out to God in our sorrows. It's it's um kind of a ex expression of what is actually going on in our heart. It's not a pious um um straight faced um Um you know, I'm I'm gonna I'm not gonna cry to Jesus, I'm not gonna ask him any questions 'cause I know he's sovereign. Uh Lord may your will be done. And not exposing my my feelings to God. No, lament is is just opening up your heart to God and whatever is in your heart, uh a as an act of faith, not as an act of uh a raised fist of anger, but as an act of faith. God I wanna I I'm I'm suffering here, I'm struggling. I d I don't know what to do. Help me understand why is this happening, but I know that you're good and I just don't understand it, I don't see it. Lord, help me to help me to trust you in the situation. Help me to know your salvation. There's there's expressions of what's going on in the heart that are full of faith and yet confusion. That's what we see in the Psalms. And so knowing that Christ knows our suffering, that He's with us in our suffering, uh frees us to do that because we know we're talking to someone who knows exactly what we're talking about. We're not talking to someone who is, again, on the outside and who doesn't understand, but it it allows us to lament more freely. And we can go so far as to receive uh grace and comfort from the Lord because uh as we learn from him, as we ponder on the sufferings of Christ, and we see how he suffered and how he responded to his suffering, both in trust, as we've talked about, in worship, as we've talked about, and how he loved those that were even sinning against him, as we will continue to talk about in further gospel thoughts, we can be encouraged by the grace and comfort of Christ as And and learn from him and be changed by uh observing how he experienced suffering himself Now I want to close with uh just another story of of how knowing Christ has suffered like you can bring powerful change in the heart. Uh John Perkins was a civil rights leader. leader in Mississippi. When he was young, his uh brother was murdered, I don't remember the I think in the 60s. Uh his brother was murdered by white men and John fled the state, vowing never to return again. But at some point the Lord saved him and he realized that he needed to go back and be a witness for Christ. He needed to go back and specifically be an agent of reconciliation, an ambassador of Christ in that place where his brother was murdered. Well there was a night as he was engaged in those activities when he was arrested and while taking part um in a protest march some white cops who were drunk uh beat him up, uh punched him kicked him, arrested him, took him to the uh the jailhouse, uh really tortured him. He uh he bled from his wounds. He went in and out of consciousness. At one point uh one of the officers took a gun, pointed it out his head and pulled the trigger. John didn't know that the gun was unloaded and so he expected to die in that moment and that was just another form of torture. At another point, one of the officers shoved a fork down his throat, causing Severe damage and injury. Well, days later John lay in a hospital bed. His heart was full of anger, as would be natural in the flesh. He hated those men. And though he was certainly not the only one being treated so wickedly in that time, he surely felt alone in his suffering. But I want to read you w his own words about how the Lord worked in his heart He writes this The Spirit of God worked on me as I lay in that bed. An image formed in my mind, the image of the cross, Christ on the cross. It blotted out everything else in my mind. This Jesus knew what I had suffered, he understood, and he cared, because he had experienced it all himself. This Jesus, this one who had brought good news directly from God in heaven, had lived what he preached. Yet he was arrested and falsely accused. Like me, he went through an unjust trial. He also faced a m a lynch mob and got beaten, but even more than that he was nailed to rough wooden planks and killed. Killed like a common criminal. At the crucial moment it seemed to Jesus that even God Himself had deserted him. The suffering was so great he cried out in agony. He was dying. But when he looked at that mob who had lynched him, He didn't hate them. He loved them. He forgave them. And he prayed to God to forgive them. Father, forgive these people, for they don't know what they are doing. His enemies hated, but Jesus forgave. I couldn't get away from that. It's a profound, mysterious truth. Jesus' concept of love overpowering hate. I may not see its victory in my lifetime, but I know it's true. I know it's true because it happened to me. On that That bed full of bruises and stitches, God made it true in me. He washed my hatred away and replaced it with a love for the white man in rural Mississippi. I felt strong again. Stronger than ever. What doesn't destroy me makes me stronger. I know it's true because it happened to me. So whatever you have gone through, or whatever you are going through, or will go through, whatever grief or sorrow you experience, whether you experience persecution or illness or abuse, call to mind in the darkness of night, Jesus suffered the way I am suffering right now. And therefore I am never alone in my suffering. Let me pray.