I sometimes ask fathers or husbands in the church how they think they should lead their families. They're taught, well, the answer invariably comes, well, we lead with love. Then I ask, what does that look like to lead with love? Then there's usually a pause, a little more reflection, because that's a harder question. Some men know how to lead, other men know how to love, but how do they lead with love? I know people are not easy to lead. Even in the household, at times it's not easy to lead. But if people receive leadership, they receive it when it is done with love. It's done with kindness in speech, right? It's done with patience when people make mistakes and errors. It's done with gentleness in manner It's done when, besides giving orders for the family, the husband serves with humility. It's done when there's genuine forgiveness and not just something that sort of looks like forgiveness. There's done when there is tender-heartedness. What leading with love does not look like are the attempts at sarcasm. at being aloof and then becoming defensive and then self justifying or with too abrupt demands or outbursts of anger or other things that show irritation. To learn, the heart and the practice of love is very important for leading in love, obviously But really, for a man to do that, for anybody to do that, but we're focusing the application on our men today, to learn to lead in love, they have to be convinced they really are love themselves. I think the security and the power of God's love in our own hearts, of Him loving us, being convinced of God's love, being convinced of God's undying, unchanging love Knowing that in your heart, fully accepting that, that is what undergirds the way you learn to love in the home and you're able to show love. We learned it last time in 1 John 4. We love because what He first loved us. That's how we learn it. And we have to be convinced of it in order to lead well. Well, we're returning to Malachi today on Father's Day. Malachi verses chapter 1 verses 1 through 5. We're going to continue learning that lesson on God's love, and I'll begin by reading. This is the oracle of the word of the Lord to Israel through Malachi. I have loved you, says the Lord. But you say, How have you loved us? Was not Esau Jacob's brother, declares the Lord, yet I have loved Jacob. But I have hated Esau, and I have made his mountains a desolation, and appointed his inheritance for the jackals of the wilderness. Though Edom says we have been beaten down, but we will return and build up the ruins Thus says the Lord of hosts, they may build, but I will tear down. And men will call them the wicked territory, and the people toward whom the Lord is indignant forever. Your eyes will see this, and you will say, The Lord be magnified beyond the border of Israel. What are we learning and what are we supposed to hear from this scripture today? Simply this, that the Lord has definitively loved his own people. And we are to be convinced of that and have no doubts. We are to be convinced, and being convinced, we are to respond to his love with a genuine and robust kind of worship and service. Now after we gave that crucial introductory material, a lot of material from last time in verse one, the situation of the Israelites being back in the land after the time of the exile and Malachi being sent to preach to them. We went over all of that last time and you can get that message. We noted in verses 2 through 5 that it neatly divides into three parts. First is God's declaration of his own love And we consider that last Sunday, verse 2, I have loved you. It's very clear that the Lord loves his people. He says it directly. He says it, I think, emphatically. He says it confidently. I have loved you. He affirmed his love for his own people, right? He wants no doubts about his love, and he himself has no doubts. Second, though, came Israel's objection and this gives you their mindset. They're back in the land. Things are not going well for them. The economy's not going well. Jerusalem's not completely rebuilt. The temple doesn't look like it used to They're being dominated by a foreign Persian power still, even though that gives them a measure of security. And they say, How have you loved us? That's a challenge to that. They're being told God loves them, but they don't really buy it They don't really see it in the circumstances of life. They're not convinced because things are not going well for them. And this is their immediate objection, and probably the Prophet Malachi heard this From their lips, and he is showing that God has heard this as well. And so this statement was a direct challenge to God's love. They doubted God's love for them They were focused on their own circumstances and they were focused on their own needs. They were self-focused. And it seems the devil took ex advantage of this, exploited this And uh they continued all their religious duties. They were obedient in the things they were supposed to do, but they were half-hearted in it. They weren't giving proper sacrifices, their heart was not in it their service and their worship had just kind of fallen lazy and without any real passion. And so today we proceed to the third and the longest part of all of this. And that is God proving his love to his people. And that's where we want our minds today. On how God proved his love to Israel. And we're going to translate that to us today, how we should think in response to that. Focus now on verse 3. Verse 3. Here's the proof of his love. Was not Esau Jacob's brother, declares the Lord, yet I have loved Jacob But I have hated Esau. One of those tough statements in the Bible people wish was not worded that way, but it is worded that way, and it is true, and there's something to learn from that. So underscore this in your mind. God choosing Jacob instead of Esau, or Jacob over Esau, is the proof that God is offering to these Israelites that He loves them a special way. Since God offers it as exhibit A of his love, it's obviously something the Lord wanted them and us to learn from. Many Christians today, maybe some of you, run from the doctrine of divine election. Maybe the doctrine seems too controversial, or it seems too mysterious. How does it all really work and fit together? Or it may just plain seem unfair. But God actually draws the attention of his children right to this doctrine, right to this act. He wants them focusing on it Because he proves his love to the elect by speaking of his election. Do you see that? He's drawing their attention to this. He chose Israel. He chose Jacob over the descendants of Esau. Well, divine election is what God is speaking of here. Jacob I have loved. Esau I have hated. Jacob and Esau were brothers, right? You know that. They're reminded of this here as well. And not just brothers, they were what? They were twin brothers, correct? And both of them were descended from Abraham, the father of our faith Both were even sons of Isaac, who was the very child of promise, right? So you think that God would treat them exactly the same. Twin brothers from Abraham, from Isaac, they should get the same exact treatment from God, right? Wrong. It is true, of course, that God had rejected another son of Abraham, man named Ishmael, and he had favored Isaac, but Ishmael was, we could say, brother from another mother, right? Not Sarah's son, not the child of promise. But here, these two boys, Jacob and Esau, had the same mother and the same father. Did God treat them the same? Not at all. Not at all. God treated them radically different. God loved Jacob. God chose Jacob. God rejected and hated Esau. And furthermore, Jacob was the younger of the two. And usually the rites of blessing and inheritance go to who? The eldest, right? And the eldest never lets the younger ones know that, uh, forget about that. The oldest son of the father gets the inheritance, gets the blessing. And that's why Isaac as the father favored not Jacob, but favored Esau. You may remember the account in Genesis twenty-seven. It reveals that as Isaac got older, he preferred Esau. He said, Esau, go out, hunt, make a nice dish for me, come back in. I want to eat it. I'm getting close to death. And after that, I'm going to give the blessing to you. And then Rebecca, who favored Jacob, got to working with what she did in her trickery. So it is all the more remarkable that God chose the second-born son who came out of the womb second, clinging to Esau's ankle. Jacob should not have been chosen. That's the point. But God chose him anyways. Do you hear that? Think about that in relation to you. Should you have been chosen? Think about that. Dr. John Piper in his sermon from Malachi drives this very point home. I want to read this to you. Now, what is the point of saying Is not Esau Jacob's brother. The point is this based on what you and Esau were in yourselves, I could just as easily have chosen Esau as you. Isn't he your brother? Weren't you twins? Isn't he in fact your elder? But I chose you and passed him by What then is God's answer to the question, how hast thou loved us? His answer is, I have loved you with free, sovereign, unconditional Electing love. That is how I have loved you. Do you hear it? That's so true. When you ask the question How God have you loved me? The same answer comes. He has loved you in the same way. He has loved you with free, sovereign, unconditional electing love. See, this love-hate language here is not about God's personal animosity towards Esau. It's not trying to encourage us to have evil in our hearts or something like that when we say, oh, I just hate that person. That's not the kind of hate here. As the context indicates when we read, love and hate are about election and rejection, about choosing one over the other. The proof of the love is election. The proof of the hate is rejection. It is about God loving Jacob more than his care for the non-elect. God loving Jacob more than Esau It's a comparative idea of love. And this is actually seen later in the book of Genesis as you go from Genesis twenty-seven to Genesis twenty-nine. You find out later that Jacob had two wives and he loved one, Rachel, more than he loved the other. Same idea That same comparative language comes up in Deuteronomy 21 in the very law of God. When a man has two wives and he loves one more than the other, how is that one who's not as loved to be treated? And there's a law for that. Also, in the New Testament, we see the Lord Jesus Christ employing the same language as we compare two parallel passages and two gospels. In Matthew 10, 37, Christ said, He who loves father or mother, listen, more than me is not worthy of me. You're not allowed to love your mother and your father more than Christ. You wouldn't even be worthy of Christ. When you go to Luke 14, say more Jesus, verse 26, he says, if anyone comes to me and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, even his own life, he cannot be my disciple. Very strong language. What's the point? The love more than is so great that in comparison it is hate. You reject your life. You would reject any relationship that is there in comparison to your love for Jesus Christ. That is the kind of love we are to have for God, is the highest love, the highest devotion, the highest obedience. Well, that's what's being talked about here. Love versus hate. We see that love is to think more of and hate is to lessen. The one chosen is love more, and hate is used in comparison to that special kind of love. So the Bible is not condoning here an emotional hatred of others. Rather, these are the consequences of God's election. As you read what follows in the very passage, you see that, don't you? That the hatred is seen in the rejection of Edom, the descendant of Esau, the descendants of Esau. Edom is laid waste and it's not allowed to rebuild And then God opposes them and continues to oppose them. And then they're given over to wickedness, and their territory is called the territory of wickedness. And God, his anger remains on them forever. They are rejected. They're not accepted by God. Scripture tells us that God still showed some degree of love toward Esau himself and also toward his descendants. Listen to this, and you will understand. God's general love, and then understand that his love for the elect is a much higher and greater and eternal love. In Psalm 145 and verse 9, it simply says this The Lord is good to all. Isn't that a wonderful statement? The Lord is good to all. That could not be said of Satan, could it? The Lord is good to all, and his mercies are over all his works. Everything that makes his mercies are still there for them to some degree. There is a sense in which the love of God is universal, but it is not a love that results in salvation. It's not salvific love. It is not a relational kind of love, a higher love. Speaking of the idol worshippers in Acts chapter fourteen and verse seventeen, Paul said, God did good and gave you rains from heaven and fruitful seasons. Satisfying your hearts with food and gladness. He did that for idol worshippers. He was good to them. He loved them in that general, universal sense Dr. Unger writes, God's love to Esau is manifest in the blessing that Esau received in Genesis 27. He did get a blessing And the powerful and prosperous nation that Esau became, according to Obadiah verses 3-9. But in comparison to the high spiritual and messianic blessings that were to flow through Jacob and his posterity, they were thy comparison as hate Now, understanding the difference between these two loves is crucial for your discernment and your understanding of what God thinks of you as a believer in Jesus Christ. For if you believe that God loves all people the same and equally and in the same manner, you ruin the very message of this passage. You don't get it at all. You're not hearing God's love message to you. This passage makes that understanding impossible. If you do not see the special love that he had toward Israel, and now the special love he has toward you in Christ, then you don't get it, and you won't cherish that special relationship you have with Christ. You understand? You won't even be aware of it. You won't even think of it in your mind. Some believers are so adamantly opposed to the idea of God. making choices. And especially to the idea that God chooses people in salvation. Yet this text says it is his election which proves his special love. I hope you're hearing that If there is no election of one person over another person, then the very love God in his heart is trying to communicate here vanishes. It's not true. Now remember, and we sang it already th uh this morning, that this election is not based upon anything in you. You've got to remember that The rejection of Esau was not due to anything that Esau had done or would do in the future. Remember, God rejected Esau while Esau was still in Rebekah's womb. Genesis twenty five, twenty three The Lord said to her two nations are in your womb, and two peoples will be separated from your body, and one people shall be stronger than the other, and the older shall serve the younger That was his declaration. God's election was not based upon what they did. Jacob's election had nothing to do with how good he was one day going to be or how faithful Jacob would be to God. Or the great faith that Jacob would exercise more than Esau. It was not based upon that. What was Jacob's election based on? Let's do a little digging into this. Keep your finger there and go to Romans chapter 9. Romans chapter 9. Because here in the in the New Testament, the Spirit of God moved Paul to focus on this very truth and to teach from it in Romans 9. Starting from verse 10, but we could start sooner. There's a lot of uh good context here, but starting in verse 10 and reading. Romans 9, verse 10. And not only this, but there was Rebekah also when she had conceived twins by one man, our father Isaac. For though the twins were not yet born, and had not done anything good or bad, so that God's purpose according to his choice would stand Not because of works, but because of him who calls. It was said to her, Rebekah, the older will serve the younger, just as it is written. And here he quotes Malachi, Jacob I have loved, but Esau I have hated So Paul references both Genesis and Malachi, and then Paul anticipates all the human objections that will come to the doctrine of sovereign election, and he goes on. Look at verse fourteen. What shall we say then? There is no injustice with God. Is there? May it never be. We think that's unfair. The Bible says it is not unfair. For he says to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion. So then it does not depend on the man who wills or the man who runs, that's his behavior. but on God who has mercy. For the scripture says to Pharaoh, For this very purpose I raised you up to demonstrate my power in you, and that my name might be proclaimed throughout the whole earth. Verse 18. So then, here's the conclusion: He has mercy on whom he desires. And yet hardens whom he desires. And then he goes on even to object to another objection there, and he answers that saying, O man, who are you to answer back to God? The doctrine of free will crumbles before Romans 9 and Malachi 1. The idea that human will determines salvation is destroyed here. Nowhere in the Old Testament does it say that God was more pleased with the life of Jacob over the life of Esau. And if what he did was look into the future to see which one would work better than the other one, then he couldn't possibly have written Romans 9 that says it's not based upon their works, but upon his calling. Their response to God later in life was not the basis of God's choice. Jacob was not more lovable than Esau. That's not why he got chosen. It is true that Esau despised his birthright. We're told that in Hebrews chapter 12 and verses 16 and 17. We're also told in Genesis 25, 34, thus Esau despised his birthright. That's written there. But that was not the basis of God's election of Jacob. In fact, the exact opposite is true. God did not choose Jacob because Jacob would believe in him and be more righteous than Esau. Jacob came to believe in the Lord and learned to obey him, and it was a hard process for Jacob, and he did all of that because God had chosen him. And along with that choice, God drew Jacob to himself, and that is why Jacob ended up the way he did. Those whom the Lord chooses by his own sovereign will are the ones he works with. in his love to bring them closer to himself, grants them the eyes to see, and draws their heart to himself, so that they love obeying him and keeping his law and following his will. They end up loving him because of the election All of the subsequent narrative of the life of Jacob illustrates that. Those whom the Lord does not choose, he simply leaves them to follow their own inclinations, and their own inclinations from birth are what? They're sinful. They're against God. They're one of Adam's children, and they have a sin nature, and no one with a sin nature ever seeks for God. That's why it's called a sin nature. They're seeking naturally for what? Sin, for evil, for wickedness. Genesis 3 illustrates that so perfectly. As soon as Adam fell from God's grace, as soon as he entered into sin, he ran from God, he covered himself, he hid from God. He did not seek for God, he did not run toward God. Romans three, eleven and twelve backs that up. It says the sin nature does not seek for God. There's none who understands. There's none who seeks for God. That's on their own The sinful will of fallen man, apart from electing grace, is bound in slavery to sin, and it always chooses the love of sin over the love of a holy God. So there is never injustice with God. Those whom the Lord passes over and rejects them end up rejecting Him, anyways, because that's where their heart is. Esau despised his birthright. And yet God glorifies himself by placing his love on some, and only on some in this saving way He places his special love upon them while passing by the rest. The reason for the electing of Jacob and Jacob's children is given in Deuteronomy 7, if you'll turn there, chapter 7, verses 7 and 8. And look at this, because we're given the answer. When we have some of these questions, they come up right in scripture. We just need to recognize when they're being answered. Deuteronomy 7, 7 and 8, it says, starting in verse 7, the Lord, as speaking to the nation of Israel here, and Moses is writing this: the Lord did not set his love on you, Israel Nor choose you, because you were more in number than any of the peoples, for you were the fewest of all peoples, but because the Lord loved you And kept the oath which he swore to your forefathers. The Lord brought you out by a mighty hand and redeemed you from the house of slavery. from the hand of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. Here was a nation that was enslaved, and they were small in number when they started, but they were chosen. And he says, Why did God choose you? Because you're the least likely of all of the nations on the earth to succeed. You're small in number and you're in slavery, and because of that, because you had no credentials, I chose you. Now you're getting a little bit of a hint as to why God chose you. Why did God choose you? If you're a believer in Christ, you're chosen of God, why did He pick you? I often ask that, why did He pick me? And the answer is because I was the least likely to succeed And that's the answer that's given for us also in 1 Corinthians chapter 1, when he says, Consider your own calling, my brethren, that there are not many mighty according to flesh. Not many noble, not many wise, but God has chosen the foolish things of the world to shame the things which are wise, and God has chosen the weak things of the world to shame the things which are strong, and the base things of the world and the despised. God has chosen the things that are not that he might nullify the things that are so that no man should boast before God. The ones who are great and mighty in the world can't boast because they end up not being chosen and they end up getting thrown down, as we see of Edom here. The ones who are chosen look at themselves and say, Why knee? And that's a very good question. Why knee? Because you were lesser, that's why he chose you. You are a better candidate for the display of the glory of his own power and grace, and that's why you're chosen. But that means that you're loved very securely and very specially, and the reason for that love is it not in your Personality, it's not in your sense of humor, it's not in your dedication to church, it's not because of your dad or your granddad, it's because of a sovereign decision of electing love. His love for the nation of Israel is permanent. If Israel became unfaithful, God would never be unfaithful It's one of the reasons we believe there's always going to be a future for the nation of Israel, because God said that as long as there's a moon in the sky, and there still is one, there was a beautiful, bright full moon this past week, and there's a sun in the sky, I will never depart my love from the nation of Israel. That's what it says. That's very clear. There's a relationship of grace. God would never break his promise. It's called sovereign grace for a reason. All Israel received in blessing was unearned and was undeserved. When they were loved, it was only because God chose to love them. It was a jealous love too. It was a love of relationship. God says he's a jealous God in the good sense of it. It is love which decides what he wants to love, when he wants to love, who, when, and how. He gets to decide. We don't. It's not according to human will. His love is not controlled by anything outside of himself. God will never let the nation of Israel go, and he wanted them to know that. Just as you may choose who you want to love, don't you do that? Don't you go out and choose who you want to love? Isn't that your own decision? Do you think that God is a lesser being than you and He cannot choose who He wants to love? If you understand this doctrine of electing love, this should result in continued amazement. In fact, increasing amazement and praise and thanksgiving from your heart. It shouldn't be, ho-hum, I was elected. E. Ray Klendonen, I think is how you say his last name, writes this the knowledge that one has been chosen by God for an intimate relationship. And that God will always act in accordance with that relationship should make a profound difference in the way we handle obstacles, failure, disappointment, strife and human antagonism. It should make a difference. It should make the most practical difference. What do I do when all these things happen in my life that disappoint me? That should grip your mind and your heart more than anything John Calvin wrote, The Jews then have always been reminded that they were not to seek for the cause of their adoption, but in the gratuitous favor of God He had been pleased to choose them. This was the source of their salvation, period. How come then? Answer, God chose them. This election love is also affirmed to us in the Lord Jesus Christ. Roger Ellsworth in his little book on Malachi writes: Every child of God drinks from the fountain of God's love every day. The truths of his word, the joys of fellowship with his people, the beauties of his worship, and the assurance of his presence are just a few of the expressions of this ongoing love. You have that every day, every week, every hour. How do you handle disappointment in circumstances of life? You can chalk it up to bad luck. You can say that God doesn't love you as much as someone else, that he neglected you. You can believe like these Israelites and say something like, How have you loved me, God? Or you can believe that this is true, that you are special in God's sight, that you are an object of special favor, with amazing privileges, and you haven't even begun to see what those privileges are The glories that are to be revealed to you are so great, Paul said, whatever we're suffering in this present life, and that colludes a lot, aren't even worthy to be compared to the glories that are coming to us Now there's further proof of God's love, and that is in how Israel was treated in comparison to Esau's rejection. Let's look at that in verse 3. There are really three ways that Esau was opposed. The first is that God destroyed Esau's land, Edom. Verse three. And I have made his mountains, Edom's mountains, a desolation, and appointed his inheritance for the jackals of the wilderness. That region south of Moab was called Edom, and the name was for the descendants of Esau. In Genesis 36, 1 it says Esau was Edom. It's south of the Dead Sea. It extends all the way down to the Gulf of Aqaba. Edom was a rug rugged, mountainous kind of region. It still is today Rugged and mountainous sounds even like Esau's personality, doesn't it? It had peaks which reached near four thousand feet. You might read in scripture of Mount Sierra. That was the prominent mountain that was used there, and sometimes it would be used to signify the power of Edom. and be on their land. But Edom proved through the centuries to be the constant enemy of the children of Israel. When Israel came out of Egypt, Edom denied Israel permission to cross their land. Edom then attacked during the days when Saul was king, but they were subdued under David and were ruled over even in the days of Solomon, according to 2 Samuel 8, 13, and 14. But they continue to rebel and fight against Israel. Obadiah's little prophecy is largely against Edom. In verses ten through fourteen of Obadiah it shows That when Babylon came against Jerusalem and destroyed Jerusalem, Edom was very happy about that and only too happy to assist them in doing it. They rejoiced over Judah's fall. They even hurt the uh refugees the fugitives who were running. To escape from the hand of Nebuchadnezzar. And they came and they actually killed some of them and they looted the city of Jerusalem afterwards. That was Edom. And then Edom moved into the vacant areas after Israel was ripped off of their land and they took it over for a while, and it looks like for a while that they had gotten the best of Israel. But God was telling them, You have to look at this over the long haul. The end of the story is not written. You have to hang in there. I've got a long human history here and I've got a lot to do, and that is not what the case will be God here shows his divine pleasure with this nation, his displeasure of this nation of Edom. Listen, God is the architect of human history, right? He makes his prophecies and whatever his prophecies say, that's what's going to happen to a nation. His prophecies stand, but the nations come and they fall God has a plan not just for Israel but for the other nations of the earth as well, for God is the king of all the nations of the earth, and he is the judge of those nations as well. And Edom's inheritance was their land, but God rejected them, and he decided to give their land to the desert jackals. Take the land, you wild beasts of the earth. Their cities had become ghost towns, and they were populated only by wild animals. Their destruction came partially by those same Babylonians later But it was really the Arab Nabataeans who drove the Edomites off their land completely. And these attacks from the east drove them toward the west, and when they moved to the west they were then in the south area of Judah What's called the Negev, where uh Hebron is, and they made the city of Hebron where Abraham Abraham had uh lived before their very capital. When we come to the New Testament times in Mark 3:8, that area to the south which is made up of Edomites is called Idomia. But not only did God destroy their land, second, God opposed Edom rebuilding in their land. Look at verse 4. It says, though Edom says, we have been beaten down, but we will return and build up the ruins. Sounds like people today, doesn't it? Thus says the Lord of hosts, they may build, but I will tear down. So they didn't get the message. The Edomites were not humbled. You may notice that sometimes unbelievers have something bad and hard happen to them, and they don't get humbled. You pray for them to learn their lesson, but they don't. In the book of Revelation you see the the outpouring of God's wrath on the earth, and then you read next and it says, They cursed God and the Lamb who brought the wrath. And you're like, Are you kidding me? You guys are about to be wiped out. And you're still cursing him? There's no lesson learned here? And that is the blackness and the darkness of the sin nature. That's why they can't respond to the light of the gospel without the electing grace of God. This is just amazing. They were not humbled at all by their judgment. Their little motto probably was, We're going to rebuild, we're going to rebuild, we're going to rebuild. You can just see God standing over the little constructions, and every time they build it up, he knocks it down. Frustrating, right? Imagine building your little Lego something and someone keeps knocking it down. You get angry at them. This is exactly what God says he'll do. They're saying we're going to soothe, we're going to turn and return to our land, and then we're going to build. But God says, I will not let that happen. They may build, I will tear down. It's decisive and emphatic. I'm going to demolish. God says, I'm demolishing their land. They may come back, I'll knock it down. The pulpit commentary states it rightly. It is vain to strive against destiny. And you know what? They've never rebuilt their country to this day. Never. Once they were ripped off their land, that was it. It's still there, land of Jordan, it's ruled by Arabs today. Jameson Fawcett Brown writes, though Edom was once the highway of Eastern commerce Now the lonely rock houses of Petra attest to the fulfillment of this prophecy. There it is, you can visit Petra, it's all empty, and they never rebuilt. Another example, by the way, of fulfilled prophecy, and how would we know it's fulfilled except that it was fulfilled literally? Does God expect his prophecies to be fulfilled literally? Of course he does. That's how we can tell they're true. That's how we know what he said. Notice again the contrast of love. While God was enabling Israel to rebuild, okay, the rebuilding was going slower than they wanted. We have that in our lives sometimes, right? We have prayer requests, things we want for our family. It's going slower than we want. Believe me, I know all about that. You know, God just seems slow sometimes. And it but Israel was rebuilding their nation and God was letting them do that. But Edom he would not let them do that. Time was up for them. You see the proof again of the love. Israel went off into captivity, off into the land, but God had made a promise. He was dedicated to that nation. Their cities were destroyed true, but after the time of chastisement off of the land, they'd be brought back, all according to the prophecy of Jeremiah. God chastened them, he spanked them because they were his sons, but he brought them back Edom wanted to go back to his land, but Edom was not his son, and he didn't let him. Only the wrath of God rested on him. Jacob was chosen. Esau was rejected. God's wrath abided on Esau. As chosen, Israel had the Lord of hosts on his side. He is the Lord over all the armies of heaven. The Lord of hosts means the Lord of all the armies of heaven, the angelic armies. Just think what one fighting angel could do in battle. And now think of the whole armies of heaven, the hosts of heaven. He is the Lord of all the hosts of heaven. He doesn't even need them, but he sends them to fight. God was the sworn enemy of the country of Edom And he had vanquished them, utterly removing all that they had worked hard for. They never regained their territory. They never regained their former power. And eventually they were lost to the pages of history altogether and no one even knows where the people of Esau are today. The prophecy of God, literally fulfilled. The third contrast here is that God left them a terrible legacy. The last part of verse 4, look at it. And men will call them the wicked territory and the people toward whom the Lord is indignant forever. Men will call them speaks of legacy. What is their legacy? Well, here were fathers who didn't follow the law of God, and their legacy was the wicked territory. This is so sad. What wasted lives. You know, there's that that song out, Don't Wanna Waste My Life. They wasted their lives. Their wickedness had earned them this designation, the wicked territory. There it is, their reputation. Jeremiah forty-nine picks up on this. It says Edom will become an object of horror. Everyone who passes by it will be horrified and will hit at all its wounds. Like the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah with its neighbors, says the Lord. No one will live there, nor will a son of man reside in it. Just a terrible place to be. Edom had become even a byword for all of the nations of the earth who would oppose God. And so what a terrible terrible reputation for Edom. In contrast, Israel and its land is not called the wicked territory. Zechariah chapter 2 and verse 12 calls its land what? The holy land That's a scriptural designation. The Holy Land, Zechariah 2. 12. As the wicked territory, the Lord was indignant forever with Edom and his sons. Indignant means a righteous kind of anger, an anger that is justified. In Isaiah 66, 14, it said, The hand of the Lord will be made known to his servants, but he will be indignant toward his enemies. That's it He was forever this way. That in in Hebrew it means it's not really a word that speaks of eternity, but it speaks of perpetually. In an ongoing sense. Edom was perpetually cursed. A terrible judgment. Perpetually under the anger of God. This should have provoked a humble appreciation for the Israelites as they thought about how holy their God was, and they would be exactly the same as the other nations. Except they weren't the same as the other nations. They were chosen. Was it just and was it right for God to punish Edom? Yes, for they sinned and they were wicked. But wait, Israel sinned and Israel was wicked also. Yes, but Israel was chosen. Why were they chosen? Because God gets to choose whomever He wants to choose. He's sovereign. And so Israel's sins would be dealt with with mercy, and Edom's sins would not be dealt with mercy. Why? Because God has mercy on whomever he desires, and he hardens whomever he desires. Israel should have learned from this. Israel should have had a warm relationship with God and loved God. They were cared for the most. They were treasured above all the nations. They were chosen. They should have seen this. They should have felt this. It should have been how they worshiped and how they came before the Lord. They should have had zeal. They should have had godly ambition. They should have, should've, should have. Brothers and sisters, you can close your Bible for a minute. You can think about this because you and I shoulda, shoulda, shoulda as well. We ought to be excited about the Lord God and not let our worship be Mambi Pambi. We ought to be excited about serving God and building up His kingdom and seeing His church flourish and working for Him, but often our service and our worship is flat. We're going through the motions because we don't have the love of God in our hearts, and men, guess what? It is God's admonition to you as the leaders of your home that you set the stage for what it looks like to worship God? What does it look like to have a heart for God? Who are you in your heart? Your kids are watching it. Yeah, you can miss the soccer lesson. You can miss the piano lessons They can get a C minus in school, but they're watching you to have a passion and a heart for God, and how do you show that? Are you involved in your church? Are you vibrant in worship? Have you let the love of God so convince your own mind and your conscience that you are on fire for the Lord? Or are you going through the motions? You remember Psalm 1, how blessed is the man who does not walk in the counsel of the ungodly, nor all of that stuff. But he delights in the law of the Lord, and God blesses his life like a tree by the rivers of water. Do you remember Romans 8. 31? What then shall we say to all these things? And to these things there are the electing grace of God. What shall we say to this? What's our response to the electing grace of God? The answer is this. If God is for us, what's the answer? Who is against us? See, it seems like everything in life is against me. I try this and I get knocked down. I do this and nothing happens. I want this to happen in the home and I get knocked down again. No, God is training you God is using all those circumstances providentially for good in your life. Look at them that way. Notice the last hope that comes to Israel here in verse five. The last verse of the passage. Your eyes, Israel, will see this. What's the this? The destruction of Edom. And the continued destruction of Edom. And then you will say, when you see how you are treated in comparison to the way Edom is treated, then you will say, the Lord be magnified. Listen, beyond the borders of Israel. God is not just the God of Israel, right? He is the God of all the nations, and his name be magnified beyond the borders of Israel. He will judge the sinners and the other nations, and he will work his plan to completion. The Lord be praised, the Lord be magnified, the Lord be increased, his reign grow even beyond the borders of the nation of Israel. And though God is in covenant with Israel, his concern is for his name being magnified not just in Israel, but throughout all of the earth, right? Ezekiel thirty-nine seven says that my holy name I will make known in the midst of my people Israel And I will not let my holy name be profaned anymore, and the nations will know that I am Yahweh, the Holy One in Israel. Israel was chosen so that God's name would resound throughout the earth. All across the world, the majesty and the justice and holiness of God must be learned. Men we have a role in that. We have a role that in our own personal lives first we consecrate ourselves to the mission and the work of God. And then we turn to our families and we understand that our dedication to our families is not an end in itself. We and our families live for the glory of God and the building of the kingdom of God. And brothers, the building of the kingdom today is his church, and you need to get busy serving in his church. You net you need to get busy bringing your family to serve in his church. You need to make sure that doctrine is a response to the love that God has for you in electing you. And remembering why was I chosen and this person was not chosen, that I I'm praying for, I'm hoping they're chosen, I don't know, but this person's not this person seems not to be There are other people out there that in the end will not be chosen. They'll never see the mercy of God. They'll never be saved. Why me? And the answer is because God just chose to put his love on you. Doesn't that mean anything to you? Doesn't that change you? Doesn't that get into your thinking? Doesn't that make you want to serve with all of your heart? That's what election is about We love because he first loved us in this special way in which he did not love the world, the rest of the world, the lost world, the ones that end up not believing in him. We have come to know and have believed the love which God has for us. That's a believer's love. That's for the believer, 1 John 4:16. In your deep abiding and certain knowledge of the love of God for you in Christ the Savior, in that knowledge In that sense that it's true, that's how you learn to lead your family in love. You've tasted the love, you love the love, you appreciate the love, you sing of the love. And now you turn to your family and say, I want to be loving toward you and lead you to understand this God of immense love as well I'm praying for you. I'm interceding for you, family, and I'm going to lead with love. I'm going to be patient with your shortcomings. I'm going to be gentle in my speech and my manner. I'm going to build you up. I'm going to bring you to the truths of God. I'm going to get you involved in the kingdom of God, his church. I'm going to let you exhaust yourself for the work of God. I'm going to let you lose yourself in the love of God. And this is what it is all about. That's why you were chosen. That's why you're chosen to lead with love in your homes And that's what the doctrine of election is about. It is about that special relationship that God has with those whom He chose to set his love upon you. Amazing, amazing blessing, amazing truth. May it hold your mind. May it help you through hard times. As Israel is in hard times, may it hold you fast to him. May you never forget that truth. And let's pray to that end. And Father, we thank you for this truth. And We just pray as fathers that we would dedicate ourselves again first to seek your love and then to pass the correct knowledge of that love unto our dear children, our beloved children. And even for those who are coming for the dedication now of their children We would pray, Lord, that you would help them to not go through the religious motions as a father, as a leader of the home, but they would have vigor for you because they understand this deep truth. That they were chosen in you before the foundations of the world. We ask it. We ask for it to sink into our thinking, and we ask it in the name of Christ, the beloved one. Amen.