Alright, Born and Spirit. Which I think you and Daniel So I think one definition missing from the secular is that it's dead person. It's what person dead dead person and then the secular Spiritual person biblically is someone who's been made alive spiritually in Christ. Let's give you the best three for me. Okay. One is cool. Uh well I'm gonna just I'm gonna just give you three on the country. mind ready. One of them is in Peter when he says we partake of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust. And another one is what Jesus had the engagement with his family. And then wanted to remove him from his preaching because the people he was talking to thought he was a lunatic. And then they said your mother and father, your brothers and sisters are out here And Jesus said, let me tell you who's my mother, father, and brother, those that do the will of God. And then he emphasized that throughout his ministry. Those that do the will of God that comes from the scriptures. Very good. Can I see more hands? I have one more and I'll finish. One more. Okay. And and the one in Galatians when Paul says, you which are spiritual bear the infirmities of the weak. Just kind of give you an indication what it means. So I just those three. Absolutely. I love it. And uh spiritual is also having a um personal relationship that we got Hold one second. I don't want to miss so we may say we are supernatural. Okay. And because we are from the supernatural goal. Okay So we're back to Dawn's definition of we all have a soul. Are we alive or are we dead in Christ? Organ. I was thinking of uh being killed in this in the sense that we see it um in Colossians three and its relation to being filled with the word beautiful. Alright so now since we're touching on my notes we might as well just go through it. Why does it matter? I know I left that very big and open. Why does it matter how we define things? Why does it matter our understanding things? Because when we're talking with individuals we need to know how they're using the words. Yeah. Make sure that we're not misinterpreting or misinterpreting understanding what they're saying. And the same for us speaking to them. They need to know what we mean when we're talking about you know someone who's spiritually lies. We can be having a conversation with someone and we are having a conversation with ourselves in front of someone else Two different discussions happening at the same time, really not communicating the truths if we're not careful. We could also have a conversation with someone Where we want to let them get away with their definitions. You think you're a spiritual person, maybe that's a good start. That's okay. We'll get you there eventually. We don't do that though oftentimes in our own house. We don't do that in conversations that we have oftentimes with our children. When our children were younger And we wanted them to understand the definitions of things. And someone did something to a younger brother and you say, oh, sorry. Let's let's make that a little bit more precise and definitive. What did you do? I did X. Was that sinful? Yes it was. Then what do you need to ask for? Forgiveness. We're not just apologizing. It wasn't an accident. You were deliberate. And in that deliberate action And that sin against your brother, you need to ask for forgiveness. Why? Because we need to have a centralized conversation around what's going on in your actions. I'm being specific because I want my young child to understand what sin truly is. And then what is accidental? And what is just an apology? I stepped on your foot. That was an accident. When I have conversations with people around their soul and the sinfulness and what they believe is true and where their life is headed and what the purpose of it is I should have a conversation that's grounded in Scripture. Because if I allow someone to hold on to a definition, and I'm not saying, hey, it's in passing. Oftentimes these things are really based on relationship. Someone wants to engage with you. They want to have a conversation around what's spiritual. But I don't want to leave you where you are. Because of what we'll see as we move forward, that's probably not the best thing for me to do. That's not what I was equipped to do. And I'm trying not to use certain words that we'll get to in the future But it's all around what I'm trying to achieve. So when I deal with someone who has all these definitions of what spiritual is, And as Rosaria kind of walks through the two chapters that we're in, she gives an example of it. And this person who called themselves spiritual and said, hey, just leave the world better than you found it. And you'll be okay. Really? Last time I checked after forty-six years, the world has gotten worse. Even worse. It's the scroll board. I don't have the option of leaving the world better than I found it. One because I don't have control over said world And two, because as we move forward in said world it is getting more and more secular and rejecting God more and more often. And if I volunteer at a shelter here and do this there, yes, I might have an impact and I should do those things, but I'm not leaving the world better than I found it. It's simply really not my role. to leave it better than I found it. But we also find people in these scenarios when I'm open to options and when I'm just gonna meditate and I'm gonna empty my mind or maybe I'm gonna rely on a higher power or maybe I feel in tune with the universe I'm operating on a rejection of the Bible, and I'm operating on a rejection of who God says he is. I don't want your God. Your God's too rigid. Your God's too black and white. Your God doesn't make sense. Your God calls me to accountability that I don't want. I want more freedom. I want more flexibility. I want more autonomy. Therefore, I'll pick and choose how I define spirituality. The difficulty though as we go down this road, and one thing I want you to keep in mind as you do, is if is an aspect of a verse, and such were some of you. Right? Because we get to a spot sometimes in our walk with Christ where as we learn, as we unpack, as God reveals Himself, we forget. Who we used to be before Christ. We forget it wasn't because of us That we now sit or stand where we are. Right. It's because of God's kindness that led us to repentance. I want to do. It's struck me that there was a lot of I, I, I, I, I in there versus him, him, him, him, him. And that's really the difference between spiritual and biblical. Him is really focusing to live for God. Yes. Yes. And it's it's really that I that allows things like s um religious pluralism. Where you have a scenario where you say, look, I don't just want one thing. I don't want an exclusive religion. I don't want to just sit in Christianity. That's too rigid. I want pieces of all of it Pieces give me flexibility. Pieces sound like I'm more inclusive. I'm more open. Pieces allow me to choose heaven from Christianity and a workspace faith from somewhere else. Now I have something that I feel more comfortable with. Here's the challenge though. When we look at the Bible, what does God say about himself as it deals with pluralism. I want to look at three verses if we can get three readers. And even if we do the first one, Deuteronomy chapter six, I think verses four and five We may not need a whole lot else. But let's start there. Hero Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might. Amen. God lays out foundationally who he is. If you have the ESV, Hero Israel, the Lord Our God, the Lord is one, or the Lord our God is one Lord, or the Lord is our God, or the Lord is one, the Lord our God, the Lord alone. And that's very much the case as I look at secular thought processes, the first thing I realize is no matter how else you feel about things, no matter where else you want to go, no matter how much flexibility. or rigidity you feel about God, there is only one. He is exclusive. He owns it all. He made it all. And we don't have an option of deciding if we like the universe better. Or I'm going to be an empiricist and I'm just going to trust my own experiences. Or I want to rip the label off of who God is and just say I believe in a higher power, and I'm going to leave that nebulous or ambiguous or not seen by the way that the Bible has laid it out. But I also need to look at who God says about himself and what we should do with it as we move forward. But just a few more. 1 Timothy chapter 2 verse 5. Can I have someone read that for me? For there is one God and one in you thou and way of you in Christ Jesus. So there is only one God, as Deuteronomy tells me, and then there's only one way to God, and that's through whom? The man Jesus Christ. Yes, we know it. Yes, it's not confusing. Yes, it is elementary But when we're faced with it to explain it to someone, to give them context, if we don't have an understanding of this right here, well you're defining it as The universe. You're defining it as just someone who's curious. Well, I would say if you're curious, can I introduce you to a man named Jesus? And this is who you look at. When Paul was at the Acropolis, he looked around and he said, I see you've got all these statues to all these other gods. And now, just in case you missed one, here's the statue to an unknown god. Let me tell you about this one and why he's the true God and why this matters. So we have an understanding, and it's very easy to understand what unbiblical spirituality or a spiritual person looks like But when we get to who I'm supposed to be and what makes me spiritual, I find that sometimes it might be as equally challenging or you might find multiple definitions on what that means. So let's start with two verses and then let's walk through the challenges in those spaces. Ephesians chapter 5 verse 18 I believe that's the one that I want. And then someone else grab for me Galatians 22 through 25. And do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery, but be filled with the spirit. Beautiful. Hey, can you uh read 17 and then 18? Therefore, do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is, and do not get drunk with wine, for that is the barchery, but be foolish Beautiful. And so the first part about being spiritual, I think someone said it before, and it's it's it's pieced through all of these, right? Born of the Spirit, I am made alive first in Christ. That's how I become a spiritual person because the first thing I need to be is made alive in Christ, alive in his spirit. There is only one spirit that allows me to grow and develop and understand because there is only one Lord and one faith and one baptism. There is only one way to God. And so in that vein of thinking, there is only one spirit in which makes me alive and understands the Spirit of God as we move forward. And so Ephesians 5. 18 is not a one-time scenario, but it is a continual filling of the Holy Spirit. Yes, I'm made alive in Christ. And if we think through uh Ordo Salutis or Order of Salvation, I am filled with the Spirit. He stamps me and seals me to be his, but then I'm continually being filled with the Spirit as I grow and develop and become mature. I don't read the Bible once, become a saved person, and then put the Bible down and walk away and continue to live as I would like to live. going forward. I have to be continually filled and reminded and and more or less putting aside the fleshly desires and then seeking after those of the Spirit. But then I look at Galatians and it tells me what that lifestyle looks like, what those characteristics should be. Does anyone have Galatians chapter 5, verses 22 and 23? But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against self- Such things there is no law. Beautiful. And so in Christ, if we use Allison's sister's definition, well don't tell me about your faith. Show it to me Fantastic. Let's go. Right? And it should be an exciting challenge. Not because I'm so great, but because if I'm being filled with the spirit then that challenge should be an availability of evidence of who Christ is. If I have someone who says I want to see Christ, I'm not going to strive for perfection. Why? Because I'm still flawed, I still have challenges, but I'm living out what that looks like. As I surrender to him, as I surrender to his will and his way, as I live out things with people next to me, then they're going to see my imperfections and then my repentance, my imperfections and then my forgiveness, my striving to do. what he's called me to do is going to be born out of my desire to be faithful and patient and kind and loving. And it's on an ongoing basis. God does this All throughout our life. Interestingly enough, in my house today, it's not my wife that challenges me, it's not my kids that challenge me, it's a dog. And you want to know how impatient I am? Watch me with a dog who's drinking rusty water outside that I don't want him to dr or or running after deer poop and I don't want you back in my house after you've just been pumping And I'm frustrated to no end, and my patience is wearing thin, and then I've got to look at my kids and like, and that's not the action that I want you to see. So now I have to do what? Correct it. And then I have to repent. And then I have to treat a dog better than I treated them the day before. And it's silly and it's funny, but I'm like, Lord, could we have not chosen something better than a doll? Because now my pride is wounded. You've not even used a person. It doesn't even have a soul. But I've got to treat a dog better. I've got to be loving to a dog. And it's hard. But it's sanctifying. I'm guilty about that. It's sanctifying. And I I sit back and I take a deep breath and I'm like, oh my goodness. This is not this is not fun. But Lord, if this is what you want to use. To show me how to love you and look more like you, then so be it. And that's where he does in all of our lives, as he says, I'm going to pull That sanctifying fruit out of you so that you display it for somebody else. No matter what he wants to use, I'm open to it So that when I talk to someone who's open to options, I can say, hey, I see you're open to all of these options. Have you chosen or looked at this one? Yes. Growing up secular, a good way to approach people like that is, you know, would you like to hear the Bible's perspective? At the very least, you'll have an education. Yeah They can think we can handle that. You're not just saying turn or burn. I don't even know why I should turn I you have to get lost before you're safe. Don't just go saying stuff like that to them. But if you just give them information and the word of God's powerful. Yes. Someone told me I was a sinner. I was like, oh my goodness. Never heard that before. But it's Worked around. Yes. But if you could just give them an education, good thing. And those opportunities come up. All the time. You know how many more neighbors I've met walking the dog than I met before? You know how many people's backyards I've been in? Because of a dog before I've been in. I think I'm resenting it just a little bit. But if I'm open to it, I can walk into someone's backyard and say, Lord, if you just give me an opportunity for a discussion. Just an opportunity to tell someone about who you are. Dog or no dog. Whatever that opportunity is, whatever he's using in your life to expose those scenarios At first I understand who he is, but then secondly I understand where he brought me from. And such were some of you. We may not have fit into any of these categories per se. I was saved when I was a young kid. I didn't get the opportunity to learn options, but I got a whole lot of opportunities to learn disobedience. Right? And so however God wherever God brings you from, from death to life, He brings you into life to redefine what that looks like. And he does it by defining it based on how much control you give to the spirit of your life. When we're lost, we want all the options in the world. We want to define our own meanings. We are striving to find something and then when someone shows you Christ, no that's not it That's a little too rigid, but I want to find something that makes sense. And in Christ, God says, now surrender. Now give over that Searching and longing and seek after me because if you seek me you will find me if you seek me with what? Your whole heart. Think about that for a second How much energy and effort does it take to seek after God with your whole heart? But you know, Chester, that's the biggest, one of the biggest take-ups that mankind has is we labor over controls. Totally surrendered to God. Amen. That is one of the biggest problems we have. Amen. And you have to get your kid back. No Yeah. Comes natural. Yeah. It's it's all innate, those desires to strive after and seek after and be in our own situation When we look at our life in Christ and we look at spirituality, uh uh John Piper had an ask Pastor John on the topic, and the young lady said that her mother disagreed with her definition of spirituality because it was based on spiritual gifts. your gift of discernment or your gift of prophecy or any other aspect more of a cat charismatic leaning the more you are able to operate in the spirit I know I'm talking to people who have no idea what I'm talking about. But operate in the spirit. As long as you are in the spirit, then you are a spiritual person. And she said, well wait a minute, I serve a church. I read my Bible. I understand what it means to be a Christian. Why am I not a spiritual person? And John Piper says, well, it's not based on the giftedness, it is based on the submission. It's not based on my gifts because ultimately those gifts are determined by who? The Spirit. He gives out gifts how he chooses for his good pleasure to operate in his church So that it looks like he wants it to. And all that's based on God's control, on God's design, on God's desire. And we are using our gifts to fit what he wants them to look like. And so if we are continuously being filled with the Spirit and we know what that looks like, it's the fruit of the Spirit in our lives, and he's sanctifying us. throughout our lives with the means that he desires, and then we get to what that looks like and gets displayed in the church. Ms. Rose? And that's the beauty of it in the sense of Having a conversation with people with the same language and the same definitions and the same thought process. You can take someone who says, oh, Jesus is a prophet. Yeah, what did he prophesy? What was his message? Who did he speak of? And then what happened from there? So you you you you find opportunities as you understand your definitions and you get your your conversation organized to show them who Christ is. Because as we do that, it's not just for ourselves. That spiritual life does start between you and God. What You come to Christ where Christ comes to you, He reveals Himself, you have that special revelation. And as you are made alive in Christ, now it's between each person. Now you're planted in a body, and that's where Galatians chapter six, verse one, and Austin introduced that idea to us. Uh can we take a look at Galatians chapter six? Verse 1. If anyone is caught in any transgression, you are who are graduals who are born in the spirit of envy. Keep watching Alright, three parts in that, brothers, and that is combined for everyone, brothers and sisters, all of you who are found in the body. If anyone is caught in transgression, you who are spiritual, restore them in a spirit of gentleness. So if anyone is spiritual, if anyone's redeemed, if anyone's been restored. And you see someone caught in sin, it's your responsibility to what? Restore. But the care there is so important. How do you approach someone in sin? How do you speak to them? In gentleness. Does it look like? I'm not going after you in a condescending fashion as if I've arrived and you haven't. I'm not going to you as if I'm above. The opportunity of falling into the same sin that you've been in, that I don't remember or have an understanding of my own sinfulness But I'm coming to you because I don't want to leave you where you are. That's the spiritual or spirituality of it all. I'm coming to you as a brother or sister in Christ because I care about you. Because I care about the life and the witness that you have, and because God requires that of me. He requires me to come to you. and sit with you and talk to you about what's going on and share the word with you and help make sure that you understand what the word says about your lifestyle. But I'm doing it gently with care and careful. Not because I'm afraid necessarily, but because I understand my own propensity for falling into sin as well, Anthony. Yeah, exactly. My my challenge has been with my own mother always taken to church and but at home we weren't getting the teaching so as I've uh developed and grown I'm able to share the same things with her that you know we're actually brothers of sisters in Christ if you if you're a weak I'm supposed to pick you up and I've I've been able to also share with her because of these lessons here the teachings through the preaching and the classes and like this is actually opening my eye and I said sometimes we we have to uh re-evaluate our relationship And you have to see where the older saints have turned the younger ones away because you came with the judgment over uh look judgment of words and a lot of people have gone away from the church because of Amen. Amen. And what you're saying is biblical. How should uh older women treat younger women? Come alongside them. And you teach them how to be women in the faith. What are older men supposed to do? Come alongside the younger men and teach them how to be young men in the faith. And it's a striving of teaching and mentoring and taking time and patience. And these are the things that define this spiritual nature or who you are in Christ. It's initiative, it's gentle restoration, it's the display of the fruit of the Spirit along the way. As we walk through it and to give you kind of context of where Rosaria is coming from and why she is writing this, if you've ever read any of her books, it's really testimony after testimony after testimony. And in this scenario, she knows a young lady in her life named Jessica. Jessica has found herself uh coming out of a failed engagement She was going to be married and now she's no longer going to be married. She then goes to a missions trip and she sees a ton of poverty In the third world country with no end in sight, with no resolution, and she's disillusioned at the idea that there could be so much poverty and yet no resolution for those people. And then she comes home To find out that her father has cancer and it is not curable, and her father dies from cancer. And in the midst of all these questions, in painful scenarios, and asking God why. She finds a man who calls himself spiritual. He was a child of one of the family friends at their church and they start dating and she falls in love. Because he's saying all the right things I'm not spiritual I'm not a Christian. I'm spiritual. You can more or less do as much as you can to leave the world better than you found it. He's a Planned Parenthood guy. Women should have a choice Everything that should be easy for other people to do and to have and to be, he is that person. He says the right things, he acts the right way, he makes her feel good. And so as they move forward, Rosaria is in a scenario where she is having this couple over for dinner. Why? Because she cares about Jessica. I don't want you. to go forward in a relationship that you know is not God honoring. But it's hard. Right? It's a challenge to be in pain, questioning, lack understanding, don't know how God defines himself and lives out this nature when all I see is something going wrong This guy here says he has the expensive. The challenge in that regard is to not judge and not be judgmental, but the other challenge is If God says he is who he says he is, why am I seeing what I'm seeing? Where's my foundation and my footing supposed to be? And Rosario's point across two chapters, to speed up the answer, is always it's found in God's Word. If I stand with a foundation that the Word of God is inerrant and is infallible, then I won't go wrong. She opens these two chapters with Hebrews chapter four, verse twelve. And so uh I will read that one. So Hebrews chapter 4, 12. Lorfe, can you do me a favor and grab 2 Peter verse 1? 2 Peter 1 verse 3. Chapter one, verse three. And so Hebrews four twelve, you're probably very familiar with it. For the word of God is living and active, is sharper than any two-edged sword, it's piercing to the division of soul and spirit, of joints and of marrow, and discerning the thoughts. and the intentions of the heart. Verse 13, and no creature is hidden from his sight, but all are naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give an account. And I love that verse, especially you know, when I would teach in ETC, in some way, shape, or form, at some spot, I would Make mention of Hebrews 4. 12. Because I may not have all the answers. I may not know where to find them immediately, but I know that the Word of God is at work. What DTC is? Oh, every thought captors. Oh, youth code. Okay. Uh middle school and high school kids. I know the word is vibrant. It's alive. It's changing people it speaks to today and so when people say things like oh the bible's antiquated it doesn't matter anymore don't need it we've moved past that i used to say that And it's because oftentimes we don't know how it's applied. What am I looking for to answer for poverty in a third world country? And you're telling me that God is one that will supply all my needs according to his riches and glory. Well, someone needs water. Where is it? Someone needs food. Where is it? I don't see the word lining up in what you're telling me. Deals with our own interpretation, right? And so in those Scenarios and in those instances where I don't see how the word is applied and I don't know where to get answers, what am I to do? Second Peter. Second Peter 13. 1-3. Can you read it for me? As if divine power has given to us all things that pertain to life and darkness, through the knowledge of him who called us by glory. So I have everything I need to live life. That can be a very practical, pragmatic sense. And to be godly, that's a very uh uh uh spiritual sense. I have everything I need Through my knowledge of him, the more I know and understand God's words, the more I develop and build my relationship in him, the more equipped I am to live a life that pleases him So have those two things. The word of God is my foundation and it teaches me everything I need to live a life that pleases him. Tell me why I'm still struggling. With the life that I'm trying to live. What are your thoughts on that? God uses trials. Okay Tell me what. Yeah, he's God and I'm not. He knows us better. We know you better. Okay. He's God. I'm the one. Yeah. Go ahead. He's my father. Father knows. See me a child. Trust the father to provide what's needed. Okay. Well, the scriptures it gives a letter. A three-fold conception of salvation, justification, sanctification, glorification. And so as Christians first get justified, we get into the sanctification process and that doesn't end until glorification. And the Bible makes it create glorification. then we will inherit glorified bodies and and the divine nature that we partake of now will reach his fullest in us during that time so between any glorification The main thing is we still had a sinful nature. Even though we're Christians, we still had a sinful nature. And so we run into difficulties by have still having a sinful nature. I know most of us people say when you become a Christian you become perfect. But that's insane. I mean good most outside of people know exactly how a Christian is supposed to live. Amen They'll tell you quick. They know exactly how Christians are supposed to live. Most times Christians don't understand how we ought to live. Okay. Then I seen people when they see a Christian fall, I seen them man just put them with them down. You know, things like that army we need no man Behind. They don't have a couple. Philosophy. Amen. Amen. So I have an issue, I don't have something that's resolved, and it could be my own prideful desires. It could be I am seeking after something that's not for me. Is that what you're okay? Why else, why me might we struggle with our own understanding of who God is The things that we're seeing in life and the truths that I've been told are in God's Word. Yeah, I'm not sure that I can fully answer it, but the thought previously that was coming to mind is that we we live in a in a fallen and broken world. Things are obviously not the way that they should be. So there is poverty, there's sickness, there there's crime and violence And so though those are the the effects of of sin. So we we learn We learn about what is what is corrupt and what the effects of sin are. So those those things God will address and He will make right We we have the opportunity to uh to turn to him but he's not necessarily gonna fix those things during during our lifetime and to our satisfaction. Carrie? Oh I was gonna say it's kinda interesting that um when things don't go our way or things look really bad immediately we go to shaking our fist at God. When things go really great, all of a sudden God is an effort. And so um I would suspect that even if everything was perfect somehow there's still something that is unused shape. And secondly, it's gonna get a whole lot worse. And so be thankful that you just see who you see today. Let's be grateful for God's response. Why don't we bring you to revelation? Really good picture of what we do is flip with this. So as believers, the promise that we have is that God is going to work all things To gather for the good of those who love him, but because of the idols and lies that were bestiked We don't know really what that good is and we don't really know how God is working. And so it looks like God's not working and is bad. But we know the promise. Amen. Amen. No. and the privilege to experience these things that we may grow spiritually. And coming to, you know, we see it as a hardship in the beginning, but we come to an understanding that God is working in us. in giving us this so we can uh grow heavenly money. And uh uh you know when you first start out in a situation it it is the hardship but then uh the Lord reveals himself in you actually the angels when they look down upon us they they see these things that we're experiencing and they're at wonder of yeah because it's something that they can't experience. Yeah. Amen. Larry then Alice. Yeah um you know uh one of our downfalls is um our lack of trust and Amen. That is a biggest problem, like business. Standing on the promises of the Lord. Matthews 11. 28 29 come to me all who are weary and heavy late and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn From me, for I am gentle and humble humble in heart, and you will find rest on your soul. That's God's honest. Amen. to you know trust in him lean on him and that's our downfall we don't always want to trust and lean on God and there's outsiders as well that we look to you know sometimes they become especially for the non-believer you know we look at our the nominates they look up to as a god you know like the lady talking about you know uh when she had this person that she was hating and then he became her god yeah idols you know that's the idol there and so that's how things That's exactly what I was gonna say. You can add Hebrews eleven six to that, right? reference that this brother just said, and I'll read it. Without faith, it is impossible to please God. For whoever would draw near to God must one believe that He exists, and two, that He rewards those who seek So when someone's like that, like Jessica, who was, you know, say, hey, this is a test of faith. And think one of my heroes in the Bible is this centurion who went to Jesus. Jesus had said, look, you don't need to come to my house. Just say the word. And my servant's son will be my servant will be healed. And Jesus was blown away. He was happy. You want to make Jesus happy? Take him at his word. Show faith. That's a positive way to look at this. So this as a believer, this reminds me of something that I heard Austin School say years ago they had happen he said there's a difference between believing in God and believing God and so when I look at second peter 1 three do I believe this right and if I do that's gonna make all the difference in the world in terms of how I live my life do I believe that amen What's it gonna look like? Yeah. That's what he's been teaching me. Amen. One less. Um that's a great question. Try to make sure I remember my own original question. If if Hebrews 12 is right. If I have everything that I need for life, uh if I if the word is living and active and it's sharper than a two-edged sword, and if 2 Peter chapter I keep wanting to switch the one and the two. 2 Peter chapter 1 verse 3 is right. I have everything that I need for life and godliness. Then why do I see the issues in my life and I don't think I see God at work in them? Jesus said to expect these things. Remember the what the Lord said? Mm-hmm. Okay. Well, it and the answer to that question when we ask why doesn't God just fix everything? The reality is if he fixed everything, would he be good? Well we'd be in hell. Well if he fixed everything and there was nothing wrong in the world. I'd be out of here. Thank God for his mercy. I don't know if you can say God would be good if you gave your child everything that they asked for, whenever they asked for it, would you be a good church? No. Even the children in the room are saying no. That's why. He'd be a spoiled bread. God would not be God pruning and refining and chastening. He'd be the genie in the bottle. He would not be striving to make you look like him and become holy and become refined. You would just be no good to anybody. How would you know him? And that's what the suffering does. It teaches you those things. Whenever you see someone in the Old Testament and they have given God a name. It's normally born out of an experience with God that tried them, that was challenging. That's how you know Jehovah Jirah, my provider. That's how you know those names of God as you continue to experience him. You know him in this way. Yes, Jeff. I was gonna say um A great comedy, well, he has fixed everything. He's fixed the biggest problem. Of eternity. In time for us to see it. But this right here is the reality of Galatians 6. 1. This year is a scenario in which as people go through challenges in their Christian faith, and there are some some new terms that have come out over the years, deconstruction. And deconversion. What's deconstruction? When I look at my faith and then all of a sudden I have a crisis of faith, a crisis of belief. What I thought to be true of God, I am not seeing lived out. And now I have to break it apart. And deconstruction can be healthy. It can be proving to people that God is who he says he is. Because I get to ask the question, if God is X, then why does Y happen? If God is X, then why am I suffering the way I am? But I don't get to understand that all things work together if you didn't know what that acronym was. I don't know how all things work together, but I don't go through some things If I don't have some suffering, if I don't have to go through any type of perseverance, if I don't have to question anything about God, how do I learn? How do I see Him? How do I know Him? And he takes me through those things because he cares about me. And again, we we do these things as people. We've either parented or we've been parented in some way, shape, or form, and someone's striving to pull something out of me. We've either met someone or been challenged by something and we're being refined by that process. Ross and then someone else I think. James one talks about you know considering all joy it produces endurance. You know, so we wouldn't be enduring if we were just handed everything in the where's the joy? Well the end result is the endurance that you meant. Sanctify it. Yes. And uh there's just this stuff all over. Anyway, in uh Proverbs 27, iron sharpened the iron, one man sharpens another. So we're going through stuff, you know, rough edges, we're helping each other. So it's just all over the place. And it's not that it's a smooth ride that's gonna come over here. very glory. But it's a what I I love to look back and see how more decrepit I was years ago and then look what God's done in my life now. And it's a joyful thing to see If we look at the Bible, I think sometimes we forget as we look at Romans or Hebrews or the Corinthian letters, what's Paul writing in a lot of those? And he's correcting. He's going into a church and he's saying, Church in Rome, I know you were you were you were being led by the Gentiles for a while and now the Romans are coming back, but this is how you need to live with each other This is how you need to get along. Corinthian church, I know you're steeped in a culture that is rejecting God, and then some of you want to eat the meat that's sacrificed to idols, and some of you don't I know that you're looking at your spiritual gifts and you think, oh, if this person is really spiritual, then this gift should be there. I know all that's happening. But let's correct it. Let's tell you what the church order should look like. Let's tell you how you should live with one another. It's reproving, it's correcting, it's chastening because God is using those things not just for the ones he was writing to But so that we would be informed as we move forward. And so the beauty of all things working together, the beauty of God's word is that steeped in that suffering, God pulls out a church that's healthy. That's spotless, that's able to be presented to the Lord at the day of his coming. And so all this comes together, and the question becomes as we get to closing Is if I have two definitions of spiritual people, if I've got a secular definition of spiritual, and I've got a biblical definition of spiritual And I understand what the word is striving to do in my life if I surrender and submit to it. And if Galatians 6. 1 is being lived out and people are being uh uh uh supported and the ones that are weak are being supported by the ones who are strong. Should that not look beautiful to the world? If the world says it's kinder to be a spiritual person than to be a Christian, which leads us to a question of what is kindness? Defined your terms. What's kindness? Tell me, how do you define kindness? And I will tell you right now that I have not written a biblical definition for kindness Love of Christ? Okay. Coming alongside, um, so kind of an idea of um seeing where someone is And helping them in their current situation. I think the world says kindness is allowing whatever makes sense You feel good but kindness is in actuality is telling some of the truth. Well, in my strong ZSV Bible, the word first appears in Romans 2, 4. The riches, or do you presume on the riches of his kindness and forbearance and patience. Amen. And it's creisto case, which means usefulness, i. e. moral excellence, character, or demeanor, gentleness, goodness. So basically reflecting God. Yes. But if I'm in the world, two things might be happening. Kindness could just be, I'm just being nice. And it can be nice to allow you to stay where you are, to be comfortable where you are, to not challenge you where you are. One of the phrases in our culture that I hate, loathe, and despise is don't judge me Because what do you really mean when you say don't judge me? Don't have an opinion on the actions that I just did. Right. Don't have a word, don't say anything about it Okay, so if you want me to be kind, should I leave you there? You told me not to judge you primarily because you know what? That you're wrong. It's not good for you. That's not the actions that you just should display. But don't say anything about it. Just leave me in my nests. Allow me to wallow where I am. I know I'm wrong. I'm happy as a pig and butt. But the Bible tells us that God's kindness should do what? Lead us to repentance That challenge of seeing my sinfulness, of having to make a decision about the cross. That's what Romans 2, 3 through 4 is telling us. That kindness is what God brought us to to tell us where we were in our life, to tell us that we were dead, and then allow us to see that truth and then strive to live it out. The Corinthian uh Paul had to uh correct the Corinthian church on that because the man who was caught in sin. They became arrogant on that. Yes. And uh out of the pride they wasn't addressing his And they let it go. And Paul is shocked. It's like even the world's not doing this. And you're allowing it to happen in the church. So when we are kind, the kindness really is that we are striving to show people the truth about God. We are striving to tell people the truth about where they are. We are leveraging relationship for the benefit of others so that we might just sow a seed of the gospel. The youth group yesterday with Matt went out and did just that. So seeds. Not necessarily to combat someone turner baron, but just to ask someone if they know who Jesus is. and conversations come out of those scenarios. As we look at the lies that the world tells us, where we should be careful. Is that we don't allow ourselves to have a fear of man. If I tell you about the truth of God, then all of a sudden you'll be mad at me. I'd rather you be mad and know the truth and then be content and go I'd rather you be mad and have discord for a moment or a season than me to have to lay my head down or sit before God and have to give an account for the fact that I care more about your emotions. in your soul. And in those scenarios where I'm either ye in a scenario of fear of man or I am judgmental To those who are in Christ or condescending to those that are in Christ as if I forgot where I came from. Because I now lack patience Because I now have memorized twenty-five more verses than you did. Because I see so many things in Scripture and how dare you still be in sin. Woe to me. That I don't have the patience and the grace that it takes to guide you back to where you should be, so that a loving God could be displayed in my actions And so that you can be corrected and reproved and taught how to live. So I pray that as we just reflect on some of these verses, Galatians chapter 6, 1, as we live with believers. around us. Or Romans chapter 2, verses 3 and 4, as we live with those around us that aren't believers, that our kindness, even though the world might call it intolerance and hate We know the definition of what love is and what it means and we can show it to the world around us.