That is really asking a number of different questions if if depending on how you're defining feminism and how you may want to nuance the idea, whatever your thoughts are on the idea of feminism, which is more or less, how are you giving power to women? Rosaria will define it for us in in just a few minutes. But the question always gets seeped in and should start with the beginning. How has God created men and women? Where do we get the source of our definitions from? And I do think in echoing Scott's prayer, oftentimes it is a battle against What God has called good and the world strives to define as less than. I won't use the word subservient because I think there's there's a little too much In that definition, but we do call it less than what God has said is good, what He's created men and women to do, we start to splice in a way where a man's role is more desired and a woman's role is defined as less than because of the way that we look at it. But I think if we really look at the word and we start to ask ourselves, how do I evaluate, think through And live with and relish in what God's design and definitions are. And what do I think about God as he defines these roles? And how do I see myself and how he's defined those roles? There is more glory and power than we give these definitions if we're not careful. And so that's the heart of the matter that I think Rosaria is after. Am I relishing in God's design? Or am I fighting against God's design? And if we think about who God is, it's my prayer that we see it in a value and in a purpose. and then start to define each role as necessary and complementary because that's God's purpose and design. So let's start at the beginning. Let's have a few people who are open to reading this morning. If someone can grab Genesis 1 26 through 28. Someone else grab chapter 2, verses 18 through 25. Hey, before you read that Can you slide the Bible over that way? Do you mind reading it? Oh me? Yeah. I'm happy to hear yours. And God say, let us make man in our image, according to our light. Let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, and over the cattle, over all the earth and over every creeping beast So God created man in his own image. In the image of God he created him. Male and female he created them. Then God blessed them, and God said to them, Be truthful and will Okay. What is Scripture telling us What was called the creation ordinance or the creation mandate or however you want to frame that, what is scripture telling us that God did with men and women when he created them For the both part? Because it says they and 20. Good. So they both have dominion. They both have to do what? Multiply. They both have to be very good. Very good. And they both have what? What's the first thing God does in verse 28? He's made them in his image, but before he gives them the tasks, what does he do? He blesses them. So created, tasked Created in his image, tasked them with a job, but he blesses them both before he sends them out to do their thing. And so baked in to God's ordinance and his creation and his command is that this is what I want the two of you to do together. Now we s we we start to then go through that with what that relationship looks like. So not only is there an ordinance or a command or an order or a tasking that God gives us, but it's definitely relational. God makes man in his image and man isn't just the male aspect of it, but humans in his image. And then they are made for one another. So if we look at 1 Corinthians chapter 11, verse 7, Alex, I took one verse for you. Can you read that one for me? First Corinthians chapter eleven, verse seven, verses eleven and twelve. That would be, yeah. I appreciate you calling that out. Seven, eleven, and twelve? Yes, sir. Uh first Corinthians eleven, verse seven, and then verses eleven and twelve. I know. Eleven, seven, through twelve. Yes. Where a man indeed ought not to cover his head, since he is the image and glory of God, but woman is the Glory of man. For man is not from woman, but woman from man, nor was man created for the woman, but woman for the man. For this reason the woman ought to have a symbol of authority on her head because of being Nevertheless, neither is man independent of woman nor woman independent of man in the Lord. For as man came from woman even so So man also comes through woman. Okay. So God makes man and woman, but here's the beauty of it. You can't have a person without either one, right? So when God makes Adam, he sets authority with Adam, and then he creates Eve out of Adam. He sets order. Man comes first and he creates Eve. Guess what can't happen without Eve after that? You can't have anybody else. So you can't live in a way and create and be fruitful and multiply without one another. There's a relationship there. There's a tasking together that God has. And as He creates you, yes you're independently looking to God and independently looking to live in a way that's necessary where your salvation and your Um what's the word that I want to use? The things that God has called you individually to do, your individual gifting does happen in your life, but as a community, as people, as Those that are made in God's image, we can't do things independently of one another. And yet at the bottom of that God says, and all things are from God. So from creation God set to plan in an order in motion, and then the the third bullet here, humanity is binary or or is gender binary. We have the same essence, we have the same quality, we have the same dignity, but the whole is divided into two pieces. So as God puts creation in order and he puts people on the earth and he puts us to task, he does so with the same essence, but then he starts to peel out what our roles are, what we should do. The challenge here is that when we start to assign roles, we start to look at what's better and what's worse. It wasn't just with men and women. You even think about Cain and Abel. Cain does one thing, Abel does another, and then you look at what was brought. You have animals, I've got vegetables, I brought the best of what I had, you brought your wilted cabbage. Right? And so you look at the the scenario of what we do with rolls And it is born out of our own desires that we start to evaluate what roles are good and what roles are bad, what roles have value and what roles don't have value. I like how at the end of that verse it says and all things are from God. He says his authority over how it happens and it can't be issued Correct. But that's not out of coldness, though, Richard. And in in this design of God, he doesn't do it arbitrarily. He does it with meaning and purpose. And I say that because he does it from design, because of what he's looking for from men and women. But as we walk through this, there is an immense value in each role, and there is an immense necessity from each role and from each design. So if we if we just for a second stick with sameness and we stick with similarities, each person also has to live out a life that's pleasing to God with similarities. We both we both have to live a a knowledge of who God is and an understanding of who God is. We both have to live in righteousness and in holiness and when we come to Christ, regardless of who you are, man or woman, all of us have to repent before a holy God and repent of our sins and put our hope in Christ and live in obedience. But when it becomes tasked with the roles that we're given, that's where we start to evaluate the differences. So wives are called in 1 Peter to obey their husbands in the Lord. And qualified men only are called to be pastors and elders in the church. Scott will dig more into modesty, and you can easily argue the next point in terms of what's true about modesty. But if we're looking at, I believe it is, um, and my scripture references on this last on this next bullet point aren't really placed in the right position. But I want to say 1 Timothy chapter 2 verse 9. And it reasoned likewise also that women should adorn themselves in respectful apparel with modesty and self-control. Not with braided hair and gold or pearls or costly attire. No, what's scripture not saying? It's not saying that men get to walk around bare chested in speedos all day long. But it is saying there is a a there is a Look, there is a goal, there is a picture that God is giving us for what women should do with modesty, and for good reason. Just as brothers are called to protect their sisters' reputations. As their roles start to define themselves based on who we are as men and women. God is giving us tasks specific to those roles. He's calling us to live out for his glory. Not because he thinks less of one and more of other, or vice versa, but because he's got a different task for both of us. So if that's the backdrop of creation, and that is the goal that God has for each of us. What's the feminist issue? What's the feminist complaint? What is the problem? What's the gripe? And I've listed throughout these notes a number of different quotes from Rosario's book so that you could hear her voice. in the matter, uh having been someone who s who is, I guess for lack of a better term, a reformed feminist um and living in a way that pleases God. She would say in the first quote, the Bible has no bearing on gender roles. This is the viewpoint that feminists have The Bible has no bearing on gender roles, responsibilities, or requirements because the idea of men and women being made by God's design for God's purpose on earth is old-fashioned. silly, dangerous, abusive, and culturally driven. So the idea here is that when you look at God's roles and design The arcane thought process is that women can't lead or that women shouldn't lead is outdated. It's it's no longer applicable. That abusive men left to lead a culture are left to lead in a way that don't show love to women on an ongoing basis. But the challenge with that thought process is, are we attacking men from a culture or are we attacking sinfulness? Which one of these things is out of order? Is it God's design or is it man's response to God's design? See when we are left to deal with abuse or we are left to deal with lack of love, if we are left to deal with lack of respect outside of the Holy Spirit's power, then yes. We will see a culture that does not value roles that are God-given. We will see a culture that does not know how to respect or protect or provide because you are not equipped with the tools and the understanding that the Holy Spirit provides. Until then we start to try to solve life's issues on our own. And feminism is just one of those tools that the culture has used to strive to do that. If you look at the beginning of Feminism. Does anyone know, I guess, time period of when feminism as a term and as a movement started? Seventies. Yep, sixties. Seventies. Born out of what? Uh, still right through the ancestral revolution. So a number of those things, right? So where we start, hey, as a woman, I can't do what? I can't vote. That sounds noble, doesn't it? Don't we want women to be able to vote as people who have the same essence and the same dignity and the same respect as men? Absolutely. Who wouldn't want that? When you see periods of slavery, who was fighting against slavery? A lot of white women. And so you see a lot of different scenarios, a lot of different time frames in history were what looks noble on the surface and looks very much something that I should fight for is guised or is held under the the the the idea of feminism. But the challenge becomes when you start to peel back the layers of the heart of a matter is where you get to the foundation of what we're really striving for. And so if we keep looking at Rosaria's points, the second one is The worldview of feminism has powerfully persuaded Christians that those areas designated women's rights are off limits to biblical scrutiny. The category sacred to feminism is women's equality with men in all things, to the point of denying the creation ordinance and basic biology. Under feminism, men and women are interchangeable. Under Scripture, such interchangeability is sin. So it's as as Sean Morning used to always say, the heart of the matter is that it's the heart that matters. I know that's not his saying, but If you say it as much as he does, you start to appropriate it as yours. And that really is true. What can start as seemingly noble Starts to then morph into something else. It starts to move from, I just want to be equal in my right to vote. And now I want to be equal in all things. And guess what? You can't use your Bible to tell me my ability to be equal in all things is not true. We've moved past that. We've moved past the roles and the responsibilities that Scripture has given us, and we've moved into a period where anything you can do, I can do better. And so this challenge there is not necessarily that the things that we desire to see or where we start to move into a political realm or I want equal pay or I want to not be abused by my husband or my boyfriend. Those are not things that necessarily Christians should necessarily fight against. But the heart of the issue of I am equal to you in role and responsibility is where the gospel and the word start to tell us we're moving in a wrong direction So as we see in this this next part, it's not just that we say those things, then we say, okay, instead of me saying it in the culture, I'm going to start to say it. through Scripture. I'll appropriate your tool of telling me what I can and can't do, and I'll redesign and reinterpret Scripture so that it agrees with me. Those are the slippery slopes that we start to walk through, where we start to redefine or reinterpret scripture. to fit our culture, our desires, and the things that we want to see versus what God wants to see. The Bible has patterns And so scripture does not always give you a headline where it says, this next section is where I start to talk again about filling the blank. But God models ideas and his design throughout scripture and he creates patterns. He creates patterns from start to finish. And those biblical patterns matter. How men and women were made suggest their work in the wider world. Men designed for work in the external world. And women in the nurturing of the inner world of the family. That's a paraphrasing of Rosario. And what I don't want you to read into that is what? Tell me what I don't want you to read into that. That women have to stay in the home. That women can't do what? Thank you. That is not what I'm reading into that, but what is true about that statement is this When God created men and women, and you think through what he created them to do, when God created women to have children as one of their primary roles, He created them to nurture the home as one of the primary roles. And that is not designed to be An affront to women's capacity and ability to do other things. It is a design for the world to thrive and to function. And therein lies the dismissiveness of looking at the world in a different lens than what Scripture gives us. Where we diminish and we call something reductive that God calls priority, we start to flip things on their head. So let's look at a number of different patterns. And so this is a collage of both Rosaria Butterfield. She pulls these five patterns. out of a book that was actually written by a pastor named Kevin DeYoung. Five Patterns of Biblical Manhood and Womanhood. If you take the time to read it, it's a very good kind of Bibliology, if you will, or thought process on manhood and womanhood in a very succinct way. But he pulls out five patterns to think through and to work through. And again, they're patterns because you don't look at certain areas, you don't look at the patriarchs in the Bible and say, this is God saying, this is what manhood looks like. We don't stop and look at it in that way per se, but this is what God is saying in those faces. So someone grab for me Exodus 18, verses 21 and 22. Furthermore, to let capable men from among the people, God fearing, trustworthy men who are averse to the side of the game, point them over the People are leaders of thousands, of hundreds, of fifty, and attends. Have these men judge the people at all times, then they can bring you any major issue. But all my but all minor cases they can judge on their own so that your load may be light lightened as they should Where did you stop, Anthony? Uh 22. Yes. I'm sorry, I'm looking at the verses ahead. Yes. So what does God say So you've got Moses' father-in-law giving him advice. He's watching him speak to the people and he's judging every single case. He's judging the the big cases to the small cases. And he says you're gonna wear yourself out It's going to be a challenge for the people. So here's what I want you to do. I want you to look for in verse 21, able men from all people, men who fear God, who are trustworthy and hate a bride, and such men And set such men or place such men over the people as chiefs, and he gives hundreds, thousands, fifties, and tens. God's plan from Adam to the patriarchs. To the priests and the Levites, to the kings, has always been that he desires to have a man in a leadership position. And he models that consistently. So when you look at how God kind of deals with us uh with as men, it's focused on the father's role as protector and provider. And each of these roles is there to be one that looks over the people. We'll see a number of these different examples on how Men deal with women in the right way and women deal with men in the right way So there are a number of different places we'll see that that's an exception, but before we jump there, even the most significant prophets were men. Not every prophet was a man, but most significant prophets were men. Yes, Bill My name is William. My mother told me when she named me, I got old enough to understand She said, you know a protector. What do you mean tonight? She said, it means protector. And then she added, protector of women. It affected my life. I never looked before the date when I was at the conquest but as her protector. It affected my whole life. Beautiful Beautiful. And that's but you know the beauty and and value of uh of even the relationship there. It's not your it's not your dad telling you how you were named. It's your mom telling you how you were named and what she was thinking of you when she did so. Why? Because your mom doesn't know who you'll be in the future. But she's striving in a way to build something in you and it starts with your name. My name Chester means fortified camp. I wish I had a great story like you do around all of that. But I do not. Yet in in that thought process, it can mold and shape your thinking on what your role is And not necessarily that if you were named warrior, that all of a sudden you don't know how to protect and provide and to be careful, but it is in your makeup. As a man, how you want to build and provide and develop. And so that's what God does with men in Scripture. most significant prophets were men. It's a leadership role as a prophet. And you see all of the writing prophets were men. So let's let's let's deal with the low-hanging fruit of exceptions And Deborah. And so what do we see in judges? Someone tell me what we see in judges. I put the reference there so you can see it. Tell me about Deborah. Deborah's a prophetess. Is Deborah married? Yes. Deborah's married. Deborah had kids? Deborah's a married woman, when she's functioning in what role? As is profitess and a judge. A judge is They're as institutional leaders. No. No. What are judges in the book of judges? Deliverers. Deliverers. Very good. So Deborah is functioning as a prophet. She tells Barracks to do what? Derek is the leader of the army. Barak, we've been oppressed for 20 years by the Canaanite king. You're going to be the one that delivers us. And what does Baric say to Dari? I'm only going if you go, Deborah. Name me a man who hears something rustling downstairs I need to go check it out. That's so it's like. I'm only going downstairs if you go look at Bring my shotgun, you bring your pistol. Let's go. I don't know how many women will respond favorably to that response. And I'm not saying there aren't women in this room who wouldn't be the first one downstairs in front of their husband. But the point is it's not fitting what? The biblical pattern. It's not fitting the biblical pattern. But you know what I love about Deborah? Is Deborah able to lead? Yeah. Does God speak through Deborah as a prophet? Only way we know if he's a prophet is what happens. Comes true. So when Baric says what he says, she's like, yeah, I'll go with you. Sure. But guess what's not going to happen? You don't get the glory for what God was going to do. Who gets the glory? We'll deal with her later. She's she's a bit of a gangster. But someone else someone else gets the glory. For what is done. If we look through Kings and we see David out on the battlefield, David comes home from war. Who's singing? Saul through slew a thousands. It's a picture that is made to Show us how that glory picture really works when men go out to do what God has called them to do. And when David's not in position, what's he doing? Making a mess of things. That's the picture and the pattern. It is not to say that Deborah wasn't able. I don't know what Deborah was like on the battlefield or could have been like with a sword. Not God's point. But he uses her to show how out of order Israel was when they were in captivity and they were out of position, if you will. Barak should have done a thing. Barak didn't do the thing that God called him to do. He still delivers Israel, but he does it in a way That shows that Barack uh Barak didn't fulfill what God had called him to do. great man. It was his stepmother who uh raised him, taught him, and uh and she laid his mind to the books in order to make him the man he is A myriad of stories of how women are impactful, influential, resourceful. And it is amazing how we can also not look at those with the same glory and praise as we do others. That I feel like sometimes we have to say, but oh look at Deborah as an exception to validate women. Because it's a saying of but we can do X, Y, Z, too. And God has never said women aren't built to do a thing. But how you apply that is really what God is saying. Yes, Michelle? So I haven't really been sure where to stick this in there, but it's like the right spot. Okay. And this woman was she kind of traced the seeds of feminism not to the sexual revolution or women's suffrage, but to the industrial revolution. Because before the Industrial Revolution, men and work women were working side by side in the home, and the women were doing the work they could do with children of the floor. But the first thing that happened in the Industrial Revolution was women lost their task of creating fabric and creating clothes. And all of those first big pushes took away women's valuable work and gave it to men. And that is seems to be really where things started to go wrong. And so we have all these strong women who propped up these great men, and they were doing it while sewing. And they And so women like Deborah are great, but the women who movie are are the real It it's funny, and I I I don't know where to stick this either, so I'm just gonna put it here. When we look at Proverbs thirty-one, what does it start with? Does that go into this beautiful picture of a woman to start? Sort of like the first two verses of Proverbs 31. Lemuel's mother telling him what? What to look for in a wife. It's a mom telling a man who I believe will be king. When you find a wife She needs to look like this. It's a mom protecting her son from doing things what foolish men often do. Right? And so the influence that women have and are tasked with oftentimes and most times Shapes generations more than what men produce in a boardroom. Because it's from the house, it's from the womb, it's from the mother's care that men then go out into the world. That women then go out into the world. How often do you hear someone say You know, I was uh we were having uh uh my birthday dinner with uh uh another family and we ordered sodas and the other family ordered water. My dad's always taught me to be cheap. Right? Then she did something else, and it's like my dad always taught me This route of your brain or that rot of your brain. So the way that this woman was taught by her dad has then shaped her kids. And then as her kids go from there, they're shaped from there I think all of us probably have stories or could have stories of how that looks. But the interesting thing, Michelle, that you say is I I don't think Uh when we were living in an agrarian society, women were asking, okay, so is it all right for me to work outside the home? They had little choice. Once the food was brought in, y ye y the farm doesn't work unless every hand is at work doing that same job. But that's how the world moves, though. The issues of the agrarian society weren't the same issues of the first century church And so the word is still applicable in all of these different cultures and eventualities and questions that come up. And I promise you, as men lose more and more of their jobs and as people lose more and more of their jobs to technology, a different thing. will start to emerge. And we'll have to come back to the word and ask ourselves, how are we applying it? What are we thinking through? What's of value? But the constant throughout it all, at least one of them, is how God has tasked us. You see, Esther and Athalai are listed there as examples of those exceptions. We'll skip those for now. Godly women displaying a wide range of heroic characteristics. Male leadership, and I think this is dramatically important, does not necessarily equate to female passivity. Just because The Bible tells us that men are using this leadership role or inhabiting the leadership role doesn't mean that women just lay by the wayside and do nothing. So if you've ever read the account of the daughters of Selophahad, you'll see in Numbers 27, verses 1 through 10, the daughters of Salopahad come to Moses and say, hey, look. Our dad died, and our dad died in the wilderness, and no, he wasn't accounted for as one of the sons of Korra, and he didn't die in that scenario. No, he died because of his own sinfulness. But guess what? Now we don't have an inheritance because our father did not have any sons. So what we would like you to do is give us our father's inheritance. And what does Moses do? Doesn't dismiss him. He takes the issue to the Lord. Lord, what do you want me to do in this situation? And the beautiful thing about that picture and the picture of the Shunammite woman is just this. It's women saying, have you seen this issue that has come up that needs to be addressed? And the men saying, you're right. I need to figure out how to fix this. And Moses doesn't have the answer right away, so where does he go? He goes to the Lord. And the Lord gives him a description and a prescription of how to handle not just the daughters of Alophahad. But all women that find themselves in a scenario where dad has no sons and the inheritance doesn't get passed down. And so it even continues from there to continue to create more nuance, but women showing just a need. How do I act in a role where I'm not trying to usurp authority? But I'm calling you to task and accountability to solve the problem. To leave Moses, you solve this, but we need to fix it. I mentioned um Deborah and how she tasks Ber Barak. I can never say his name right. I don't even know if he's saying it right. But with the responsibility of going out to war, and she tells him, hey, because you're asking me to go with you, she didn't say it in that way, but hey look, you're not going to get the glory. Who gets the glory? And so you have the captain of the Canaanite army. He is routed, he's running away, and he gets to JL's tent. Heber is Jael's husband. The two families are the Canaanites and Heber's family are close, so he thinks he's running to refuse. JL invites him in, lays him down, puts a carpet over his head, and then takes a tenth spike and a hammer. And the Bible says she hammered the nail into his head until it went through the ground. It's not a woman who's scared of a situation. And I read that and I'm like, oh. At the first hint of the spike, I'd be like, I think we're good. I think you've dead. I think we can walk away. JL's like, let's be sure. Let's drive that stake into the ground. A woman who is not afraid of the situation, who God gives the task to complete a job, who uses her own strength, her own courage, her own resources to accomplish a goal that's in front of her She doesn't go running to a man and say, hey, I found Cicero, what do I do? I'm panicked. I'm unsure. She's got the solution. And she takes care of the situation with ease. And so we also see godly women helping men. So before you read my own list, if you were to think through in the Old Testament. Women who are prized, who are noteworthy, who come to mind, who would you name? Hannah. Hannah? Tell me why. Uh Elkina was a a god was a godly man, for sure, but uh many men In the Old Testament didn't have the faith that God would provide a lineage through one life. And so He was a pollutionist. And though he said he would tell kind of he loved her, he was still sleeping with another woman. And uh But Anna when she went to Eli, when she went to the tabernacle, I'm afraid that's another tabernacle. And Eli was also another poor example of a man rebuked her because she was drunk. Through the conversation he ended up blessing her, and because she understood the office that he represented Though he was a terrible man, she knew God was blessing her because she believed. And because of that, well mean God's sovereignty and all that. She had Samuel. Samuel is I think very undernoted. One of the most uh diligent uh patriarch or not patriarchs, but uh just ancestors of faith that we have Yeah. Very undernoted, but so diligent. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. It's beautiful. And because of his mom, because his m so sorry, she would go to him every year, bringing him new robes, knowing he was growing, and you know she was teaching it. you know, submit to these men. And the two examples he had where he has sons who were sleeping with the women, you know, who are coming up make Uh yeah, with other men's wives and whatever else. And they're all significantly peace. We get all these terrible examples of the man of life because of his mother. Um and uh caused that she was so committed to God's purpose, she offered her son. And uh and uh by that she uh I think the Marys the Marys of the New Testament. Mary, the mother of Jesus, Mary Magdalene, and or my Personal favorites, Mary, the sister of Lazarus. She didn't go to ask permission to to take a year's salary to treat Jesus like the lavish cake and give this lavish act of worship. She did that on her own. Mm-hmm. I love her. Mm-hmm. And Jesus said, everywhere you go, this will be spoken. Amen. Yeah. You know how they went. I do. If I perish, I perish. I'm going to see the king. Yeah. It was kind of tricky too. I won't say tricky, that's the wrong word I'm using. The better word was he was wise. Yeah. There you go. She was very wise. Yes. She had to come to dinner and then all it absolutely all things played out again. Death uh Ruth. Yes. One more. Anybody? No? Rayhab? Rahab. One of my favorites Why, because y you look at her role or or or her chosen profession, and you don't think no b nobility Um but Rahab, even in the most practical sense, is a wise woman. I see an opportunity, I'm gonna take it. And then God uses her to be in the lineage of Jesus is is a absolutely beautiful picture of redemption. My my absolute all-time favorite is Abigail Because Abigail is married to an absolute idiot. And a man who has no sense whatsoever and is given two opportunities to have some sense. And Abigail rescues her family and her no-good idiot husband from himself. I don't necessarily agree with how David ended it, but The point is, Abigail showed so much poise in understanding of the moment and made wise decisions. And if we then put that on its head, and we look at ungodly women deceiving men or influencing men for evil, and ungodly men mistreating women What are the names that you normally say away from that are biblical when you're thinking of naming your daughter? Jezebel. Her name is now, is that an adjective? Yeah, it's not a name anymore, it's a description of what not to do. Delilah. Delilah. Unfortunately. Well, that's not unfortunate. She's a wonderful woman, but I have a cousin named Delilah. And I had frequently when I met her, because she's I guess a cousin-in-law Wanted to know what her mom was thinking when she named her such. Because you don't picture the woman in front of you most demure sweet woman you've ever met. But the name conjures up an understanding of a woman who's the exact opposite, conniving, deceptive. And then I look at Samson and I'm like, dude, after two times shouldn't you have been thinking there's something wrong here? But then it also might speak to just how conniving and deceptive Delilah truly was, or just how foolish and arrogant Samson was. We see a number of pictures of women Who were also mistreated, abused by men because of their position. Tamar, one of the first that we think of, that is not just Abused in that sense, and there are actually two Tamars that are done wrong in that regard. But the one with Absalom is she is she is raped And then to make matters worse, she was thrown away. Mm-hmm. Uh most of the the bad kings of Israel had mothers who were of uh had foreign fathers. It's interesting that they named the mother Sane over that case. And and it's it again, it's it's also a scenario of of where the influence comes from when you look at it. But there are some stories, the the Levite's concubine, probably one of the most gruesome stories in Scripture. Jepsa's daughter, probably most heartbreaking stories in Scripture. I don't think you'll find stories about men in that regard. The way that Levite, the Levite's concubine, was dealt with. the way that Jepha's daughter was dealt with. And part of that is because it has to do with their role. But the other part of that has to do with the role and the responsibility that men have when you think of Adam and Eve. And you hear the the the serpent is tempting Eve in the garden, and you know that Adam is sitting right there, listening to the temptation, hearing the questions, and yet he is advocating his own role of protection. He's abdicating his own role of influencer, and then he abdicates his own role of headship. And decides, okay, well if it's good enough for you to eat, it must be good enough for me to eat too. And this is the slippery slope of lack of headship that we see to start And Adam acts in a federal position that we sin in the same regard as Adam sins But yet we see that lived out among these men who have these positions of headship because they're men and men lack responsibility. The last one, number five, is I think the one that can be most challenging for many, but I think is also one that is helpful And that's women finding pain and purpose associated with childbearing and caring for children And we start with Eve because Eve is helping Adam, she is the helper that God gives to fulfill creation when God said it's not good for man to be alone I'm gonna provide a helper. He doesn't pull out three other guys and sit 'em on a couch and give them to Adam. He says I'm going to give him ease because Eve fulfills that mandate and that part of that mandate is being fruitful and multiplying. Yet it is important to note that child bearing does not denote value Kevin DeYoung is a pastor that has nine children. His wife is not three times the woman as my wife who has three children. Right? Life does not work that way because then God also gives us Hannahs in a sense of she was barren for a period, and then other women are Hannahs where they aren't able to have children at all. We have a very close family friend, wonderful woman, loved her husband. Early onset menopause could not have children at all. Right? And so what does she decide to do? She decides to adopt two young girls who are disabled. and give them a home. Even in God's sovereignty of saying you can't have children, he creates in her a heart To then care for children who, from a world standard, would be looked at as less than. And that's the heart of a mother, even though she's not living out the role of a mother from a I've born my own children. It does not necessarily say that you are more of a woman because you are now a mother who's birthed children But there is a blessing and a purpose associated with childbearing. Kevin DeYoung makes the joke that He's glad that women or he read a joke, but he's glad that women have pain in childbearing so that women can experience what it's like for men to have a cold. And that's probably very appropriate. Men will not understand or endure and if your wife ever pulls that I bore your children some card, your hands probably go up and you say, you know what? Can't relate. But there is something in that experience in that pain, and I think there's also something in the sovereignty of God to help you forget what that pain was like. So that you would have more. And even for women who do not necessarily have children, or for young women who are not of the age where they are married and participating in life in that way, God still allows that innate desire to be at work. If you look at the life of Moses and Moses is born into a time frame where Herod is saying, we're just going to kill off every child that's two and under. You think there's going to be another king? We'll take care of that right now. So he issues that edict and when Moses is born the two midwives do what? Does anyone remember? They were blessed with families and before they were blessed with families. They lied and said, Oh, we couldn't get rid of them. Women were so Uh, forget the word. Yeah. Quick to have babies way before we even got here. Those Israelite women know how to push them out. Right? And so they protect Moses. And then from there Moses' sister does what? Puts them in a basket, puts them down the river, they see Pharaoh's Daughter, she rescues him. Five women at work. One woman's the mother, and all of them are nurturing Moses. Just so that he can survive Various ages, older women, young women, all tasks with the work of being in some way form uh some way, shape, or fashion mothering So if we see all these patterns at work, and again, God is not saying in a very loud way from a subtitle and a heading standpoint of this is what this scripture is meant to teach you. But he's modeling the lifestyle, he's modeling behavior so that we might see it and live it and have it to be as our example. And even in the flawed situations in which the model can give, meaning, we see that patriarchy is God's design, but at the same time, patriarchy abused Tamar. Patriarchy allowed the other Tamar to be sent away uh and then not thought of when she wanted or when um did Judah Judah's son comes of age and is able to marry. All of these things happen under the system and the authority of patriarchy. So the patriarchy at all is it the system? No, the sim. It's the sim. So it is not the system. It is the sin, as I mentioned before. Adam failed even within the system when we started. But it is important for us to remember and to understand uh and to reflect on the fact that God's commands and his rules are the issue in the sense of this is what's wrong with the world But it is what's caring for us and keeping us, and God's commands are good. They are for our good. As we see in 1 John 5, verses 3 and 4, for this is the love of God that we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not burdensome. For everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that has overcome the world, our faith. It is a picture and an understanding that what God commands us, He also equips us to do. But also what God commands us is not viewed from this lens of oppressor and oppressed. But from the lens of equality and essence and humanity and dignity and difference in roles, and those roles are meant to complement one another And that those roles and the design are all based out of his love, his attributes, and his thoughts So one last thing and then I will open it up for questions as I brace myself. A word or few on submission, and really it's because of the way that Rosario deals with this. I think it's important for us to see what God is after. But a wife's submission is always first and foremost to the Lord. And through that, her submission is to her husband to reflect and express her submission to Christ. And that reflects both her respect for her husband as a man and as his role as husband. Well, a few things that are really important about submission, women at large are not submitting to men at large. Right? So who's submitting to who? Wives? That's a role. Submitting to her husband. Your own husband. Your own husband. Very important. Thank you. Wives are submitting to their own husbands, but men and women collectively, when we come into the body of Christ, are submitting to who? Elders. All of us are submitting to the elders that are governing, that are leading the church. And then if we're thinking of in the world, we're all submitting to civil authorities That's the order and the structure that God has set up. So we don't have single women who are submitting to the next man or the last man who just walked by them and decided they wanted to give some type of response or an order or anything of that nature. Wives are submitting to husbands. Why? Because it is a picture of Christ in the church. But everyone lives under authority. So what do we see? Men are supposed to love their wives as Christ loved the church, but who's Christ submitting to? He gives us that picture in John where he tells God, hey, before I go to the cross, everyone that you've given to me, I've cared for and I've kept. Now glorify me. As I've glorified you. He shows us a picture of how he has lived a life of submission to the Father to model for men how we should live a life of submission to him. The other beautiful thing is that wives can see the same thing in Christ as men can see in Christ. But as authority is not, or a scenario of authority does not mean passivity, submission does not imply brainless passivity either. And if we think about what God has modeled for us in our own homes and what he's modeled for us from the garden, he's modeling that for us in the church as well. So giftedness does not dictate or take priority over God's model and his pattern that he's established in the garden. If we are to be people who are holding on to his word, or if we are to be people that are striving to live out the godly pattern that he's given us, We also have to be people that hold on to Scripture as inerrant and infallible. So the word of God does not need a feminist voice, but every word of God proves true and is a shield to those who take refuge in Him. That's Proverbs chapter 30. Verse 5. So as Rosaria kind of wraps this up, she's sh there are a few quotes that I just want you to see from her thought process. To the feminists, every problem comes down to patriarchy. And so the challenge with pat uh the challenge with feminism is not that the We can't say that there are causes or issues or ideals that seem right. There is a way that seems right unto man, but the end is destruction. And I believe as a very poignant way of putting feminism in some ways, in the sense that it seems right to fight for equality. It seems right to want to have your own autonomy. It seems right to want to have the position of anything you can do, I can do better. But that end is in destruction because it does not give glory to God in the way that each of us was made. And if we strive to bring him glory, if we strive to show the world what that God's design should look like and how we can thrive in it for his glory, then we'll strive to live in a way that pleases him based on his word. What kind of questions do you have? Issues? Something I didn't touch on, yes Alfred? Oh just two practical phrases. Yes. I was working with teenagers at Fellowship Christian Academy. in Massachusetts with issue feminism. Number one, you can't outthink God. Number two is you gotta serve somebody. Everyone lives under authority. So just breaking it down is that simple. Sometimes like, oh, reset. Amen. Amen. Yes. Um So this this sort of comments to mind and um it might be a comment for later, um, but um so it's easy to imply someone and do subject when you know And first the first question I'm talking to my mind is well, okay well context and then if Okay, applicational how does that look like? And so I wanted to just double check because my version is a subject. So the three is um desubmitting. Um yeah, me thought you say that for the Yeah. Can you give out the reference again? Ephesians five twenty-one. So where you start with be subject to one another and then Paul goes into wise and gives their command, hey, what are we doing with the subjectivity, if you will, to one another if wives are supposed to be subject to their husbands and husbands are supposed to love their wives? It's a fantastic question. I did read through that as I was reading the rest of it, but I did not take time to execute that. But if we allow scripture to interpret scripture to start And we look at addressing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. That's verse 19, singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart, giving thanks always for everything to the God and Father. In the name of our Lord, Jesus Christ, submitting to one another out of reference to Christ, that is finishing a thought of how we live in accordance with each other on a corporate setting. And then he goes into how we live with each other based on role. So I'm happy to end of your sentence at your baseball role. Roll, yes. Yeah. But I'm happy to give you more of that on our idols and lies. I think uh what you first said about the influence creation scripture. So like there's very clear things like Paul and Second Timothy and Titus uses the creative order the the the nature of the order to show uh authority. So we have to keep that in mind when we read this verse. So the way what what Paul is saying here is not everyone submit to everyone. That's clearly wrong. Right. And so he He's saying this principle submit to one another, and then here are the qualifications of who submits to who. And that's what all the wives are husbands, and then he goes on even all the way Is spelling out the submission what the submission is that he's talking about. Yeah. Because not everyone's over. No. I would say yes and. Both can be true from the sense of not hierarchy or authority if I'm submitting to one another. There is a caring for one another in the worship that you're seeing in that first part of the verses. Again, I haven't exegeted the verses, so I won't explicitly say from that context. But there is something in those verses together that's important to not leave so quickly. Does that make sense? Yeah, just even if you take versus nineteen through twenty one. Yeah, twenty one. Don't make twenty-one so plastic as to be only defined by the hierarchical rules 22 through 33. Right. I I happen to know a little bit about the aster of this question I don't think she's looking for anarchy and dissolution of all roles and hierarchy. And uh I I do agree with you a hundred percent Let's not get carried away 22 through 33 and into chapter six clearly explain what proper submission in a hierarchical fashion looked like But I had an experience just this morning where I returned an email to a woman in this church who I just greatly admire and respect. And I I took the w uh in my response I I was very humble to the email that she provided in fact say so myself. Um I I caught the irony there, though. I just wanted to say it before Margaret called me on it. Um and she she emailed back and just said Hey, I never intended to like challenge you in that way. And I said, you know, and I I haven't had a chance to respond yet, but I was talking to Angela about it, and I said I I didn't feel challenged in an ungodly way. I I just knew that I respected the woman a lot and I wanted I wanted to approach her like a son would approach a mother. I wanted to be respectful. I wanted to lay down my my service and my ego in order to affirm and and enable her. That kind of submission I believe is is lacking greatly in the net And men leaders. And I I don't want to make this verse, and I think this is where you were headed so plastic that, oh yeah, it just it just means, you know, husbands over wives and wives of husbands. Yeah, that's true. But I'd like some men to recognize that leadership means sacrificing most of what we have and are in order to to serve, lead, protect, guide. Teach. I mean you fill it in, right? But what you're calling for leadership is miserable. And frankly, if a women would get a hold of that a little bit, I think they'd be more like, that's what leadership would be good here. I I'm being funny, that's yeah that's too simple, but I I think you get the idea. I would give Michelle one chance. And then we're gonna have to go in like ninety seconds. Okay. So in Proverbs 411, it says the heart of her husband trusteth her, and he will have no lack of feelings And we're told in Genesis that the purpose of the woman was to be a help me to serve her purpose. And Proverbs 31 is all about the wisdom of this woman. If her husband is not subject to the Tim self suffered wisdom and his dealings as a leader. He's missing a lot of the gift of Well not just that. I mean when men are struggling with something, I don't know about you, but in my house the first person I go to is my wife. Hey sweetie, what do you think? Because I want to hear her opinion. I I I value what she's thinking and then she will leave it there and say, go make a decision. Right? But that's the that's the role I need to give insight as a woman, and I'm doing it from an understanding of who you are and insight from things that you're probably not looking at or thinking of so that you can incorporate that into what you are thinking or what may happen is I hear it, not what I need. But it was good for me to hear so that I could keep moving forward. But in either way, there is there's a quality and essence that you're still working with as two people working through a scenario And then you get to then go fulfill your roles as husbands and wives as you meet out what's necessary. And so An hour and fifteen minutes is like a symbol of time to really there's so many things, even things that Scott just touched on that I didn't have the opportunity to get to and what I want you to see is the point wasn't to focus on feminism itself. But what is God calling us to, and do we value the role that God has called us to? If we don't value it, are we losing sight on who God is and who he's made us to be and how he loves us and then called us to and created us for what he created us for? Because if we start there, it doesn't become oppressor and oppressed. I'm less than. I don't have value. It becomes How do I dive into what God has called me to and live out all of these roles in a sense of leadership is just another word for service? Because I'm loving someone and I'm caring for others in a way that thinks of them first before it thinks of me There's so much there to dive into and contain to think through. I pray that you use this as a springboard for conversation in your homes. for Bible study in your own time, that God would continue to work through your own hearts and minds for his glory as we move forward. Let's pray.