I don't remember what it was. It was a few weeks ago now. I was standing in front of you and I uh was giving just a little snippet of my testimony and I said one of the things that the Lord really used in my life was this idea that I no longer wanted to be a hypocrite. I was tired of talking about the Lord and not really caring anything about him. It it was just overcome with this idea that I was creating an identity for myself that used the Lord's name and somehow. Authorized my life, maybe is a way to put that. I don't I don't know how to put that best. Um, And I just didn't care. And if I did care, and maybe I did, there there were aspects of things. I I think I felt constrained in certain areas uh because of my knowledge of the Lord. Um But I didn't care enough. Um I only cared when it mattered to me. And um I cannot think of a better word to describe that kind of thinking than hypocrisy To claim a thing, even to yourself, to look in the mirror and say, I believe in God, I am a Christian, whatever those words mean. And then to walk in a manner that shows you're the only one on the throne of your life. And you will compete with whomever or whatever is required so that you can stay on that throne, that is hypocrisy. And before I teach the lesson today Um I want to confess to you that I have had a tough week. A week where grumbling sought to sit on the throne of my life, which means I sought to sit on the throne of my life, right? I wanted things my way. And whether those things were good or bad or uh whether they were honorable or dishonorable really makes no difference. Obviously it does make some difference But as it affects my heart, as I stand in front of you every week and talk about a sovereign God who is in control of all things, that grumbling ultimately is me saying, not this way, Lord. Not in this way, not with these people, not like this at this time, not with this anxiety or fear or frustrations, not with these unknowns I'm happy to serve you, but as an engineer I need you to limit the number of unknowns. Right? My whole life is dedicated to fixing the problem of unknowns I don't like unknowns. And this week was filled with infra I think I it started last week, the week prior, and think I think I alluded to it during last week's Sunday school class But this week was a a week of unknowns and in a good and wise way, although I think it was not as well received Uh as it should have been, Angela kept reminding me, Scott, you know you're teaching this stuff. The Lord is going to be faithful to make sure you know it. Thanks, Ange. Um and so it it's a week I struggled with titles. And it's important for me that you know that. I had some victories Actually I had a lot of victories, I guess. There wasn't once this week when I didn't feel ungrateful for something or ingratitude or afraid or concerned or annoyed or whatever it was that in the back of my mind I wasn't going, yes. That's an idol. Yes, that's an idol. Why do you have to have so many idols? But it's important for me not to be hypocritical. That was my week. And I'm going to spend the lesson. And that was after last week's wet lesson, which many of you said really challenged you. Well, apparently it didn't challenge me enough Or maybe it challenged me too much. I don't know. But it was a tough week. And this week I'm gonna talk to you about identifying those idols. And I just spent a week learning that I had a whole stack of them. Slight bit of humor. We'll pray. We'll get started. I even discovered that one of my noble goals for life, the Lord had one point got to be reflective about what are the things that are I'm I'm ultimately working for, whether it's that uh the company I own or ministry or various other things and several things throughout the re week pro provoke those thoughts. But I got to thinking about that and I thought Anna and I have talked for years about Getting to an age when we, or a place, I don't know which it is, a little bit of both, when we are able to be more directly involved in missions. We we love missions And have uh really since we've known each other, uh so I don't know, just under thirty years. Um And and I realized I I even have my own idol there. And as I sat there thinking about it, and this is meant to be funny Give you some additional insight into how quirky I am, didn't already know it. Um I want to be a paratrooper missionary. I never thought about what that meant before, but what I mean is I want to heroically descend from the sky on various mission fields Spend, I don't know, someplace between two weeks and two months there. Do phenomenal things to encourage whoever it is that's there. And I don't need to be out front, I don't mind being behind, but I want to make sure I'm significantly encouraging the ministry and the people minister to. I just want to parachute in, do amazing stuff, you know, and then Zip line out or something, right? Like, woohoo, all right, did did my job, got satisfied, right, in in doing my work. And in some senses, uh you know the Lord was even working on me about that. Like w well what happens if it doesn't work like that? Well what happens if I have something else planned for you, longer term Less glorious, uh, slower results. And I was like, I don't like that. But okay, Lord. So you can make an idol out of almost anything, including like special ops missions. Um and no, I had never actually thought about my ambition in terms of military vocabulary before. I I just fleshed it out like that to m make it easy to kinda tell you a little bit about what that idol looked like in the my own life. Let's pray. Lord, I I just want to see you manifest yourself in our lives. I want to see us become a people that talks about you. Not like you're real, but in the reality of you. I want to get past the grammar of orthodoxy, which I love so much. And the study of Man's thoughts. Great philosophy and reason and rationality about what is most Those are all good and noble things, and yet I do not want to be simply a philosopher. There is no medicine in philosophy alone. And you say much about it in the scriptures. And although we would put a polish on it and call it orthodoxy or doctrine or theology or make it a nice word. It has the equal potential to be empty philosophy. And we can know which it is in our lives based on the idols that we protect in our lives. Idols of respect, idols of image, idols of fitness, idols of finances, idols of Service, idols of missions effectiveness, all sorts of idols. But we know that our philosophy Is in fact God-honoring and God-saturated and real faith when we destroy those idols and give ourselves to you and walk conspicuously amongst our own brothers and sisters in Christ and also in front of the world. And so I continue to ask as a result of the last quarter study and this quarter study that you would continue to draw a group of people conspicuously to yourself. That we would encourage and strengthen each other in very real and tangible ways. That an outpouring of praise would be difficult to abridge when we are together. because of the significance of you in our daily lives And so I pray that you would be pleased to hear us, to bring to our minds those things that are so necessary in our everyday lives that need to be considered before you. And that we might grow up into the full maturity of Christ. In your name I pray. Amen. Little review. Uh we're on the first principle in finding truth, Nancy Pearce's book on um Really, idolatry out of Romans 1. I spent a good deal of time on that last week, so I won't spend too much time there, but I do want to set the context for a study this week. is extremely practical. She wrestles with a lot of modern media forms, whether it's online social media or TV or movies or prevalent philosophies of the day. Um she grounds them in a lot of historical philosophies, and she really talks about how those things have affected our thinking in such a way that we We make idols, but feel very satisfied with ourselves because we have sanitized our grammar from this idea of an idol. And uh and uh so I have a section on that. It's actually a shorter section because I just spent a whole quarter teaching a class on apologetics, and so I didn't want to go back into all those philosophies that we've already discussed uh at length in the apologetics class, but I do want you to see that the first part of our study, finding truth Must necessitate the duty of identifying idols. And so I wanna warm up to that in a biblical frame and then we'll uh quickly touch on some of the themes from her chapter And I'll actually leave you with some other helps, I hope, to help you take on a practice and a discipline of identifying idols. So last week we made the point from Scripture that we are exceedingly motivated to create idols. We always have been. And we always will be. We went backwards and looked at uh Exodus and Ezekiel. And we went forward to look at Revelation and we spent a little time in some of the New Testament epistles mostly. um to make that point. And I think it is well made. Actually I would argue and defend that it is well made and feel that way stronger this week than I did last week as a result of uh the additional study that I was able to accomplish. The scriptures speak of us as a people that long to make idols. And uh I found uh a paper which I'm not going to share with everybody, not for any good reason. It's just a lengthy paper, uh, but I did bring uh a copy for Chester. I have another copy for Lorfe that I wanted to share with him. It's a biblical counselor. that has actually taken on this idea of uh the strong theme or narrative of idolatry in the scriptures. It's called Idols of the Heart and Vanity Fair, and it's Googleable and downloadable online for free. You don't need any special subscription, but if you're interested, it's super good paper. A little hard to read. Take some work, but uh super good paper. But um even as my first bullet there says, ultimately we uh what we studied last week is that the human heart is motivated to create idols. And Um the author actually even up the paper where I got that motivation idea from uh says it always bothered him that way that John ends his epistle, right? That that whole epistle and he ends it with first John five twenty two, which talks about don't don't have idols. Keep yourselves from idols, which is quoted it uh just above the middle of the page there, first quoted uh verse of scripture. Little children, keep yourselves from idols. That's the end of his passage. Why did he end his epistle like that? And so as a biblical counselor, he wanted to find ways to use the scriptures to engage people in their real lives with real problems Uh big problems. Uh you know, most of us don't go to a biblical counselor uh for a stub toe. We wait until it's a crisis in our lives and then we um get serious about asking for help when we no longer think we can do it ourselves. So this guy wrestles with real things and he said we could basically break down the motivations for idolatry in our lives into three basic categories. And they're a little geeky, I guess, but they were helpful to me as I read through the scriptures, as I thought about and studied the book. They were actually very helpful to me just to kind of put these motivations, different motivations that we have in categories, and even to think about my own idols So the first one is psychological. It's an internal motivation. You can find that in 1 John 2. 16. Talks about the desires of the heart. We're going to spend some time there. What our own desires are, what we want um is is what we're calling that internal motivation or psychological motivation. And again, those things can be well intended. generally honorable um in their uh intention at least. They can be very wrongly intended and dishonorable. Uh I think many of us in this room probably struggle a lot with the honorable but still idle Um I I well, I I don't even think I want to touch on examples there unless I accidentally bump into somebody's. But um Yep, don't want to steal my thunder either. Keep going. Sociological is the next one, simply put, it's the pressure that the world puts on you. External motivation conveyed to us by the world. 1 John 2, 15 through 18, and 1 John 4, 1 through 6. The whole point of this here is really to talk about how these three categories exist, and they exist In the very epistle that has this ending verse, if you will, this capital verse at the end that says, Little children, keep yourselves from idols So anyway, these categories exist in the scriptures, and that's why I'm using these references. Sociological is really how society puts pressure on us. All that invites, molds, reinforces, and conditions into an inertia toward idols. teaching us lies. Again, there are enticement, um sociological pressures, right? Some easy ones are consumerism, greed sexuality, um personal identity, there there's some enticement type uh motivations. There's also reaction type motivations To listen to the news is to be afraid. I don't know how anybody listens to the news. You're either not a serious person, and by that I mean that you don't take information in in a way that makes it significant. You you listen to the news simply and and by the way a lot of people do this, I recognize it, you simply use it as a means of distraction that makes you feel connected to the world Rather than be at lone be alone in your kitchen quietly, you can't suffer that for some reason. So you laugh, but people are deathly afraid To be quiet and still. Because they are not reconciled with their God. And they are not reconciled with themselves. Young people are addicted to entertainment. That's a a broad categorization that's vastly long in many places And it's not that older people are immune to it, but young people in particular are so addicted to entertainment and distraction. That to ask them to sit still for a portion of time and be quiet and reflective is as unto torture to them. It truly is painful to them. So some is enticement, some is response. We respond to fear by building a certain kind of idol. We respond to a persecution by building a certain kind of idol. We respond to somebody's anger or hatred or disrespect or disregard or discrimination or Sexism or which is a type of discrimination, I know I was just hitting it more specifically because it's prevalent in today's society. Prevalent in today's society. I'm not just saying that because people want me to say it. I'm saying it because at work I see it all the time I'm currently coaching two women that work through me with me through a a clear sex discrimination problem frankly at a you know uh an a disrespect you know a verbal disrespect level as opposed to something physical but I'm currently working through that. Why why do we even have that problem? It's ridiculous. You know, this individual believes these women are wrong simply because they're women. What? And one of the things that I'm working with them on is how do you respond to that? Don't don't turn this into a thing. Don't make this part of your identity. Don't Don't respond in a way, I don't use this grammar because only one of them would understand it coming from me, the other one wouldn't. Don't make an idol out of who you are or what you are or how you should be treated or don't build yourself an idol of identity here because of this person's wrongdoing What are you talking about, Scott? You want to know where this happens most? In the family dynamic. Children make idols out of what they want their identity to be because their parents have made the wrong idols in how they work with those children. I want to be respect- I'm making I mean maybe I'm not making it up, but in this particular case I'm attempting to be hypothetical and demonstrative, not confessional. I want to be respected as a father, and I think authority is important for raising young men in particular to be productive members of society, productive members of a church, productive members of community. to be the kind of honorable men that the Lord would have them to be. If I make that an idol, then I'm willing to spend or exact a cost from my sons in order to achieve that end. Now how do they respond? I don't know. Maybe they respond with compliance. We need to do whatever we need to do to get dad's approval. Doesn't matter what it costs, what it takes. It becomes an idol. I need approval of that man. My idol has now factoried another idol. Husbands that don't care for their wives the way the Lord would have them to do. Work becomes the mistress priority. What idol does your wife build? Perhaps an idol related to redeeming you. I will redeem my husband from this idol. And she makes an idol of her ability to save him. Or she makes an idol of her fitness. Or she makes an idol of her own career, or if she makes an idol of her children, I will get all of my identity from my children. You see how idols of temptation or idols that elicit a longing, a desire, but idols that we respond to. are are equally powerful and sometimes the response ones are the harder ones for us to identify in our lives. We're trying to survive. We're trying to do a right thing. We're trying to to deal with the cards that the Lord gave us. These are words you might think in your head, maybe you don't, I don't know how you think, but fill in your own metaphors. We just feel like we're doing our best But we've created idols. And they're not consistent simply with the way the scriptures talk about it. And what's most frustrating to me about my own life is I am so familiar with what the scriptures say. And I have been told over and over and over again by many of you in this room and all through my life since I started teaching, which was early mid-college career, that I see scripture. I truly see it. I'm able to look at it and not worry about the sermons I've heard or the books I've heard, but just to let scripture cut. as deeply as it needs to. And and and yet I caveat it all the time. Oh well that that's nice in here But it doesn't work at 7075 Samuel Morris Drive. That's the address for my office. Or at 5307 High Wheels Court in 2024, especially in Colombia. It's hard to make any Bible work in Colombia, to be honest with you. I just let that sink in apparently. It's so frustrating to me that we have all this revealed truth that's so Precious, so pointed, so relevant. And we act like we gotta look someplace else. The final one is demonological. And I know many of you, you you already turned me off. You're like, first of all, I'm not really familiar with the word. Second of all, I think you said demons. We don't do demons. I'm sorry, but yes you do. You don't do demons, you don't do the New Testament. You don't do demons, you have no idea what Christ spent a majority of his ministry doing. You don't know what the emphasis of the 12 going out and the 72 going out were You don't know your Bible. You don't believe your Bible unless you believe in a supernatural realm with demonic influence that is constantly at war with you. Read Ephesians 6. So many of you love to put bumper stickers about the armor of the Lord. It's talking about demonic influence from beginning to end. Hey, build an idol out of this, buddy. God didn't actually mean that to happen to you. These situations are not under the control of the Lord. You need to do your best with it Whatever it is. It's a demonic influence. It's a lie from the father of liars. It's a darkness in a life that is meant to be thrown open wide with the light of Christ. And I say light of Christ like it's some sort of fancy special kind of light. I don't actually think it is. It means more than just photons, for sure. But it is also that. Reed Ezekiel's testimony of the glory of the Lord manifested in Ezekiel 1. So many discussions of life. Read 1 John. 1 John starts with, you are now children of light. Walk in the light. Do not allow any darkness in your life whatsoever. Children, keep yourself from idols, is how he finishes what he opens the first chapters with, exhorting you to walk in the light. Isn't that interesting? Don't tell me that you don't struggle with demonological influences, motivations, demonological motivations for building aisles. Yes, you do. Well, how can you be so cock shore, Scott? Because the Bible says so. And by the way, I already confessed to you the struggles I had this week It's my problem too. There's no accusation here. I just feel really strongly about sharing the truth with you so you can see it. These motivations can be seen in Ephesians 2, 1 through 3. Go ahead and and uh scoot over there real quick. It's really oh one more comment. Just the devil's behavior determining lordship. I loved that phrase in the David Powlison paper that I referenced earlier. He talked about those lies that the evil one whispers and again if you've read uh the screw tape letters, i y you got the right idea. If you haven't read the screw tape letters What's wrong with you? Spend more money on books. Addie told me, she's like, stop it, you're blowing my book budget. Buy the book. Or listen to the audio or I don't know come by we'll read it to you or something, but it's great. It helps just see the tactics of the evil one whispering those deceits. Alright, flip over to Ephesians real quick. And you were dead in your trespasses and sins in which you once walked, following the course of this world. Which of the categories is that? Number two. That's right. Sociological. Following the course of this world. Comma. Following the Prince of the Power of the Air. Which is that Demonological three. Very good. Right? So they're right there. We used funny words for him because he's a, you know, like uh uh uh what's the word I'm looking for? Psychiatrist or psychologist, I guess I don't know. Um Prince of the power there. The spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience. So that's demonological spirit, sons of disobedience. By the way, there's a bunch of passages in the scripture that say that very same thing. Verse three, among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body. It's that it's that psychological one, right? The internal motivations. Internal motivations, the external uh natural world motivations, the external supernatural world motivations. If you like that rendering of those three categories better, all three of those motivations are pushing on you as a person in this life. We'll come back to a really interesting Uh another interesting verse in Peter that I think says that again. And so given all of those things All those motivations and John's desire for us to walk in that truth, in that light, to see those motivations for what they are, and to put away the darkness that they necessarily bring and that they necessarily project into other people's other people's lives. That's why I believe John ends that epistle with Um little children, keep yourselves from idols. Go ahead. I I think that thinking about it and having categories to think about it enable us to have a productive evaluation. time. Like thinking about something with no tools and no structure is hard. Thinking about s you would know, right? You you know it um Thinking about something that has categories that help us to kind of create buckets for thought and for concepts, that's just super helpful. And that's really all I'm trying to do here with these three categories. I don't think it really matters which of the buckets it is if you got an idol. You're sitting on the throne of your own life and you gotta you gotta get off. So get off. Great question though. I guess in my own heart too, just one more comment on that one, like the demonological one. My conviction about that is fairly new, only a year or two old, and it stems really from my study of Luke. I just kept coming back over and over and over again in Luke And he did this with demons and he did this with demons and the demons were active in this way. It was like a whole every other day I was studying the next verse and it was demons. I was like, I'm not really comfortable with that. We don't really do demons nowadays, right? Like ghouls and demons and we even make fun of people that are infatuated with the dark supernatural And and so I started studying it. And it was just eye-opening to me. And very cautionary for me to wake up in the morning and put my feet on the floor and go, I get a chance to honor God today. But there's going to be a barrage of deceitful that sneaks into my day, into my thoughts, into the circumstances in my life, in the things that people say or do to me. There's going to be a barrage of that. Am I armored against Ephesians 6. Am I armored against it? Am I armored against it? Am I armored and then when I do stumble, when I am grumbling, when I am angry, when I am afraid, I'm like, which of the pieces of armor am I availing myself of now Right? And so I mean does that mean that I it matters that it's demonological? I don't think so, but again, it was just so enabling for me to have those categories of thought as a discipline of protecting myself or defending myself or disciplining myself with regard to those influences. Does that help? Follow-up You don't have to. I just was wanted to give you a chance before I do that. Okay. Well I I don't know if you really pretty much already said it, but just um you know as we defend ourselves against the enemy, it is important to know who the enemy is so that we know how to defend ourselves. So I think pretty much that's that. Good question. Good comment. Thank you. As homework I recommended that you read Ezekiel 1, the heavy glory of the Lord contrasted with the vain or worthless. Um idolatry of God's people in eight through eleven. And again, I've been in church long enough. I know that we have this I don't even know what it is, but we have this completely other concept about ourselves from the Old Testament. And I wish we wouldn't. It's wrong. But we do it. And um So I know that's probably hard for you to identify with 8 through 11, but um it's there. And uh that first Corinthians passage, which I am going to read to you, I was actually turning there until I went over to Ephesians. A First Corinthians passage. Um actually let me make it let me do it differently. Sorry, I've got too many things in my hand now Let's go back to the Ezekiel 14 passage first So one was the glory of the Lord, eight through eleven are the utter idolatry of his people, the men, the women, the priests, the worship, the city, all of it, so that The glory of the Lord ends up leaving uh the holy place, leaving the temple, leaving the city, and sitting on the mountain and uh That Nate and I were exchanging some uh texts about this week and he just really encouraged me. He picked up on what was Uh m most significant to me in in that as well, and at the end of eleven, he really promises redemption for his people, even as he's leaving. them. And it's just so encouraging to see that grace of the Lord, the the glory of the Lord. To see that e even in the context of our study, right? God does not want you to have idols in your life. And and there are consequences for having idols in your life. But some of them are almost impossible for us to detach ourselves from by our own strength. And he is so good and so gracious. And there is not one of us who who sets about the endeavor of ridding ourselves of an idol that cannot be 100% confident that the Lord is going to help us with that. through his people, through his word, through circumstances, good and bad, right? He's going to be helpful to us. And so I was just really encouraged by the redemption of the Lord. But He makes it more personal, those categories, you know, priests and temples and you know, Old Testament believers. Those are a little hard for us to wrap our brain about. And Ezekiel four 16 1 through 8 he says, Then certain of the elders of Israel came to me and sat before me, and the word of the Lord came to me. Son of man, these men have taken their idols into their hearts. Do you hear it even in Ezekiel? It's not just stone and wood, right? The Lord's not stupid. He doesn't actually care about those things that have no ears and eyes or value He doesn't care about the things that you split from a log and you make half with an idol and you throw the other half in a fire. Half an idol and the other half the threshing of you know your wheat floor. He doesn't care about those things. He cares about the idols in your heart. And you set the stumbling block of their iniquity, or they set the stumbling block of their iniquity before their faces. I want this thing. This idol. I have to have this idol this way. This career in this way. This family in this way. This Identity in this way. By the way, identity and idolatry, oh by word, are they linked. There's I was tempted to put it in here, but it was too distracting. I I was afraid it was too distracting But I found a fantastic book that just goes through the scripture and correlates the number of times that the Bible associates idolatry and identity. And they call us to what we are in Christ. Your identity in Christ is an identity free from idolatry. But you crave, you are exceedingly motivated to create identity for yourself. And in subduing, you create idols. We set it before our faces. Should I indeed let myself be consulted by them? Therefore speak to them and say to them, Thus says the Lord God. Any one of the house of Israel who takes his idols Any one of the house of Israel who takes his idols into his heart and sets the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face, there's that phrase Those two phrases again, idols of the heart, and I set it before my face. I make that my motivation. And yet comes to the prophet. I the Lord will answer him as he comes with the multitude of his idols, so that I may lay hold of the hearts of the house of Israel. Again, the hearts, the wrestle is for the heart. Who are uh parts of the house of Israel who are all estranged from me through their idols? So any one of you that comes, but they're all estranged from me through their idols. Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord God, Repent and turn away from your idols, and turn away your faces from all your abominations For any one of the house of Israel or of the strangers who sojourn in Israel. I just want to be careful here. So many of you are thinking about wealth and greed and sexuality and all these other stuff All this other stuff. What is in your hand that you are praising the Lord for right now, but that if he took it from you, you could not give him thanks. And and please hear me carefully. As I say that, I think of some stories in the room and my heart is broken. But what it is The Lord has asked you to open your hand to him with. So I'm not cavalier in this. But I believe that's what the scriptures say. I contend that is what the scriptures say It could be a good thing, a good spouse, a a good job, a good ministry, a a good brother, a good sister, a good child, a good I I don't know, fill in the blank They could be good things. Like Isaac. Isaac was the son of promise. It was a good thing. But the Lord asked Abraham to open his mind and his heart to whether or not Isaac was the idol. Are you worshiping me? Or were you faithful all these years? Because you'd set an idol before your eyes, and you were pursuing an idol. Is your heart filled with an idol? And then 1 Corinthians 10, 6 through 7. Now these things took place as an example to you. And he's just finished talking about all the things that happened in the Old Testament. Largely in the Exodus, but um I'm not sure there's a strong distinction he's trying to make there from the things written down that happened to the people of Israel. These things took place as an example for us that we might not desire evil as they did. Do not be idolaters As some of them were, as it is written. So see that? Not desire evil as they did, and then immediately correlates that to do not be idolaters As some of them were, as it is written, the people sat down to eat and drink up and rose up to play. We must not indulge in sexual immorality as some of them did. And twenty-three thousand fell in a single day, and some of you are just going, See, there it is! It's that it's that heinous idolatry of sexual desire. Keep reading, people. We must not put Christ to the test as some of them did and were destroyed by serpents, nor what's the next word? Some of you are able to feel rightly and praiseworthily very self-righteous about sexual immorality. How about grumbling? I cannot imagine a reason As much as I uh admire and respect so many people in this room, I cannot imagine a reason that one of you could walk out of this room today and go, I got no work to do. I find no motivations in my life for idols. Some of you rather, and maybe this is even the category I'm expecting to be the largest I would expect to walk out and go, wow, I was trying to do that for right reasons. But I see that my reasons became my idol in that circumstance, and I can see it based on the gratitude or ingratitude of my life in every day. I don't mean there that it's so abundant that it spills out into every day. I mean you actually get every day to take a check on your heart. through the gratitude that comes to it or not as a result of your attaining of the thing that is an idol to you Verse eleven. Now these things happened to them as an example, but they were written down for our instruction on whom the end of the ages has come. Those Old Testament things. Happened and were written down just for us in this age. There is no ability for you to separate yourself from Ezekiel 1 8 to 11, 14, or 16, which for the sake of time I'll touch on right now. 16 goes even further. And it uses the metaphor that we use in the New Testament. The church is the bride of Christ. And verse 16 talks about how the bride Has taken the very gifts of the bridegroom and created idols for herself And he says that's us. And if you want a clearer or potentially more vulgar in its reality picture of that, read Hosea. The passage goes on at length, Ezekiel 16, to draw corollaries to Hosea. And it's amazing to me. Because I know that it's true of I'll pick them up for way. Is that the idea? You're just gonna keep dropping them until I pick them up for way and there you go by It's amazing to me when they talk about the infidelity of this bride and the bride in Ezekiel sixteen and Hosea uh all through. Uh Hosea She prostitutes herself unlike how the world prostitutes itself. The world prostitutes itself and they expect to get something back in return. You pay me to prostitute myself But when the Lord describes a believer, he says we prostitute ourselves and we give it away. And you want to know why? It's because as his bride, we already have all goodness. All real goodness, all tangible goodness, all ultimate goodness, all satisfying goodness, all not all true goodness We don't have any of the fake goodness of the world. And we are uniquely the only people that are able to prostitute ourselves. And there is nothing we can get back So we give away the value that we have in Christ. We give away the goodness, the surety, the ability to pray, the ability to enter the throne room of grace, the ability To be reverentially afraid of the Lord when we appear before him, but know that he is our Father. To be satisfied in the work of the cross. And again, that New Testament metaphor, the bride in the church. Are you spending the gifts that God gave you to create idols for your own life? What are the gifts? Have you done that inventory? By the way, it's a much bigger list than you anticipate. You just need to peek through it harder. You might need to go solicit a small group of women with women, I hope, and men with men, I hope, but you might need to go uh or I suggest maybe more than I hope. You might need to go get another group of uh people that you respect, people that you honor, and get them to help you. Because some of us are just dumb about it And then finally, idolatry and desire. If idolatry is the characteristic If idolatry is a characteristic and summary Old Testament word for our drift or rejection from God, then desire is the characteristic and summary New Testament word for the same drift. I try not to throw Greek in there just to be annoying and academic. I throw Greek in there because I'm really hoping you'll go home and you'll take your blue letter Bible and you'll type in Strong 1939, and you look at all the places in the scriptures that use it. And if you have the Blue Letter Bible, download the Septuagint version of it It's usually says LXX, just so you know. Download the Septuagint version of it version of it. And then you can find where that Greek word is also used to translate Hebrew as well. So you can literally do a study of desire from Genesis all the way through Revelation. It's it's a fantastic study. And all the verses are listed on the things. You don't actually actually flip open your Bible to every single verse. You can kind of hit on the key ones that maybe catch you as you go through. And if you're like me, it'll provoke another interest and you'll dig deeper and deeper and deeper and you'll find out from beginning to end we are people that are motivated to build idols Because of the desires of our heart, which are lies that we have believed, in place of the truth that God has revealed. Galatians 5, 16 through 24, we're going to hop to these passages. I feel like uh no matter what my time is, spending the time in the scriptures is better than Nancy Pearcy's thoughts or even mine. So we are gonna Keep our noses in the Bible. Ephesians five, sixteen through twenty-four. But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh, for the desires of the flesh are against the I'm doing desires, right? That New Testament word for idolatry. And the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh. Do you notice this combat? By the way, there's there's no like if you're a Christian, if you're not a Christian, anything else. He's just telling you straight out, the desires of the flesh are against the desires of the spirit, and the dynamic of the way the language is written keeps that like active and ongoing. It's not some there's a bookshelf here with the desires of the spirit and a bookshelf here with the desires of the flesh and as long as you see them you're good to go Your life is a constant battleground of those two desires. That's what Paul is saying in Galatians. These are opposed to each other and they keep you from doing the things you want to do. We love to talk about Paul in terms of grace and faith and no works and all this stuff Read your scriptures, people, in plain English, and put away all that you've heard from somebody else for just a few moments while you read it. This is Paul, the same guy that we love to throw free grace in, right? Going, you They keep you from doing the things you want to do. But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. Now the works of the flesh are evident, and he goes on with so many of those. And I'll just leave those to you. But I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. You're like, oh now you've gone too far, Scott. I I I shared with you last week, I know myself so well that if Christ's sovereign work and election and work to redeem me were not all of him and none of me, then I of all men could not get it. And yet we are supposed to be afraid of these verses, that they would motivate us to destroy idols in our lives. And I will not take away the God-given benefit, gift of that kind of fear and these kinds of verses, panic Is an appropriate response to a house or a heart filled with idols. And joy is an appropriate response. To the knowledge that when I take the acts to the idols, the Lord will show me his goodness and enable all the redemption. Restoration. Ephesians 2. We kind of were already here. 1 through 3. And you were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the peace of the power of the air Prince of the Power of the Air, sorry The spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience, among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind And were by nature children of wrath like the rest of mankind. Wanted you to see the three categories there, all associated with desire. passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body, how this word desire replaces idolatry or is stands in for idolatry in the New Testament. Ephesians 4 20 through 24. But that is not the way you learned Christ. You didn't learn him in sensuality or greedy practice. Practice or every kind of impurity, the same list that we were looking at in chapter 2, right? We didn't learn Christ like that. What's Paul doing here? He's challenging people in the church. He's challenging believers He's walking to a people whose hearts are filled with idols, or speaking to a group of people whose hearts are filled with idols, and he's challenging those very people to walk. As they are. To understand and distinguish between the identity they are busy creating for themselves, to the idols of their heart, and the identity that they are called to in Christ. I'm just going to read it off the page because I've exerted it. It's at the bottom of page one there. But that is not the way you learned Christ You were taught in him to put off your old self, which belongs to your former manner of life, and is corrupt through deceitful desires, deceitful idols. And to be renewed in the spirit of your mind. This is not an emotional exercise. If you will not walk out of the room and take on a discipline of identifying your idols, and then as the weeks progress and we learn What to do next? I've identified them. Now what? Right? There's four more principles. If you will not take on the discipline, you will make no progress in your Christian life. It's it's just that simple. How can you be so sure? I'm reading the same book you are But I heard, but I think, but I feel. Tell me where the logic is wrong here. You must be renewed in your mind. You must be rational. You must take on this exercise of apologetics, knowing God. Sanctifying God in your hearts. Right? That's the the key verse. For those of you that weren't, most of you were, I think, but for those of you that were not in last quarter, right? That first Peter 3. 15 But sanctify the Lord God in your heart and be ready always to give an answer to every man that asks you a reason for the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. Having a good conversation or a good walk in life So that you can give a testimony for the glory of the Lord. That's a key apologetic verse, and we always turn that into how do we give an answer to somebody else? Set the Lord aside as holy in your own life. That necessarily means no idols. He and he alone is on the throne of your life. He and he alone is the one that defines your identity, whatever it may be. Know your God. It's a discipline of your mind, and it requires time and effort, fingers on Bible pages and pens, notes taken, because notes are the solidity of an otherwise unfirm thought. To have a thought, an idea, it's not yet real and concrete until it reaches pen or brush or ink or stone or whatever other craft the hands make it concrete into. That's just who we are Your idols will always be in your heart, and so you would learn to defeat them with a pen. Identifying them as first. Looking at them and going that is my idol And that is my idol, and that is my idol. But I'm gonna start with this one because I can't do all sixty of them at once. And this is the one that's hurting My husband or my wife or my child or this is the one that I understand is now ruining my testimony the most. It disgraces the Lord the most. Put on the new self, created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness. I don't want to make too much of this, but I love how when we talk about idols, we talk about a false image of truth and a false image of us and a false image of God. And here, when he's challenging us to put away our desires, put away our idols, he says, and put on the new self, which was created after the likeness of God. It's the real image, the real truth. It's the real thing. There's no more facsimile, no more cheap wood and stone, but the real thing. 1 Peter 2. 11. Beloved, I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh which wage war against the soul. You gotta parse through this sentence a little bit I urge you as sojourners and exiles. Notice that this is separating our thinking and our identity from the sociological and the demonological and fixing it on God. You say, how did you get that? What does the word sojourners and exiles mean? It means I'm in a place that I don't I'm not actually from. It means the culture around me and the influences around me are not the ones that I belong to. I am an exile I am a sojourner. I am only here temporarily. My identity is there. Well, how do you do that? How do you live like that, independent of the sociological and demonological motivations for idols in your life. You abstain from the passions of the flesh, from this Desire to create an identity, a rationale for your life, a value for your life Out of your ingratitude for all that God is for you, you take the gifts that He has given you and you crack them into idols for your own heart. Well, abstain from that idolatry Which wages war against your soul. Don't miss that. Present active tense. There is a war in your heart and mind. Peter is not leaving room for that. Not like some of you, as I teach the class, I'm trying to hit the majority. If I could do it, and I wish I could, but I can't, if I could go through and do every meaning here, Peter is talking to you This war is in your life, in your mind, and in your heart Scott, this is too much drama for us. I just live a quiet, normal. That's a lot. That's a lot. I I just don't even know what else to say about that. I I can't there's no words that I could be dramatic or multisyllabic about or susquipedalian if you want a really multisyllabic word for obtuse with words. There's no way that I can make that more real. It's just very simple. Your heart Is at war with the truths that you know, as revealed by scriptures, and the desires of your flesh that build idols. And your motivation is supplied to you by the untruth of Satan and his minions, and by the untruths that are crammed down your throat by society. Alright, I have only a few minutes. I actually don't regret it. I know you're thinking he didn't get very far. Um Nancy went through a good thing. I would I would encourage you to read the book if you have the book, but her ultimate point here is is what we've studied. I've been faithful to the emphasis of her book. So don't feel cheated because I'm not going to be able to hammer this last section. I was faithful to the book. I want to talk to you a little bit about where she got the name I think she got the name of this chapter from, which is actually called Twilight of the Gods in the last Three-ish minutes that I have. And then we'll dismiss. I want you to remember that there are these questions online. There are 34 or 36 questions. I didn't print them out just to be cute because I needed a device. I printed them out because as we were talking about it, Angela reminded me of these questions Because we were talking about the lesson and the material, Angela reminded me of these. We found them helpful. She and I sat around and you know we went through it the first time and and we were like, ooh, ooh, that question hurts. Ooh, that question doesn't have an answer that I feel too proud of. Or, you know, I I never really thought too clearly about that. Maybe I should So I have a challenge to read those questions. And again, they're posted online. You won't have a hard time finding them. Twilight of the Gods. I believe Nancy Pearcy got that from the title of a book. I think I put it in. Yeah, I did. Page three at the very bottom. As a matter of fact, we're gonna we're gonna hunker down on page three. Um she got it from a book written in the last year of uh Friedrich Nietzsche's life, a godless, hateful man. Who uh only had this last year of sanity and then uh just lost his mind. Um Um somewhat famously his sister to make money actually sold tickets so people could watch him sit in a chair and drool all over himself and babble incoherently But he is the basis for more modern sociological motivations than I uh could have time to talk to you about in the next year. He is the basis for so much of what we eat, breathe, and sleep in modern thought and philosophy. And so I just want to read a little bit of it to you here, and I want you to see how he even saw this truth of idolatry. Snow small, this is from the foreword to his book. He didn't write this forward part. It's no small oh actually he did write this forward part. I lied to you. This is his stuff. It's no small trick to preserve your cheerfulness in the midst of a gloomy matter which is loaded with inward responsibility. That's true of life. Life is challenging and it's not it's not a small trek, meaning it's difficult for us to maintain our our cheerfulness in the midst of that Yet what could be more necessary than cheerfulness? Nothing goes right unless exuberance plays a part in it. I don't know what he bases that for, given that he doesn't believe in God, doesn't believe in an afterlife None of the true values of life that would make exuberance important. But he says it. Overabundance of strength is the only proof of strength. If you know anything about him, the Uber Mensch idea there. Overabundance of strength is only proof of strength, a revaluation of all values. This question mark, so black, so monstrous, that he casts a shadow on the one who poses it Meaning, let's revalue all things that we know, and he's about to dive into a revaluation of religion. So that's why he's talking about it like this Such a fateful task forces one to run out into the sun at every moment, to shake off a heavy seriousness that has become all too heavy. Every means is right for this, every case is a lucky break. Above all, war War has always been the great cleverness of all spirits who have become too inward, too deep, even wounds. What did we just read in Peter about the war that's going on? Too deep, even wounds, um, can have the power to heal A saying whose source I withhold from scholarly curiosity has long been my motto, and it translates at the bottom of the page to with a wounds, spirits soar, and virtue thrives. In other words To be wounded faithfully is valuable. Another way to recover, which under certain circumstances I like even better, is sounding out idols For the sake of time, I'll skip the rest, but the long and short of it is he says, and it's even the subtitle to the book, How to Philosophize with the Hammer. And so he says, I'm going to bring a hammer of questions that are hurtful. that challenge suppositions or presuppositions, and I'm going to ring them against the bell of modern religion so that I can hear its emptiness and so that other people can too, so that we can move past it. That's his claim. And she seems to pick up on that and she calls her chapter not the twilight of the idols, but the twilight of God. And that's impor it's important, I think, that Twilight idea you'll see in footnote five, Twilight of the Idols does not indicate whether it marks a transition from day to night or the other way around, meaning it makes no judgment about when you move from the one thing to the other, is it is it uh you know, is it good or bad. All it claims to do is to sound the clear note that comes between being out of tune and being in tune. Light Twilight, it marks the time between what came before and the beginning of that which comes after. It is intended to make it impossible to live with idols. That is right out of the book. And Nietzsche's philosophy has been successful. You know why? Because we've heard him go through that exercise, and we haven't bothered to pay attention to what's the hammer, and what's the bell, and what's the noise And why are the answers like that? We've closed our eyes to the clear discipline, the clear thinking that is required to determine the distinction between a truth and an idol. And so Nancy Pearcy picks that up and she says, Stop it. Even Nietzsche and his ravings and his lunacy and his ultimate heresy Even he gets it right in that we must stop idols. Will you pick up the hammer of God's word and the truth of it? Will you take on the difficult discipline of identifying idols in your life that you might cast them out? Or will you continue with the hollowness which hurts you more than it hurts any other person? But it does hurt other people, people you care about. Do not allow that hollow idolatry to continue in your life.