Lord, I I never know how to start a class prayer. I want so badly for you to be glorified in conspicuous ways. I am so tired of cultural church. I am convinced that in the Reformation we rightly secured back from the Church our direct access to you. And I am also equally convicted, Lord, that when we did it We somehow allowed the idea that it was totally free, that there there was no cost to discipleship. We let that idea sneak in. We refuse to let the church charge us for indulgences, for blessings, for other things. We refuse to let Wicked men charge us for our access to you. And that was right And yet the evil one somehow use that to say that we should also not be charged anything And I know there are people in the room right now that are getting their Baptist ire up thinking, free grace, free grace, free grace. I don't know what to say to them, Lord, except for what you say in the scriptures. I set before you a blessing and a curse. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind, and walk in his ways. We cannot have the world and have you. We cannot have our idols and have you. We cannot have our image as taught to us by modern culture or any culture. And have you. You describe us as exiles in a foreign land, in a foreign culture that is not our own. Expatriates Who have their citizenship someplace else. And I long to be conspicuously that An exile in this world, called to do all sorts of good and noble and edifying and impactful things right where you put me But also constantly of a mind that I belong someplace else, that I am something else. And I pray that as we study idols and we study lives, that you would help us to get a hold of that, that you would change and transform lives, that there would be good conflict. That there would be frustration, that there would be some offense to the status quo in our hearts and minds. And that that would lead to good encouragement to walk closely with Christ. And that you would be glorified. And that we would be built up. And that there would be much joy and excitement about what you are doing right here. in hope. Be pleased to do these things. In your name I pray. Amen. We are going to start with uh exactly where uh Nancy Pearcy starts. She starts uh with uh a dissection of Romans 1. So if your Bibles are not open to Romans 1, go ahead and get them open. We're gonna really be reading through a little bit of it here. I want to set a context. I'm gonna have to move fast because as always I never have enough time. Um But you can even see I it took time I didn't have to come up with that diagram that's toward the bottom of your page. I just want to really see what the Lord says about this And then in my study I was just so impressed, right? You I get nervous. You pick up a book and I get nervous about picking up themes that the book picks up and making too much of it, right? Well is this idle theme too much? Is this a device which is pleasing to men in a literary fashion but not honoring to God and his faithfulness to the scriptures. I always worry about that when I use anything other than the scriptures themselves as a basis for a Sunday school class or a a lesson or a a a life uh direction or anything like that. And uh so I just there was no way I was endeavoring on the study without first getting into the word. And you know what does the scripture say about As Calvin put it, the hearts of men being um prone always to idle factories or being idle factories. Is there somebody trying to I I thought somebody was trying to get in and I can't really see without my glasses on, so I just want to make sure I made space. Just interrupt me if you've got a comment. Otherwise Just keep going, whether you like it or not. Uh so let's get into Romans 1 here. Set a stage. Same stage. Pierce he's gonna set By the way, I have no idea how this class is gonna end. These are my study notes for the class. I got all of the notes on your sheet from my first page of study notes, and there was no room or time either in my noteworking or the class clock. for my second page, which was all what I thought was the good stuff. So I'm going to try to sneak this in somehow, but I have no idea how it's going to play out. So we'll we'll see what happens Romans 1 starts off, right, and I love that this is Paul. Paul is certainly the guy we go to all the time when we come talk about free grace and um all by faith and not by works, but I I love to see his opening chapter uh in in this book of Romans Starts off in five. What's his purpose? To bring about the verse five, chapter one, verse five, to bring about the obedience of faith among all nations. including you who are called to belong to Jesus Christ. So who's he who's he speaking to here? Everybody whom Christ has called, will call. is called me. We are called to be saints. And just an insertion in the whole theme here, not in Nancy Pearce's book. Um I ran into this a while ago. Saints was a word that always bugged me. We talked about in in uh like old church c church contexts. The Catholics f certainly have a long calendar of Saint worship. Um and I wanted to know what the biblical definition for that was. And the best one I found was in Revelation 19, 7b, the last part of 7 and 8. And it says, And his bride has made herself ready. Right, the church has made herself ready. It was granted her to clothe herself with fine linen, bright and pure. And this is where people get upset at me. They're always expecting it to say something like the robes of Christ that we're given you. And we know that we are given the righteous robes of Christ. And as a matter of fact, without the righteous robes of Christ, there would be no way for us to enter the presence of God. I'm I'm certainly not Challenging that truth. But I love here that there's a slightly different perspective on it. And his bride has made herself ready For him, right? The bride got ready for him. It was granted her to clothe herself with fine linen, bright and pure. For the linen is the righteous deeds of the saints. Paul is calling us here in Romans, in the entirety of the book of Romans, he is calling us to prepare ourselves with righteous deeds in response to the faith that is given us by God the Father. And don't you ever forget it. We may no longer need a priest or an arbiter of some sort between ourselves and God, but there is nothing about your call in Christ that is free. It cost Christ everything. His humiliation in his incarnation. His obedience in a tormented and tempted life His death, his burial, his resurrection, his ascension, all those things And when he talks to his disciples about it, he says, and you also must take up your cross and follow me. There is nothing free. About what we do in Christ. And to call it free cheapens it. And so if you have a cheap faith, a faith that means little to you, a faith that is not the treasure of your life. Well that's as much on you, and you're going to find that in the description that we talk about here of idols and idol making and idol worship which we are all inclined to. It is worthless It's described as worthless. That's how we feel. That's what's in our hearts and minds. That's the summation of our value system. When we approach Christ as though it were just free and cost us nothing, cost you everything. Impossible for you to earn, can't be gained by any action that you do. Right? You will always be insufficient. This is where I'm going back into the traditional doctrine. I don't want you to think I'm too far out. I'm not. I am nestled in it. I am dependent on it. I know my sin. And on a good moment, notice I said moment, not even a whole day, but in a good moment, after a great study, and when all other things are aligned, I am ready to surrender everything that I am. I truly am. Lord, if you want this, it's yours. If you want this, it's yours. I am fully rend ready to pay the price of whatever it is the Lord asks me for what that I can just be unified with him. So I'm ready to pay the cost. And I also know that if it won't Wasn't abundant, exceeding grace that had nothing to do with my merit or my work, I would never be able to get it. And so I am safe in the doctrine that you all hold to be true, and I am not trying to unroot you from it, but I am trying to get you to see a harmony in the tension That sentence. A harmony in the tension between the lavish outpouring of faith and grace. Excruciating cost Dedication, striving for obedience And when they are disconnected, when they're out of kilter, when you can't align that where you don't even have any cost in your mind. It's worthless. It's worthlessness. It's worthless to God. It's worthless to you. It's worthless to the world. Every manifestation of it is worthless And when it becomes worthless, you know what you do You try to synthesize value. When to be a bearer of God's image becomes nothing, you know what you do? You ch Change the image until it seems to have some value. You want to know what the five lies we're going to study are? It's an exchange. It's a world so unhappy with the worthlessness of the way they think and the way they act and the way they live and who God is for them That they've tried to synthesize an image that brings them value. But we are called to robe ourselves in righteous deeds. The pursuit of God. The outpouring of cost in our lives, the taking up of the cross in what we do. And it will not happen Because you listen to some nut job like myself stand up here and talk to you in an impassioned tone of voice. It comes naturally to me. I'm short, I'm irish. I only have two emotions, asleep and angry. Right? This all is super easy for me. I'm not even trying to be dramatic yet Drew can tell you what it looks like when I try to be dramatic. Everybody wants to leave the house. The neighbors, they want to leave the neighborhood. It won't happen because you listen to somebody like me. It will happen when you decide you are going to go home and change the way your home works to bring it into alignment with the glory of God. When you finally put down the idolatry of your self-image, when you finally put away the idolatry of your work, When you finally throw the wallet that you care so much about what's in it, when you finally throw it down and are truly willing for anybody that wants it to pick it up, because you don't need it, you don't care. The idol of wealth, the idol of status, the idol of education, the idol of uh self-indulgence, or the opposite, which is the same idol, just the opposite side of it, right? Asceticism. It's the same idol. It's just the opposite face of it. Put those away and take on the righteous deeds of the saints which you are called. Romans one, seventeen, and eighteen really pick up our thread and set the stage for Nancy Pearcy's work. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith, as it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. I'm just going to set that aside. You're very familiar with it. There's a this in eighteen form a really interesting um pattern that we're then going to go find in a whole bunch of other places in the scripture. And so I wanted you to see that, these these contrasting verses in 17 and 18. And seventeen, for in it, in this uh gospel that is being taught about what we are called to and about the righteousness we're called to, in that gospel is revealed, it's revealed from faith to faith, and as it is written written, the righteous shall live by faith. And then the contrasting statement for the wrath, and and notice that, for Right? Not not a disconnected statement. I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith, as it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. And in it The wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. For what can be known uh excuse me. Who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. And you're all like, well, that's not us. We're the saints, we're called, we're good to go. I know you did it. I know you did it. Can't even see you, which is nice because you might be scowling at me, but I know you did it. Chapter 2. There's no chapter breaks, right? In the Bible, so don't get too caught up on those breaks like they're a different thought. The grammar has to tell you whether there's a break or not, and the grammar screams, no break in this case. Okay Chapter 2. Therefore, you guys have already heard, I know you have, I listen to teachers and preachers around here say it all the time, right? They give the Greek word and they're like, see, it connects. So you already know it connects. You have no excuse, O man, every one of you who judges. For in passing judgment on another you condemn yourself because You, the judge, practiced the very same things. What did he do? He was talking to a large group of people and there was a s at least a part of that group of people that was feeling self-righteous about it. Oh, you're not fucking us. You're talking about those unrighteous people over there. And Paul turns on them in a way that I felt like this is this was a Christ thing, right? Christ did this all the time. He'd be talking to a group of people and he would suddenly know what a group of them were thinking and he would go, ha ha Let me let me just interact with what you didn't say but I know you're thinking. And so Paul does a very similar thing here and he turns to these people and he says, don't don't judge. Don't don't don't judge that sub subsec subsection. You know what I'm trying to say. Of people over there. For in passing judgment on another, you condemn yourself because you, the judge, practice the very same things. Well w we need to look at what those same things are so you can catch the strength of that statement. What same things For what can be known about God is plain to them, because God has shown it to them For his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world, in the things that have been made So they are without excuse for or because they knew God. Or when they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks to him, but they became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Claiming to be wise, they became fools and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for what? Images. That is the same Greek word that is also used for that was you, wasn't it? And I recognize your voice, even though I could your mouth move. Idols. Exact same word. Images, idols. I have in my notes someplace here. The foundational or root word for idol is the exact Same word as images, but actually comes from a um originally Greek word that means to strike the eye. A thing that is seen, a thing that is impressed on your vision, a thing that you comprehend with these. And that, by the way, I don't even know where I have this in my notes, but I'm I'm way off script here, so I might as well keep going. Um that by the way The image is where you are going to find no safety in your modern culture from idolatry. So the book that was written in nineteen sixty-two. I can recommend this book. By the way, there are two books in your footnotes, reference in your footnotes that I actually took the subtitle for today's lesson from. Do not Read the first one. I'm not kidding you. Men in particular, do not read the first one Um this isn't like you know dad telling your kid he's not man enough for it. I had to put it down I got into it. I realized my mind was spending more time thinking about the negative illusions in the book. It was a good book. It had good things to say. I learned interesting things So I spent more time thinking about some of the negative illusions in the book than I did about thinking about God. The book became a a source of stumbling to me. So I cannot tell you I'm I'm not kidding and I'm I'm not being anything else. I put it down, I have never gone back to it. I I uh don't do it So you say, why did you put it in your notes? Because it's a person that didn't seem to mind swimming in the filth of the world and communicating that in the written word, and yet their indictment against the world is the same. That we live in an empire of image, an empire of illusion, which has only been helped by modern technology and modern media. We're too sophisticated for stone and wood. We want chemically bonded plastics. We're too sophisticated to have a actual shrine with incense in our home. But we are happy to spend I think it's two hundred and forty thousand dollars is the average cost of college right now. How many of you have two hundred and forty thousand don't forget? Because somebody It will suddenly become very friendly with you. In a very insincere way. Um How many of you have two hundred and forty thousand dollars laying around? That you're okay with just throwing out there for no guaranteed internal investment. You want to know what we've done with education and work in this country? It's an idol. Now do I think education is bad? I have a master's degree. I spent money I didn't have to get it But I'll tell you what, Anza and I talk and the older I get, the more we talk about it. She's like, Really? You're gonna walk away from work for that? Like, you know, you you're gonna take off a day to help me do that? And I was like, I'm tired Of bowing down at the altar of work. It always takes and it never gives back. Keep waiting for the payout. And I don't even make the money payout. I I I mean it do. But that's not maybe the biggest part. The idol of work. One more embarrassing story about myself and then I'll get back on track. I I have been in great shape since I was about 17 years old. I weighed 168 pounds. I could bench press 300 I could carry a carpet around uh a carpet roll around on my shoulder that weighed three hundred and fifty pounds. I could walk across the room with it on my shoulder I could run for miles in desert sun, hundred and twenty degrees, no shade. I still weigh 168 pounds. You would crush me if you put a 350-pound carpet on. And I would whine like a little girl. Drew and I have been uh he's interested in weightlifting. He's finally old enough where I said it was okay for him to do it, and uh so we've been at the gym messing around a little bit. I'm not even going to tell you what I can bench press now, but it ain't three hundred. All the mass around my shoulders and arms has slipped to my waist and uh I wear a belt not because I think it's fashionable but I'm trying to keep stuff in as well as And you know what I see? I see disappointment in my heart, to be really honest. I like being in good shape I like being the little Mighty Mouse guy that nobody thought was worth anything, and then you sit down on the bench and lift more than they even thought they could I didn't realize it until I was 48. But I liked it. I liked the image. I worshipped fitness. It was an idol. What do you worship? What's your idol? What worthless thing have you made an image in your life of? Deuteronomy 30, Moses' life is ending, his ministry is ending, and he takes uh kind of sums up all that he has learned about God over the years that he has walked with him. A little over forty at this stage of the game, just in the Exodus event, if you will. And in Deuteronomy thirty, he kinda sums them all up. This is all the good stuff, this is all the bad stuff. You should go back and read it sometime, because I know that many of you are thinking to yourself, well it's all about the law Law this and law that Sinai law, uh Deuteronomic law, I mean that's what the word means, right? Um you gotta read Deuteronomy