My fulfillment was going to come from being successful. Scott also mentioned that to identify the idols, we must put in place practices and disciplines to identify those idols. Check the motivation. Check the heart. A pastor that I reference here is Psalm 139-23. Search me, O Lord. Search me and know my heart and try me and know my thoughts. And then Psalm 119, I have hidden your words in my heart that I may not sin against you. You know, we gotta be like like it says in Joshua 1 verse 9 verse 8. Do not let the book of the law depart from your mouth. We must meditate on it day and night. So that we may become successful in all that we do. When we don't meditate on the Word of God, everything that is driving us are external factors. Our selfish motivations are the things that we want, not the things that God wants. The only way you're gonna know what God wants for your life is to be in His Word Because it's the word of God that will convict you, that will guide you, that will shape you, that will sharpen you, that will direct you. In every aspect of your life, oftentimes we only turn to God when we're going through or when we're dealing with things. But what about when things aren't working out right? Are we not surprised him then Are we not to exalt him? Are we not to say thank you? Are we not to prostrate ourselves at his feet? But God is so merciful that he gives us a good balance. So when things are going right and he sees that when I praise him, sometimes he'll throw a little something in there. Make you stumble. Oh, there it is. I'm back. Scott also mentioned uh the concept of hypocrisy. Claiming to be believing God, yet living with yourself on the throne rather than God. And I contrasted that with sincerity. What does it mean to be sincere? What does it mean to serve God sincerely? To be genuine, honest in our motivations. Is what we're looking to do, will it glorify God or will it glorify ourselves? Check your motivations in everything that you do. As Jeremiah 17, 9 says, the heart is deceitful. It is wicked. It is sick. It will misguide you. Don't fall for it. The definition Nancy gave here, going back to um the definition of an idol, definition Nancy is rooted in in the first commandment, Exodus 20, uh 20, verse 3. You shall have no other God before me. The word before in this context is synonymous with besides me, in addition to me Together with me. God does not want anyone on that throne but him, including you, if you have not gotten that. So I don't want to see these Jesus is my co-pilot. When I'm on that plane with Jesus, I I'm probably in the baggage area. I'm not even in a seat I'm not worthy to be in the same cabin as him. When you have that mind and that view of God, he can truly use you. But when you don't, you're deceiving yourself because everything you're doing is for your own motivation, not for God's motivation Because of where the idols originate from, Scott mentioned three categories from that he got from the article that he referenced last week. I think it was um the David Fawson article. Psychological, which are internal motivations, which are the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life. Sociological, external motivation, and demonological, pardon me. Immunological motivation. Be aware of the reasons and purpose for the idol and how they exclude God. Be aware of them. How are they excluding God in my life? Look at them when you're when you're motivated. Sit down and look at the idol and say, okay, this is what I'm motivated for. This is what I want in life. Where does God fit in this future? And often be honest, I know that I don't do it. When I want some I just go after it Hm. Something that has really challenged me and I want to be candid with you all because of watching Stock Teach the last couple of weeks and how candid he's been has really touched me. is my family is an idol. The effects that happened to me as a child has caused my family to be an idol. And so I give them the very best for me, which is not necessarily a bad thing, but there has been a cost that I've not been paying attention to. my time with God. I can stand right here and look at my wife in her face. Wonderful woman. Woman of God. I know that I know that. She would never say that I don't give her time. Because I know that I do. My children, I try to put them in the best schools, try to teach them everything that I can so that when they get to school they're already reading and writing and everything by the time they get there. Well what's the motivation What's driving that? I think it's me seeing that kid and seeing that he didn't have that. And saying I'm gonna build these soldiers To be the best they could be in this world because they will represent me and then as a reflection of them I will be I will look great. When people see them, they're gonna see me, they're gonna be like wow, he's a great dad But I'm gonna be honest, it's been a cost. I should have been spending more time in in my birth. That doesn't mean I take anything away from her. But there are other things that I can exclude from my life so that I can still give her the time I need to as a husband, but that I can still glorify my God The one who died for me. The one who took the proud of thorns for me. The one whose back was stripped for me. No, one of the things that I also realized when I was saying that, oh, he's innocent, he's innocent. Why is he going through this? He had to go through it because I wasn't innocent. He was doing it on my behalf and I lost sight of that. If young he's innocent, don't go through it, don't do it. But if he did not go through that, where would any of us be today? And so do you wake up in the morning reminding yourself and start hitting on that first day of this free grace concept It really challenged me when I got home, my man. That race is not free. Somebody had to pay for that. There was a cost associated with that. And so how is my life, how am I living, to show gratitude? To my Lord for what he went through on my behalf. Is it worth it for me to just take a few moments to go through his word to ask him to search me so so that I can identify the idols that are in my life so that I can identify the things that are pulling me away from him. Want to go back to um the Psalm 13923. As I read that during my study this week, I realized that it was a plea for the Lord to make us aware of our iniquities through the conviction of the Spirit. When we ask the Lord to search us, don't just say it and get m get moving. Keep you know Scott also made something on this video uh we coin's gonna have a lot of Scott said, Scott said. 'Cause I want to just clarify everything they said uh the first week. Um he talked about just sitting in silence and how we're fearful to do that sometimes But when you ask the Lord to search you, and then you go distract yourself with something because you don't want to hear the answer that He has for you, that fear is your idol You're replacing the voice of God for fear because you don't want to hear it. You're suppressing it. You're pushing it away. But when you ask them to search you for the iniquities and the things that are wrong in your life Be willing to sit down, be willing to open up your word, and be willing to be convicted by the Spirit. Because he does chastise those he loves. It is for your benefit, not his. He is self-existing. The uncalled cause. He doesn't need you, me, or anything else. So he takes us through, know that it's for our benefit. I'm going to jump down to the end of the first week's summary, which is on page two. You all were told that the New Testament word for idol is desire. To defeat idols, we must be able to identify them. A carnal mind. A mind that thinks as the world does will not identify your idols. A carnival mind will do nothing but suppress the truth. Because we don't want to be hurt and the heart doesn't want to be hurt. So it's gonna hide anything that's gonna make it feel less than. Because the heart is full of pride. It always wants to be elevated. So for us to identify our idols, we must renew our mind And I have a couple references here. Ephesians 4 23, Romans 12, 20 Colossians. We must try to have a mind of Christ. Searching his word, sitting at his feet, saying to God, help me to be the best reflection of you that I can be, not for my will, not for my glory. But truly, for your glory, Lord, I don't want any idols in my life. I don't want anything that's going to pull me away from you. I know I may have been hurt. But I know that the hurts that I went through were for my benefit. To bring me closer to you and to use me as a witness for others that I may I may encounter We forget that sometimes. That the things and the trials that we go through sometimes are meant for the benefit of others, to benefit our brothers and sisters. Now, this week's lesson is identifying the idols of reductionism I have to admit, prior to the study and Scott giving me this book and going through some of these things I was not aware of. So I've been convicted. Reductionism is a phenomenon stating that you have to reduce something that's more complex to a more simpler term. Pretty much you're dumbing it down. And what what happens when we dump something down is that at times we can lose the true meaning of it. I had a quote here, but um I realized that I was gonna go to five pages instead of two pages, so I deleted it. But I want to reference it. It's a quote from um C. S. Lewis from Mere Christianity. He talks about how some will say that Jesus is a good prophet, and some will say that he is a good man. But he also he goes on to say that he he did not give you that option to call him a good man or a good prophet. If if a man were to say, and I'm paraphrasing it, if a man were to say some of the things that Jesus is saying, you could either label him a fool, a crazy man, or he indeed is the Lord or the God of your life. And so when we when we um allow others to reduce the fully man and the fully God to something other than what he is We are in jeopardy of causing others to lose their salvation because then they're receiving not the real Jesus, but a counterfeit Jesus That's the impact that a reductionist view could have in the church if we allow it And that's happening all over YouTube now. Everybody has a PhD and a doctorate in theology from YouTube. They just make up their own theologies and will say that. Um good um Christian conservatives that you follow that are that have millions of followers will tell you that The Holy Spirit is a force. They'll tell you that there are more than one way to God. And there's a lot of people listening to this and receiving this But they're reducing God from our Lord to a created being And Jesus is not a created being. Jesus is God. Jesus is Lord. And without him being Lord and God of your life You don't want to know what's gonna happen. The reductionist view not only reduces the the divinity or the deity of Jesus, it also dehumanizes God's creation. Because from a reductionist standpoint, uh they use what is called materialism. Materialism is says that Everything in the creative order comes from from matter. Matter is the uncaused cause. You see a problem there? Anybody see a problem with that? Genesis 1-1. In the beginning God created. Right. So the reductionist view completely takes God out of it and makes matter. The idol Everybody's worshiping matter now as the creator and from matter we have other theologies and and mindsets that that um that come out of that. Like um determinism. That we're not responsible for the things that we do that it was already determined by preset conditions. So if determinism is what drives us, then where's sin in the picture? Then no one's accountable. So sin. That completely contradicts what the Bible says. All have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. The wages of sin is death. And so what determinism and um materialism does is it completely Flips the Bible on his head and says that the Bible is wrong. I'm right. And one thing happens. That becomes the idol. Because remember, an idol is anything, any thought, any person that takes the place of God. I have to say thank you all for the wonderful loving looks. I have to say that. Coming in here this morning I was sweating. Looking at you all I was like oh man this is my first class and but so far you all have been very gracious and I truly appreciate it. So thank you. Nobody's throwing anything up here yet. I I just have to say that. Reductionism goal reductionism's goal is to reduce man's origin to matter, as I just said. I have a couple uh scriptures to go along with that. In the day that God created man, he made him in his own likeness. Reductionism would say no he didn't. Know that the Lord is God and it is he who made us and we are his, we are his people, and the sheep of his pasture. Reductionism would say no You're your God. You are made of the same matter and a as everyone else. Pantheism. We're all gods. And if we're all gods, then there's no right or wrong, is there? There's no objective truth, is there? And if there's no objective truth, then there's, again, no God. Reductionism, I would say, equates itself to individual that calls himself spiritual I realize that individuals call themselves spiritual because the spirit does not tell you what you can and cannot do with your life. You dictate what you want the spirit to do. Where with God, you have to submit to a God. God dictates your life. In spirituality, you dictate. how you want this risk to to flow. You'll often hear it said like this. If I put myself out there, if I do good enough, it will come back to me. That's a lie. So reductionism again denies the Creator, who is God, the uncalled, who made all things from nothing Said in Job 38. 4, I laid the foundations of the earth. In Job 38. 5, I determined the earth with in foundation. And then, as um Kirk just mentioned, in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth, which is foundational to our faith and our belief. It is a strategy of the deceiver. Did God really say? Have you heard that before? He didn't mean that, did he? Your eyes will be open and you will be like God. I think the only thing That came out of that is we were able to see the level of our depravity when our eyes were open. They were walking with God, Adam and Eve, listened to someone else instead of listening to a holy God And the only result of that was, man, I'm sinful. And now I must die. When God gives people, this is from Romans 1. When God gives people up to their idols, the result is always a reductionist view of humanity, which ultimately unleashes harmful and destructive behavior. Where we reduce people to anything less than fully human, we treat them less than fully human. Um before we jump to the next page I want to make it clear that we all have done things in the past. We all have made mistakes. We all have baggages, but we have a merciful and grateful God. I'm getting ready to point out how the reductionist view impacts our view of abortion, which I know is a hotly debated topic. But know that these words are not meant to offend anybody or to make anybody feel any certain way But we must speak the truth. We must see what the reductionist view is doing to our society. I don't have the stats with me, but and um don't quote me on this, but I think that since abortion became legal Sixty three million lives have been taken. How is that allowed in this country Because we've allowed the medical professionals to label a child as a crop of self. For the very smart ones will tell you that it's a fetus. And then you say, what is a fetus? A clump of cells. You sure it's not a small child? That's the word. Fetus is nothing but a small child, but they'll spew that, not knowing the real meaning of it, to reduce the humanity of that unborn child. To nothing but, which is a key phrase that you must look out for whenever you hear that. Nothing but I know that I'm fearfully wondrously made, and so are you. So there's nothing but about any of you Christ died for you. You have value. You have purpose. You are loved. You are redeemed. You are his people. You are chosen. Don't be don't have a label put on you that says you're nothing but because it cheapens the price that was paid for you I just alluded to this, but this was a quote from a um from uh elected official. There is no such thing as a heartbeat at six weeks, she said. It is a manufactured sound. Designed to convince people that men have a right to take control of a woman's body from her. You laugh Here's the opposing view. The fetal heart begins as a tube, which contrasts to pulp blood as early as twenty-two days. And begins circulating blood at week four. But it is not detectable by ultrasound until week six. The heart's four chambers develop at seven at week seven I just said two statements here. One of them is false, one of them is true. Why is it then that sixty-three percent of Americans believe the false thing. More convenient. More convenient. Reduction. Deception. Deception. The monological. Yep. Sixty-three percent, yes now. I'd like to point out that it's actually gotten worse too, because most of these people believe that abortion is reasonable after Yeah. Yeah, thank you for that comment. There are some states that are allowing I think to your point, I'm sorry, what was your name? Michelle. Michelle, to Michelle's point, that are allowing thirty weeks, um, thirty-six weeks, and some up until birth. These are God's children created in his image. Well that's been going on for a long time now That's true. But because we legalize it there's more. It it's more prevalent now. There's more people joining in because the illegal way causes a lot of problems Um so it's we as a society, because we've legalized it, have killed more. Yeah. Thank you all for the comment. Yes. I think that um for for us who like who who believes in pro life is uh to summarize we believe in the um the dignity of the child. I think we've also taken a bit of a reductionist view and Like we're now what I've seen um many people kind of arguing about like a heartbeat or at what we when it really goes all the way to things. Right. At the first it was the yeah Yeah, thank you, great point. So pretty much that's how the Christian worldview part today is the secular worldview. We believe that Once the egg is fertilized as a child. They believe that I gotta see the child on a bicycle. I gotta see him driving a car. I gotta see him jump in the swimming pool. Now he's alive. Two very different views. But that's what happens when we allow reductionism to creep into our society and our church. We have to fight against that. And this is the um the purpose of the class, the apologetics class. It's to teach you how to defend against these These worldly views in a biblical way to reason with individuals, not for the sake of winning an argument, but to help them to see clearly the way that God would have them to see. The thing that that shocks me the most about this stat is um the Colin Paul Evangelicals. I don't know how they separated between white and black, but all I saw was evangelicals. And it says that um Protestants, 71% of them Approve this in the church. And this is the result when the gospel is not being preached. Where we're allowing others to reduce what God has created and made perfect for His purpose and for His glory. Life is no longer valuable And as a result of the the seductionist view, we are then turned to a debased mind And when I looked up the word devase, it's synonymous with reprobate or corrupted degraded unqualified. Pretty much it's a broken brain When I was growing up there was this show that um I used to watch where this kid would always make mistakes. And I I forgot the name of the show, but they would call him Can't Get Right Can't get right to tell me. That's pretty much what a r uh debasement is. It doesn't see things the way that we see them. It doesn't see things through the lens of our Creator. It sees them through what we desire, what we want. And that's completely opposed to often what God wants. We fight against the flesh because the flesh is opposed to what God wants and desires for us As and Paul continues in and uh Romans 1 29-32, they were filled with all manner of unrighteousness, the result of redemptionism. Evil, covetousness, malice. They were full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness, they are gossip, slanderous, haters of God, insolent, hearty, boastful inventors of evil. Think that was it? No. Disobedient to parents, foolish, faithless, um, heartless, rootless. Does this sound like a society that we're living in? Yes. Um again I I there was a lot of references that I was going to, but one of the things that I read this morning was we often say that a nation will be under the judgment of God if we don't turn to God. But the article said, open your eyes. You are under the judgment of God. This is why these things are happening. If you think America is not currently under the judgment of God, look at San Francisco. Parades in the street, flags everywhere Taking God's rainbow promise and sullying him Pride. We are under the judgment of God. Now, I've alluded to some of these before, but I want to About fifteen minutes left. Um I want to speak specifically to how does reductionism harm the gospel. There's a new term coined under reductionism called uh limited a limitative materialism. This happens all the time. Hopefully you get used to me. If I was home with my wife, she would slow me down and this is how you say the word. So thank you all for your patience Um all thoughts, convictions, desires and intentions, perceptions, and decisions are fictions That's what this new view of reduction states. There are illusions produced by the underlying brain chemistry. So they're not real. Everything that you feel, the perception that you have, nothing is real. And what does that do? It eliminates the spirit that God breathed into us. When he formed us in his likeness, when he made us in his image. Basically reductionism is telling us, and this view is telling us that we're nothing but empty shells, just going to and from with no purpose. Reductionism promotes determinism, which I saw earli earlier, meaning that we everything that we um we view or everything that we we want is already determined. There's no f basically there's no free will. There is no free will in humans, and therefore humans cannot be responsible for their sin. If a man is not responsible for their actions, their neighbors will be treated without dignity and respect. When a person accepts materialism as a life philosophy, its effects do not stay neatly contained within the mental realm. It leads to a destructive personal behavior and harm And a harmful public consequences. Pearcy writes. Man loses sight that he is a sinner. Romans 3. 23, all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. Then Romans three ten. If I could just turn there real quick. These are the consequences of accepting reduction reductionist view. We lose sight of the fact that there is none righteous. There is no one who's who seeks to understand. There is none who seeks after God. So if reductionism were true, what would be what would be driving us to seek after God? What's that internal call that's pulling us, that's drawing near him near to us Matter? No. And this one's the biggest. Christ then is humanized. Because if we allow reductionism to say that everything is created from matter, then the personal price the the deity of Christ, the God man, too was also created by matter. What is the consequence if God is created by matter What is the consequence of the world? For God so loved the world that he died. Would that matter? No. We would all still be in our sins and our trespasses. If the God that we serve and the God that we love and the God that we submit to is a product of reductionism, because his death didn't mean nothing Because he too would have been a sinner. If he is humanized because we all human sin It just tells us there is none righteous, there is none who seek after God. No, not one. Christ was the only perfect being that ever walked. We cannot allow a reductionist view to lower. His divine nature. Morphe, I was also thinking that um Jesus would not be God if in fact he were exactly the product of creation. But but it was um just in the studies over the last couple of years it was eye-opening to know that before the incarnation Jesus did not have a body. So he existed with a Godhead without in spirit, but not a not a body. So since since the time of God was created, he A horse was born as a baby and for the first time had a life that that could be given as an offer. Thanks, thanks Kirk. So Kirk's point, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him, and without him nothing was made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. And the light shines into the darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it That means nothing if price is reduced to the same level as we are, a human being. In addition to all that, in addition to what Kurt said, Christ has finished work on the cross, which enables the elect to the righteousness before a holy God. Would be void. We are not justified. None that justifies. No one to justify us. There's no bloodshed. Reductionism also reduces and dismisses the triumph because everything is based in matter. But we know that God is spirit. We know in the beginning the Holy Spirit was hovering over the face of the waters. And as Kurt just mentioned, Christ, and as John just mentioned, Christ was in the beginning. So how do you explain the triune God from a reductionist standpoint if everything forms from matter? You can. These are some of the um of the views that will challenge the reductionist views that we will talk on next week and the following week. A reductionist view of Christ leads to a life separate of all of us separated from God. That means every individual walking on this earth Will never be reconciled to God if Jesus is a reductionist individual made of full matter. So what do you do with this? We talked about how to identify our idols. We talked about the reductionist use and how they impact the gospel. That has saved us. So what do we do with it? I think the what we ought to do is Make sure that we take every thought captive that we've learned and that we keep our ears opened so that when individuals make mention of these things that we don't attack But we gently slide over. Oftentimes we respond in a unloving way when we first hear a concept or a theology that offends the God that we believe in. I know that I used to just respond and react like that You look against our argument and then at the end of the day the person goes one way, you go your way and who's the winner there? Did you go out and make disciples of all nations? No, you're looking against a fight. And sometimes we use go out and make disciples. As an idol, believe it or not. We're looking to tell somebody that they're wrong and that they're believing in a false God and that my God is real and my God will crush your God But is that the purpose? Can you humble yourself? Can you take it in when you hear false views and accusations against our God and then respond in a loving way for the purpose of winning the individual to Christ Can you put your your part aside, your flesh aside? And say, okay, brother, I hear what you're saying. But you know what? We have these I um papers and this new class that I'm taking that's talking about idols and I think I heard that what you're mentioning. Would you mind explaining that to me a little bit more And as we mentioned before, by you staying in your scriptures, you staying in your word, Christ will provide you a response, a gentle, loving response. Thank you all for um The time today I thank you all for allowing me truly to have this first class and nobody throwing anything up here. Um I'm truly humbled, uh grateful to you all and to Scott and his family for even allowing me to come up here and to hold Bible. Can't say it enough. I know that Scott makes mention that he gets um messages from you all throughout the week. Whether good or bad, I look forward to them because I want to glorify God. I want to serve him to the best of my abilities. I want to put my pride to the side. Because when Scott first texts me I was like, uh no. But that was my pride. That was my pride, that was my idol. I don't like standing in front of people not knowing everything. I don't like to stand in front of you all Having somebody raise their hand and ask me a question that I don't have the answer to. That's something that I struggle with for like two weeks. I just got that. So you no questions. But it has been a great experience. I think um one of the joys that I've had from teaching this class is that I've been convicted. I've been able to identify idols. Whether a lot or a little, I pray that you are able to take something from this, identify idol in your life. And crush it. Live for God. Whatever is pulling you away from Him. Whatever is calling you early in the morning that's causing you not to spend time with him, whether it be early in the morning or late at night or guess some of us are like Scott where we're at that swinger at like three o'clock in the morning. Whether you know if it's morning or night. Praise him. Seek him. Search his word. It is only his word that will highlight the high the idols in your life. And it is only his word that will help you to defeat them. Thank you all for your time. Um let us pray. Orphy, I I had a comment if we're we don't have time. No, go ahead. Um just thinking about reduction is um before I think of that's a new term for me, but before I would actually view the world that way, I would probably view myself as uh someone who is a reductionist who maybe uh takes uh things that are true and very quickly tries to boil them down to maybe something that I can grasp or understand without really peeling peeling the layers off and thinking about it more critically. So even as I was listening to you, I was thinking of okay In in what ways am I rolling in in that way? That Even my wife yesterday mentioned it. I was just like, well, you know, when you look at compounds in um in chemistry, I guess you could sort of break down the compounds in a reductionist way to just get a better grasp of it. Shill I don't use that example. So I didn't. Until now. I just kind of a in a interesting com uh comment or Twitter. We walk around I guess maybe we don't walk around anymore with it, but