Am I working through my own thought process? Did I test my idol? Oh, was baseball an idol, God? I don't know. How do I figure out If the way that I'm parenting is based on pride, hey, look at my kid, or is based on looking to glorify God. Well did I reduce my experience on Sunday morning to just a certain thing or an idea? Or did I elevate what should not have been elevated? Or did I reduce my experience with God to just baseball? Let me test it. Let me figure it out. If I'm here to glorify God, can I do so in this context? Even still, I can't be out here every Sunday, right? I can't forsake the assembly. Believers together. That's where iron sharpens iron. That's where I get equipped. That's where first out happens. Where I can learn more about him and the context that he wants me to learn so I can go back out there. and be useful. So I can't spend half my Sundays on a ball field. That would be inaccurate. To the state that we had missed, I think, two Sundays in a row and we got to the third Sunday. I was like, we can't do it This is too much. You're going to be late to this game or you're going to miss this game. And by God's grace, you got there a little late. Hey, where were you guys on Sunday? We missed two Sundays in a row. Had to be in church. Good for you Not because the parent that I was talking to agreed with her, she does not. But she understands what priorities are. It gives me a chance to what? Just sow a seed, open a door. Be a witness. I don't know where that conversation goes, but I have to have what? Boundaries. So I can make sure that I'm glorifying God, not creating idols. And I'm not living again in terminology of reductionism and idols, but I am living in them in the actions that I display. So then as we work through this and we understand reductionism and we define a worldview, what's the whole point in learning what your worldview is? It's not just to be smarter. But there are two reasons. The first one is I've got to understand whether or not the life that I'm living is truly one that I say it is. If we all raise our hands and we just said I have a biblical worldview Sounds great until I have to live it up. It sounds great until it's uninformed. And it's not really true in the context in which I live. Scott put out a note, I think it was when he was actually teaching on reductionism, and he has a graphic in there, and it shows a survey in which Evangelicals, non-evangelicals, maybe three or four different groups were asked about whether or not abortion was legal or illegal. Most of those people might have said if they were evangelical, what's your biblical worldview? Oh, I have one. How do you feel about abortion? It should be legal. Well, I know. What are we basing that off of? Because we can get our worldview from a number of different places. I don't want to poke a bear, but I love poking bears. In the sense of if I am in my own house as a black man and November comes around, guess what's assumed in which the way I'm going to vote? Not because of my own logic and reason. No. It's because of black. Oh black man, that could be even worse. But but it's a scenario in which there's an assumption. There's a presupposition. I have a family of Christians. What does that mean? You can't be Republican. Well, why not? Can I attest it? Can I base it on the Bible? Can I think through who God is and the issues and how I should vote? And I'm not saying I'm not democratic. I'm just saying there's a presupposition that says this is what you should do I'm not saying Democrats aren't Christians. I'm just saying there's a presupposition based on a postmodern thought, I'm throwing out words to you on purpose, so that we could think through what's real and what's not real. Did I base it on scripture? More importantly, do I base it on what I know about God? And that answer can be yes in both ways. What I know about God can be very mediocre, very tepid, and very minor as a Christian. I have a faith, but it's uninformed. I have a faith, but it's not being well-researched, well-reasoned, well thought through. And so when I get through all of these different issues, I don't know what God thinks about these things. So the worldview aspect of it should come because, quite simply, I want to know God more I want to know what he thinks. I want to know what the Bible tells me I should be thinking as a Christian, not just dogmatic about it. The worldview informs me. It helps me descend the space. 1 Peter 3. 15. We'll get there in a few minutes. But it also allows me To go into a world that's in opposition to the truth and engage it. Not in a combative way. Because what does Christ call me to do when I engage unbelievers? Do what? Love. Tear down every lie. Tear down every lie. But speak the truth in what? Well sometimes we forget that last part We just want to speak the truth. We just want to let you know that we know more than you. That's not the goal that God has for us. So even in our informed thought process It might be lacking the truth. Because the truth is, what are we trying to do? He that wins souls is wise. There's a wisdom in how I approach people. There's a wisdom in how I think through things. I was at work one day. I work as a financial planner. I tell people all the time I do not manage money, I manage people. I manage your expectations. I manage your relationships. I manage your goals. I manage your desires. Money is just a tool in which you use to get there. I don't have to deal with the money thing up. But talking to a client, she has four children. One of those children is bad with money. And as we're going through her family tree, I get to her son's name and I notice. And it's hyphenated. Why is your son's name hyphenated? She is so happy to tell me that he grew up in a staunchly feminist household. And when he got married, what did he do? We had to make it to his last name with his Vice Last name. Interesting. How do you deal with that when you're one of two men, one of which is her husband. I already know how he feels about feminism because they're feminist. Right? Two other women on the call. How do I wisely navigate that conversation? Maybe it's just not the time to have that discussion. But maybe it's just something that I file away and say, Lord, how do I work through this relationship? How do I become salt and light? What's loving to say? Those are the areas and aspects where my informed worldview has to apply because There is a such thing as Christian femininity. Not such thing as in it's legitimate, but such thing as in defined, being lived out, people's thoughts When we work through these things on a consistent basis, it allows me to show that I know who God is. And as I learn who God is, I'm learning to love him more, to be satisfied in him, to work out my soul salvation in a way that I'm becoming more and more pleased with What I'm reading in him, I'm pleasing to him as a lifestyle, and now I can defend the faith in a loving way With kindness. That's well informed and reasoned. Yes. Yeah, Chester, there's a um a secular joke that it would do well for Christians to learn from this joke. But if the joke goes, the first thing I do when I get up in the morning is brush my teeth. The second thing I do is sharpen my tongue. So sometimes we as Christians we um we we sharpen our tongue and we're ready to to uh to use it. Yes. What is Christian feminism? Oh I I should have I think it's It is to give you context though, it is interpreting scripture with a feminist viewpoint. I am exposing and elevating feminist ideals as I read scripture. And we'll dig into that a little bit more. What would that mean It means when I come across details about a woman in the Bible, I expand that greater than what scriptures say. reduce it further. Oh two. You know how so much. Do you have an example? I would, but then I would not be I'd be going in a tangent that I will not come back from very well, but because I'm not succinct as you can see. Um Scott, do you have a quick example? I don't have a deferred to discuss it. We could I mean I'm hoping to have a very robust discussion about this in the next section of the class. Build up all that tension and come with some questions. That was my fault. You can. I'll actually I'll put it on the bookshelf Don't forget your question. I won't because one of my questions in that class is what is Christian testing? So I will deal with it. Um yeah. So now we've got four principles. I've given you a why, super long introduction onto what the point is, and really what I'm donating is for case number or principle number five It's to build a case for Christianity. If I don't have all this as a backdrop, if I don't understand my own worldview, if I can't articulate what other worldviews are around me, and again we don't all work around Walk around atheists. We don't all walk around feminists. And everything that we've been looking at over these last few weeks that Nancy Pearson has been explaining are from her context Some people just walk around what Nancy calls happy pagans. Don't really have a particular articulated worldview Don't really have a thing that I'm changing. All I know is I can maintain my lifestyle and I'm just content to just go along to get along I've come across a few parents in in baseball that could tell you every single show that's on HBO. And I'm just like, hey, have you seen so-and-so? Have you seen haven't seen any of those And how do you have the time to do so? Like this is really interesting. I'm not interested about the show, I'm just interested on how you use your time. Right? Because as a Christian, should I have a theology or an idea of how time should be used? I should God talks about time in Scripture. If I'm a Christian, I have a built-out theology, I have an understanding of what God calls beautiful, or what art should look like. And certain things are defined as art where scripture would say they're actually quite vulgar. It's conversational, but they're telling you who they are in light of scripture, and if I don't understand it I can't really be useful. So how do I then get to a context where scripture is useful in light of living with people around me, both Christians at large and those who aren't believers. Well Nancy goes through three or four Different ideas in this particular chapter as we make the case for Christianity as the fifth principle. And the first one is moral relativism. Again, moral relativism is there's no definitive or universal truth. There's no moral or timeless law. The challenge to that thought process is the name of the Moral relativism. Well two, three, uh Right. Moral relativism, or relativism in general, but this one, applying relativism to morality, is there is no universal truth. Do what you want to do. There's no timeless law. Well, even if you don't know scripture specifically Should you still know that there is a moral law in existence? Yes. How would you know that based on a biblical worldview? Romans 2, verse 14, uh verse 15. Someone grab Romans 2 for me. I know, we just got through the Bible. Remember to do first fourteen. And read fourteen and fifteen. For when Gentiles who do not have the law by nature do what the law requires, they are alone themselves, even though they do not have have the law. They show that the work of the law was written on their hearts, while their conscience also bears witness and their conflicting thoughts accuse or even accuse them on that day when, of course, well, that's that's where he end right. Alright. So what does verse fifteen say? That you have a conscience. And on your conscience is written a law. More or less, you are born knowing that there is wrong or right. To a degree, right? Why? Because a two-year-old from their standpoint may know wrong or right only as far as you tell them If you're in a house and you see a two-year-old just will off and hit a kid and no one says anything, their moral law is I get to hit whoever I want to. Is it? Is it? First there is a if you remember the movie Chariot the Fire where the Scottish runner had to deal with some situations He he's dealing with what you're talking about. If you remember that I don't think don't don't stone me, I don't think I've seen Shirits of Fire Either recently or all the way through. But if you have more context, I'm happy to hear it. Mm-hmm. And he said then uh movie God made me fast and he dealt with that situation. But when it came to running in the nineteen point four maybe it's his promise his race was on the sun. Yeah Remember that well and I was listening to a message from David Platt where he mentioned that and I thought I don't know how to get around that I don't know how to get around that. Um but it is his own rules and ethic that says Not running this race on Sunday because it's on Sunday. And I would venture to say that if you asked five Christians who were strong in their faith, some of them would say, I am running this race on Sunday. Uh-huh. Because God made me fast, and I want to bring glory to him in this race. So there isn't necessarily in a lot of cases just a black and white on your conscience What does I want to say it's first Corinthians tell us you know why don't we eat meat if your that meat was sacrificed to idols? Because it might offend who. The weak of product. The weak of Brandon There's a conscience in them that says, that was sacrificed to idols, I don't want to touch it. There's another brother that says, it's just beef. It's okay. But because you don't feel as though it's good, it's not necessarily my conscience is pricked because of the beef, it my conscience is pricked because of you There's a love there that I want to display. Are you sure? I was just going to say that uh uh rules or legalism can very quickly immediately become a line. Thank you. Because no wait. Because also moral relativism says it's wrong for you but not for me. Me or it's wrong for me and not you. It's not the same as the maturity road. Because what's the difference there? The difference is there's different truth as opposed to to age. Correct. Yes. So Iris is thinking a lot of thought going on here. Is that uh so as Christians it's like okay, it's glorifying God that can bring It is glorifying God as a jumping. And that's Christian liberty in those thirst and liberty. Because it the running is not the sinner the not sin as what The heart. The heart. Heart. Why did I run? Because everybody that's running, to a degree is putting God's glory on display. But they're displaying the fact that God created the body and look what he designed it to do. But what does oh come on. Romans chapter one. It's uh they Yes. Because what? They they they know that he's God. Why? They have a conscience. They see it in creation. But they decided to not acknowledge him as God, nor thank him for being God. So when I run, it's not that I'm not putting God's glory on display. It's just that I'm picking it. Well it might be. It might be if you're running for your own pride. So the running or the not running is not necessarily the sinfulness, it's the why, it's the heart, it's the motivation that you cannot get away from Putting God's glory on display necessarily. If you have someone who is a thought-provoking individual, why does God give us a mind? Why do you do this? We should be able to reduce this to something more basic. To reason. To reason. That's part of it. Glorify you. That's it. Everything is going to get back to that. Why? Because the mind is what allows us to ask the questions. How can I know anything? It's what we call an epistemology. What's that study of knowledge? Well there's a Christian epistemology. All of that knowledge and all of that truth reverts back to where Scripture. It's all coming back to Scripture. Everything that we're basing our knowledge off of is off of Scripture. The figure of knowledge is in Proverbs of the Lord. Is there a difference between moral relativism and the gray areas of life? Like for example, if we say that all life is sacred, what if there's a situation where sometimes we need to sacrifice life more to save And I would get more to like a Christian ethic. It does not it does not mean that all life isn't sacred. But my decision making in areas where things might be gray can become challenging to get back to a basis of things. I don't know we can tease out in two minutes. But I think the question would become in those scenarios How am I glorifying God or honoring him in my decision making, or did I just put God over there and reason something out for my own benefit? with that like when you use the example of the running the race, I think we can also uh if we're not intentional about what we're gonna Do to glorify God. We can manipulate our mind and say, I'm gonna run that race to glorify God, but it's not for that. Yes. So well and in the scenario where you're potentially sacrificing a life to save a life, moral reality is that both of those lives are safe Sacred and there's a horrible situation. Moral relativism says abortion is okay because that's not a sacred life And so that's the difference is reality recognizes the value of both of those lives, moral relativism. The the other side of that too is there is a sovereign God in charge of all of it. And when we hit scenarios where we don't know the answer, sometimes It's just that. Lord, I don't know the solution here, but you do. I don't know how to bring about the right outcome But you do. And so there is a reliance on God to be the one who's going to determine what that outcome is, versus, no, this is all on me. I decide, I think through, I reason, but that's not the truth. I saw a couple of hands. So I think the way I kinda look at this is what is relativism. Relativism is something that's relative to something, right? And Santa Shaker puts it very well when he when he defines that line of despair there's rationality is rational Now like moral relativism relativism essentially starts with man as the center of the universe, so like everything is relative to what man can think can see. The rational paths unlike God where once you go in that route it's moral based on God's savings rather than And that's where it once you put it that way it starts to become easier to kind of define model the physical sense of it. Mr. Moody. Could you uh speak to uh certain boys Oh. They live and act as as if there's justice in the world. Uh racism, abuse, and and Nancy's example of that one. Yeah. So a moral relativist will say there's no universal truth. But if racism is wrong That's gotta be foundational in some way, shape, or form. If racism was wrong, it's wrong for everybody. Well that's universal, isn't it? If abuse is wrong, if I can't abuse a child, it can't be your truth and my truth There's got to be some foundation to it. And so when we get to moral relativism, if we look further down, their goals and their ideals on a lot of of um Thoughts that are reductionistic ideas are really saying I I want to reduce it to my thing, but when my thing isn't fulfilling, I've got to go to your thing I want to reduce it to just relativism and say, your truth is your truth, but then when I want everyone to act a certain way No, I I need this Christian epistemology. I need this Christian way of thinking, what the Christian thought is and what the Christian knowledge is, that's got to be true for everybody. Otherwise, it's not fair That's not true. Well where did you get this idea of fairness or truth from or any of those other things that you're borrowing, as Nancy would say, they're freeloading or an our ideals, let's look at Genesis 126 through 27 and someone else get Proverbs 22 verse 2 I have proverbs. Alright, hold that one. Fireway. When God said let us make man in our image, our are like this. Let them have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over the livestock and over all the earth and over every creeping thing that So God created man in his own image. In the image of God he created him, male and female he created them. Beautiful Very simple. If you like the ideals of equal rights, if you like the ideals of justice, if you like the ideals that ground people As equal and individuals under God, then you like Christian ideals. Because where did they come from? It came from God. When I was a kid and people would talk about going to heaven, but they weren't Christian, I'd be like, where did you get heaven from? You can't just borrow it and say I like the idea and I'm going there, but then redefine how to get there. How do you do that? And then how do you ground yourself on a faith in something that you don't really know where it came from? You just like the idea. Aren't you scared that you may not make it there? If you don't know how to get there in the first place? If you don't know where it came from? None of that bothers you? You're just gonna go to heaven. Just sounds good. It's the same thing in justice. What do we want? Justice. When do we want it? Now Where's it coming from? It's problematic. Because you're saying something that sounds good, but you don't know the foundation of the thing that you want You don't want to do what's required. You just want someone else to make up the rules on the thing and then tell everybody else to live by it. By whose rules? By mine. They sound pretty good When we hear those things though, and we don't question them, are we doing anyone a good service? I hear ideals, but I don't question ideals. Not in a combative way. You like cabin? I like coven too. How do you think you get there? It doesn't have to be combative, because again, I don't save my children. I don't save anyone around me. But what's my role? Just to be salt and white. I was in a car with a colleague. We were driving to uh uh uh a a Off-site meeting for our team. Hour and 45 minute drive. We're driving through a town. And this town looks melominous. And I turned her and said, wouldn't you like to stay in that house? This house was the one two legs. Like it it was almost done. So you know, but it would look like a really nice kind of haunted house to go to This one and seven. Really? Tell me more Right? She starts talking about how she loves scary movies and disponent houses and all of these other ideals and I just asked her, you think those are neutral? Are they good, are they bad, or what's what's your context on dust? Never really thought about it Interesting. Well I'm not now. She's feeling nervous. And she's like, well now that I've exposed myself and put myself in a weird space, tell me how you feel I'm glad you have. I don't have to be unloving or make you feel weird. I just have to be curious about how you're thinking. I'd better have some ideal on ghosts. We don't really call them ghosts. They're just demons. Right? That's what we call them. We're going to a hotel. This hotel is supposed to be haunted. It's the thing. Conversations everywhere. Testers your room haunted? Nope. No. Now if there are demons in there, I'm just gonna break. Not worried about possession. Why? Holy Spirit, let me get it. We're good. But you go have fun. No, I didn't say it that way. It would be easy to dismiss that way, right? You go have fun with your ignorance, your lack of understanding, your ideologies, because all you're doing is selling yourself with a lack of knowledge and a lack of truth That I should be exposing. In some way, shape, or form. In some conversation, in some standpoint, I should be exposing. So you get to an ideal where people want what you have. They want to borrow that from you because what they have is lacking. And if I don't understand what it is that I have, and I don't understand what it is you're lacking, it's hard to be salt and light. It's hard to make a case for Christianity. Does this Bible say you were you were neither hot nor cold? So what happened? Neither hot nor cold. I'm gonna keep saying it. I'm not asking you to have a book of definitions on moral relativism or determinism or fatalism. It might not actually be a bad idea if you familiarize yourself, but you should be aware of the world around you. Just the one around you. Why? Because that's the mission field that God calls you to. One of my boys um had a book to read for class from a guy named Charles Colson. And my wife, for whatever reason We were driving to South Carolina last week and she puts the book on and I'm like, what is this? If you're never familiar with Charles Colson, he was a I forget his title. He worked in the Nixon era in the White House and he was general counsel, I believe. I never knew what I knew what Watergate was in the term that there was a term. But all my life I was like, what is this Watergate? And why is it problematic? You get really small snippets of Nixon. I'm only forty-six. Nixon is well past it. So in that sense I'm learning all kinds of stuff about Watergate. But this man wasn't a believer until all of a sudden he began to get What's the term? Jaded with life. The existence that he had. And he met a Christian. That Christian was the CEO of Raytheon at the time God saves people in really high places. The cost of people in really high places. All over. If you're not aware yet, there aren't many corners that God doesn't go to to then save people and put his glory on display. All this guy had to do was live out the life that God had made for him. Just be redeemed. Just enjoy God. Just enjoy knowing him. And then when people see the life that you're living and who you were and who you are now, maybe questions happen. And all of a sudden, someone wants to know about the hope that is within you. And that's what happened to Chuck Colson Chuck Colson was then indicted for all of these incidents and what he might have known, what he didn't know, and he was fighting those indictments until the Holy Spirit worked on him. He was like, you know what? All the things you're saying I did do, I didn't do. But I did do something. And that something is something I should plead guilty to. Chuck Colson created a crime where there was no crime. And then he fled guilty to that crime and laid himself on the mercy of God. Not the judge, not anyone else, the mercy of God. A man who was an attorney in the White House put himself in a position where he said, I'll allow the Holy Spirit to be at work, and then I'll go to jail. And then while in jail, I'll experience all there is for prison. While I'm in jail, as an attorney, I'll help prisoners all the way through until he creates a ministry called prison fellowship. Right. An attorney from the White House becomes a believer in God and creates a prison fellowship. Those two you Disney can't write that. Right? Only God can. Olson would have never thought that that was the life that he was supposed to live. You know, I have a friend that works for prison fellowship. I had no context of where it came from. It was just a prison ministry. But hearing the backstory of how something becomes what it is, and hearing a man who does not necessarily have all those details in a complete worldview keeps coming up against situations and then he says Don't know how God does things in this space. I think I need to find out. Let me talk to people who know God more Let me understand what the Holy Spirit is saying to me in my life, so that I can then put God's glory on display in front of cameras on different interviews. In a jailhouse. That was his mission field. That's where God called him to. He had to understand the language. He got to a spot in prison where people didn't have or prisoners didn't have coats that they needed to wear. And then he found the coats, but the coats didn't fit prison regulations. They weren't the right color All of a sudden we find some dye that can make the coach the right color, but in order to get the dye, what do we have to do? That's smuggle it in. Sorry, suck. We'll get it all smuggled in. He's getting his wife to come visit him in jail, pass Dinah to the table, and then his friend gets caught And he's convicted. Like not convicted, jail convicted, like Holy Spirit convicted. Right? I'm convicted. Why? Because I've now gone back to my old ways of the flesh. I've succumbed to the prison lifestyle. I haven't submitted this issue to the Lord. It's not the way that God would do things. I've just reverted to fixing it on my own, and I've allowed the prison system's way of fixing it to become the thing. And now my witness It's potentially tarnished. I've got to repent, and I've got to fix it, and I've got to submit it to the Lord. When we get to a spot where we are looking at the mission field in which we put ourselves in. There has to be a knowledge and an understanding of where we are, of what the language is, of what the Bible says about where we are, and about the struggles and the issues of the people that are around us. That's what those principles are for. It's not just to sound good and educated. It's to be lived out is to be put to work. And the whole time I'm reading all of these things, what I'm asking myself is, am I satisfied in Christ? Well Chester, how do you get to satisfaction from idols and moral relativism and you skipped over science and Darwinism? And I know it's there, it's there for you to read, take it in as you need to. But the major point is in order to avoid idols when I see them, is to ask if I am satisfied in the truth. Small things, scientists now know, is one of the terms that Nancy likes to use. Scientists now know that belief systems and the belief in a thing help with anxiety and stress. It helps people cope. I know none of you do this, but I have found myself in positions that when I'm stressed, I eat. Stressing meat. And the more I recognize the trigger Stressing, donuts. The more I started to ask myself, and I don't know if it was me, but the more I started to ask the question of what are you stressing about? What have you not prayed about? What have you not submitted to the Lord? Where are you right now in your thought process and your thinking and your trust in him and your hope in him? And what are you hoping this donut is going to solve? If not temporary. Right. And so a lot of people deal with stress in a number of ways, but it started to ask that question, am I satisfied in him? And in this context Am I satisfied with seeking him and trusting in him and being patient? I don't have tattoos It is not my worldview to see that you should not give tattooed and to see that I just have one. But if I did have one, it would be the scripture, Romans 12, 12, tattooed somewhere on my body. Someone grab Romans 12 though. Make sure I have the right version. Really simple. But I think for me, in a lot of ways, it speaks to a lot of the things that we can't see. I don't know how this is going to work out. You don't have to. But you can rejoice in hope. This situation is really challenging. You can be patient And as I'm being patient in all of these trials and these tribulations, I can see that it's clear I know we didn't go through a ton of scriptures and I can be honest with you it was intentional. Because I did not want to scripture dump all the way through. Not to say that people that go through a lot of scriptures Do that, but I want you to think through all of the things that you're learning or should be learning right now. Am I testing the idols? The only way to test the idols is to first identify it And then identify the source or the reductionism. And then I get to test whether or not it is a scenario where I have reduced it to something that is lacking or elevated it to a place that has no business. Maybe I can see what the contradiction is. And after all of those things, after I've tested it all Can I go out to a world and be salt and light among those who need it? Salt and light doesn't necessarily just mean among unbelievers. Iron sharpened iron for a reason Because there are those in the faith who cannot see the truth of God in light of their situation. They need you to understand the reductionism that they're stuck in. And then speak to those things. And when I get there, I better have a clear understanding of my own worldview, how I see God, how I see the situation. And where I need to speak to it, speaking to it may simply be just you being there. It doesn't have to be you swooping in like Superman or Superwoman with all the answers. It simply might just be, I don't know yet But I know who does. And I'm going to rest in him. And I'm going to pray over the situation. And I'm going to rejoice in the hope that God can solve it. And then we're going to wait to see what he does. And in all of that, we will hope that we make a case for Christ in all of those situations. That the word is the foundation that we're sitting on. to see him bring all of these things to light, that they produce fruit, that we do course correct when he convicts us. that our conscience is there and it's in every person, but the conscience, if it's not informed, if it's not equipped, does not work for us. It can be seared, it can be polluted, it can be destroyed. I was a kid watching TV one day and I was watching The Simpsons and I got a revolution from Bart Simpson. And he was watching a violent TV show, one TV, and his sister walked by, she's like, oh, that's violent. He says, Oh Lisa, if you don't watch enough of it, you'll never become desensitized to it. Those are the worldviews of people around us. God is not necessarily always in the big things, but he's well not only in the big things. He's in the daily and the mundane. He's in the repetition of trusting, or he's exited out of the repetition of not trusting, of not praying, of not being quit, of not being informed of the world around us. I did not pray to open up because I was trying to stall and stall turned in to keep going. I will not make the same mistake twice. Let's close in prayer as we exit. Lord, we are so grateful for your truth and your word. And even in the minimalist scriptures that we read. We hope to see you in light of and in context of the world around us because you've created it and then you've created us in it. And then you've redeemed us from it. You've continued to sanctify us and send us back into it. May we go back into the world around us. Father, equipped and informed in context of the world around us in the things that you saved us from and an understanding of who you are and be so saturated and satisfied in you that we are fit for the master's use. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.