By a show of hands, how many individuals in here has um interacted with somebody who identifies differently than how they look? Okay, keep those hands up. How many of those hands knew somebody that today that was like that two years ago? Same hands Okay, one went down three years ago. Four years ago. Five years ago. A couple hands are starting to go down. Ten years ago. I don't remember. You're rare. So this new It's not a new concept, but it's something that people are now beginning to more boldly identify is their identity. I find it interesting that more people are beginning to pull back their identity in Christ and more boldly share their true identity. As we get into the uh topic of transgenderism today, uh along with every other topic that we've been discussing, I don't just want to give you information. Hopefully you're taking what we're sharing with you, myself, Chester, and Scott, you're meditating on it, you're putting it up against the Word of God, and you're equipping yourself so that you can go out into the world. And help proclaim the gospel and help somebody get free from the bondage of this sin, of this trans identity I want to start off today by um introducing you to a young man named Desmond. A few years ago I stumbled across a news program as they were preparing to interview their first guest. Desmond. It's a program I don't typically watch. However, the program was familiar enough to me to notice that something was different that morning about the set Typically, as you all know, when you're watching a news channel, individuals are sitting behind a desk looking into the cameras and just reporting to you valuable news, news that you could use for the day. But the set that day looked a little different, as I made as I mentioned. There was a runway on the new set. And the news host was going to introduce us to Desmond and being a father and hear the child's name, like, oh, okay, a child's coming out. Let me see what their special talent of gift is Especially with me at this time I I had my first son, this was 2018. After the introduction, the camera panned from the host onto the runway, and a girl popped out from behind the curtains. Thank you. Um long blonde hair, dr with a dress on, stockings, glittery shoes, makeup And I'm a little confused at this point because I'm like, did I miss here? I thought they said Desmond was coming out. But you know, some dads really want to name their child their name, so I said, okay, maybe the dad just gave her a name Desna And and I kept it moving, but but I I continued to sit there. The young lady walked, was posing, was stopping, was taking pictures, and at the end when she got to the runway Just laid down, put her hair out, and was just posing for the cameras. Then got up and went up to the host and sat down and That's when I knew what was going on. Again, this was 2018. This was brand new to me. The the news anchor said, Desmond, you are the youngest drag kid. Ever Desmond was an eleven year old boy. Like you, I was stunned. A lot of emotions ran to me, even though I didn't know Desmond personally. But again, I had a son. And I'm like, whoa. And I don't know about you all, but some days my faith wavers. You know, I don't I don't know how strong I'm rooted in the word and I don't know if I'm doing the right things for my family. I got fearful thinking down the road already. What do I do if this is my son? And so naturally from 2018 and I still do it to this day, I began to be a soldier on the television. I began to block everything. Again to watch everything. If you're walking by a cell phone near my son, don't get upset if I walk behind you looking over your shoulders. I did not want him to be exposed to that. I was saddened because as Christians, and I know that Desmond's parents may not be Christians, but still our jobs as parents is to protect our children. I was angry at this couple for allowing this young man to parade himself down the runway on national television as a young lady. I got upset at his father for not being the father he needed to be and protecting his child. Today, 2024, Desmond is 17. He's an influential kid that um has written books. I doubt that he wrote them, but his name is on the books. Um he has sponsorships. He's a LGBT advocate. Has his own television show all over the place. His face is all over there so that other kids could see him and say, wow. I want to be like Desmond. I want my true identity to come out, just like Desmond. I want to be famous like Desmond. Meeting and knowing people like Desmond may not be your reality today, but as you saw when I asked the question a few moments ago, it is the reality for some here We may not know a child that's 11 years old that's going through this. But then again, we're whole Bible church and we're we're rooted and grounded in Christ. But there are a lot of kids that are not part of Hope Bible Church and that are just looking to get an education but are walking into the public school system dealing with this. And if the child is uncomfortable, it's his fault. Rosario said something in an interview that that I was watching as I prepare for this class. She said If a new kid comes to a school and he's a Muslim, when he stands in front of the class, all you have to do is say hi. Welcome to our school But if a kid walks into school dressed in a rainbow, he's a boy that looks like a girl. You have to affirm their identity and call them a girl. So if you're looking at both scenarios, What she is saying is if we have to affirm this individual's identity, why not when the Muslim when they walk in, we don't affirm their their belief There's only one God but Allah. Why don't we have to affirm their their belief, but we have to affirm this one? It's a double standard. And they have an agenda that they're trying to push So, as we jump into today's um lesson, uh hopefully you all have papers right now. I wanted to start off with two scriptures that I feel are very important for us to keep in mind as we're going through this. It's a scripture that was given to us over and over again in the SLP program as we're trying to get it equipped for our family, for our church, for our community. Number one is 2 Timothy 3. 16. All scripture, not some of scripture, not part of scripture, not a little bit of scripture, all scripture. is breathed out by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof. And here's the crypto, and for correction. For training in righteousness. In what is righteousness? Amen. In a broad sense, it's a state of being good in the sight of God. Righteousness, as Ralph said, is a condition acceptable to God. But we know that in our sinful state, none of us were acceptable acceptable to God. It was his death, his burial, his resurrection that makes us acceptable to God because we are now justified because of the imputation that Christ has put upon us. And we should be grateful for that. If you haven't thought about that this morning, or you haven't thought about it in a long time. I encourage you to know that you are justified not because of your own efforts, but because of Christ and what he did on your behalf. Desmond does not know that. And a lot of Christians in a lot of churches are afraid to share this truth with Desmond. As I mentioned when we were talking about the uh homosexuality, we um the plan is uh jam up To desensitize us and then to convert us. It's the same plan for transgenderism. The second scripture that I want you all to keep in mind as we go through today's lesson is 2 Timothy 1, 20-21. No prophecy of scripture comes from one's own interpretation. So when you hear people out there saying, Well, the Bible is written by man. This is where you turn to. It's not of one's own opinion or interpretation. There were men moved by God. And God spoke to them, and they were carried along by the Holy Spirit as they penned this salvific work that we know as the Bible. Again, that's 2 Peter 1, 20-21. With these scriptures as our basis for today's lesson, I want to start by defining what transgenderism is. This term combines two older words. You've heard of transatlantic, going over the Atlantic. So transgenderism is a combination of two words, trans and gender. Trans, which means to go across or to transfer, to cross across, or to extend, or to convert. Gender. was not an issue because we always equated sex and gender as the same thing. That was normal. That's what we grew up on. Long time ago, nineteen sixty-three. Transgender was a combination of two words Coined by feminists who believed that gender was a cultural manifestation of biology. Gender is a social construct created by men in a male-dominated culture. And as some feminists believe today, men screw up everything, so we have to fix it. And so now we have to get rid of male and female. And just let individuals define themselves by what they want. So if I'm here looking at you Even though I see a male, even though you speak like a man, you look like a man, you have an Adam's apple You forgot to put lotion on your hands. And you say you're a she, I have to identify you as such. I'm wrong, you're right. I can no longer believe what my eyes are telling me. Gender is subjective. It's how an individual feels Not how they look. Here are some terms I'd like you all to get uh familiar with. Cis gendered. I guess that's me. Somebody that identifies like my dad and my grandfather and other men that I was around. I guess that's cisgender. We needed to define that. Gender dysphoria, which uh Rosario really gets into and we'll touch base on that, is real. It's a real issue. And we shouldn't uh downplay it for individuals. It's a real medical issue that people deal with. It's the it's um it's a condition that is diagnosed by doctors and then they provide a treatment for it that um could be counseling Sometime that's that includes medication to get the hormo hormones back into balance. It's not something that we should um Make fun of somebody for and not and not get a good understanding and just shun them because they said that they they're dealing with gender dysphoria. You'll be shocked when I give you the statistics of how it resolves itself Gender identity, one's own internal sense, as um one's sense sense of self as man, of neither Woman or man. Let me read that again. I don't feel like I really read it right. One's internal sense of self as man, woman, or neither. That's gender identity. That's how you identify. Non-binary You don't have to be a man or a woman. And Rosario points out that there are seventy-two genders. So If I see three L's, two Q's, two T's, how do we identify an individual? I don't think we have seventy-six letters or seventy-two letters in the alphabet. Yes, but isn't it sad? You're making yourself into an it. Yes. This is the work of the devil. It is And Rosario men m makes makes mention of that. That all this is rooted in sin. No, we're in spirit we're in a spiritual warfare. The enemy's trying to steal, kill, and destroy. He's starting with our children. And when I say our children, I don't just need the kids that are a whole Bible church, brothers and sisters. I mean we have kids out in the world that are being deceived. We're safe in here to some extent. But we don't really go out to the world with the same level of um of desire to defend against And so even though I'm not uh one that uh really gets into political movements at church and stuff like that, I commend those men and women. That are on Capitol Hill that are standing up for truth and that are biblically sound and that are trying to defend the rights of children because they don't have a voice Somebody's got to do it. And it used to be the church. There are two camps Rosario mentioned. I just mentioned one, which is the uh gender dysphoria, which is real. And there's the experimental part of it. And that's the dangerous part of it. From the medical standpoint, as I mentioned, there are people that are diagnosed with general dysphoria. And as um Andre Van Hall puts in Rosari's book. Gender identity, gender anxiety. And speaking from it from Rosario's side, and just in her own words, she mentions that You know, women they go through body changes and they're trying to accept their bodies and sometimes they don't always accept it in the beginning, but to her point to her point, 85% Oh those issues go away on their own after puberty. And I'm sure it's uh I I don't have the statistics for boys, but I'm sure it's the same. We all go through phases where we question our bodies. I was so upset the fact that my mom was 5'4 and my dad was like 6'4. I got so upset at her. What? Why'd you give me your more of your jeans than my dad jeans? By his grace, however, I'm six too, but man. What was the joke? Identify as a tall person. Thank you. Thank you. Identify six too. Great point. Yes, yes. Sometimes we hear people say that gender exists on a spectrum. Is that where gender dysphoria Would uh is that an example of gender dysphoria? I mean, how do you respond like at the Olympics recently? The Foxers. Yes. You know, those ladies apparently currently have two X horizones, but they don't look particularly female. Their appearance is not uh classical female so is that an example? No, the the gender spectrums would be part of the alphabet suit because gender dysphoria is an actual Mental issue where your your um your questioning if your mind or what you feel aligns with your body But the gender spectrum, an individual I believe, could um I can confirm with you after, but I believe the individual can choose to move back and forth. Yeah, they could choose to move they they said it's fluid. So I can go to sleep as a Q I guess it's questioning and wake up as a tea and spend my day as a hell, I don't know, but it's it's it's It's a runaway train. Isn't it possible though, like um autism exists on the spectrum? Yes. Intelligence exists on the spectrum. Yeah, that's true. So what about gender? That's true. That's true. I don't believe that's the case, but I could I could email you. Thank great question. You're uh you're absolutely right. Artism doesn't um does uh exist on a spectrum. But I think when we come to gender dysphoria, which is medically and clinically proven, maybe there's a spectrum, but the uh the second part of it, the experimental, that's a theory It's it's uh and I've heard it said before, it's like um it's like uh a pilot building the plane that he's flying in. Because they're they're doing surgeries and we're gonna get to that, they're doing surgeries and performing surgeries for something that have not been proven. And if it was proven, then we would not have individuals that are that call themselves detransitioners. Individuals that want to reverse things. I have a chart down here we'll look at soon, but there are certain things that you're not able to reverse. They're permanent. And when you're a child Your mind is not where it needs to be. To allow an individual to make certain decisions that are permanent. I'm being recorded so I don't want to say um what I feel but I don't think it's right. Um Well great question. Which is why some um lawmakers are trying to prevent irreversible surgeries, for example, on minors. Yes. Yes. I uh personally I think if you're gonna do that, what you have to be twenty-one to drink, correct? Yeah Uh twenty-five to be what i in con in Congress or Senate or something and thirty-five to become president. Um so obviously society expects there to be a a a maturation state in mentally. So even though you're eighteen and technically you are considered an adult, I still think legislators should push until somebody's maybe like twenty-five and if they want to make that decision that's fine but allow them to live first. Allow them to experience the world. Because what happens is once they make that decision It's irreversible. And the um the medical community will tell you I haven't forgotten about you. The medical community will tell you that Um if you don't give them certain medicines or take them through this these surgeries, that they're gonna commit suicide. The reality is When I and I haven't experienced this so I can only speak through Zario, but when an individual goes through these procedures and it's irreversible and you start maturing and you start to see friends and family that are having families of their own. And she has a story of two individuals in the beginning of the book that have mutilated their bodies and that have completely transitioned. They hate themselves more now than they did in the beginning. And so I I believe that's what we're we're um legislators are trying to fight against, but we can't just rely on legislators We need to we need to um belong to the Word of God, which is why I read those two scriptures in the beginning. Scripture is profitable for correction for teaching. And and but we don't share scripture anymore. We sit silent. Even when we know that a child is getting ready to get taken into a um a medical procedure that is gonna alter their life permanently. Sorry. Good. I think one of the lies that is feeding into the this and that we even a little bit start to pick up ourselves is that gender equates to personality. And personality traits are on a spectrum, like how artistic you are is on a spectrum and how much like adventurous Triss is on a spectrum and so when there's personality traits that are more feminine uh more male like that's a spectrum. I have a boy who would rather have long hair. That's a personality It doesn't make him less male. So your personality does not necessarily like coordinate with your gender, but your gender is not fluid. Your gender is not a spectral. That's a great point, but n what's happening now is when you go through those personality changes Society is telling you that you are a girl. And you begin to believe that that lie. And parents that are trying to stand against that in certain parts of the here the US are getting pushback from the government. Especially in California. I'm not sure of the other states, but I know for sure in California, Paris are getting pushback. I believe California is even um considered a sanctuary state. And what that means is a child can run to California And be in the faucet system, the new laws, um I have it here from Rosario, believe it's AB twenty-one nineteen, um if somebody can correct me, uh AB twenty one nineteen, which was signed into law says that the government is now required to provide gender affirming care to a child that has left their mother and father, ran away into the state. It's not like the state's gonna take care of them, nourish them, love on them. They're gonna throw them into the system And let them go through this process and basically raise themselves and by the time the child is twenty, twenty-one or even younger, what do you see in the streets of California? Homelessness, encampments, drugs. And again, we're in a spiritual battle. Um so now that we've uh identified what transgenderism is, for us as Christians, does the Bible say anything about it? It's a question. Does the Bible say anything about it that you're aware of? Of course. I have it here for you. Number one. So God created them, male and female in his own image. In the image of God, he created him. Male and female, he created them. So when we reject that premise that God created us as who we are and we should remain who we are, we're rejecting Him as our creator. And whenever we replace God with anything else in our lives, it's called what? An idol. An idol. Rosario saith Transgenderism denies the eternal and essential differences between man and women this um man and women designed by God for a purpose. Transgenderism hates women. There it's destroying opportunities for the advancement and achievement of women. Chester last week talked about feminism. You want to talk about the erosion of feminism? Adopt the transgenderism ideology Let's look at um a couple years ago I believe it was now. I'm not sure when it happened, but I didn't grow up here in America. I'm from Haiti, but I still know who he is, Bruce Jenner. I guess he became very famous and popular for I think my wife told me was um Uh the eleven. What is it? The decaplon. I guess he was doing multiple sports and became very popular. Uh yeah, I I wasn't eating Wheaties then. But um well that it's older people A few years ago, I guess he decided to change who he was. And not only did that um well that's an impact on his life personally, which That's what you want to do. I still love you. I'm going to try to give you Christ to the best of my ability. But what what happened was Bruce Jenner got an award for being a courageous woman So all the other women that year that had made advancements, that had made strides, that probably came up with some sort of cure, I'm not sure, but he basically took that away from them And then you have uh another young man by the name of Leah Thomas, I'm gonna come to you, who um who took a medal from a swimmer who had been working her entire life For this championship. I think it was um I think it was um Katie LaVette Gaines. Riley Gaines. So we see that transgenderism does have an impact not only to our culture but specifically our women. And as men, it's our job to not only protect our children, but to protect our women. It's our job and you must stand up for that. Um think uh here and then there was somebody else. Mm-hmm. Truth is gonna punch through. Yes, go ahead, I'm sorry. So you have to have roof dinner and then after them out I also wanted to point out that Mr. Allen this year is also a man. I did not know that. Because it's like how we can't we can't be women and men or anything. We can be more beautiful than a man than a woman. But do you know why that's do you know why that's happening? Do you know why that's happening? Does anybody know why that's happening? Huh? I've had thoughts about It's it's simple. Men are not being men. You're not stepping up to protect our women. We're not speaking up and we're not speaking out against this. We're staying silent. They have a whole group of advocates out there. And we can't come together. So I will ask you to have I know we talked about patriarchy being strong from abuse last week Um but I also think that it's that constant wave of response to the feminine movement. Now men want to be better. And it's just a fact like a feminist movement degraded men. And so what else you know what I mean? It's just a simple constant talk There was something somebody else had something? No? I was just going to Katie the Sajaki the Swimmer. Mm-hmm. I was watching the Olympus of people She won all the supports that she got a goal for each one of the team of participating in it. And then they had a big controversy before she was swung into event. The group of women up of that one school was from was saying that she was stealing their opportunity to um win the gold medal and stuff because they are no longer swimming against another woman, they're swimming against another man. So she's trying to exist. Well Katie Lodecki's uh I think she's from Potomac, Maryland or something like that. She's Bethesda, but she's she's an actual woman though. No, she's not. Katie Ledecki's an actual woman. Leah Thomas is not a woman. Yes, Leah Thomas. Katie Ledecki, she's she's from Bethesda. She's not she's been swimming for I think my wife's been watching her for um Unless I'm wrong. Well, I was gonna say that's a Greek transition. Not in a good sense, but That was something that was a good doctor if that could happen. But I don't think uh yeah, I think it's Leah Thomas your you you um that was the um the the the man. Yeah Katie Ludeki is uh our neighbor. Number two, Deuteronomy. A man, a woman shall not wear a man's garment, nor shall a man put on a woman's cloak. For whoever does these things, it is an abomination to the Lord. The term abomination in this passage is the same term that is used in Leviticus 1822 and Leviticus 20. 13 to describe God's view. Of when a man lays in bed with another man. Abomination means it's a disgusting thing to do. Think about that. It's not just engaging in the act of homosexuality. But for God to append this to his people that Don't wear their garments, a man's garment, and a woman don't wear I and a man don't wear a woman's garment and uh man don't wear a woman's garment. And cause that an abomination in Deuteronomy twenty-two five. Yes. So you what you're saying is that Deuteronomy twenty-two five has a reference to transgender These are the scriptures that I came across as I was looking through this. Because if you're looking for the this one comes close and then um I'm I have another one, First Corinthians six nine This uh these two passages come close to um addressing the issue, even though Rosario and her books put them together closely to um Homosexuality. It's the same thing. You're making an idol out of it and you're envying what somebody else has. But I'm gonna get to that in just a minute. But this is this passage specifically talks to men and women not dressing like one another I have a commentary here that I'd like to read from Tony Evans, a graduate of Dallas Theological Seminary. And the only reason I mentioned that is Dave Doyle is from Dallas Theological Seminary. Not that their theologies will automatically align, but I thought it was good information. The prohibition against a man wearing male clothes. This is pertaining to Deuteronomy 225 Males folding and vice versa is a reminder of the gender distinctions that God designed. Men and women equally share in bearing the image of God. But he has designed them to be distinct and complementary towards one another. Genesis 1 27. The gender confusion that exists in our culture today is a clear rejection of God's design. In many places, homosexuality and transgenderism are aggressively promoted by the government and school systems. Whenever a nation no longer reflects standards of God That nation is in rebellion to God. And will and there will inevitably be consequences. I think Chester made reference of it last week Can you think of a time a nation was in rebellion to God what happened? And it kept happening over and over and over again and they didn't get it It's written in one of our books. Judges. So you go through that book, it's just like man. Wow. We're at it again and again and again. Just hold on to the word, man. But look how graceful God is. Look how patient He is. And one thing that I want to keep I guess one thing that I want you all to keep in mind, in addition to the scriptures that I've read Is there is hope for everyone in Jesus Christ. Keep that in mind. As for such as for such as for some of you. I try to remember that often. Because when I discovered the gospel and I started to go through it and started to read my Bible on a regular basis and started to know God a little bit more You know, I I was part of the crew with Jesus as my homeboy. He has my back. I know him, we're friends. Oh, you look like this? You're not part of this circle. I was. I walked with my chest out. I know God, you don't know God, man. You're going to hell. And we do that. Isn't that like what Pastor Mike was talking about last week about the you know you got the children and then you grew from the children to be a young man kind of punchy you know, and knowing your stuff, but then we graduate to be more mature. So you gotta Yeah, you gr you you graduate to be you you definitely graduate to be more mature. But Oftentimes myself, and I'm talking to myself, and I don't know about you, when I saw somebody that was living the homosexual lifestyle, when I saw others that were cross-dressing. My chest would puff that I knew God and that I was better than you. But then You remove the person from the picture and you yourself stand before a holy God. You don't compare yourself to that individual, a flawed individual, somebody that's sinning Remove that individual, compare yourself to holy God. Tell me how you look now. I know how I look. I shut off the lights real quick. Yeah, I was just gonna say um I think we should um I think Americans have the tendency to think this is the promised land. And so we want to draw a correlation to Israel. I think a better example that we should look at instead of like the book of Judges is like Nineveh who attempted and God showed mercy, but the next generation forsook God and repentance of their fathers and the city was destroyed. And that is more I think what we should expect as a Gentile nation, because there is one promised nation of God. Right? And then there is one true Israel which is the church. The church will persevere. We as Christians will persevere. But there's no promise America will persevere. And there's a I think a growing re uh justification for this place to fall on the day. Because we are a huge source of sinfulness for not just our own population, but the whole world. We infect the whole world with so much licentious We export so much sin across water. And uh I just think it would do us good to realize we're not the promised land. It can. And never come back. It can. That's a great point. Sean? Maybe as a little segue into moving forward in the notes. kind of call back to mind something that we should keep in mind as we go through this. Is that the Bible doesn't have to use all the words for this topic that we use today. And just because the Bible doesn't have those words doesn't mean that What we're going to see is unfruit. God established the creative distinction between man and woman was from the start and has reaffirmed that all through scripture. And this whole thing of this transgender And all this is working to blur that creative distinction. So it doesn't matter what the word is or what we call it or how we define it. Anything that blurs that creative distinction distinction and falls falls away from God's plan is is not in God's plan. It'll point to scripture. So we need to remember that it doesn't have to be the words. It just is we're against what God No, you you're you're absolutely right. The only thing that I would add to that is we as a body have special revelation And so we can understand God's word and we're submitted to God's word and we have an understanding as we go through God's Word. But some individuals that are intel uh that uh want to argue intellectually wanna see where does it say that in God's word. And as we go through that, we need to be equipped so that we could at least turn them to somewhere, you know Right. Yes. Want to shame us into saying you don't know your Bible, you don't know what it says about this. The Bible doesn't talk about this. Therefore it's open game based to me. We need to come back to that fundamental what did what did creation say, what did God say about this relationship it's going to give you room. That's confronting other ones. Yeah, I saw a pastor one time say that um He does not know how to address this issue to Sean Point because it's not black and white. He doesn't know. Could have been maybe God could have had another category that he hasn't shared with us. And I don't know about you, but when I see heresy from a pastor or a and trying to share another gospel, I get bothered. I I I really get bothered. But um yes. We These are we things on the truth. And really the world is is uh the these movies movements are based in their truth on feelings. Yes. So our actions need to know like you pointed out earlier when we compare ourselves to Yeah, but we don't feel so well, but we still faith. We try to Yes. Yeah, be uh have you all ever seen um thank you for for that call have you ever all all ever seen um Ray Comfort? Oh yeah. Oh yeah, I'm there, right? He ha he um he used an analogy one time with uh somebody that he was speaking to. He said when it comes to the word We use the word to help an individual see their level of depravity and a way that we could um share an example with them is like holding an individual outside of an airplane without a parachute You hold an individual outside of an air airplane without a parachute, you pull them back. They realize that, oh, I need this parachute. If I don't have this parachute. I jump out this plane. I don't have anything a holding me. I'm gonna pass away. And so when we have the word of God We use the words to show an individual their level of depravity. We need we show an individual why they need God and why he's the only savior that they can have. When it's based on emotions. That's not that's not a benefit to them. They'll never realize the truth when it's based on emotion because your emotion can change from one day to the next. Um let me just read through here, uh if we could pause with the question for just a few minutes so I could get down here uh more into Rosario's book. Um So the sentiment from from uh Dr. Evans that I that I read is the effect of Hosea 4. 6. God's people are destroyed. Because of a lack of knowledge of his word. Again, God people are destroyed because of the lack of knowledge of God's word. We are to go into the world and make disciples. We are to permeate God's word To the culture because that's the only way they're gonna change. The term disciple means to instruct someone to follow his God's precepts and instructions. It needs to make someone like. In other words, when we're discipling someone, we don't just drop a piece of nugget and walk away, especially if it's somebody we know. We walk alongside them having the dialogue, discussion about God's word, and allowing them to ask those questions. And don't be fearful about not knowing the answers. I mentioned this to you all my first week here It is fearful coming up here. Because you always want to have answers. But it's okay not to have all the answers. You make yourself available to God. Let Him use you. Trust the Spirit. And if an individual has questions, go back, get the answer, and come back. That is what making a disciple is. It takes work and it takes effort. But is it not worth it? Even if you spend fifty years with an individual to win one soul, is it not worth it? Disciples of all nations, the word nation mean ethnos Which really means all people, the human family. Romans 10. 13 says, everyone who calls on the name of Jesus will be saved. We have to share with the gospel of people because that's the only way that they can be saved. We have to explain it to them. As the as the um the passage in Romans 10 continues, how can people call on God whom they've not heard? How can they believe in him? Um who sorry. How can people whom they've not believed, how can they believe in him who they've not heard? And how can they hear without someone preaching? Preaching from the Greek word keruso Which means to herald God's word. Sometimes when we hear preaching, oftentimes we think it's just standing at the pulpit talking to the congregation. But it's Keruso to herald God's word, to proclaim it out loudly in the public square. Unashamedly. Faith comes by hearing and the hearing of God's word. That is the only way that we're gonna get individuals that have this um trans transgender dysphoria to underst uh to uh turn the crisis real quick. Uh when we're encountering somebody like that we should not uh allow lean towards what they're trying to uh trying to perceive themselves to be. You're deceiving yourself. You're deceiving your own eyes. It's a lie. And it becomes a lie. Yes. And that leads to the Number three, passage. Um or do you not know that the unrighteous When we talk about the unrighteous, the wrongdoer, the sinful person, a person that breaks God's law, will not inherit the kingdom of God. Do not be deceived, neither fornicators, adulterers, nor adulterers. And I picked out this passage because it used the term effeminate. Paul Washer has a series um down on YouTube that's called um uh that I don't know the exact title but it talks about of feminine men. We need to act like men, stand strong. And women declaring the Word of God. Because the world needs it. I can't I can't say it enough. The world needs it. In this passage, the word effeminate means a male prostitute per se. One who submits to lewd behavior. The word is closely associated with a homosexual practice. Additionally, however, a permanent according to the Oxford Dictionary connotes that it's a term typically referring to men, as I mentioned The meaning of the term is having behaviors that are traditionally associated with females. Now that we have the scriptural references, How can we effectively communicate God's warnings to those who are embracing this deception that we've gone around the room, many of you are calling a lie? We're gonna continue through Rosario's book The Guide Us to This Challenge Because um sorry as many of y'all know Rosario Had first hand experience. She was an activist for this. She's a professor and she was even teaching some of her students how to um defend against this. But then the word of God transformed her, and now she thank God is an activist for Jesus Christ and sharing the gospel to others. And look, even us here today, we're going through her book. How is transgenderism affecting society? We talked about this so I don't want to stay too long with this. So in 2007 There was one pediatric um gender affirming clinic in America. Today there are a hundred and that's excluding, I believe. Rosario has it as um there are nearly a hundred, but I don't think she has the hospitals. That are performing these surgeries. One of my first jobs was at um Children's Hospital. I did financing for them and I and I would uh do the budgeting for the um the researchers This entire time I was doing budgeting for him, I didn't really look at his um grants, I just took care of the money. I had no idea that the research that he was working on was this It was right under my nose. And to be honest with you I feel kind of bothered by that, even though I was indirectly involved with it. I have a um I have a chart here that describes some of the things that we discussed. It has social affirmation, which is called um given into the person's pronoun and just affirm what they're saying. When is it used at any stage? Is it reversible? Yes. Okay, I don't want to be called this a woman today. I'm gonna be called a man. Yes, that's reversible. No problem. Puberty blockers I think this chart is misleading. It's from the Health and Human Services from Dr. Rachel Levine. I don't know if any of you guys have seen Dr. Rachel Levine. How many of you are familiar with her? Or I'm I'm confused. How many of you are confused are are familiar with Dr. Rachel Levy? Dr. Rachel Levine is uh the head of health and human services, is a female, presenting as a female presenting as a female, they're confusing me too, presenting as but is a male. This this is it I'm even falling for it and I and I'm talking about this. But you see Dr. Levine enough It's messed with me psychologic where I keep referring to Dr. Levine as a female because he's always presenting himself as a female. And I know that he's a man, but he's the one that is in charge of this. And he has puberty blockers is reversible. It is not. That's that's not the looting. Puberty blockers are not reversible. They're they're they're they're they're chemical castrates for your children. And the the the thing about it is some children do not go through puberty and it affects their their their bone density and they don't have the um the proper growth that they need to have. Hormone therapy. Again, they have it as partially reversible. I don't believe that all hormone hormonal therapies are reversal. Reversible. And then the one that we're talking about, the gender-affirming surgeries. Again, at the hospital that I work for, um there was a uh somebody called one of the departments that I worked for, and the nurse said Yes, we do gendal affirming surgeries here, even though at the time it was illegal to do gender affirming surgeries. When the call got uh released They try to hide it and said no that that wasn't us but there's a recording. Somebody that called in asked me for their child and said that their child was I I don't know somewhere between six and ten. They said yes, we will do it. I have um more n more notes than I need for you all. I wanna jump down to um I trust that you all will go through the the part of how it's affecting society. I feel like we've talked about that. But I want to jump down to um Well I want to point out a couple things from Rosario from that point, sorry. Um so we talked about the uh how it's affecting men and women's sports, but it's also affecting their s the girls' safety. Men are able to walk into bathrooms and just call themselves a man when they walk into a little girl's bathroom. And there was a a case in uh Virginia, which Rosario talked about where A young man who who identified a gender queer walked in there and sexually assaulted, I believe it was a a ninth grader And granted they said that they were dating, but there's no excuse for that. Because if he wasn't identifying as the way that he was, he never would have been allowed to be in that bathroom. So again, it may not be affecting you today But those that those of you that still have small children or even the young ladies that aren't here Husbands have to now stand at the doors. Mothers have to stand at the doors when they travel in the back or go in there with them. I have two young men and I'm really really hard on them sometimes Because I see what's happening in society. And there's six and eight. But I'm I'm I I'm hardering to act like men. And one of the things that gets me is my wife takes them out. She um she takes them into the uh the the women's bathroom, no matter what I'm doing, I get out of the car like no, they can't go in there They're six and eight. But I don't want that that that to be in their mindset that they can go in that that bathroom because it's a sacred space for a woman And Rosario points out how how um in government school government schools are now co ed by law. And the way that they they played this game of uh indoctrinating these children is it used to be uh a form that you opt in. I went to public school. There's a form that you opt in for sexual education. But now what they what they've done is they put it under a campaign called anti-bullying that the government wants all schools to teach. And because it's now under anti-bullying, parents cannot opt out. And so the child now has to go through this training. At a at a at a tender age when their mind is still developing. So ironic that families are bullied into this. That's a good one. Yeah. Antibullying except for family. Okay. How do we and this is the this is the meat of it. We've been talking about it, but how do we, as Christians, engage In this new world, how do we address this mental illness? Because as I mentioned, gender dysphoria is a real mental illness. But transgenderism is a theory that is still being worked out on. What was Ms. uh Rosario's overarching point? One, we need to be rooted in our word. As as a former um LGBT activist She said it is not, these are her words, it is not loving for you to have affirmed where she was. My daughter is um is uh is uh how is she? Couple months? Uh seventeen months. Seventeen months. Um I knew that. I was gonna pull the mic down. I just say one. But um she's now everywhere. So is it loving for me to see her walk up to the stove to stick her hand where the fire is now and just be like, oh baby, you got it. I love you. No No parent would do that. And if you did, I remember back in the day you would have social services at your house. For abusing the child. But the issue and the reality today is social services will be at your house depending where you live if you do not affirm your child's behavior identity. And we need to approach this by dying to self-righteousness, as I mentioned. Remember who you are. You're a sinner saved by grace through faith. Don't approach these individuals arrogantly, looking down on them. Because one of the things that um That gets people is is non-verbal communication cues. I'm standing here, I can tell who's paying attention to me. I can tell by people's facial expressions who agrees with me. I can tell who's questioning what I'm saying. I can tell who's intent listening. You can look at people's body language and facial expressions and see what they're thinking I don't have the percentage but what is it like seventy five percent or something like that? Of communication is nonverbal? Yeah. If you're speaking to me, I hold my arm like this and I'm looking this way. You want to see nonverbal communication? Look at your kids. They will tell you everything they're thinking without a single word. Especially that one. So check yourself if I can say it like that. Check yourself. Remember, you are sinners saved by grace. That without the blood of Jesus Christ, you would not be accepted before God. What Pastor Gay said one time, um, if you're standing at the heaven's gate and God comes and says, Why should I let you in? You have many that are gonna say, Well I did this, this, this, and this and this and that. He was just like, nothing. Christ is gonna have to drag me over because there's nothing that I could possibly do. To get my my my way to heaven. And when we remember that, that's when we ourselves shine the glory of God onto individuals that are lost. That needs the gospel, that need love, that are hurting, that are But oftentimes we don't do that I implore you to check your facial expressions when you're dealing with individuals because it matters. Does it convey, hey brother? I see you. You're like I am, but I'm going through sanctification. But the remedy that I have, I have it for you. Or do you look at them as somebody that's lost and there's no redemption, no hope for them? If that is the way that we approach individuals, we need to check our salvation There's uh there's a young man uh who I work with uh well I don't work with uh I we see him all the time, wear the cockpit all the time, so I feel like I work with him. But but we passed by him all the time and when we first moved when my wife and I first moved to the community in twenty sixteen, um uh looked like a normal guy. But as the years went on His chest started to get bigger in the wrong direction. And his clothes started to get tighter. His walk started to look different. And when my kids were young, and I still do to some extent, if I'm being honest, I go into the hospital in two different modes. If the kids are with me, it's defense mode Looking all over the place. If they're not with me, actually look for Joshua. Because a lot of people walk past him. And especially when he's standing at the door during the clicker, you walking in and walking out. If I'm in the other line, I'll walk to his line. Hey Joshua, how you doing today? How's your day been? Knowing in the back of my mind that I overheard Joshua saying, hey, I just adopted the baby to a customer But still in the back there's hope for Joshua because there is hope for me in Jesus Christ. And so if I could build a relationship with him by seeing him, seeing him Not just focusing on his sin, seeing him as a person made in the image of God. I could eventually get in there to help Joshua understand the remedy to the problem that he's dealing with. Rosario says um And I don't know if I have it here, but it's on your list that sin, the sin of gent transgenderism is really envy. We we don't like what we have and so we desire somebody else's and so we're gonna just transition to that. And she equates it to the Tenth Commandment. Do not covet Sorry, you see me going back and forth guys. I you have four pages. I think I have fourteen pages. So I'm trying. Um There we go. Scripture gives us a clear and unwavering command of what to do with envy. Put away all malice and deceit and hypocrisy and envy of all slander. 1 Peter 2. 1. Do not satisfy envy's demand. But how are you going to teach individuals to push against this and to fight against it if you've never taken the time to build a relationship with them because they're beneath you You're saved, they're lost. You're holy, they're not. She also says, hold fast to biblical doctrines. Don't let them sway you. Don't let them tell you that a lie is truth. And that is what's happening in a lot of our churches. We're we in order to be nice or compassionate, we believe that we have to accept people's identity. But as Rizarga herself says, and I'll keep saying that because she's walked this path I have not, that is not a benefit to that individual She said the the longer we have term an individual, the harder it will be for them to break free from it. It is best to address it if you are able to, as soon as possible, so that individual can begin to reflect oneself and to say, whoa. I'm in need of a savior. I'm lost. Um to this point of um building those relationships And speaking into their lives with the Word of God. Do you have guidance on how to address them in terms of their community? For example, I have a very good friend of mine whose brother has decided some function in in his own mind. Um and he now refers to himself as Erica instead of Eric. So so in in that, I had a previous relationship with him as Eric. So I feel comfortable speaking to him as Eric. But if I had never met him before he was Erica I wouldn't even know that Eric was his name. You know what I mean? He may have picked a completely different name. When do transition? I would say and it's Daniel, right? Yeah. I would say based on what I got I gathered from um she talked about the pronouns and not affirmative pronoun, but when it comes to a person's name, my name is Laura Fee I prefer if you call me Morphe. My son's name is Morphe Zachariah. But his grandparents for some reason continue to call him Zach. And I'm like, can you call him his name? Right. They call him back. That so when it comes to a name And other could jump in, but when it comes to an individual's name, if that's what they call themselves, that's what's on their on their um driver's license, it's a name out of respect for them and trying to build uh trying to make sure that you keep that relationship going I would just be is oh that's your name? Okay, that's fine. But when it comes to the pronouns addressing the individual as a boy when they're a girl, that's when it's sort of an issue because now you're you're telling me that I need to affirm a lie but a name is that's my name and I would respect it if you use my name because it's not up to us to determine whether a person has a feminine or masculine name. No, so I would just um call them by the by their name, but that doesn't mean that you're affirming it by doing that. Um Anybody has uh any different you're in there for five minutes. Uh Mel Mel Mel is always checking the clock. We have five minutes. Yeah, that's that's a great point. Thank you for that. Did you all hear that? Specifically when you're when you're referring to pronouns, that's how you talk to somebody else about that individual But really when you're talking to somebody face to face, you should say their name, not hey you or he she or they them whatever And my my wife goes through that now. Um a couple of patients were coming into the office saying that they want to put X on their patient forms. And so we've just decided that Everybody that comes in there, we're just gonna call them their names. So we don't have to go through that. Um so the the um I have some more notes on there guys. I I I um I will ask you to go back and at least look at it, but one thing that I want to close on is is um pray. Praying for individuals you encounter. It's good to have all this information and it's good to go through Rosario and learn how to be kinder and nicer to the individuals using scripture. But taking time out your day to say, hey, I crossed by this individual today, I can tell that they're struggling, that they don't know God. Let me make a note in my journal to pray for that individual that God's word would capture them and God's word would convict them and that the Spirit would put would do a work in their lives. Do not underestimate the power of prayer. I don't know about you, but I know a lot of people were praying for me. And it is by grace of the grace of God that I stand before you. It is by the grace of God that I proclaim the gospel in front of you. Because of the transformed power of Christ and prayer. Pray for parents for guidance and clarity. Parents that are dealing through this, that are going through this right now, pray that God would give them clarity. And for also pray for protection. for the parents that are going through this because the government is coming after them. As uh as I'd asked somebody to open us up in prayer, can somebody um close us down in prayer? Well Jeff, you had something to say real quick. Can I make an announcement real quick? Yes. I don't know if you said it or not, but Uh oh you can find it on uh either Focus On Family or YouTube. Uh they just did an interview with Zarya uh concerning this book. Okay. It's excellent. She it it's worth the time. If you go on YouTube, uh more focus on the fans, Oh with focus on the family. Either one. Okay. Thank you. Thank you for sharing that. Like we're talking talking about what idolatry is. Is it slander against God or is it changing of his word and this is no different than any other ideology. Yes. It's taking God's word, twisting it, and running rampantly. And so for I mean for me the message is We won't get a kind of pound on you and get you to compromise and we can't compromise on truth. And we still portray the truth Thanks, Jeff. Hey might close this out real quick