Our neighbor was a um a guy from India. He was a Muslim guy. And one of the things that we were always told growing up is not to speak about politics and religions with other people Turns out that Muslims actually encourage dialogue about politics and religion. I would come outside, we'd stay out there for about 15, 20 minutes every time we pulled in, just having conversations about politics and religion. And I and through those conversations I was able to share with him the gospel, but I also received his perspective on what he why he believed what he believed in. It seems as though today we're told not to talk about politics, religion And topics that may hurt other people's feelings. Even if addressing those topics could help somebody come closer to Christ. And a topic that we struggle with today with talking to other people with is what? Homosexuality. We stay away from it. We don't talk about it. Um if it's brought up around us, we become squirmish. We don't want to make eye contact And more importantly, I see a lot of Christians in a lot of churches, not only they're not taking a stand, but they're also adopting teachings from the culture. And as I prepare for this class, one of the things that I constantly kept going back to was June one. I read it over and over and over again, and I just kept getting stuck at verse 3. Jude starts off by telling you who he is. A brother um a a slave of Jesus, which is the word doula. So it's not a um a uh uh a traditional slave that you're thinking of, it's more so of a slave that gave himself into the service into the service of Christ. And brother of of um James. And as you get to verse 3, he says, although I was eager, although I was excited to write to you about our common salvation I found it most necessary to write to you to do what? You can say it to do what? Contend for the faith. That was what? Once delivered. Once for all once for all delivered to all the saints. Are we contending for the faith that Christ died for? It baffles me how often we will get each other's face with raw emotions, even being disrespectful at times. But when somebody is perverting the faith that Christ died for us, we pull back. Let somebody talk about Biden. Let somebody talk about Trump and that is your political figure. Raw emotions pop up I know that's the case because I've been there. But then I have to look at myself like, why are you doing this? God is in control. What are you getting upset about? Are you sharing the gospel? These are questions that I ask myself. And these are things that should be important not only to me but to every single believer. We are to contend for the faith that was once for all given to all the saints. So as we go into this topic today, I want you to keep that in mind. This this topic of homosexuality will be contentious. And you can't bring your own vices to this fight. Because all you'll do is push people away, and that's not the goal. The goal is to help others, sinners, just like you and myself, see just how depraved they are. And help them to turn to Christ because that is their only hope. That is their only hope. That is the only identity that matters Even for yourself. Being in Christ is the only identity which matters. Christian first and foremost. Amen. Alison, right? In February nineteen eighty-eight, a war of of uh a war conference of a hundred and seventy-five Leading gay activists representing organizations from the land gathered in Warren, Virginia, Warrington, Virginia, pardon me, to start a four-point agenda for the gay movement Following that meeting, two Harvard-trained social science professors and scientists and homosexual activists Marshall Kirk and Hunter Matson decided to write what is known as the Homosexual Manifesto. Or the game manifesto. When they came out of that meeting, they were convinced That enough was being done to persuade America to be more tolerant and accepting of the gay movement. This was the groundwork for what we are experiencing today What we're battling today in regards to the LGBTQIA plus and whatever else has been in the making for a long time Now the concept of homosexuality has been here for a while, because we we read about it in Leviticus uh 1822. So it's not new But there was a plan, there was a coordinated effort to make you and myself more accepting and tolerant to it. And you were you probably were not even aware of that. The gay LGBTQ agenda Was gonna get you to stop using terms like bigotry, homophobe, or any other terms that you've heard lately, whenever you stand up to defend the faith or to contend for the faith. Here's a quote from the the title of the actual book is called After the Ball. But to the to the men that were at this um conference in 1988 It was deemed the gay manifesto. Here's a quote. Any society that flatly denies the fact that one or two citizens in every ten has strong i homosexual interests In structures, its laws and values around this denial is, to this extent, seriously ill. So if you don't accept that two in every ten is a homosexual and you don't craft your laws To cater to those individuals, then that society is ill. And therefore, Kirk and Madsen were gonna right the wrongs and fix our society through this propaganda. Their primary freedom force acceptance of homosexual culture into the mainstream to silence opposition. Matt Kaufman, in an article titled, Selling Homosexuality writes, you generally know in ad campaign when you see it. We all see it now. A lot of us don't have um regular cable no more, so we're on YouTube, we're on other places. When an ad comes up, what do you do? After the five seconds. Skip. Right? You don't take it seriously. You may buy Pepsi, uh Kaufman says, but you don't buy it believing that it makes you cool because Britney serious is the person pushing Pepsi. But you may not recognize an ad campaign so easily when it's not regulated to a ther a paid 30-second spot or when the product being sold isn't a soft drink, but an idea, an attitude, or a worldview The goal of the ad campaign is to manipulate others into accepting their view and rejecting traditional views. This is what we call manipulation. And manipulation uses propaganda to achieve its goals. When one is being manipulated, there are three methods, and I have them on your sheet There are three methods deployed. The first is desensitizing the public. To the homosexual lifestyle. Subjecting the public continuously to a flood of gay-related advertising presented in the least offensive fashion possible If straits can't shut off the shower, Kirk and Masson said, they may at least eventually get used to getting wet. So you don't have to fight 'em. You just have to accept it. And when you see it, just sit there. without making anybody else feel uncomfortable even though you're uncomfortable. So is it like the frog in the pan that's slowly getting heated up? Yeah, yeah, the frog in the water. Yep. If you put a frog in a a pot of boiling water it's gonna immediately drop out. But if you put a frog in cool water and you turn off the heat turn up the heat as the water boils, the frog doesn't realize the water is boiling and it eventually dies. The main thing is to talk about gaidness until the issue becomes thoroughly tiresome when it comes to desensitizing They add, seek, desensitizing, and nothing more. If you get if you get um straight to think homosexuality is just another thing meriting no more than a shrug of shoulders, then your battle for legal and social rights is virtually won. There were some individuals, not a lot, that saw what was going on and they began to push back against it. One of these groups is the Council, uh, is the uh Concerned Women of America. In 2007, they they responded to Kirk Madsen's book. Gone and and said this, gone are the references to images of millions of homosexual men wasting away in hostages. Those are the images that we used to see in the 80s and early 90s And that would put fear in some of us. So say, okay, I don't want to engage in this behavior because this is what may happen to me. But when was the last time you saw images like that? What images do you see nowadays? Modern family. Um there was one when I was growing up that was pretty popular. Um I think it's called Will and Grace. Where they make where they make that lifestyle funny, it's it's accepting it's oh let me help let me help them relate to this individual. Right? And before you know it, you're watching the show all the time and you're not bothered by it anymore. But when you really think about it, a few years ago you used to see something like that and you used to cringe. You were uncomfortable But I I I I don't think a lot of us are that skirmish anymore when we see this. Walking through the mall we see men and men holding hands, women and women holding hands. They used to be uncomfortable. But now we're the ones that are uncomfortable the same thing. I d I I just want to make this um speak about the background of what's going on right before we jump into Rosario's book. We'll get to the sheet in just a moment. Okay, after desensitizing the public, we're gonna do what is called jamming. Samarrying anyone who disagrees with us. You jam homo hatred. If anyone is an opposition to homosexuality, you link them to Nazi horse, urged Kirk and Masson. Associate all detractors with images like clansmen demanding that gays be slaughtered. It's like labeling. What do you think they're trying to do? Make you the bad guy and them the good guy. What else? Thank you, Alison. Huh? Shane you and Shame you into compliance. But what does America love? We love an underdog. Right? You love an underdog. You love to see them rise up and so when they they they paint these individuals as victims. Your innate nature says, oh man, these group of individuals needs my protection. And so I'm gonna protect them, whether that's you individually or some churches And they said and I quote the best way to make homo hatred look bad is to vilify those who victimize gay The public should be shown images of ranting homo haters whose associated traits and attitudes appall and anger Middle America. In other words, Mathon and Kirk would make America accept the view of homosexuality and deem it as normative. As Rosario has in her chapter in the first chapter of this uh book, which is line number one. There go, Kirk and Matson. Was to make homosexuality normal. And they were gonna do this through propaganda and manipulation. As I just said, think about the things that you watch or the commercials that pop up. Are you offended anymore? Do you turn away from it? Or do you sit there and indulge in it? I hope we guard our eyes and we turn away from stuff like that and we don't support it. Because the more you support it. Go ahead. they they identify themselves as race. I'm getting to that. You're right. You're right. Um that that that is um that's part of um uh what Rosario has as intersectionality But I figured that we would talk about intersectionality because it it it more so aligns with the transgenderism. So I'm gonna save that for next time. But you're right. They identify themselves as a race and they're trying to get legal status, which is um in twenty twelve or no twenty eighteen or so and I don't want to get off track. There was a bill being pushed That was called the Equality Act. And part of that was to give rights to um homosexuality couples that are traditionally for heterosexual couples. And if you discriminate against them based on their sex and their marital status, then you could lose your business, your license. It was being akin to, as you mentioned, uh discriminate against their race. I was just gonna speak to the desensitization, just how far that's kind of like you were mentioning about how before it was just kind of like a picture of maybe like a family where It was like a same sex couple, but I know even just an ads, um just like in being more attentive to things that come on because I know we try to, you know, shield even our children from certain ads that will pop up and just the other day I think it was actually an ad for events, oddly enough, and a commercial came up and the first thing that I thought was it's not even Pride Month anymore. But they showed like people that were naked with clouds over, you know, their backsides, like riding on bikes in the streets. And we would think like they would never show something like that of a woman or a man promoting anything else. But uh it was okay because it was I don't know, I guess promoting a baby and they're accepted. of that lifestyle. And it was just, you know, even just thinking about it, the fact that that is not even more like upsetting that that you would show And that people would be okay with even like nakedness like we were watching like a kid's show. You know, it wasn't even anything that was adult like Or you know, and it's just shocking that something like supports it. You you um push enough in their face, people will begin to accept it because it becomes quote unquote normalized. I'd be right with you, uh Margot, you had your hand up? So it was interesting too to note um Matt and I just sent T days overseas in England and Northern Ireland. And it's even more rampant there than it is here. I know there's probably pockets in the States that it's everywhere. Um but I I know this too, like it's not due to the news. I think there's loads And I just think we remember in Northern Ireland packing this giant stamp tape that was just displaying the happiness of a gay couple um and how this it was for an apartment complex and how um what a great place to be because of your accessible Um largely not like value. So it's not just to say like even though it is in the state, um just then to say It was way more rampant. So in a way, I don't think we're there yet in being totally specified in the state like they are elsewhere But we're heading there. And and this is why where when you should ask yourself, what is my role in this battle? What am I doing? Am I showing people their need for Christ? Um I was gonna say I've been trying to study French and able to very short people who I met over and to go when I went so topics uh very otherwise I should put some on the phone and Oh. But um anyway on Duolingo they have these comprehension conversations that they don't do. We call it a story. You follow the story and you're supposed to answer questions And so over the weekend there was a story that popped up and I was reading the story, the conversation, I'm like, wait a minute, what's going on here? And it was it was two guys and basically they were talking about, you know, a song when they first heard it and the guy looked into the other guy's eyes and they're like, Oh yeah, that's when we first met and I'm like, What is this? I mean something like Duolingo where you're just imminently trying to Whenever I see someone doing or accepting a behavior that is antithetical to the fate I always pause. I always pause for a moment and turn and I say, Thank God. That you're still protecting my mind. Thank you for your grace, your favor, that you're still watching over me and that I have not accepted these And so when you share that in terms of, whoa, what is going on here? The sad reality is a lot of people, Christians. You know, Rosario calls um the term great k Christian a oxymoron. You know, it's just like, uh, no you're not. But a lot of Christians We'll just indulge in that Margot and we'll just sit there and won't be bothered by it Nicole? Um you you have to and um I'm not saying that it's the greater show or whatever, but you walk into my house My kids will be watching things from like the nineteen ninety one, nineteen ninety two. You were like, they're watching that? Like, yep. They don't watch anything until my wife and I review it. Uh we'll take a few more comments. Um Ross. Uh real quick then. Um fitness sin and I recognize it's you know which be a hold of all sins as Christian beings Yeah. And so I know sometimes I'm even messing with that deal. Be sitting down and we watch develop police shows, you know, I think it's that NCIS and And it's like we can sort of justify that again because we get up, we know they're not really dead. aspect of homosexual sexuality is still shocking. At least turn away from it. But it sort of makes me wonder in my mind that we're also Um makes you wonder why we accept viewing murder and think that is that wherever we turn away so quickly from other sins. So desens desensitizing occurs in various areas and various subjects and various levels. And they apply differently I do. Um believe it or not, uh about a year ago Pastor Gabe called me out on that. I was aware of individuals acting in a manner not glorifying God, but I would be more tolerant to other things. And he and I were having a conversation and he called me out on that. He said Why are you so offended by this, but yet not by that? And so to your point, we need to be on guard Towards all sin, not just some. And be aware that there are propagandists and people out there trying to manipulate us into accepting certain sins over others to normalize it Um Sean? Just echoing kind of the subtleness of of this desensitization and stuff like that. Just even commercials on TV There are some commercials, just a two or three second view of two guys or two women, you know, it' il illustrating a relationship when they're advertising banking or um um uh medicine or something of that nature. These are these are getting more prevalent I can notice it. And it just goes back to studies even back in the forties or fifties about advertising It's just a blank on the screen that you can hardly perceive to to um get you to buy a product or something like that. It's almost that sort of thing. And they're showing these things for one or two seconds just two people obviously in a relationship advertising a product or whatever like that to to get to that person but it also or to that that collective as far as advertising concern, but it still is there in almost everything that we're seeing in advertising and magazines and all that other stuff. Just little flips, but no more problems Yes, you're you're absolutely right. And think about it. When you see advertising for a pill in the homosexual community Often not for a good thing. But they repackage it. And you hear the terms like this will cause it to be undetected. So that means it's still there? So I probably shouldn't engage in this behavior. But again they'll repackage the promotion to m cause people to buy them, to cause them to continue to live in this sinful lifestyle. Okay. So Austin and I we serve in a secular community that is regardless of age, race, sexual identity, creed, religion, or lack of. It's very challenging to be in the middle of it. Mm-hmm. And I mean a lot of times I just want to go. You know, but you know where God but how do you treat them, you know, is I I treat 'em with love. We're gonna get we're gonna get to how to respond in just a few moments. Jesus is the disciples ministered in that kind of culture. Don't you think our culture is more like that time? No, it's all right. Just everything we need. As we prepare to look at the third I'm I'm gonna move a little bit faster. As we prepare to look at the third method of manipulation It's um it is viewed as conversion. Let me read for you what Matthew and Kirk say about um comparing desens desensitization and jamming. Both desensitization and germ, though extremely useful, are more are mere preludes to our highest, though necessarily very long-range goal. Which is c conversion, it isn't enough that anti-gay bigots should become confused about us or even indifferent to us. We are safest in the long run if we can make them like us That really got me right there. That got me right there. And I felt convicted. I had to pause for a moment and say to myself, do I pass by individuals and give off a vibe that I don't like you? I wonder if that's what Christ said. I wonder why so many were seeking after him if he just gave up the Bible. I don't like you. As Christians, challenge yourself, be it in the church or out in the world. Are you approachable for the gospel? Can somebody walk up to you and have a real conversation with you if they're hurting? Hopefully I change. After reading this and reading this statement, hearing that an individual saying, I just want you to like me I don't approve of your sin or your lifestyle. But I should never make you feel as though you're less than. All have sinned. Each and every individual in here. So how could you walk by an individual, and I'm speaking to myself, and make them feel less than? Conversion is not converting from street to gay. Rather, this conversion is the manipulation of the public's mindset and view. of the homosexuality lifestyle. Kirk and Matton's goal, again, is to make you accept it as normal as you would a man and a woman. Paul Bondell published in an article in 2002 in the Regent University Law Review. At the time of um publishing He had held a um he had worked in marketing for about 25 years and he was getting his doctorate in management and persuasive persuasive communication Mr. Rondeau wrote, and I quote, today, this at the top of your sheet, today's most intense controversies rages around the issue normalizing homosexuality or accepting gayness Gay rights activists use therefore rhetoric, psychology, and the media. Desensitization, jamming, conversion. All the elements of modern marketing to position homosexuality in a positive light, making you feel like you're wrong for not accepting or affirming them. The ammunition for the weapon is persuasion. I already read the other excerpt below. As uh I I quickly want to look at the boxes that I have on the side of uh the three methods from the Game Manifesto. As I looked at their methods and I quickly put this together Um I I I was thinking to myself, okay, if they're using a method of desensitization, what can we do? If they're propagating their message all the time that individuals will at least get wet and be accepted to it, what can we do? Let us to continuously flood the areas that we're it with God's Word. Always talk about God's Word. Not in a demeaning way or to put other individuals down, but to show them the love of Christ. Jamming. Christian, jam the love of Christ to the world And I I have a um passage here from Luke. But to you who are listening, I say, love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, bless those who curse you, pray for those who mistreat you. You know that they're jamming you. You know that they're desensitizing you. But what a glorious response if you respond in kindness so that you may have an opportunity to share the gospel. Conversion. We know the Bible tells us. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Then you will be able to attest and approve what is good, pleasing, and the perfect will of God. Let us too speak to convert people. So, on page two I have um after hearing about the propaganda campaign, I pulled up some information. A total of seven point two of the US um adults identified as LGBT in two thousand twenty-two. A new record high. I don't know if you're able to see the uh map all the way to the bottom. I thought it was turned a little bit um bolder, but look at the percentages from nineteen forty-six to two thousand two It was 0. 3% of individuals that identified as gay or bisexual or lesbian. In nineteen from nineteen forty-six to nineteen sixty-four Bisexual remained at 0. 3, but gay increased to 1. 2. Gen X, those that are born between 1965 and 1980 It was one point eight and gave was one point two. Millennials. We have a lot of millennials in here. Um five point one of the population. And then when we get to Gen Z, eleven percent What's happening? Huh? They are winning. Why is this happening? So I think they are losing. I just anybody that spends any time studying this, I introduced it in my last class uh an extensive academic study On pediatric gender modification. Every single one of those scientific research efforts and pilot programs and studies include psychological therapy for the duration of the person's life because they live in fear of discovery. They live in fear of the dis You say disingenuous but as a noun. Anyway, however you say that. They are losing. They are losing their humanity and their peace. They are losing the God given dignity, which looks like real pride. When you know who you are before the Lord and know the preciousness of God of your manhood and womanhood. Of your role in a heterosexual I'm getting carried away here a little bit. No go ahead, go ahead. Five sixteen, and I'm so disappointed. But your light is shine before that. Are you living out The servant manhood that God gave you? Are you living out the the glorious dignity that you have as a woman? Are you living out the value of heterosexual monogamous, lifelong marriage. Are you living out the the privilege of raising sons and daughters in the dreams of Christ? Like I just want to be clear here. They are losing. They are losing everything. And if you are living according to the ordinances of Christ, you are gaining everything. It's a leper saying that leprosy feels great. They're liar. That's why they're attacking schools. Well I'd like to just say one thing. Let them prefer that's why they're attacking schools. Because they're losing and they're part of their population is is it's dissolved. It's going away. Uh those kids who go through transgender changes and all, they lose their desire for sex. That's that's gone So they become the the culture becomes sterile. No worse. No worse. Austin go ahead. Well I just want to apologize. Look at that perspective there which is grounded in government scriptures in a large big town I think that they are losing. That's a great thing, and you don't transform by the same thing. I've just given you a lot of information. Some of you may have been aware of it. For others, this is the first time you're hearing it Now the question is, what do you do with it? Do you arm yourself? Not to be combative But do you arm yourself to go out to the world, as God just pointed out, to be a light for Christ? As I was thinking about this, I wrote this. To e effectively contend or defend against an impending attack from an enemy, one must be aware of the tactics by understanding the enemy We need to monitor enemies closely to prevent surprise attacks. Just like the United States was attacked on 9-11 in Israel on October 7th, we must study our enemies to respond appropriately Enemies are always strategizing for surprise attacks, including in spiritual warfare. Our enemy, the devil. is a roaring lion seeking to devour. Therefore, be vigilant. Be attentive. Be watchful. Be alert. But more importantly, respond in a manner that is pleasing to Christ. Share the word. I think it was uh about um not this past maybe it was last week that Scott had challenged that we begin to memorize scripture. This is why it's important to memorize scripture. So when you uh engage or interact with somebody that is going through, you could give them a word the uh Socratic method ask questions through reason and then you make them respond and reject their own argument. He did. He did. And that should be their example, just like he's our example. The acknowledgement that um did I mention oh no I'm sorry. Okay, this information does what? It validates that we're in a spiritual warfare. So our struggle is not against flesh and blood But against the rulers, against authorities, against powers of the world's darkness, and against the spiritual forces of evil and heavenly grounds. Isaiah says, woes to those who call woe to those who call evil good and good evil. When I first looked at that, I was like, woe, it's judgment. But then as I um looked up the word, it's more so God is lamenting Sorrowful that we, especially those of us that he died for, are accepting Such foolishness because we're not around him more. Does that bother you? Does that bother you that your God laments Think about that. What is your is your desire to truly please him? First great commandment is the Lord your God with thy heart so I I love younger Allison. That's our North Star, you know. Okay. Did this acknowledgement that we're in spiritual warfare should cause us to grab onto closely the weapon and armor of engagement? Oftentimes again as I mentioned we go out there and we just try to be combative with other individuals. Oh you're wrong, you're going hell and so forth. Is that effective Is that effective? I didn't realize how we should engage the enemy until I heard Brody Bacham one day mention about when he was being evangelized, he um had an interaction with a Jehovah's Witness. And the Jehovah's Witness came to his house and Bodie had gone home and he studied and he knew everything that he had to say to the individual And he returned back to the locker room 'cause I believe he played football and giving the guys high five and everything because he had stomped that guy. He had defeated him using a lot of scripture. And but it was one Christian in the room that looked at him, disappointed, sad. Just shook his head at him and walked away. Being confused, Bodin went after him and asked, Hey man, what's up? And he asked Bodhi, do you think that you won? By causing somebody to feel bad? Because you're more knowledgeable than they are? Don't we do that? We even do that with our looks. Sometimes we look down at people and just tell them, by the way, we look at them, you're not on my level Thank God for Christ. Thank God for Christ. Jesus in the wilderness, again, using our armor and our weapons. How did he combat Satan when he was being tempted? Where did he quote from? Old Testament. Specifically where? Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy. I believe it was Deuteronomy six and Deuteronomy eight. And what would what did he keep saying? He kept saying what to Satan. It is what? It is written. Put um the the weapons of engagement, as I mentioned, is the Word of God, the belt of truth. And I have a quote here. Truth causes sinful men to resist the devil. Truth is the utmost importance in the life of a Christian. Without truth, the rest of the armor is of no use. Because we would have uh uh we would not have spiritual truth. This information that I've shared about what's happening Should galvanize us to evangelize more. Our efforts that we we we should contend. We should be looking for opportunities And we should be vigilant and alert, especially here in our churches, when we hear false doctrine. Don't think that whole Bible is just too big with too much bite people to experience what um the Methodist first experience. But what I love about this is that we hold each other accountable with the word. And the moment we stop doing that, we can head down the same path as they did. As I was reading this and as I'm going through this and I'm as I'm watching Kirk and Maston and the effort they put forth to do what they're doing. I'm sorry, I didn't even look to see if they were still alive or not. Um But what I thought is if these two secular men could do this, how much more can we do? Are we intentionally working together? Are we meeting up with each other and sharpening each other so that we too could go out to the world to share the gospel When the Word of God is not shared, people live without restraints and give into immoral, unnatural behaviors. But blessed is he who keeps the law. Blessed are you who keeps the law. But don't just keep it to yourself. Go out and do what? Make disciples of all nations, of all people. Now, is homosexuality normal from Rosario Butterfield? Rosario's background is that she was in a homosexual relationship for a number of years. She was a professor and activist and her neighbor, so as a pastor, began to um invite her over. And after about two years or so of constant engagement, her going over there to have dinner He continued to share the gospel with her. But would she be in his dining room having dinner if she felt rejected, not worth it? Now I struggle with this and I really want to do it and I don't have the answers yet. But having four small kids, eight, six, three, and one I don't know how to do this quite yet. Because they because they don't understand what's happening and I don't want to confuse them. But I desire to sit down with individuals that are lost and just love them the same way that Christ loved me. You might see tears come out when I talk about this, but I don't care. I'm not ashamed of the gospel. Hopefully you're not too. I I I I mentioned it earlier in Leviticus eighteen twenty-two. I put the passage here from Leviticus 1822, but I went back and looked at the beginning, uh the opening uh paragraph. And I'll summarize it, but pretty much God was saying to his people Do not adopt the lifestyle of those people around you. They will not bring my name glory. Keep yourselves from adopting their way of life. It does not bring me joy. And then he goes through and lays out for them what they are not to do. And some of the things that God lays out, and you're just like, why would he put that there? But obviously People are engaging in some sick things. But is this balance? How do we balance that? Don't be too entrenched in the world, but yet uh uh evangelize for the world. How do we do that? I challenge you that before you go out there and you evangelize, you make sure that you're rooted And the word of God. If you are questioning some of the things, feel like, well, maybe, you know I don't wanna judge and love is love. I don't want to make people feel bad. I would go back to my word. Be rooted in the word yourself before you go out into the world. Because people will deceive you and manipulate you and cause you to question where you're standing. It was the church and the ladies and the opportunity to hold the baby and to interact with other women that gave Rosario That feel of being a woman, but not only just being a regular a virtuous woman for God. And to for forsake her life, the lifestyle that she was in. And one of the things that she mentioned is While she um when she went back to break up with her partner, it was hard. But the church was there. The church helped her through that process. They didn't meddle, as she mentioned it, but they were there to support Are we offering support? It's easy to say, well, my church doesn't do this, my church doesn't do that, well my church should be doing this, should be doing that. What are you doing? What is your individual responsibility? And as you look at the that word abomination It is something grotesque. It is it's the Bible says it's disgusting. It should not be it should not be done. Then we go to um Romans 1 27 uh 26 to 27 which we spent a lot of time in with Nancy Pearcy for this reason. What reason? What's the reason? They exchanged the truth of God for a lie. They rejected God's precepts and what he had for them. When you don't keep God's precepts, He turned you to your own ways, to your own vices. God gave them up to dishonorable passions This honorable passion had to highlight here, um, or embolden, is for vile, shameful, and disgrace. All these terms, abomination, dishonorable passion, exchange the natural, goes against this view that it's normal. Normal and natural go hand in hand. I know some individuals may be looking through the Bible, well I don't see that it doesn't say normal. But it's unnatural. It's not normal. Something that's normal is it widely accepted by everyone. But if you have to persuade people to accept it, is it normal? If you have to persuade people to accept your view, is it normal Alright, Rosario then goes into um homosexual homosexual orientation is is true and immutable. Orientation is fixed and never changing. There are numerous Christians like Rosario Butterfield, Becker Cook, Jackie Hill Perry, who were once enslaved to the sin of homosexuality, but the gospel of Jesus Christ transformed them just like it has transformed each and every individual in here. And granted, I don't know everyone in this class. But if you have not put your trust in Jesus Christ If you do not call him Lord, I'm appealing to you that you do so immediately. Whatever you go through, whatever struggle you have, that is the only way you will be set free. Sexual orientation is immutable. It's a it's a category from the nineteenth century um viewed as a uh Freudian invention Orientation defines sinful sinful desire as something that defines who you are rather than how you feel. Acceptance of orientation makes that individual not liable to sin. Because if that's who I am and that's how I'm born, I'm not sinning. That's just the way that God made me I'm committed to one wife. But if my wife got me upset, well I don't feel like being home. Let me go rent another wife for the day. That's not how I feel It's not about how you feel. What does God say and speak to that I have uh some passages at the bottom if you see them. Jesus answered, Have you not read from the beginning? The Creator made them male and female. Nothing else. Gender and sex have always gone hand in hand. There's no third option So God created man in his image, the image God he created him, male and female. Again. And then I have a third one. Same thing. God made them male and female How many stuff does he have to tell you? He made you what? Male and female. Yes. And I'm not going to speak about this very well basically by this. I was listening to um J B Crossman lecture um teaching on this And they're explaining the whole thing about sexual orientation how deep how deep that goes. For us you can look at first and you can say, Well, I'll give you your female and you're a male and I can see it. But for them it's no this is just a body. I'm defined by by how I act sexually or how I think I should act Doesn't align with what's uh psychological there. So when I tried to explain that to my nephew, it homosexual um who identifies that way. And we share the gospel more with him and we share it, you know, some things. For him it it's like He feels like he himself said it's being rejected. We haven't rejected him. He he'll talk to us. But for him it's actually rejecting the person and not just your That's something that we need to understand to choose. Yep. You know, we have to understand what lies is really supposedly brought into how how do we go I I agree Margot. I have here and I'll jump down um once gay always gay how do we spawn? Know your role. We're ambassadors for Christ God making appeal through us. We implore you on behalf of Christ be reconciled to God. 2 Corinthians 5. 20. Go into all the world and proclaim the gospel to the whole to all creation. Help people to view themselves before a holy God and show the love the love of God without accepting that behavior or affirming it, Margot Goal is to help people realize their need for a savior. How do you do that? You let them let them be aware that all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. There was no one righteous, no not one. No one seeks after God. No one is gun. Homosexuals need to know, I think most importantly of all, is what Jesus did for them. And it's the same thing he's done for you. Share your testimony of how you can how how you got saved. Share that with individuals. It is impactful Um, homosexuals need to know that what Jesus did. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. We all should know that. Greater love has no one to miss for than for one to lay down his life for his friends. But God proves his love for us while we're still sinners, Christ died for us. I am the good shepherd, Christ says, who lays down his life for his sheep. That's what Rosalia understood. And when she began to understand that, her life transformed. That should encourage us that it is the word of God and having individuals in the presence of God's word. And she mentions that. That the church that she was in, even the songs that they sung, glorified God. But a lot of churches nowadays do what? Adopt the songs and themes of the culture. So we could have more individuals in the church as opposed to bringing individuals that need the Word of God to transform their lives. Not a numbers game. Here's a quote from Rosario. I learned we repent sin by hating it, killing it, returning from it, but we also add virtue of um of God, of God's word. It is the light that changes darkness. The Bible calls us to mortify, kill, vivify, enliven, which is to invigory. I realize Christians are given a new nature, yet we have sin patterns Letting individuals know as well that we're not perfect and I think sometimes we put that off. I'm a Christian, I don't sin, I'm good. No. Be honest with individuals. We all have struggles. And let them know that coming to Christ is not gonna turn you away from your um From what you're feeling for maybe five, ten, fifteen, twenty years immediately. It's a sanctification process. But you they have to be willing to go through it. Yes. I heard an apologist's argument recently where he was talking about, you know, this using the excuse that, well, I was born this way So, you know, giving me license to to do that because I'll have made it presumed that we're born with the way God intended us to be But the Bible contradicts that we are born into sin. We are born sinners. I was born that way too, brother. I'm a sinner. The the newest thing now is the binary. Yeah, we'll we'll we'll we'll cover that um under the trans transgender category. Uh as I mentioned intersectionality has a lot. Um And letting people know that God will reprove those he loves. Give me one second, Alison. They have to repent. They have to turn away. They have to have a new mindset And it's only the word that could give them that. It's not how well you speak or just loving them, but it's sharing the truth and making sure that you know the truth Um Alison, go ahead. Oh I was the first Christian in my family out of a secular background and I I needed to get lost before I got saved. I had no idea I was in any trouble at all And I had friends at Hollywood High, class of seventy seven, who were bold enough to share the gospel with you know you were a sinner? And I was like, What? I didn't think people used that language. Yeah, people don't like to hear that. Like English classes in You know, uh scarlet letter or something. We never used that word in my house. So you need to understand, those of you who had a Christian upbringing, this is one I mean it was foreign to me in nineteen seventy seven. It's that much more foreign to people now. So um it just but you don't have to like beat 'em over the head, you're a sinner, 'cause they won't understand you and they'll just say But if you yeah, look at this world. There's there's problems here. People die. There's sickness and disease. Where did this come from? This is not the way God wanted it to be. And there's consequences. Amen. And so you get 'em lost before they get saved, and they get to understand why Jesus had to do what he did. So that's just a little tipping. All right, let me close this out. Lord, I thank you that we um were able to get through this new topic and I thank you for this information that is shared with your people and I pray that say seek your word in terms of how to respond with it and how to help other individuals find you. Father God, that is the main goal of every class we have is to give individuals here uh something so that they could go out into the world and to And to represent you to the best of their ability, oh Lord. Give each and every individual boldness, give them clarity of mind, and help them in their walk to go out to the world and to And to share your gospel because it is only your gospel and set transformed. Lady is in Jesus' name that I pray. Amen. Amen.