I think right at the beginning we will open it up into the wider room. to see if there are any questions that you are willing to ask right here, right now. And in the absence of those, we will fairly systematically work through the sheet given the remainder of time that we have. Can I take a minute or two to open it up to the room to see if there are any questions you'd like to ask based on our study of idols and lies? Yeah. Mine are are not so much questions but just uh thankfulness and I believe one of one of Scott's requests was to to uh state what we've got out of the class. And um a couple of things that come to mind, even the terms, the sexual revolution terms like uh gender and gender dysphoria. Those were those were interesting. That was the first time that there was any type of formal definition that was given to me for those. So I feel like I'm equipped for I don't know if God is gonna allow a conversation that goes in that direction. I I did what I was out witnessing probably a year ago, uh there were two apparently lesbian women who were out walking their dogs. And ironically, they were some of the most receptive, respectful people. So And the other the other thing was that the I appreciated the questions that you gave and maybe I wasn't here for that class, but it was a list of questions that Allow you to introspectively analyze and determine what the idols might be in your heart. And uh having to do with the things that were where do your desires and thoughts and the activities of your life, where do you put the most money and energy into or relationships that you seek after, what have you. But those um I appreciated those. I was kind of reviewing them last night and I think that's a good way for me to maybe mirror back so that I can see remaining remaining idle but I believe there's there's plenty of them. And I know I know that uh another avenue for doing that is to actually just seek the ask the same questions to either spouse or friends, what what should they see in in my life because I I mean I'll be the best person to objectively do do that, evaluate And the kind of the last thing if I can um remember it is uh since I didn't become a Christian until age twenty two uh my senior year in college. There's so much idolatry that I just imbibed and that is still a part of me that is kind of wrong thinking and I know um God through God's sanctification process he's faithfully helping me to identify those those idols And but the th those those questions as well as uh the plain reading of scripture and sermon fellowship. That's that's my confidence that things were on placing too much, still placing too much priority on things that are passed And being too either anxious about them or controlling about them or what have you. The um so so all that's to say it it's a very good topic to see if I could recruit recruit for all of those years of my Christian life worrying about things and I I advise people that are like twenty twenties or thirties and if you're still under the the sway and the pull of those desires that it's just maybe there there's not necessarily anything wrong but it's the wrong priority from the beginning. is the wrong motivation for putting so much time and energy into that when there's better things out there. So all of that's kind of a summary of what what what my thoughts are about the class and I appreciate you putting the the material together. I know those are tough topics gender, sexual revolution. And some ways those are new topics of the church, maybe the last thirty years maybe. So I appreciate you guys. Two quick comments on that. One the x-ray questions that he's mentioned. mentioning are from a book called How People Change that the church has worked through a number of times. I think it still comes up in the Growing Disciples Rotation. I believe those are uploaded to the class, but again they come from that book, How People Change. and I think they're called x-ray questions if you have the book already because you've taken the class of x-ray questions. They are good. It's not a generally a form of study that is super beneficial to me, but I actually included those questions because I found those questions. The other one comment I have um I actually am a very binary person so the way you trace everything pretty much works with me. The end of your statement there was, you know, the desires and whatever and your pursuits are wrong. And again, that's helpful to me. That's how I would think about it if I was thinking about it. But I want to just flesh out some dimensionality to that brief And that is there are both both questions in particular. And as we study some of the things in here It is not necessarily that a thing is right or wrong, it's that it it's it's good or bad. And and there there is a slight distinction between those things. Now I'm not a spectrum guy. Don't ever try to assume I'm talking about well it could be this or I I'm not like that. It's either right or it's wrong, or it's good or it's bad Um but there is a distinction between wrong and bad. Um you might do something innocently enough uh that falls within the guidelines of a set of rules But it's still bad. It's not helpful for you. It doesn't grow you. It doesn't it doesn't honor the Lord in the way that it should. It's not a productive habit. And when we interact with each other about a number of these topics, I would just encourage you to take that idea on that as you look at somebody who's doing something that generally I would say if it were in my own life, I'd be like, that's wrong. I should do that differently, or I should do that better When you're interacting with some of those other people, I want you to see that they're doing it badly. They're depriving themselves of a knowledge of the Lord's joy and the Lord's goodness and the Lord's truth and the effectiveness of living in truth in ways that make their lives less than God intends for it to be. They are sacrificing their dignity, their honor, their value, their joy, their happiness. They're surrendering so much to that bad habit or that bad way of thinking. And so I I'm just really challenging you Be interactive with people, ask yourselves those questions, confess those things to others that they can see the learning that's in you, but also recognize what hurt those people are doing to themselves when they choose to live outside of what is the light of God in every aspect, in every dimensionality of that light You look like you guys might have had a tee up to that. I just I Scott and I had a joke uh this morning briefly between the two of us. If there's a center and you you can approach a thing in two different ways, we are probably approaching it from the opposite ends of that thing. So Scott's very binary, I tend to be a lot more nuanced. And that's okay because everyone doesn't think through things the same way. But but what Scott was saying about bad and wrong resonated with me because when you look at idols Ten years ago, if you asked me if watching football was an idol, it absolutely was. My basement was purple. everything around Raven. Very nuanced. Nuanced shape of purple. It actually was. But we won't do that. You can't be too different. The point is I didn't just walk away from football. I didn't just stop watching it. But I had to evaluate things to say where is my heart in the matter. So the idol can be bad or good. It doesn't mean I need to walk away from the thing. Work can be turned into bad or good. I can't stop working. But I can change my heart on the issue. And I think that's the part that is really important. Where's my heart in the matter? And then how do I need to then surrender to the Lord for that thing? The questions may not always leave you there. And someone else's opinion on the matter. May not necessarily lead you to where you need to be. My wife and I can approach things from different ways. She can be a lot more black and white than I am. Cut it off, let's move forward. I'm like, wait, maybe we should do it this way And we have diet issues and it's like we're cutting out sugar for 90 days. Like, or we could. Yeah. Because that's what gets her to where she needs to be. I need to reset. So my point isn't don't make perfect the enemy of good. The point is really how do I grow in sanctification and what works for me and how do I do that in community. So I need to do that with people But I also need to know what I need to do as an individual to get to where God's taking me. And if I'm not clear about what that is, that's where people help. I like to groupthink a lot And so as I learn a new job, I'll ask six or seven different people how they do a thing. Kirk does it this way, doesn't fit me. You do it this way, doesn't fit. But I like pieces of what you do And so those pieces help me understand how I get to where I want to go. I was just talking to Scott about something this morning. I was just listening to the word this morning as I was walking my dog. It's a new habit I'm striving to build Just listening to the word. It's a great 40 minutes. I have nothing else to do. But is listening to the word enough? Or should I also be reading the word in a different segment of my day? Should I be trying? And so as I'm developing a new habit, the goal isn't, oh, I just checked the box. The goal is Am I growing my understanding of the word? Is it being chewed on and nourishing me? And am I growing in that regard versus checking a box and I don't think about the word at all? So as you put these things together and as you get exposure to them, the question that Kirk is asking that I think is very valid is how am I growing? And is this just a springboard to the next piece? Or am I just learning it and saying, oh that was a good class? Done with that one, what's up for next week? Because if I'm doing that then to Scott's other point of being taught the word, it's a great that your church is. teaching you the word, but are you growing because of the word that's being taught? That's where that reflection can actually add value for yourself. Any other um I wa I'm not sure if you brought up about who are now binary, so not men or women. And next weekend um we had the opportunity to sit in. on a discussion with binary people. And well they think they are, but you know they're And I I would like to just like write something of what what and why and how they got there I know with Satan and what they think because they're so deceived. and give it to you. You would you are going to write up a effectively a position statement on it. Right. And you would like to give it to us? Is that what you just said? Not a position statement, because I know the client position is but um how why and how they came to their conclusions. Their positions. I'm always I'm an information jumpy, so I think it'll be good because this is the thing where um AP will um not include it because we say men and women and they're trying to push that you can't say men or women And they're like a half a percent of the population. Less. I do do my homework. Yes, so but I don't should we talk about that No, but interestingly there's an interesting paper that tries to make that a huge demographic one point two percent. It's a very famous pap famous paper that makes it one point two percent. percent of the population. And then people that are completely godless went back and reviewed the paper and said, according to your own definitions that you have used in this book, in this book, in this book, in this book, in this paper, is. 008, 1100th of 1. 2. Obviously unrounding. So it's a very small demographic of people, first of all, that actually have chromosomal gender ambiguities, if I can I'm not even comfortable with that expression, but if I try to be as liberal as possible in my statements, uh an extremely small percentage of the population has chromosomal ambiguities Which would make it difficult to determine are you male or are you female. In most of those cases, it's their life-threatening differences. Meaning you can't uh like one of them is very famous, I can't kip kip Kiplinger syndrome or something. I can't remember the exact phrase. I only go so far and then I'm like But the problem isn't the fact that women end up with uh genitalia that look like male genitalia. They'd have you believe that, but It's not actually true. They just have more masculinity and so things don't quite form up the way they're supposed to. That is not a person with that syndrome's greatest problem Their greatest problem is usually that they can't handle any salt of any form and it causes poltergeist like vomiting. Wow. So they die. Right? Respecting them as a as a living created thing, caring for them like that is important. That they have a little extra flesh in some part of their body that they shouldn't of is re Ridiculous. So even at the point zero sorry, I'm really angry about this. Even of the point zero zero eight percent, some one one thousandth of them actually should be considered when we're talking about gender ambiguity of any sort at a biological level. Most of them we just need to to care for them and try to extend their lives. And they're not concerned about binary gender roles. They're concerned about can I live an extra day? That's what they care about. So when you're talking to these people, just be clear that when they try to use these biological arguments against you, there is no basis for those arguments. They have they have a and Rosario does a good job about this, they have an envy problem. Now, they may have an enemy problem because of a host of trauma, in which case we should be amazingly loving. Amazingly. But in some cases we just need to let that water break across us too. You are a male. You are a female. And I have to teach you how to love that like I love it I don't want to get caught into that one. I'm so angry about that one. I just want to be there and hear what they say. So watch something not so valuable get destroyed It's like, yeah, that's bad, but you know, it wasn't worth that much. But to watch the dignity of manhood and womanhood be more. Oh, great thing Well maybe. Maybe it's sinful, but I I feel very Irish about it. It doesn't feel righteous. Yeah. Touch on that for a little bit and what you've read and studied. I'd like to hear from the center. I think um what Bizarre was trying to get to is We uh she has a chapter that talks about being nicer. Um is better than I forget the exact title, being nicer is better than being carried or something like that. And we go through life just affirming lies. We know that they're lies and it it it plays to the point of the cognate dissidence. where where you have a belief but what your eyes are telling you doesn't align with the belief that you're seeing. And so when we go to um as we go to this dirty or as we're as we're experiencing different people in our in our past. Can't hear my desktop? I appreciate so the question was affirmation versus um acceptance. So what um Rosario had the part where she talks about cognitive dissidence. So your eyes see one thing but your your mind is telling you that what your eye is seeing doesn't match up. Um and you could think of causes this and this as this. Um smoking a cigarette is bad. I know smoking a cigarette is bad, but I'm still gonna smoke a cigarette. you're you're not you're not aligning the two and so what what what we're trying to get to when it comes to affirmation is that we we go through life and we sort of see somebody that says I'm cisgendered or I'm uh a male and I have a female body and I or a female and I have a male body, we just go with it because that's what society tells us to and the reason that we go with it is because of the idol of secularism where they're pulling um religious out the religion out of um out of the world. You know, everything is non religious now and so we just accept that and and even though we're seeing that the person is not matching up with their what we're con what we're seeing, we say, yes, we're affirming that, but that's a lie. We're lying to the person. What we should do is Try to build a relationship with them and try to love upon them and then eventually tell them the truth. Don't just accept what they're telling you. Don't just affirm what they're telling you and say, yes, you are a male, yes, you are a female But you accept them as a person, as a loving individual, but you tell them the truth. And I think that's what she's getting to in terms of affirmation versus acceptance is you accept them but you don't affirm what they're telling you. Don't confirm the lie. Because it's not beneficial to them. And I have um here talk where t where uh Jesus said well i in Matthew five it says four uh fourteen and sixteen, you are the light of the world A town built on a hill cannot be hidden. Neither can do people light up a lamp and put it under a a bowl. We have to remember that we're the light of the world. And the truth of God is the only thing that can expose the lies that people are being told nowadays. And so when we just accept what they tell us and we affirm it, we have to ask ourselves, are we being lied? Are we are we being the light Are we are we serving God's purpose or are we gonna be the light and refute the darkness of these lights that may be known? So Rosario provides some really good examples of that one. Um she had a whole section that was actually a little difficult for me to read But she uh counsels, for instance, a grandmother uh has a grandson and he's invited her to a homosexual wedding. And Rosario says she can't go. That's against God, right? That is untrue. You cannot go and celebrate and call good and support what is not good and not true. That is not something God would ever do Mm-hmm. And then she follows that up with an example uh with a woman that has been invited to a a lesbian daughter's baby shower through uh obviously through uh in eco fertilization. And Rosario accounts was ready to go and kind of fine. What? And uh I really appreciated her arguing. I'm not sure I agree with it. I'm still chewing on it to say the truth, uh if I'm 100% honest, but um she said you're celebrating life And every place we find life in the scripture is quite celebrated. As a matter of fact, he makes some great metaphors about his own people being unwanted abortions that are, you know Laying in their blood in the desert in an unwanted sense, and he goes out to them and he loves them and he raises them and he marries them and so on and so forth. Christ celebrates life And so I don't want you to start torturing the truth of Christ there, but it is interesting to talk about what am I against, what am I affirming And what am I not affirming? What I cannot stand in just a cognitive dissonance and say that right is wrong or wrong is right. But a life is precious in the miracle of birth, read your Psalms, right? Formed you before you ever were there. I knew you. You're down sitting in your uprising. And I'm sure Christ is grieved by Science turned against him, if you will, to do in vitro fertilization and homosexual marriage. I'm sure that grieves him. And yet he gives life and he takes it away. Re Amos. You only breathe the next breath that you're about to get because he speaks it to you. So thank you. Right? And he gives life to that title. So just just an interesting couple of examples to try to add that out. Alistair Beg, I'm not sure if you all are familiar with him, had this issue as well where he affirms a well he said to her grandmother, yes, you should go to a wedding of a homosexual wedding. But um But that would be affirming that that marriage. And if we go to that wedding, even though he was the grandmother said that she was going to the wedding to give them a Bible That's the way that we sort of rationalize the cognitive dissonance by finding a way to make it more acceptable by saying to ourselves, oh, I'm just going to give them a Bible. But what you're really going to do is celebrate in the lie That would be accepting it. That would be affirming it and accepting it. But again, the acceptance doesn't mean that you have to affirm it. The acceptance could be outside of that merit that marital balance You could invite both of them to your home before the wedding. You could invite them to dinner. You could Talk to the individual that you know one-on-one, but going there, even though you're going to give them a Bible, would be accepting and affirming what you know to be a lie. Then uh accepting life, um Mary and I came on counsel at uh Privacy Cleaning program in this county. And we put emphasis on the life life of the child that's uh and not the circumstances that the people bring in. And that's that's it. That's what we look at. And and far as uh far as uh uh going to a wedding uh that's uh homosexual wedding. Uh you gotta be prepared to respond to their response of you not coming to that way. Yes. You know, a lot of them will be angry. They will have a a hateful attitude of you because all they can see is what they have there. They can't see what you see So you have to be prepared for that report. But second first Peter three fifteen right is ultimately what your statement makes your statement true. But sanctify the Lord God in your heart. So be ready always to give an answer to everyone that asks you. for the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. Right? That's always the point. We say no to what's untrue so that we have a chance to explain what is true. And if that's not the reason for the no, check your heart. And that it may take it may take time. It it it doesn't it doesn't happen immediately It'll take time. But to combine all those points, Rosaria takes that thought process farther in a few other examples where she says I think it's when she's opening transgenderism She would have families come to her and say, it was okay when they were just living together, but now they're doing X. It was okay when she just wanted to be a lesbian, but now she's marrying this person and now she's doing a sexy change and now she's doing so when we when we accept it's the first sin We gave entryway to the next thing. And so the idea isn't that I am trying to affirm in hopes that we maintain the relationship. Why? Because Jesus says I came to put what? Brother against brother, sister against sister, mom against son. Because what he's saying is when you stand for Christ, that relationship is going to be challenged. It's going to look like hate when you love me as opposed to other people people. But you are loving others when you tell them the truth. When I affirm the things that you're doing, that's when I'm not loving. When I accept you and I show you that, look, after the wedding, if you want to sit down and have a conversation about it, I'm happy to do it. Can't come to the wedding. That's loving. I'm not throwing you away, but I'm not going to affirm your decision. And I think we we see that in context in certain relationships. When we say no to children, we have no issue when they start throwing a tangent on My no still knows. But when we go into these scenarios, all of a sudden the no seems to be a difficult thing to say sometimes. And I think if we see that we're actually loving the person, because we want them to see the light of Christ, it allows us to give patience to a strange relationship that needs time to be. uh healed and it allows us to show those people that we have strained relationships with what the love of Christ truly looks like. I'm not going to throw you away. I can still pursue you. I can still will show you love, but I don't affirm your decision making. So and I think I would just the last point that I would add to that is when we encounter these situations, we need to put our pride away. Sometime because we are sharing the truth with somebody and they don't accept it, we automatically reject them by our actions We cast them away as opposed to still showing them love in the midst of their sin. And one thing that I've constantly shared with you all is that we are all sinners saved by grace And while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. And so even though they may not yield to your counsel right then and there, Don't just throw them away and sever the relationship. But continue to pray for them. Continue to reach out if you're able to to really display the love of Christ. Because if you could love that individual after they rejected you, you could really change their heart and allow them to see Christ in you, which is ultimately the goal Less comment. Uh acceptance, affirmation, and approval. Um even I was just trying to make sure I had it straight in my head. Um Rather than try to give you a clinical definition of those three, just make sure the person you're talking to knows the distinction. Right? I I do not agree With you being a lesbian, God has created you with an awesome dignity and a value that is incomprehensible as a woman or a man. I do not agree that you should waste that on your own ideas. But I refuse to let go of you while you were going through this, no matter what you choose. Right? Make sure they understand whatever you say, if that's acceptance, if that's affirmation, if that's approval, I don't care what you word you use, tell them what you mean They will not understand otherwise. And they should not be allowed to come up with their own definition. They should have to listen to your words say, I will not let go of you. But you are wrong. And you should be able to repeat that to them over and over and over and over again. I will treat you lovingly. I will care for you. I will sacrifice for you. But you are wrong and you are grieving my heart and the heart of the Lord. And then show them the truth of Christ. Right? So just be careful about terms, I guess is what I was going for there. Say what you mean. You know what you mean. You know what's in your head. Say it Get us get us under control here, if you want. You're supposed to be the administrative guy here. Question number one. In light of our discussion about biblical female and male roles I have a question about females working out without creating the image of masculinity. What I mean by that is this, is there a masculine look that women create by working out? and exercising their bodies. Is there any kind of offensive portrayal to a man of a woman being too muscular? What kind of there's like six questions here. Uh what kind of image is ideal for a woman to have if she enjoys exercising without wanting to come across as manly and tusk. And is this just a heart issue? I almost want to let Scott start because he's black and white. But I'll throw the nuance out there first Because from a a pure biblical standpoint, I don't think we can point to a scripture that has anything to do with women and working out. But I do think there is a lot of content around modesty. The issue here is, from my standpoint Is femininity defined in how much muscle you have? Or is it defined in character, in the way you present yourself, in the way that you dress? All of those other things because I don't think we'll find a person in here that would say the Simone Bioles doesn't look feminine. Small moths can probably out-bench press me in the day of the week. Right? Most gymnasts will probably be able to do that because of the work that they have to do and what they have to do with their bodies. A lot of people wouldn't necessarily say they're not feminine. But there is a There's an ideal there. But but you can you can form that a lot of ways if you look at a gymnast body, then if you look at a person who runs track, if you look at fill in the the athlete their bodies are going to look different. So does uh uh who's the track runner who's a Christian? McLaughlin Lebroni? What's her first name? Sydney. Sydney. Very fit and athletic woman. And then we'll give all the glory to God in her interview. Some mobiles, different body state, body style. But they're still striving for the same goal in competition. So my point is is simply if we focus on the things that scripture does say This is a woman and this is a man. I think we can keep the conversation in that regard less subjective. If we get into that one question which I love, which is what kind of image is ideal for a woman to have if she enjoys exercising? Or is there any kind of offensive portrayal to a man of a woman being too muscular, you're going to get all kinds of subjective answers that aren't necessarily based on scripture. Yes. So uh I'm in the rock climbing community and it's a really interesting time in the rock climbing community because it's very strength-based. It's all And there's a very inclusive atmosphere. However, they're running into problems because it is in impossible for the route set to create times that are gender inclusion. No matter what level you're at, my kid is a combination Like he's just going to be the like the the ten year olds are the only space in which a crime is ever treated Because no matter what business level you are, no matter no matter how tall you are, no matter how size The wingspan difference, there is a difference between male and female bodies, and they have to reconcile it and try to have this inclusive atmosphere And it has been crazy to watch because you cannot make a woman's body into a man's body. And you cannot make a man's body into a woman's body Physically is impossible. Yeah, and I I I think the question becomes what am I doing to my body and why? If all of a sudden I've gone past I'd want to be healthy into something different that is not God honoring I believe that's where the heart issue comes into play. What am I doing and why am I doing it? Is always the heart and the foundation of anything that's going on. If if I go past that, I think therein lies a challenge. I'll I'll show them I don't know if I want to go after him the way he teas it up, right? He's a nuanced one. I'm basically a Neanderthal. So maybe you should go to I plan to make you want to make a comment about exhibitions and all Um maybe. Um so I think the scripture that came to mind is right here um when I looked at this question. God approaches the proud but shows favor to the humble Again it goes back to Chester's point. What is at the heart? What are you trying to do? Uh from clearly from scripture, exercise not wrong, because Paul uses a lot of a lot of anal analogies when it comes to exercising, whether it's a boxer or a runner. So exercise is not wrong in and of itself and there's nothing wrong with a woman wanting to exercise her physical health because you should take care of this temple, your body which God has given you, whether that's eating right or exercising. But again, what is at the heart of your exercise? What are you trying to gain? Is it exhibitionism, which is what Scott alluded to in terms of getting yourself in the best shape possible so you can wear um both men and women so you can wear the tightest things that you possibly can. I saw something about this a few years ago with Stephen Furtick when he first started. He's a pastor of a megachurch. When he first started, he used to wear these big baggy shirts. But then as he became more famous He got a trainer and started to really get in shape. All of a sudden, Steven Furrick goes from wearing a tie of baggy shirt to these very muscular tight shirts every Sunday morning while he's preaching, taking off his jacket, and at that point, you're not really focused on the sermon anymore. He's not really focused on the sermon. He's having the modeling show there. I just want to comment that I'm the only one wearing a jacket this morning. Well, it scales, right? He's got jacket and tie, tie, no tie. We have no genes. Alright, so so again, check your heart as you exercise. Are you doing it for yourself or are you just trying to take care of this body that God has given you? And if you're just taking care of the body that God has given you, there's nothing wrong with that But if you're doing it to please others, to show yourself up to others, then that's where the issue lies. Somebody have a question? Yes. And just e echoing what you just said a passage. Came to my mind as First Timothy four says, Have nothing to do with irreverent silly myths, rather train yourselves for godliness. For while bodily training is of some value, godliness is of value in every way as a holds promise for the present life and also for the life to come. Thank you. Bodily training has some value, but your priority should be got a lot of people. Amen. Amen. Thank you for Oh sorry. Hold on. I I don't think uh I don't think I have a lot to add to that one. I just would encourage the person that asks in uh I I know who asked these questions. I would encourage the person to ask that ask um in two ways. One Never forget what amazing value and dignity you have in Christ. And that that dignity and value Necessarily, fundamentally mean that there is significant purpose for your life. And that fitness is an obligation that all Christians have. But fitness so that we are fit for the purposes that glorify God, as the scripture that you just shared with us gave, is the key. The fitness that prepares us for the purposes God has for our lives. I just want to emphasize that one phrase. Before we go for it, can you speak on What kind of image is ideal for a woman to have? Because there's we could sit there for a while. Proverbs 31. It doesn't have a Bible, it doesn't have a body shape I'm sorry, but Proverbs 31 doesn't have a Bible shape, but it's a woman of industry. She's not a woman that breathes hard when she goes down the steps or goes back up 'em. Unless she's just had a coronary episode, in which case that's perfectly okay for her to breathe as much as she wants to Right? But I I just want to be clear on that, right? Just go to Proverbs 31, get that woman in your head. And then you, as women, help model that for us as men so that we can better appreciate those scriptures. Amen But I I just don't know how else to say that. But there's a purpose behind it Everything about her life is terrible purpose. If you're not a man that can keep up with terrible purpose, get out of the way. She's gonna run right over top of you. I I can't imagine what this woman's husband must be like. I'm really hoping it's not a nable guy, but the other side, right? The other side of the spectrum I want to meet this woman and her husband. All right, move on. You're the one that told me to say something about it. Very distinct, clean, I loved it. You said in question two, not taking the opportunity to seek to know God. with all your heart, soul, and strength will cost you greatly. How would you encourage someone in a season of life when time alone is limited to thirty to forty minutes a day for deep sleep? So this is me, just out of curious. I mean I think I said it. Yeah. Um Two and eight go together, and I do have a comment on it, but mine's a bit of a mock mic drop, so I would prefer you go first. As I looked at this question, the first thing that came to mind is studying God's word is not a suggestion, it's a command. It's an imperative. It's of it's of urgent importance. It even tells us in 2 Timothy 2. 15, study to show thyself approved unto God as a workman that needeth not be ashamed. Rightly divide in the word of truth. And then in John 15, 5 tells you, I am the vine. I'm the source. I'm your source. Um if you remain me, I remain in you. If you don't remain to me, you cannot bear fruit. I have no use for you I toss you into the fire and get birth, you know? And um Josh 1 verse 8 tells us the book do not let the book of the law, God's law, depart from your mouth. Meditate on it. Not sometimes Not when you feel like it, not when life is becomes inconvenience to you, but meditate on it day and night. Again, these are commands not for God's benefit. These are commands for your benefit. Um Ephesians 2, 10. For we are God's workmanship, creating Christ Jesus for good works. How are you going to know what the good works are if you don't know God's word or your purpose? That's what the word does. And so as you're thinking about this and you're saying, oh, I'm struggling to find 30 to 40 minutes to study God's Word, you're the one that's missing out You're the one that's losing. Um one of the things that I learned in uh when I was in corporate during my first career was sometimes I would just get overwhelmed Uh one things I learned early on is any company that gives you a laptop in BlackBerry, you're no longer your own. You are theirs. And I would find myself at five o'clock in the morning, um, constantly answering uh tech uh emails, uh going to bed late and barely uh talking to at the time we're we're dating But every time I got overwhelmed, I got back into my word, things would just flow for me, things would just fall in line for me. I would be able to go through budgets and numbers and have no issue. It just it's just this peace that comes over you and clarity that comes over you. When you put God first, he elevates you. But every time, I made the job the idol to impress my boss or to impress the sea level guys I was always stressed, never had peace, not able to sleep. And so when God gives us these imperatives and these um commands, know that it's for your benefit Don't turn away from them. I got a couple more scriptures here. And then Jude, and then finally Jude uh three. Beloved, while I was very diligent to write to you concerning our common salvation, I found it necessary to write to you exhorting you to contend for the faith. We've been talking about idols and lies How are you gonna refute the lies with your own rationalism? With your own sense of um of knowledge? No, you need God's knowledge to refute all the lies that the enemy is sending at you. If you stand there and try to refute these lies on your own uh based on your own knowledge, you'll not get far. So you need God's word to be able to refute everything that the enemy is thrown at you And so that's why I think it's very important that where we send this question that we put to the side or if it was you, Scott, that we put thirty to forty minutes to the side to study God's Word every day. It is not that we're trying to uh There's a small group post to figure out what small groups are going through and one of the small groups who hang a name with. That will be in Luke until Jesus comes. Right? Word want to study what that's everything nameless. She gave herself what here's the point. What that says is I don't know when we're going to finish looper. We're going to take it piece by piece by piece. If you were studying one verse for a week, God be praised. Because you're hearing one of a verse. Even better. I I was getting dressed this morning and one of my boys was was memorizing a verse. He leaves the bathroom. He's going over Romans 8. 1 and I'm like, what why don't I keep hearing Romans 8. 1? But it's beautiful. Right? If you sit in one verse for a month, you will get so much out of that one verse. If you spend thirty minutes a day on one verse, it will be nourishment to your soul. Quality over quantity. If you then my wife does it better than I do, I walk into the bedroom, she's doing her hair, she's listening to our sermon. She's Listening to an interview. It's it's how do I maximize the dead space and times with ways that I can hear the word or I can hear a sermon where I'm multitasking and doing other things And as you do those things, you'll find that it's not just thirty minutes. It's I've memorized 15 verses over the last month, and then I dug deep into Luke chapter one, and I know it better than I have known it before There's no timeline that we have to put to taking in everything all at once. So yes. I just want to say really briefly, I I feel like the person who asked this question is probably a mother, someone with young children Someone who doesn't have a lot of time for themselves to you know have that focus ready. I just want to encourage whoever that person is, is that in different seasons of life your your study will look different and it's okay to be creative And it's okay that it doesn't have to look the same all the time. And that, you know, just remembering what that time in my life was when we had no kids and you're choosing them around and you're tired. Don't allow yourself to feel guilty if it doesn't look like the two hours of city with your with your you know, your Bible and your hands sometimes it's not gonna look But you know, be creative, use your fellowship, use the ways that you can interact with the other people who are that you might like to encourage you. Thank you. And can I back onto that room? And if you have a husband, tell your husband, take care of the kid. Well maybe he won't, but he needs to find out. Do it rightly, do it nicely, do it with humility, but do it. I'm gonna ask a question now. Go. I thought next we'll have to wear a rear glove in here. Oh, just to get attention. Okay, I don't know. Two questions. One of the Things that start me willing to be letting the next Supreme Court justice to Justice to the Supreme Court. Justice to the Supreme Court and they asked the one question. What's the one? The question was what is the woman? And the second question I wanted to ask you was What up here is bottom of both generals sitting under the bottom of both sections have the illness Male or female, the parents made the decision and they did the surgery and everything and Well it became a male, but then it became a female and then had the feeling that didn't match who he was. Then it was back and forth with that, so that slide after the picture too, so you have that part and then how do you find a woman That will make sense to settle a word. If it remember not this quarter but last quarter when I talked about the myth of reliable research, remember that that whole section? It the research does not support the statements that are being made Yeah. Okay, and I I don't even want to spend the time to do it, but I actually even told Anzo I I did a dangerous thing. I always keep safe searches on you know, every search I do it's got some safe search on plus other protections. I don't want to filter my own So I turned those off and I I I looked for an image of these presumably dual gendered people. There are no images on the internet for you. I even spent some time to refine my search search There are no images. There is a black and white image of a woman that falls under this or man or whatever, under this one of these syndromes, right, that has an extra X? Can't remember. I think it's three X's in her particular case. But uh and and they've done everything they can in the image to make it look like she's got male parts She does not. She has a little extra tissue in a location that is unfortunate. That's the best that can be said for it. So the myth of reliable research, the scientific community, the medical community is intent on perpetrating a lie, and they are doing it with scientific sounding information. It is a lie. Just do your homework. Don't believe them. So this whole homacquidite thing, they were like perfectly male or perfectly female, and we just chose for them, that is garbage. That is garbage. And you just need to do your homework on that one I wanna go back to the on I wanna go back to the other one real quick or just along the lines that you said Deuteronomy six, five and six. I love this one You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul with all your might, and these words that I command you today shall be on your heart You shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise. The study of God's Word What he's done in the natural world, what he's doing in community, what he's done in the solar system, the study of all that God is and all that he has for you is a part of your everyday household life. Because you love him with all your heart. And so and I know who said this, and I am happy to report that I am amazingly encouraged by this person's disciplined pursuit of Christ in in everything that I know of their lives. So there's no criticism behind my next statement, which is it is a lie. that you only have thirty to forty minutes a day to actually spend in God's Word. It may be true that you only have thirty to forty minutes to spend with a journal and a pen Peace and quiet. But I I'm challenging that person to rethink through that. Homeschooling, for instance, or I mean it could be public schooling, obviously my experience is homeschooling, but homeschooling is a perfect way to do this. Christ can be in every moment and in every lesson. If you need help with that, ask my wife for the uh senior catechism she's just developed for her twelfth grade class. It's wonderful. It's wonderful. But you get to see God in everything and you get to think about it in new ways through history and biology and science and math and music and beauty and philosophy. So just be careful with the lie that you only have 30 to 40 minutes of deep God study time in your day. Open the definition of study time up, why, and live it instead of maybe just sitting under a quiet lamp like I get to do early in the morning for hours and hours and hours. And husbands? Help your dead bud. Help your wives. Give them some space. Give them some time. Question number four. Question number three? I skipped it for now. Oh Secularism was explained as an idea of separation where the truth of doctrine lies separate from the way one lives as a result of doubt in that truth one July twenty eighth, cognitive dissonance defines defined as beliefs that don't match behavior. Do these two terms differ in any way? Yes. Uh secularism is a principle of separating religion from civic affairs. So it's its its main goal is to remove any religious um uh beliefs from anything that is public policy. So we right now there is uh some states that are looking to add the Ten Commandments. Uh in a secularist world Or somebody that believes in secularism would say, No, we don't want any of this to be in the school. You often hear the phrase of separation of church and state Uh cognitive dissonance is a psychological concept that refers to a discomfort in the mind. As I mentioned to you before, uh I want to smoke a cigarette, but I know that the cigarette is bad for me So I rationalize why I'm gonna smoke it. I might say, well, I'm just gonna smoke one. Smoke one is not too bad. I'm rationalizing even though I know that it's bad for me. And so And so for us living in a secular world, we experience secular, um, we experience cognitive dissonance because we live in a secular world So our beliefs are constantly under attack. Is now being redefined. We know as a church and as children of God that marriage is between a male and a female So it is discomforting to us when we see that society, the secular world, is pushing that marriage now can be defined between two men and two women. So they're different, but yet at the same time they relate to one another. We have just a few minutes left. I I think I would like to defer these questions. Do you know who you are that asks these questions? I would be delighted to spend as much time with you in some sort of hospitality setting to have those discussions with you. And I think the other gentleman would say the same. I'd even be happy to corral them all if you wanted to do a panel type thing there. So I really value your questions please come pursue them with us. I would love to answer them. But for right now, I think I would like to ask, could you each take just like two minutes and just tell me what what about this class would you hold to impart to these people the most. Jude one, contending for the faith Oftentimes when we go out into the world we feel as though the world is against us. But the Bible told us that the world would be against us. But at the same time you know that the same spirit that rose Christ from the death is also in you. It it's the spirit that saves you. And so when you are experiencing people coming at you from all different angles and spewing lies at you that you know that that are lies. As we talked about with Rosario Butterfield, affirm, accept, and approve. Don't be afraid to stand up on truth. You may be the only one in your office. I'm not look I'm not asking anybody in here to go and start um uh any any sort of war in their office. But also don't compromise. Don't compromise because it's God that gave you that job in the first place. And he can elevate you. When you stand for him, he will stand for you. And I'm not just saying it just to say it. I I've experienced this. Being at children's hospital who partakes in these uh um well I'm not anymore who partakes in these uh gender surgeries. I was part of these transitions where they wanted to move to more of a secularist um worldview. So we were told a few years ago not to send uh well More than a few years ago, not to say Merry Christmas anymore. To just say happy holidays. But I know the reason for the season And I meant that. So I would still go around, not looking to get anybody, not looking to start any wars or anything, but I would still go around telling people, Merry Christmas. Because I'm sharing with you Christ. This is he's the reason for the season. And so when I say Jude 1, contend for the faith. Don't allow the lies to overshadow the truth. You are the truth, you are the light. Without you giving the truth to individuals that you encounter The world is just gonna pull them away for uh further and further from Christ. So please speak up when you see truth, when you see lives are being spewed, especially the young kids, because they're the ones that are victims. But do it with gentleness, with love, with compassion. So that the individuals that you're encountering may see Christ in you. Ephesians 4. 15 reads, Instead speaking the truth in love We will grow to become in every respect the mature body of Him who is the head, that is Christ. And I think it is a necessity for us as believers to speak the truth. But we remember that we hate sin. Don't hate the sinner. And I think that distinction is Really important. I think both Nancy and Rosaria are very big on making sure we're clear on what this thing is, how we're presenting the gospel to different people. people that we're doing it in a context that we show love for them as image bearers of Christ or of God, but also that we don't affirm and accept the sinful life choices that they're making. Making. And also don't run from the opportunities to share. It you might find yourself in deep waters on conversations that you're not clear on, but I take those as signals for God to say, hey, go back and study Equip yourself for the conversation, go back to the person, have that discussion, and allow the Holy Spirit to be at work. We're not designed to be perfect in each situation, but we are designed to be faithful in those situations. So I pray that in the body of Christ we contend for the faith by being uh holding each other accountable. And that always comes out more of a pole bar conversation where there there is no hold barred when you're speaking to someone who knows the truth should know the truth. And it does oftentimes come out as a review But when we're in the world who knows nothing about Scripture, we're coming to them in a way that they should see the love of Christ even in the word choices. that we use. The goal is different. Yes, we're holding a standard no matter which place we're in, but we're striving to win souls, and he that wins souls is wise. Uh if you have an asking your brain in just a second. It's okay to call us up, but uh just a restaurant on your brain. Um I don't have time to develop this thesis, but I will tell you this, I am have been for many years, but I am ultimately convinced after these last two Words of study. Those who listen to truths, those who read truths, those who affirm truths, those who argue with others about truths. May or may not be Christ's followers. Those who pursue truth for the purposes of living out truth are Christ's followers. And I am concerned when I look at the testimony of my own life, and when I look out over our church I am concerned that there are more of us in the first category than the second. And I do not say that with anything but some sense of Disappointment, but with a strong conviction to live myself more radically in the truths that I say, that I hold, and call others to do the same thing. Please have a Christian mind. A mind that is intent on transforming our lives to the truths that we are discovering in God's Word.