In my thinking, that was the background for this study. That we might not allow these little pet idols in our lives that cause defilement, not just of ourselves, but of my sons. As they watch me bow down before my own idols, what does it provoke in their lives? And as they get older I start to see it more. I know where that arrogance came from. Mm-hmm. I know where that selfishness came from. I know where that laziness came from. By the way, I'm making my son sound like they're lecherous people, and that's not the case. I'm just saying it's you know, as a father with uh heightened expectations that I have for my own sons. And frankly, they are good men, and it hurts that much worse when they choose the falsehood A good thing smudged is a much greater evil than an evil thing smudged. It's already evil. But the mark on a good thing The first scratch not that people are like cars, but the first scratch on a new car. I remember the first one I got on almost every new car I've ever had. And yet recently Angela just drug barbed wire across the back of my truck. I'm like, it's a truck The first one was bad, but since then the kids have kicked in the back panels, climbing into the back of the truck, and it's stamped it and nicked and it's making the clunking noise now and it's like, eh, barbed wire I see my sins. I see my idols responded to with their idols. See it in my wife. Coming home besieged and ungrateful. Her constantly feeling like she's gotta support this guy that's on the edge Right? What idols does that provoke in her? I can think of many more, but this isn't supposed to be a confessional therapy session for me, so uh I'll just move on. So where have we gone? Principles for unmasking idols. Principle one was identify the idol. Just a couple of quick quotes. I'm going to stay close to the notes to speed through them fast and get to the end of this. At least the part that I want to focus on newly today. If idolatry is the characteristic and summary Old Testament word for our drift or rejection from God, then desire is the characteristic and summary New Testament word for the same drift. The test of my idols. I cannot be happy, grateful, joy-filled, peaceful unless, fill in the words. Fill in the words for you. That job, that promotion, that respect, that way of being treated, that person not speaking to me in this way, that Equality that privilege, that I don't I don't know. Fill it in. And while some of them need to be considered with great compassion, I cannot be happy unless I could get out of this chronic illness. Well that that that kind of idolatry deserves a lot of compassion It's hard to be chronically ill. I have a little bit of experience with it. In the year and a half that I suffered with Lyme's disease, it was debilitating It affected every part of me. Mental, emotional, physical. It was fearful and painful and confusing. It deserves a lot of compassion, but you still need to call it what it is. The Lord gave me Lyme's disease. Because he's a sovereign guy. Because he controls ticks. Because he controls biology. Because he controls pharmacology I don't know why. I still don't know why. If you asked me if I wanted to do it again, the answer is no. I would have appr I I did appreciate the compassion that I got from people. It causes you to cry out about it. It does. Because when I went on a vacation last year uh on a cruise, uh Saturday cruise and everything was well. I got back home, photo was my son. A couple days later went to the doctor, as we told We had COVID. And it was wrong all COVID. And it was painful. And I cried. And I cried to the Lord and I praised him at the same time. Because he was giving me temporary relief of that. pain and he shows up praying. The one thing that you voice like God is when you go into something, you pray. And instantly he believes you of it. That's what happened to me. Several times in that cry and pain. A headache that was scrubby. And all I can do is cry out to God and bring me There are many good things. I can't challenge you enough to take it all and put it in your hand and set it before the Lord. And say, Lord These are yours. Take them or leave them, these are yours. And I know, I know that I have your promises, and that your promises mean a life of joy for me. Principle two, identify the idol of reductionism. We actually spent almost two weeks on this because it's really fundamental to uh two, three, four, five. It's really fundamental to it. And it's what we do with the Lord. We reduce a phon phenomenon, in this case God or the truths of God, from a higher or more complex level of reality to a lower, simpler, less complex level, we suppress the truth. Yet suppression creates a deep chasm, a dualism or dichotomy. We read about the promises of God in Scripture, we read about his character, and then our lives. are lit out in such a way that it doesn't match. What we mean and how what we experience or how we live are different and we begin to live In that dualism, that dichotomy. And she introduces Francis Schaefer's image of a two-story building, and if you need an example for that, it's really at the bottom of that same page where it says values in fact. We'll explain the exact graphic later, but it's it's the idea of having an upper story to a house that you don't live in and a lower story where you do live And this is where you've got things figured out. This is your ideas. These are your ideas or uh what's the just another more biblical word. I can't think of what it is right now, but um These are all the things that don't quite fit. These don't fit. It's not that you're willing to throw them out because they seem like they have some value or some relevance or some reality. You're not willing to throw them out, but they don't fit. And this is the chapter where she begins to introduce this image of a two-story building. We reduce the sum total of the things that are God. into these parts that fit and make sense in our lives for us or the way we want to think about them so that we can produce them. By the way, you want this health, wealth and prosperity gospel? Right here. I have decided that I cannot be happy unless My bank account is overflowing. But I also cannot be happy unless I believe I can be rescued from hell And so I will synthesize for myself an idol by reducing the truths that I find in Scripture about the Lord until I can get a philosophy of life that works for me. Yeah. But let's just be clear on this. Manhood, motherhood Marriage, for that matter, Christianity We talk about them superficially. Because that's what people will tolerate today. And we have not spent a lot of time on it in this class, but really at that principle two, I have a marginal note there. Nancy Pearcy focuses on general revelation, meaning the things that can be observed in the world, right? Romans 1, 20 and 21. And she applies her principles to the atheistic and secular philosophies that shape our current culture. And I have a list of those someplace. Oh, on the previous page, right at the bottom. She specifically um applies these tests to materialism, empiricism, rationalism, and postmodernism. And that's not the way we we chose to teach the class. If you want to know more about those, go listen to my lectures from last quarter. Or go pick up an apologetics good or a book or a philosophy book or something else. You can get those someplace else We can talk a lot about lower story philosophies. We chose to teach this class in the context of applying this to Christianism, if I had to add an ism to it. And we are affected by all the same challenges as materialism and rationalism and empiricism and postmodernism and whatever's come after postmodernism. Because we live in a post-postmodern world. We reduce the truths about God until they fit what we want, what we want I cannot be happy unless, and so I'm gonna make God's truth fit into a framework that guarantees that I can get what I want. Small diatribe, which is why I put this up here. If if the whole rest of my lesson wasn't already a diatribe. I love the fact that we are teaching a class and have, I think, three times now, this is the third I think, on the Lord's gentle and loneliness. And I love, no joke, 100%, that people like Doug Baldridge are here to teach it. He is the right man for it. And every time I think about him teaching matter of fact, he and I have discussed this, by the way, in case you're wondering. Because he'd asked me to teach it with him the first quarter he taught it. And I was like, I don't think you want me to teach it Because I know that there are people in this church that need that lesson and Doug's teaching on that topic to strengthen weak hands. weak knees to be encouraged and refreshed in Christ. I am also sick to death You type in Gentle and Lowly on Amazon and you will get a list of books that you can't count. You type in New Testament fear of God with two hits. What are we doing? Seriously, what what are we doing? It fits our desires. That God be gentle and lowly and demand little of us and constantly just excuse away All the little idols in our lives. Am I going too far? Probably, just no. But for illustrative purposes, I'm choosing to go a little farther than it probably wanted. That's my confession. We want him to be gentle and lowly only. And so we reduce all the other scriptures that talk about the fear book. I think I've told you several times, it is the only thing I can ever think of. There might be one other accepted It is the only thing that I can think of where I have actually had people in a Sunday school class like this stand up and just begin to argue with me. I'm not afraid of God. And that particular man was an elder in the church I was going to. Now that put me in a weird position. And I had to say, well, I'm really sorry that you are not subordinating your desires to the truth that you find in Scripture. What is that? That is reduction because it fits our idols. I was going to read some passages, but I think I'm running out of time. Can't really see the clock, but actually I would like to turn to Isaiah 40 Enough of my voice, I'd like to hear some of the words. If for no better reason, then it's his and not mine. To whom then will you liken God or compare God Or what likeness compare with him? An idol? A craftsman casts it, and a goldsmith overlays it with gold and casts for it silver chains. We ornament it, the idol. Maybe even expensively. He who is too impoverished for an offering chooses wood that will not rot. It's kind of ironic, right? A poor person spends what they have on a rich foundation for their idol that it would not topple over. He seeks out a skillful craftsman to set up an idol that will not move. Does your God need your help to be supported? Do you not know? Do you not hear? Has it not been told you from the beginning? Have you not understood from the foundations of the earth? It is he who sits above the circle of the earth, and its inhabitants are like grasshoppers who stretches out the heavens like a curtain and spreads them like a tent to dwell in. Can I tell you I'm already sick to death of hearing about the presidential debates? Two pathetic men speaking to a pathetic country. Am I anti-American? No. There's a good shot my son will be in the armed services. I pay more taxes than most of you in the room as a result of being a small business owner And despite the fact that I struggle with that check every year, I don't mean struggle to pay it, I mean struggle to just I hate doing it. I don't spend my time being counter-cultural or counter-government or anything else. I like the nice roads in Colombia. I don't understand why we have to repave them every two years just because we have a surplus budget, but I like the parks and I like the plumbing and I like the electricity and but pathetic And you know what drives me even more nuts is the Christian men and women I'm listening to. You know how hard it would be to engage to engage them in a in a in a discussion as equally Uh emphatic, I guess I'll say. Do you know how hard it would be to engage them in a discussion equally emphatic about the things of the Lord? How about the time? Not only did they watch the debate, but they watched every news review of the debate since then. Do you not have a job as a significant? Do you not have a ministry? Do you not have a wife? Do you not have children? Do you not have a lawn? And if you doubled, I got twenty-three acres of it. I'm not I'm trying not I'm not trying to make light of it, but if you open your Bible and you read it and you have all these transcendent spiritual thoughts and you never apply it to the presidential elections or your lawn or your wife or your children, what are you doing? What do you think this is? We are not the Masons. We serve a true God. We seek reality and to conform ourselves to it. We seek not to be deluded, not to be distracted Not to be defiled by uselessness and insignificance. When you watch a fool And you can't pick your eyes off of a fool. What does that make you? Sits above the circle of the earth. His inhabitants are like grasshoppers, who stretches out the heavens like a curtain and spreads them like a tent to dwell in, who brings princes to nothing and makes the princes to nothing, and makes the rulers of the earth as emptiness That's what actually provoked all this. I just anticipated it because I'd already read it. Sorry about that. Scarcely are they planted, scarcely sown, scarcely has their stem taken root in the earth when he blows on them and they wither and the tempest carries them off like sea. Stubble To whom then will you compare me? That I should be like him, says the Holy One Lift up your eyes on high and see who created these. He who brings out their host by number, calling them all by name, by the greatness of his might, and because he is strong in power, not one is missing. Why do you say, O Jacob, and speak, O Israel? My way is hidden from the Lord, and my right is disregarded by my God. Do you hear that? He's not watching me, he's not attentive, he's not paying attention. It's disregard. He has no regard for my challenges in my way. You have no idea what sort of dignity you have before the Lord because you have never been treated with the full measure of dignity. Wherewith Christ has invested you. He and he alone understands what your dignity is, and he treats you Accordingly. And by the way, you say, well, that's not worth much because I know myself. He treats you according to the investment of Christ in you. He treats you according to the dignity of his son. He has every regard for you. In everything that you do, COVID headaches, work challenges, disrespect I I don't have time to do the list again. Fill in the lists of things that we make idols of He has every regard for you. Have you not known? Have you not heard the Lord is the everlasting God, the creator of the ends of the earth? He does not faint or grow weary He's not distracted by you because you've got great needs and you because you have less needs. He gives power to the faint. And to him who has no might he increases strength. Even youths shall faint and be weary, and young men shall fall exhausted, but they who wait for the Lord shall renew their strength They shall mount up with wings like eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. We spend so much time worshiping the Lord in the lower story. And yet he's the Lord of the temple. Upper and lower. Question. Hopefully I got an answer. But yeah, just to um clarify it, I I remember um several years a w years ago reading Some or All of Total Truth by Nancy Pearcey as he goes through the upper and lower stories. So the if I can remember the upper story are the things as a believer that we inspire to believe And the the lower is where we is what we actually functionally believe in our Christian life. So our sanctification is that we're trying to I guess integrate and not have a separation between what we aspire to believe, but to actually functionally live that out as a discipline So we're it's it's combining combining the two that it's not just an aspiration, it's actually what we functionally believe That is a fair summary of Nancy Pearcy's Total Truth. Francis Schaefer takes it further and really applies it better to this idle concept. This concept of God that we have this concept of God that we create Versus the concept truth of God That we obey. So it's very similar. It's very similar, but it's more comprehensive. Um yeah, I think that's all I'll say about that. But you did well summarize Nancy Pearcy's use of Francis Schaefer's metaphor in Total Truth. When we make less of God, we will make less of the people upon whom his image is imprinted. I already talked to you about the dignity stuff, and that's where I'll stop with that one. My way of thinking about this, literally my way of thinking about this, um, or excuse me, uh this is like a a a theoretical statement. My way of thinking about whatever this happens to be in my life, or my community's way of thinking about whatever this happens to be in my life, is the only or right way This makes me me or man the final authority. That's the reductionism I can comprehend it, I agree with it, it makes sense to me, it achieves the end that I want, or I can find a community of people to agree with me as well. And by the way, this this is really where we struggle as Christians. I can find a church who will say the things that I once said, that I agree with That that make me feel okay about myself. That agree with my concept of God. That demands nothing of me in exchange, or very little of me, or only those things which I am willing to surrender So we look in and we look around and we have all this man-centered stuff going on instead of looking up. Principle three, test the idol. Does it contradict what we know about the world? Again, Nancy Pearcy is focusing on those outside the church. She limits her arguments to general revelation and thus the world. But the same rules apply to Christians who have special revelation, the world of God's kingdom. Does does my idol Does my philosophy, does my concept of God agree with special revelation? Not can I pick a verse out of the Bible that happens to say what I want to say? The Bible says the Lord is gentle and lowly. The Bible also says the Lord should be feared, and that we will all stand in judgment and give account for all things that we have done. The Bible says there is no condemnation in Christ, and the Bible says put away every wicked sin and pursue the holiness without which you will not see God. Which of those are you choosing? Well this one fits my concept of God and the other does not, and so here's my new concept of God. I'm sorry. Not given to you. That's an idol. Well, how do I reconcile them all? There are some I have not figured out, and I have chosen to try to obey them both. You might think that when a theory is contradicted by persistent experiences that just don't go away, that should count as evidence against the theory. I can make that super personal. I believe everything that I am saying to you and have ever said to you. I would not stand up here and tell you a thing that I do not personally feel convicted about from my studies of God's Word. And I study, study, study of God's Word. And I never stand up here without spending significant time in God's Word trying to understand what message He has for us from His Word, not my brain. And yet I find myself ungrateful. And that ungratefulness does not accord with the truth that I know about God. So what's wrong? I have an idol somewhere. Where? Or I have idols somewhere. Where? Idols about success, right? Idols about authority, idols about manhood, idols about Honor, idols about approval of wife and sons and church and community and professionals. My concept of the world is clearly wrong because I know that my God is infinitely sovereign over everything and a thousand percent good. Who condemns ungratefulness in the strongest of terms, and in Deuteronomy promises an amazing curse that will not relent in its pursuit of me If I will serve him, if I serve him with a grumbling heart. It contradicts my worldview. That's I I never understand why you guys let me come back and teach the next week after all my confessions. I feel like somebody should send an elder my way and be like, you're done Most, according to Schaefer, simply live inconsistently by avoiding the consequences that their physician and reason lead to. No one can live inside the limited box of an idol-based worldview. You just can't. It leads to frustration and and everything else, and it really leads This principle for is test the idol, does it contradict itself? My worldview begins to contradict itself when I see that dichotomy between what I believe and and how I feel and how I act and how it affects other people. And she calls it, I don't think I wrote it in here because I was afraid of being offensive to somebody, but she so she basically says, when that happens, our our philosophy commits suicide. Whether we think it out loud or when we just live it out in our lives, God dies He may have been real in the past, he he may be real again in the future, but for right now he must be deaf, dumb, and blind or dead. Because I am not experiencing the truths that I see written in the scriptures. In my own life, I find it impossible to walk every step of every day ungrateful. And I can't keep going in that contradiction. I I I I just can't. You know, Scott, the more I found out the more I build you study scripture and we know who I truly am. And uh sometimes you know we don't want to see that. And to be honest, sometimes we may want to flow over the place. In short, their practice contradicts what they profess. They are trapped in a cognitive dissonance. The best parallel in scriptures to this is the double-mindedness of James one eight. What's my objective for Principle four? That we would develop a passion for knowing the total truth of God develop a reverential fear of creating a simplistic idol of God that is the result of looking in or looking around instead of looking up This lesson is short because we've really covered most of it in principles two and three already. And so I've stitched together a flow of thought out of the book here And it's simply this. Until roughly the 1930s, American higher education was based on what we explicitly call the unity of truth We taught people to unify truth, to not live with a contradiction, to not live with an upper story and a lower story. It had to be unified truth It couldn't be private and public. It had to be all. It couldn't be sacred and secular. It had to be all. I needed a unified truth. And they have given up the ideal of the unity of truth. And it's leading to a st a two-story truth, which the metaphor came from two books that Schaefer wrote. Which creates a fact-value split, which Nancy pursues much more in-depth in a book called Saving Leonardo, which I would highly recommend. Values are things like ideas and morals and spiritual realities or realms and they are somehow disconnected from facts. We convince ourselves that we can watch in the public media whatever we want. And still maintaining separate morals because it's in a box. It's behind the screen. It doesn't matter what I watch there or what I listen to. Music doesn't matter. Beauty doesn't matter. Modesty is a thing of preference. Feminism and masculinity are all things that we use as social discourse and social achievement, and they have little to do with our lives in Christ. Separate and compartmentalized What we spend most of our money on, what we spend most of our time on, what we study, what we appreciate. A fact dichotomy split, and we tend to live more in the facts side. We define ourselves more as Americans from Maryland Republican or Democrat, did we do us in Christ? Amen. We experience our culture as fragmented. We live on bits of meaning and lack the overall vision that holds them together in a whole Women, would one of you someday give me a holistic philosophy Of your identity in Christ as educated, intelligent, dignified, majestic, regal mothers, wives, professionals Most of you, and this isn't an insult, I couldn't do it. Most of you could not synthesize your sexuality, your gender. your body image, your career, your professionalism. You could not take the rules of your life and synthesize them in a manner that you know would honor honor the Lord. Honor and glorify, I mixed that up and got honorify, sorry. To glorify the Lord. And men, the only reason I didn't ask you that question is I'm not sure you're thinking at all half the time. I go to work, I make money. You have so much that is on your shoulders. So much you will give an account for How would you unify the truth of Christ in your life as a father and a husband and a servant and a minister and a caretaker and a steward of community? We experience our culture as fragmented. We live on bits of meaning and lack the overall vision. Don't panic, I'm gonna let you go. And then for those of us in the room that are feeling defensive I I only can do what I do with myself We suppress the truth by unrighteousness. We have exchanged the glory of God for images. We have exchanged the truth about God for a lie. And Paul follows up with a stop looking out there, because you, the judge, practiced the very same things. He will render to each one according to his works. To those who by patience and well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality, and to those who are self-seeking. Notice that Where did all those idols come from? They came from looking in and looking around, not looking up. And who gets judged here in a negative way? Those who are self-seeking, who look in and look around, because looking around affirms me. Looking around shows me how to fit in with this culture. That's still self-seeking. To those who are self-seeking and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath and fury. And let God's true word be true, and every man a liar. And if you are sure that you yourself are a guide to the blind, a light to those who are in darkness, an instructor of the foolish, a teacher of children, having in the law the Embodiment of knowledge and truth. Remember, this is in Romans, a New Testament passage, so don't get carried away. In the law, the embodiment of knowledge and truth. You then who teach others Do you not teach yourself you who abhor idols? You who abhor idols Do you teach yourself to identify them, test them, and then as Chester will speak about next week, replace them. Not just destroy them, but replace them. With Christ on the throne. Lord, I will confess that I do not feel that I did an appropriate job today to convey the conviction And so I will just trust you to be gracious and um my brothers and sisters in Christ out here to exercise some Pity and some insight, and hopefully your words as I read them from the scriptures and quoted them here at the end will be useful for your glory. Please, Lord, make us a people that love you and pursue you and cast out idols. In your name I pray, amen.