So this week after I left um from last Sunday, my mind was just on you all and I think something we should be aware of as Christians is uh scientism, science as a religion, and how it purports it it's totally against the creed of wisdom And everything can be explained through natural causes and science. And one is when you study theology and you dig deep into the Word. Even the if the contradiction is true, mine is still true. Right, there's no purpose, it's just matter. We have to be able to explain all of life's events. Huh? First Peter three fifteen. But it's to use the truth of God in a queer way to persuade somebody as to why the God we believe in is the true God And the young lady obvious she attends Howard University, so her views are very different than a lot of us here at hope in terms of when a child is a child an actual child The ultimate reality of matter, the uncreated first cause of everything, it denies the existence of anything beyond the material world, such as soul, spirit, and God. And and so mature matter is just matter and it's happenstance and there's no ultimate And uh the Genesis one account of creation. And what he just said, it's a group of um astrophysics and other scientists that believe in theistic evolution. And salvation and sanctification. are self-defeating. projects to my plan or the way I can understand it again obsessed, right? offer, we're going with materialism. free will or free agency or however you want to define that at that point in time. But I just want you to see that it's when we don't serve Christ rightly, that those all get out of control. It does. in your church and in your community. in two practical aspects for us uh for applications, practical applications. And so we're not reductionists. Scott, I know this is fresh in your mind. with God. It's just set by chemical and biological matter in motion. romanticist or an i i idealist, nietzchee was fatalistic. So basically what what we're doing is testing the worldview against the uh our worldview, the the the church worldview, the biblical worldview. And that's essentially what the principle three was about. And what we've been doing while we're going through the scriptures is testing the worldview against what we know about the Bible. They say they serve the Lord, but they divide their days so as to leave plenty of time to play and loaf and enjoy the pleasures of the world as well. And then we eventually get to it and last week we talked about reductionism and how it dehumanizes us and we'll get to that again today. Pull the child out and the hands and legs are actually sticking outside the body and they inject the needle in the back of the head and sorry for those of you that have never heard that it's a little graphic and I know but that's the truth of it It's a woman's right to choose. We'll see how when we base these idols against the Word of God, how they're defeated, which is the third principle. Okay, so identify the idol. Give us what we call the Goldilocks theory, the fine-tuning where everything that we have on earth to sustain life is perfectly in line with what we need, with what our body needs Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. as prepared as I can for you as I continue to train. I'm somebody that can be sensitive based on how people look at me, based on how people treat me, and regardless if it's things that happened in my past or not I get impacted by that even as a grown man, based on how people treat me. And I kept asking my people, how's your day going? to destroy our minds. We have a well ready response that is rooted in the Word of God, not in our own understanding. reconcile the two and so what a lot of times people will do is they'll um they'll compartmentalize it and they'll have one view what she calls upstairs And I turned around and I said to her, Well, the good thing is you didn't pay for it yet. And so uh this is something I think something to be mindful of, like we need to be mindful of, because our our society being secular embraces materialism and embraces scientism and they don't realize it's a religion. What we're doing in the notes that we have for you all. I think China and Japan, don't quote me on this, I don't have the stats, but they're starting to um age out, aren't they? cannot explain that. to test these idols. to lean on our own understanding. create the gods of your own reason and when it conflicts that it reveals actually how rationalism plays out in my life. If it's not based in God's word, it is not true. is contrary to what God has for them. The more I know about God, the more confident I become in His Word, and the I look forward to speaking with people. What's wrong with thou shalt not murder? Uh Scott alluded to that and we I think everybody now understands what reductionism and how it dehumanizes us and it makes us um puts us in a box where it just looks at the materialistic part That's the image of God, but oftentimes we allow people to continue to sin and continue to live a life that is contrary to God and say, Well, that's the image of God The world could disrespect me, call me whatever, walk by me, I hold the door for you, you walk by, don't say nothing. To help you get closer to God and to identify some things that are impacting your life, that is keeping you away from God, so that you can get closer to God, so he can be pleased with you They want to use this to justify their sins, to suppress the knowledge of God, as Nancy Pirate points out from um Romans one, and just so that the things that have happened to me are not the result of my choices, it was meant to be. Tear down arguments of every p presumption and idea taken to be true set up against the knowledge of God. If you're checking me out You gotta go for the better term. uh Alex and everybody else that contributed today. Rationalism, idol, reductionism, materialism, secularism, atheism, which stems from um Nancy Pearcy's book, talking about five principles for unmasking these idols. You're not gonna get far. that we interact with. Whenever you leave my house, you're gonna leave with a gift, the gospel, whether you want it or not. In this situation, they do the opposite. What is an idol? It can be an abstract item or it can be a a thought, right? The problem is what created matter? sit in it and meditate on it and ponder on his word and then you just see how caring and loving how good he is to you. Hey, how you doing? We cling to the word, we sit in it, we meditate on it day and night because we know that it is only his word that will defeat these idealistic views, not our own arguments with these idols and uh it's even covered in the church. Where you have two worldviews and your life doesn't necessarily line up with your philosophy. Whether it's like matter and things like that, then the um things that they cannot explain spirituality and stuff, they'll just throw in the basement and say that it's an illusion, it doesn't matter. Scott made mention of it a few weeks ago but he he he talked about having to write things down. It's just a matter of sitting down, going through the references, and meditating on it. Be fruitful, multiply, flourish. And Jesus being both God and man simultaneously. He talks about the denial of Jesus being being um coming from the virgin birth. Um arriba at the truth through reason and what that had a spur that spun is relativ relativism. For you I wait all day long. He stated that he had prayed to God about his marriage, he had turned to God, he had waited on God, and nothing happened Proverbs 2. in government and religious people begin killing themselves because they're not doing what Christ would have them to do. Now we move to uh the secularistic worldview. school in the public in the public square where there are books that are not appropriate for them to be looking at but there's no issues with that. And not the spiritual part, but uh Rosario uh alludes to it in her book um for a concept of um dualism, you know. When I stand behind Christ and he looks at me and he takes away all my sins and washes me clean and makes me new again, I'm regenerated. Yes, they were created, but until they turn to Christ, that image is marred. But I I know I don't want to be a hypocrite. And you don't have to answer, is this a suggestion or a command? Because sometimes when we proclaim what we believe, they're gonna hold us accountable to it. we don't study enough or spend enough time with God. We're parading the wicked and celebrating. And we need to pull back and allow God to use us to guide people towards him. The heart is deceitful. the understanding in the relic, how do we share in our own words once we gain that understanding to somebody else so that they may go out. young young uh teenagers with the confusion of I think even now elementary school are being in the in the public square is being presented with So we need to be able to understand each of the words and how they refute these ideologies that are being presented to our children and even to our to adults. When you don't understand what something is, you're just gonna go along with it. Idol, reductionism, materialism, secularism. how does it bring it down to to uh to a view where we can now have partial birth abortion then people are okay with that. Revelation 4. ooze and all that nonsense. But they have a lot of belief in things they cannot prove. He formed it to be inhabited. And last week I had mentioned test yourself and the only way that you could truly test yourself is staying in the word. Your last time vote it really Pierce does a little Pearcy vote, just in case you don't know is very academic. There are certain books in our children's schools. Exod okay, I already read that earlier. We don't have his incommunical attributes which are omnipotent, omnipresent, omniscient, you know. what they know about God, they'll s reject it because it does not align with their views as opposed to conform their mind, conform their life to that of God. And so if you're living with your idols and people are seeing that, they get confused The way that we interact with each other, the way that we care for one another. Hopefully next week we're better. with our spot in the decay into obliteration. But was to see if she was going to be bold for her faith, but it looked like she was hesitant to respond to me because she didn't know what God I believed in No, no, I said, do you believe in God? Quote here that I want to close to me. We have the grammar which we're which is the knowledge, which is the words. As Nancy mentioned, there are a lot of isms out there. Take a minute or two and see if you can match up the um the definitions to the terms. oxygen and everything. Sorry. the what we want to be mindful of is as we're reading God's Word, do we believe that this is the inspired, inerrant word of God? Oftentimes I see Christians going out into the world and they're like frustrated and upset and mad because somebody's not receiving their words. Not your own understanding. My problems don't supersede God's faithfulness and when I meditate on him, all these problems are minuscule. Come up with uh there being a family. Okay. Because you can't rationalize or have or reason with that how is a child implanted inside a woman without Teach me, for you are the God of my salvation. But you really see the idol in our lives when God does not give us what we want, when we want, how we want it. Man. doing a great job applying it to us here now and Tether and I'm sorry about it. But I I just reformation happens, religion is the solution to all things kind of fire that it dictates science and education. We turn to Neoplatonism or Romanticism, ideas. Purpose without a person. regaining some divinity of some sort that we lost. But because he said it, it is. Okay. But you want to put the Ten Commandments up and you're having legislation aimed at you and looking to be sued because you want to put the Ten Commandments up The goal should be using this this um this uh concept right here, grammar, logic, and rhetoric, to lead them to truth We're made in a physical body. He's no longer God. And so when God looks at the world, a world that rejects him, that is not the image of God. But that's the view that grown adults that are aware that know that they're sinning Scottish chest, I need your help here, to be clear. And I looked at it and said, No, no, no, it's not him, it's me. No, I've been in a relationship for uh five years and I said, Oh, what's wrong with him? I will proclaim his name because he is not ashamed of him, so I will not be he is not ashamed of me, so I will not be ashamed of him. And so, why am I sharing this? But forget who the source is. Honor Christ as Lord, always being prepared. But if you're not able to properly share with somebody in a coherent, concise, and in a conviction manner what they mean different ideologies that we would have never thought of when I was growing up and yeah, that was a while ago, but not that long ago. And so I began to take it through the process of abortion and what early stage abortion was, what And I said, Hmm, I have four kids, I don't think so. But okay, at least you acknowledge that it's murder. Now her worldview will partially be hopefully more in line with our worldview as opposed to as opposed to the secular worldview. So now as we move to the second part of the questions, I wanted to use this part not only for the review but also because it fits into what we're doing today, which is the third principle. for unmasking idols and atheism and secularism. In the beginning, God created. You're trying to fight the world on your own strength. I mean if from that CSS world view to reconcile to the Bible, they gotta come up with a whole list of things just to make it Yeah, you're trying to make it work. Against the materialistic worldview is Isaiah 4518. Um America itself is responsible for the whole global warming. Okay. Sounds good? It's uh it can't be explained rationally with a human human mind or for salvation or any other uh act of God in But I don't condemn you like no you're not true. Now he has just come to the faith. Trust me, staying in his word is for your benefit. I see somebody with all this philosophy and all these fancy words coming at me. Especially lead them to God, your God, my God, the only God that can provide them salvation and redeem them. And uh Nancy Pearcy alludes to it and says, um, if you're a redemptionist, then why is it that you have so much love and care and affection for your child Again, in their own homes, these people that adopt these idols, by their action, they're defeating it. You realize how special that is. How serious are you taking your walk with God? And everything is determined by an outside force and even the decisions that we're gonna that we're gonna make. Um where if everything is determined pretty much uh you go into a restaurant, uh I'm I'm trying to paraphrase, if everything is determined we don't have decisions, we don't make decisions. No need to hand out a menu. If that's true, pretty much all materialists will tell you they can't explain intelligence, consciousness, and morality, because those don't exist as matter. All right. Which deny or reject the knowledge of God. She said, No, I'm not married. And just accept I believe in God. The idols of the world, but the idols in our lives. materialism matter and they have no value and you see what the result of that is in the world. The reason why I was on you all is because I wanted to make sure that the individuals that left this class left with something meaningful Marshall Hand. It is gonna be pretty difficult to convey the truth of God to anybody. And um as they were wat looking at their watch and they wanted to leave. Um partial birth abortion. And her mouth just dropped. Reductionism. When you identify an idol with optionism is how does that idol reduce or dehumanizes our worldview or people? How does that idol match up or fit up a uh stand up against the Christian worldview? Yeah, so essentially matter is taking the place of God. I have a couple scripture references here for us to go through. Do we believe that this is the Word of God and that it is true, that it is perfect, and that it's not been corrupted as the world tries to tell us? If we truly believe that and truly have that in our heart and truly know that God has these words for us for our own benefit, then the way we approach these idealistic views will be a lot different. I'm not upset. He says he formed the earth and made it. They have more older people than than younger people. the natural prophets. Okay. Truth. Well when so when somebody talks about receiving God, I get excited about that, but of course we have to test them. You know what he says now? When you're not truly rooted in God's word, disappointment will pull you from God So stand up against this this rationalistic st uh viewpoint, thinking that you could reason your way and that you can make your own truth because it will lead you into despair, it will pull you away from God, and that is what is happening with the world now So I at least don't lose that as we go through some of the academic stuff. And you don't see the good in it. I um not sure if you all are familiar with a um Australian um apologist by the name of M Martin Awes. When God created you, he looked at you, Adam, and he said, It's good. That image, that good image, that Genesis 127 image that we often think of was marred. The image of God is somebody that is trying and striving to live through his son and has stood behind Jesus and the blood that he shed for you and said, This is the only way that I can stand present before you, God. Do we say, Lord, help me to be your hands and feet to my brother and sister so that I can be your perfect image? Chester and I've had this colleagues and I I go to him um sometimes and I walk through the halls. You take time out from your busy day or your week knowing that a prayer came through um hope book. Or knowing that somebody's in trouble. I was really bothered because I wasn't unsure if anybody walked out with some of the things that I was saying. might be the only Bible somebody ever reads. His power and him in you that will transform you and that will allow you to reflect him to the word to the world So what's the problem with this? We're almost done. My wife had to leave early this morning and uh go do something. Stop! Have the blessed for you. Because we accept that nowadays. So I said, I believe in God too. They are they are at ease while the world burns. Get in the scripture. For his use. He's still done more for you than you are aware of just by being here. Because there's nothing else that they could do to to earn funds to eat and to do things. Eleven weeks look like, what twenty weeks look like, and then I brought up a term that she had never heard of, and I don't know if any of you had heard have heard of it in this room. The view that God does not exist. But don't realize how it contri contradicts things like the flood. that God used evolution to bring about everything we see. how Christ is God and man. And ra but rational the rational mind cannot do that. And I was like, why are you ashamed? What does the view of materialism say? But I felt sad for um Kanye West who I was excited for him And so because nothing happened when he wanted, how he wanted, he turned his back on God. And my heart breaks for them. Or are we reducing one another just a simple email? The whole goal of this class that Chester and Scott and myself is teaching is to equip you and to give you tools So that you can represent to the best of your ability to the world that does not know him. Brothers and sisters, you are the light of the world. A few uh a few weeks ago. Defend, protect, and preserve the faith. But it's replacing what God says with what the world says. Because I could have been them still stuck. So you're gonna have the first question. And so when we approach people like this again, let's not approach them with the mindset of just defeating their argument. God breathed his breath into us and made us sentient. Oh, it's not easy. Again you don't have to answer. Mind. Events and or acts are the results of some condition or decision before them governed by casual laws, meaning there is no free will. That's the result of people adopting a reductionist worldview and and allowing within their psyche for them to accept that, okay, this is okay because they've allowed that reductionist view to enter their mind. And by your will they existed and were created. The lack of diligence have met have found a middle ground between uh materialism and you know the earth formed out of earth life came out of a free free mortality He is above all. Humans are the source of reason and truth. Makes us to be God. Maybe just me? I mean I don't know about you but when somebody says they find Jesus I get I get happy I'm joyful. And while at the same time maintain the same life that he was living. I wish we as Christians would be able to approach them with a loving, caring spirit, rooted in our word, and give them and give them truth and reason with love so that they know that their ways and that the way that they're going. So rationalism, reason becomes the idol in our lives. It is the effect of you not handling the scriptures and your God in the way that he intended you to. I don't know what state it is. And despite us knowing that, I know I do, I pull away from him at times because I'm focused on my idols. I do have expectations. But he breathed into you. That the th that decision was already predetermined by outside forces, not you. Matter is it. Be purposeful. It is not pretty right now. It's him and as I began and as I continue to think about you all, something came to mind which I learned uh a few years ago, which was who's seen this before? Um why pardon me. So there's a little bit of a distinction there, although they both kind of fall under a similar problem. Um I didn't realize time was running by. A worker who would not need be ashamed rightly handling the word of truth. Only you know whether you did or not based on the review that we'll go through. We talked about it last week and this is why we're going through this so I can have clarity. You gotta be reading the word. Um I I heard this this term a lot. Our idols, whatever they may be. But that's a lot of us. I could do whatever I want to. And that completely goes against what we're mandated to do. So why tet why test in the worldview matters? But when I am confronted, like you said earlier, with the truth of his word, and I see that in my everyday life I lead on my own understanding, I plan my way out, and when doesn't go up Don't do this. Um and so and so I had sh when I um asked her what's taking 'em she said, I don't wanna um get married and I've been down uh that been down this road before and I said, you know God What's another okay. By faith we understand that the universe was formed at God's command. Angela just talks about how when she's planning out and things don't work out her way, she can get a little frustrated, you know? 6, for the Lord gives wisdom. And so again, lean out on your own understanding. Last script I have a uh I'm not gonna go through all the scriptures, but I do have references for you all in your paper. Lead me in your truth and teach me, for you are the God of my salvation. Is it that early? My heart breaks when I um see young people talking about um I can live however I want to. And if he were, I mean like he would essentially equate us within, which isn't possible. Even if you're in here this morning and you haven't fully given your life to Jesus Christ So if it was matter then how did that happen? 11, worthy are you, O Lord, and God, to receive glory and honor and power, for you created all things, including matter. And so they would deny that. So right now what we're doing is we're using what she calls um from from Romans one, the things that which we know about God. But it's interesting just because it's easy for me to look at the world and see how this plays out, but I just rereading through Proverbs, right? What is it? Because when you go out to the world and you tell people that you're Christian, the way that you live is a reflection of God. No. Secularism is the view that man does not need God. And you would have thought that they uh that they're putting explicit material in there, the way that people reacted. Genesis 2 7, God breathed into man and man became a living being. Idols pulls us away from what God wants us to do and what he intends for us. No need to hand out amend you and you could just say just mend me whatever is determined. If you're not, I truly don't know if you understand the magnitude of what he's done for you and me. I had um two cousins stop by on yesterday and the rule in my house is Who can tell me what an idol is week from week one? He wants you to be married. How is rationalism an idol? And so that's why I'm taking you through these scriptures. And that's where it affects me personally. Like there's no God, but there's purpose. We talked about that last week. Abortion can happen at any stage. And we're supposed to serve the the Lord with all our heart, all our soul and all our minds. Am I the only one that's been degenerated? They're gonna create their own God. If you could remind me the quote that um Nancy Pearcy said about the restaurant. You're gonna feel defeated. Anything in the created order that is elevated to the status of the divine. We are human. Not got kids. Yep. Amen. All the time. I don't know how long he was in the faith. So study, use your mind to tear down arguments against the knowledge of God in this um in this world. Put in your hearts honor Christ as Lord honor Christ the Lord as holy, always being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks for a reason for the hope that is in you. You're trying to suppress the truth and come up with a what they called a few years ago alternative facts. He is God. We're our own God. So I don't have to be accountable because there's no purpose. Why is the view of determinism an idol? Yes sir. Uh I believe it's the King James uh translation. The view claimed that all events, specifically decisions of man, are governed by casual laws I'm not bothered. If it's not based in God's word, then it is not true. And so I have Psalm 41. Exodus twenty-three, you shall have no other God before me. I start off I always start off that way. Amen. I just wear this to keep guys awake. Who can tell me in a clear manner what that means to identify an ideal reductionism? Again, if you just walk into the class, sit down for an hour, walk out, a lot of times we're not gonna remember every single thing. And you say, yes, you would, and you keep it from. No creative purpose, no creative act, no creative intelligence. Place that God is uh taking all creation and all mankind. It's not rational. Like, Lord help me. He wants you to be happy. It has always been difficult to understand those who evang those evangelical Christians who insist upon living in the crisis as if no crisis existed We have it here, identify the idols, reductionism, how it dehumanizes us. How you doing? And so as we go through this and um in a couple weeks, I'm not sure if it's Chester Scott that'll be teaching it, uh Nancy Pearcy takes us through how the um idols Matter, physics, science becomes the guide. We do have value. Human reason is the source and the standard of all truth. But the only way that you're going to be able to do that is if you are in the word yourself Um as I'm going through this, I find myself a lot in the word because I wanna be Um I think it's Louisiana or something. That's why we test the worldviews. No, you're gonna take twenty minutes. You've identified the the idol. It's very covered from the church with a lot of Christians who believe in a old earth but still believe in a Genesis one account. No, it's if you mention the name of Jesus, my hope is that you mentioning the name of Jesus will bring you to his word and then his truth will be revealed and you'll be transformed. I'm my God. Um explaining a more complex event or occurrence in a simpler, less complex manner. And it's it's definitely a fact for the church. He established it. Now if you focus on that word inhabited, what does that mean? It's subjective. All the time. Until we think rightly about who we are before the Lord and who he is in our lives A limitative materialism is deterministic. God said, not matter said, God said, let there be light. Right? But you have to take Christ with childlike faith and say, I know this will be good somehow, and I cannot see it today. He could have just left you as dirt. It's contrary to what we know. I pray that um you all walk out of here understanding why it's important that we identify idols And so Christianity to somebody that holds those views is essentially a false gospel. Well said thank you for the comments. Make sure you don't miss any of my classes. And she was checking me out in the um not that way, my wife. I know I don't want to say one thing to you and do another and live a life that's completely contrary to what I'm saying. Proverbs 28:4. We believe that there is a God. This lady even dropped um a candle right by my foot But sometimes because we're not confident in what we believe and we're not in our words ourselves, we just pull away when we see things like this As Christians, we have to have a strong palate for mystery. Right. Use it. We feel like we're about to sin or we're about to fall and we want to hide that. The scriptures will highlight them. It's like if I said, oh, is rationalism an idol in your life? Whatever that issue may be, whether it be bills, financial, or in the hospital. Where the Bible says in the beginning God created those that have this materialistic view would say matter created, but People bothered thought something was wrong with me. Which is what we've been doing. Because they do not bring glory to God. This is what happens when you turn to um circular worldviews as opposed to um submitting to God's mandate to go out there be fruitful to multiply So that's romanticism. You're going to enjoy those idols. But one of the things that I notice is as I go out into the world, there's a joy in my heart. That there's we have these strong brothers who have fun the middle ground with with these materialisms For his mouth come knowledge and understanding. I have to understand the doctrine of concurrence. But the reductionists wherever he just says we're just computers. Yes sir. And I said to her, Do you are you a Christian? Idols do nothing but pull you away from God and blind you of his goodness. Anyone, anything that replaces God in your life can become an idol How is it an idol to us? And there are believing Christians, even good scholars and theologians, who have And the way that we as a church test these idols is through the Word of God. It's objective, not objective at all, right? Well you all just hang around the right people so you don't deal with that. And God promises He works all things to good for those who love Him. We have a physical body. God is not judgmental. Um if you guys could um jump down to uh why test of worldview matters. Do you believe in God? But I share that story to say that when you don't have proper understanding of terms and definitions But these worldviews are contrary to that. And not to get too graphic, partially Yep. I am the way, the truth, and the life. It cannot say I will trust it defeats faith. Um they're they're they're similar with the living in My guy has a son. But she walked out of there in addition to the gospel, knowing what some are advocating out there Okay. And so all of reality is moving towards this purpose, which is That is more classical fatalism versus I just don't have any free will, so everything's been determined You're gonna wanna just turn around and leave the room and feel and not really have the impact that I feel like Christ wants you to have. Genesis 127, God created us in his image I wanted to get to this before we left. Now is this for my brothers and sisters in here, when you read that And and and I saw and I saw a ring on her finger and I said, um, how long you been married? And you know, like I said, when you come in my house you're leaving with the gospel And there are problems in my life. We are able to think, we're able to process, we're able to love, we're able to be kind. He put his spirit into you. Are you scared? In Haitians sometimes I think we take the luxuries that we have here in America for granted. Those are idols. The fool says in his heart, there is no God. I I hope it's not going off the subject, but what's the difference between fatalism and determinism? It's all thrown out. I make my way. Because before I shared that with her, she was one of those individuals that said You all were already in the glorification phase? Go and make disciples. Romanticism puts it back in and turns it into some sort of You have you identified the ducks how the idol is a deductionist in terms of how it dehumanizes and and um takes God out of the picture I said, Oh. If I'm paying you for something at the store there we go. But that is not enough for me. We test the world views so we can know what they're saying, so we can lead people back to Christ. Has anybody ever heard that? Trust in the Lord. He did not create a hemp, he formed it to be inhabited And that in those questions that the X-Rex questions that rooted out like it's your plan, the way that you think this out and you c And she said, Yes, I believe in God. First thing was identify the idol. And by that faith we understand that the universe was formed at God's command. But he felt like God was supposed to be his genie. And I can't remember what you just said, but you provoked that. So should you. Shine it. We settle for that nowadays. But when I delve into the word of God and I continue to The flood isn't possible with the boulders and so on and so forth Secularists aim to eliminate any religious affiliation from society. Are you identifying the idols in your life so that you could ridden written them? The fatalistic view I believe is um Does your guy have a son? I um downloaded some of um the class from last semester, I think the apologetic mine and I started reading some of it and I believe the theme was And we can see them. God created Adam and Eve, but there were other people already on the earth And out of romanticism comes relativism and postmodernism and whatever we're in today that's beyond even those. This is the um fourth class. Or some that I grew up with will say, Well, I'm a product of my environment. Matthew twenty two thirty-seven, you shall love the Lord your God, we talked about this earlier, with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your And so what is right to me may be wrong to you, but I'm okay to do it even though you're not okay with me doing it to you. John 14, 6. We cannot reconcile pure materialism and determinism with our experience as human Well, I say our children, the God's children's Your heart should break for them. I'm not I'm not a hundred percent sure, but they're looking to put the Ten Commandments back in the um public schools. She said, That's murder. Stay in your word. Those who forsake instruction praise the wicked. Yes. All that is the image of God Yes, Anthony? I think uh just a breach is when the doctor is trying to turn the child around because the child is facing the wrong direction, but Lean not on your own understanding. He tells us that in Exodus 20, I am the Lord your God, you should have no other God before me. But that's not all we have. Yes sir. It's a little bit of a difficult list in retrospect, sorry guess, um, to to move from the book to a a lesson that's difficult to us here We're made in the image of God, we're made in the image of God, we're made in the image of God. Everything is just tending towards obliteration, and we have to sit in the midst of that and cope courageously. I have family members that my wife and I have to support. I was like, Okay, I gotta get in there. 2 Corinthians 4. That's the defense. I'm speaking to you, I'm looking at myself and I'm I'm convicted with some of the words I'm saying. That's determinism. I don't have it here. And the scriptures will help you get rid of them. Okay, last scripture I have for um Again, as I mentioned earlier, I just pull away. And so we test that against the Word of God, and again it fails for us that are Christians. Uh Alice, I'm sorry. Why is the view of determinism an idol? We don't boldly go out there and proclaim Are you excited to share him? We have the knowledge, the use of the words. Mm-hmm. And some of us, maybe not in this class, have flags because it's a nice thing to do Because we're just concerned about ourselves. The total elimination of religion from society, the view man does not need God. They're they're denying God, they're reducing God to a materialistic view and therefore matter is taking the place of God and therefore that's how it is an idol. What's the problem with that? You have to throw you have to throw that out. Who could tell me what the ultimate reac So we've identified them. Who can what's the definition of rationalism? So the vr first of all, the virgin birth uh cannot be believed or trusted For you I wait all day long I make my path. All have sinned and falling short of the glory of God. For you I wait all day long. But because God didn't give him what he wanted. She came back. Identify the idols And how could matter And this this major contradiction as you know and everything. And I'm gonna skip down but we'll uh and jump back up because Kirk mentioned it. No one comes to the Father except through half of you all. But if I don't know much about God and Think about that. I don't feel like I did a good job last week. I need I need twenty seconds. But Nancy Pearcy goes um does it from Romans one. Study to show yourself approve. Okay? Smiled, picked it up, and just kept moving and but I got in the car and I just sat for a moment. Another I guess um some important things that would be wrong with rationalism is the the denial of the supernatural Okay. Okay, so you wanna lock the blessing that God may have for you? I have um I had all four of my kids with me and go through the grocery store There's a lot of things that I'm going through. The Word of God gives us patience to endure, to wait, to trust in Him. But some people they're like, no, I have to understand They also reduce the human being. Yeah. So you're it's like your life is living one way but your mind is telling you something else and you're trying to No. Materialism, by the way, pulls all purpose out of everything. What makes the reductionist view an idol? Was I clear, was I coherent? But the word will convict you. Materialism is a is a lie from the from Satan. That quickly fails because of determinism, because our experiences that we do exercise consciousness and It's not allowed. And we're gonna have to walk a certain way. We can't call each other anymore. Before I left. For thus says the Lord who created the heavens, he is God. I don't know how that is, but we're not supposed to have any other kids. It's the Lord that gives us wisdom. If this is the um as I mentioned, if this is the case, we're not responsible for our sins Yeah, um and the book Nancy Pearcy calls it uh cognizant dissidence. You have to be purposeful about writing it down so that you can follow through with it. That's a big one here in America and most everywhere else. And Christ even says that. Well it depends if they're having an abortion or not. We also have a spirit. Well I do. I said, do you think this is how God wants you to represent him? We see it in the news, we see it with people we interact with. Um we don't have those, but we we we can feel with a sense and though God like God doesn't he put his feelings into us Because we don't make decisions. If there's no consciousness, then there's no free will. God is loving. The way that we treat each other. 2 Timothy 2, 15 to 16. Don't forget that. Now You had a comment earlier, I apologize. Just material. I believe in Jesus Christ who died and gave himself for me. And so they sat there, smiled, entertained them, even poured them two cups of orange juice And it's only the truth of God that will help them to get back to the image that reflects God. 16. By the time she came back I thought like s I can't even count how many times I saw the four kids You look forward to making disciples if I know I would, the more trained I get Yeah there it goes. Which Kirk? My my the h the hope and the goal is that you will actually go home, take some time and meditate on what we're um Psalm 25, 5. And I know some of you have heard this before, but you But I always follow up, what God? Okay. I said, Now it's murder. I can't say it enough I am joyful when they say they find Jesus now we have to test their fruit. I am, Jesus says, the way, the truth, and the life. Is there's two I think I personally I see often two ways people stuck d uh fight rationalism they don't realize it It is a type of fatalism. And so we've been talking about in this right before determinism And it does have to be a so it doesn't have to be a physical item. I just don't myself around centers of foot you know, so you guys don't deal with that. Like anybody sitting in the room right now listening to the terms and going, this doesn't really apply to us It has to make sense to me. It's perfect before he committed sin. It's it's just The secularistic rope. Second Corinthians ten five eight. Rationalism, materialism Or we wanna be we want the world to be okay with us with that. And all these idols, all these isms and everything that Scott had mentioned and um Okay. You go out to the world and you're just like I would say, absolutely not. We get upset. And kids often do this. I'm just waiting. The second step was what? From what you gathered. You're judgmental. Help me out, Alex. Relativism. He goes to, this is what I want, and he gets it. So that you would be aware of him, so that you would know who he is, so you would stay close to him. Um Help those that are lost come to God. Okay. They say that we're polluting the planet and that What's the issue with that if we're the source of reason and truth? And so He says you have to have file-like faith to be my disciples, which means you're not going to understand it all. The other aspect is uh is when things happen, I think Angela touched on this, is we I I could be in the world. So she was packing up the stuff, she said Therefore we do not lose heart, though outwardly we are wasting away What is faith? Can anybody confirm that? It says study. And I don't know how many of you have gone home and really reflected on that. And that's why I want to make sure that we go through these words and we have a good understanding of what they are so that when we go into the world and we hear what they're saying to us It's the Lord that gives us knowledge. And God doesn't get glory from that. I mentioned some of you a little bit of my background, but I'm from Haiti And so I wake up every day grateful So now what these um questions will do as we go through them and through the scriptures Trust in the Lord. You cannot have a r overly rational mind and faith. But they just will not accept it. I don't see anywhere else in the Bible account where it tells us that God breathed into anything else. Was I concise? Okay. And she like looked around, yeah. And she said, no, that's called a breach. Life. And that's the explanation. Great. Thank you for that comment. Did yeah, did you did you or Chester read that And then it puts me in the place where I get to do everything 'cause I discover the processes of materialism. And because Alright, so if we don't have the grammar Because that's our worldview. Mm-hmm. We have his communicable attributes. No feelings. It is only Sometimes we're our idols. But the topic of abortion came up again, which is a hotly debated topic I'm waiting for the chairs to turn, I'm just looking at the body language 'cause they can't leave without getting the gospel to keep filling their plates up. Okay. So I'm holding myself accountable as well. And the goal is again not to go out and to be in battle and combat it with other people. So from week one, let's recap real quick. Oh, go ahead. Using these these these these worldviews, determinism, rationalism He could have made you like the animals, like the trees. And that is what's happening with, especially in this month. The word will purify you. Because God wants them to turn towards him. I guess ultimately it is there's no God in control who created all things. The enlightenment happens and says if that's the best religion can offer That's the problem. Different set of facts. Your truth is your truth. No. No, great job, great job. But And Martin came on stage and said We have to represent him. Don't put your light under a bowl They're they're having an issue with with uh birth rates. And or or heaven or earth. Love you too. You Captain Bett, I didn't do it If there's no free will, then you have no choices. You know, I know that God created the world in stupid Yeah, it it truth reveals the the idols in our lives And it will continue to play out in miniature in your home. Acknowledge Him. So those that are opposed, they're fools. They want God to conform to them and if He doesn't And when we reduce the human beings to just Life. Not just to send an email but to actually pick up the phone Who believes that? You look good. If you have them in your in your in your um lives Lead me in your truth It's the Lord that gives us understanding. Go ahead, I'm sorry. So tear down any arguments which are reasons Are you excited to tell people about him? Nietzsche himself is not so much a materialist as more as a romantic A lot of the things that are happening in the world today, especially with the confusion of We're using external factors, the the truth that we know in the world Do your best to present yourself to God as one approved. They come off all kinds of theories, didn't we Who is that true for? I gave my life to Christ and I'm saved And God never promises He's going to completely And so something bad might be happening to you They will suppress the truth. I could be disrespected. If I'm paying you for something at the store, you're gonna get a nugget from me as well. A term which is uh called And so what I want to do is, it's not a test Reason. If somebody can help me there Second, are you responding to the command? You cannot do them on your own. So, how is the worldview of materialism an idol Yes sir. And not to bring them into the conversation. What is that? And we in our church I think we refer to it as dichotomy Man What God? And so you have it already written out for you Because me just reading scripture to you, if you don't believe that, is not gonna do anything. He's trying to replace God. That's what we stand on. And we are prone as humans You got your truth, I got my truth When you go into a restaurant The word will prepare you And she was like stunned and looked at me. But look at the outcome of that But once he created sin So And it says Huh? Oh yeah, I just wanted this you thought about really Has anybody been dealing with that? No one comes to the Father except through Um I ran into a young lady uh Materialism. I walk by people and But when I walk into the house of God And we're laughing, we're smiling Yes. Yes, sir. Thank you. I already as I mentioned you sometimes I wear my pillow on my shoulders. She's checking me out of the counter Oh I was just thinking about rationalism like Uh I forgot exactly how As I mentioned when I walked out last week If there's no choices, then everything Is the po are his promises. Thank you Let us pray So not stop is That's their worldview from the scripture. Not sometimes But yet but yet And she paused We hide who we are Well I'd just like to please back off of what you said. Heaven and hell He will do anything he can Just like all of us were. You have your faith has to supers It's like man So the first principle was what? And the purpose again was not to make her feel bad. Yet do it with gentleness and respect. Right? Yes, sir. Thank you. And so What does do your best mean? Right? That is my image. Matter.