All right. Bear with me as we read this. If you're not familiar with it, it's from uh Valley of Vision. It's a collection of Puritan prayers. I always feel like when we use the word Puritan, most people are like, uh, Puritans And that may be true. And that certainly was what I thought for a long period of time. I avoided the authors and so on and so forth. But in the last fifteen years or so I can I think you said opposite, is that what you just said? Oh authors. I I thought you said the opposite is true, which is also the good statement. Um I I have found that if you want to go deep, find a Puritan author. Um they go deep and they are passionate and every one of these prayers just rings my heart out. It doesn't feel pasty or legalistic in any sense of the word. This is where I go to be warmed, not cooled and made orthodox as it were. Not that you don't get orthodox through it, but It has a coldness to the term and that is not what I use this book for. I use this to chisel the ice off my heart in the mornings. Um And uh so if you don't have it, you should get it. Um it might be another one of those books. Uh Kevin's been repeating this since I said it in the last quarters classes. This might be one of those books if uh if you love God you have to have this book. I think I said that last time and there was lots of like what? But let's read this together this morning as our opening reflection. Again, keep your eyes open, read along, pay attention. There's some really good stuff in here. Searcher of hearts, it is a good day to me when thou givest me a glimpse of myself. Sin is my greatest evil, but thou art my greatest good. I have cause to loathe myself and not to seek self honor, for no one desires to commend his own dung hill. My country, family, church fare worse because of my sins. For sinners bring judgment in thinking sins are small, for that God is not angry with them. Let me not take other good men as my example and think I am good because I am like them. For all good men are not so good as thou desirest. are not always consistent, do not always follow holiness, do not feel eternal good in sore affliction Show me how to know when a thing is evil, which I think is right and good How to know when what is lawful comes from an evil principle, such as desire for reputation or wealth by usury. Give me grace to recall my needs, my lack of knowing thy will in Scripture, of wisdom to guide others, of daily repentance, want of which keeps thee at bay. Of the spirit of prayer, having words without love, of zeal for thy glory, seeking my own ends, of joy in thee and thy will, of love to others. And let me not lay my pipe too short of the fountain, never touching the eternal spring, never drawing down water from above. After I don't know why, but after Sunday school uh or what do we call this? Growing disciples. Sorry, I guess I'm old, I still call it Sunday school. Um I was reading that right before the message, and it just struck me as so applicable to this section on idols. Particularly that phrase right at the well, it won't be at the top of your page, but it is on mine. Show me how to know when a thing is evil. which I think is right and good, how to know when what is lawful comes from an evil principle, such as desire. Dot dot dot Kirk busted my chops uh a couple weeks into the quarter about not being practical enough. He didn't say it like that, but uh that was ultimately the commentary that he provided, which I appreciate, just for the record. Um it's hard to find it, but I have my glasses on. Um And I have been thinking a lot about it since he said it, uh, because I respect him, because he's honest, and because I think he's got a lot of wisdom And so each week ha as we've been progressing, I've been kind of thinking through that as I prepare my notes and as we go through uh to end the section that we were just on. I thought, well what are those practical rules for defeating idols, identifying idols, understanding the reductionism? And I think that an interesting concept was reduced reduced. Introduced last week. Somebody made the statement, again, not word for word, but I'll paraphrase and put the Kirk thought on hold. I'll I'll tie this in in a second. Somebody made the statement last week, something to the effect that standards are personal. And I thought that statement is true, and I have made it before, many times But the way the Lord works out his truth in our lives is what's personal. The truth itself is what is not. And as that pertains to Kirk's comment, it's one of the reticences. That's a hard word to say. that I have about being overly practical in how I summarize these this first six weeks worth of teaching. I'm nervous to talk to you about specific categories of idols. I don't know what your idols are And I'm not sure how best to help you identify them. I was speaking to my older son uh this week and I was talking to him about how he needs to Be careful to give God the time that He has designated to train and teach His people according to His glory. There are times when the Lord descends in a burst of revelation on us and corrects us and redirects us, and you get dramatic repentance and a bunch of other things, and it's exciting. And there are other times when the Lord chooses something closer to the role or the story of the prodigal son. And there are years that intervene wherein he teaches people That no amount of gorging on their own desires in the pursuits of the world, whether noble or not, whether haggard and ugly and vulgar or dressed up in a suit and tie with The Queen's perfect English is never going to satisfy them. And we have to make time for that But it doesn't mean that idols can't, shouldn't be, mustn't be, pursued in our lives. We've done our best over the last six weeks to show you how significant the vein of this teaching is from the beginning of the Bible till the end. We've done our best to show you what an emphasis, a significant emphasis there is in the scriptures about the Lord calling his people from idolatry and their propensity, their motivation to pursue idols But I do not have a list for you. I do not have ten steps. I have guiding principles. And they come directly from God's Word. And so I'm going to review them with you this morning, not quite the way that we have done previously. I I'm sensing of the three of us trying to teach this class, we're all a little dissatisfied with how we're rending rendering the material. Because I've noticed each week we spend a significant portion of the class reviewing what happened before. That basically means we don't think we got it right the first time, so we're trying again. The framework is pretty simple. We have the truth. We have a unified truth, and that's important. A unified truth. For what can be known about God is plain to them because God has shown it to them. This is from Romans 1, right? Those blue bubbles on the side are verses in Romans 1. It can be known and is plain to them because God has shown it to them His activity in general revelation is enough for him to make these amazing statements. If that is true of general revelation, how much more of the specific revelation that we have in Scripture How much more of that thing that we're always afraid to talk about and afraid to quantify unless we've been characterized as charismatic? Or something like that, is that work of the Spirit to use general and specific revelation to teach us further how that's to play out in our own lives That daily wisdom that we need to identify idols, to destroy idols, to magnify God, to walk in all the goodness that that is Even his invisible attributes are able to be seen through general revelation. Again, how much more through particular revelation? And I hate to be so Sunday school, grade school, elementary type thing here, but people, you want to know how to identify idols Saturate yourself in God's word. Memorize it. I can't memorize. Yeah. I'm sorry. I'm throwing the flag on that one I'm tempted to use vulgar vernacular to describe how badly I feel about that statement. I won't. Don't panic. Morak might come up here and slap me. Which is good. I appreciate the accountability. Um You absolutely can Because you have the Spirit in you who craves after the truth of God's word. You may have to work it hard and do it slow and keep the verses short. You may never remember the references. That's me I quote hundreds of scriptures word for word. So quickly that I I often people are like, hey, uh, where did you read that thing that you just quoted and I'm like, what are you talking about? It's a quotation from scripture. But I never remember the references. I always have to look at Angela and go, Angela, what does it say? Or search it real quick. So we can. We talked about sports on Sunday last week. Meaning he talked about sports on Sunday last week I didn't hear a single scripture reference in the room as the dialogue went on. I don't mean that you need a verse for everything that you do. But I was a little sad about that I was a little sad about the lack of scripture that was injected into the conversation that we had the other day. I was really appreciative for Bill Bibler's comment about Eric Little. Little? Little? How do you say that? Little. Little. There you go. It's a little sad. I I I loved that reference, by the way. I thought that was very helpful to me to be able to think about what we were talking about But I was a little sad that we had to use a historical reference, even a very good one, instead of a scriptural reference And I'm not criticizing that. I am suggesting to you that our tendency is to try to relate our situation to things that we know. Things I can comprehend, things that are easy for me, instead of going, I don't know, and I am afraid to walk according to my own will. Lord, what do you have for me? I have never been supportive of the people that drop their Bible on the binding and go, well that's what it is, right? Wherever it opens to, that's my passage. That is not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about gardening, if you will, working and tilling in the soil of God's Word all the time. I just love what I find. Even this morning, some things from familiar passages were brought to my attention in light of this morning's lesson. And I was just like, how could that have been hidden here for so long? And I missed it. But it's sweet and good and exciting and encouraging and challenging and convicting. If the things of the Lord are so clearly seen that all men are without excuse Because that when they knew God, they did not glorify him as God, neither were thankful, but became futile in their imaginations. How much more us I'm sorry for this next statement if it wounds in a way that is not constructive. But how dare you name the name of Christ And then not take up the treasure of his truth. Not open your hand to all things that you feel and think and do in your life and set them before him. On his altar, asking him to consume by his truth all that is untrue and disadvantageous Leave only what is good, only what is useful for the glory of the Lord. Take me, Lord. Did you say that once when you heard a gospel message, or do you say that morning by morning? I find, and I've confessed it a thousand times to you, I find that I struggle with the consistency of gratitude that I know Christ demands of me. And he's very specific in Exodus and then again in Corinthians about the ingratitude being an idol. It's an evidence of an idol. I'm ungrateful because I had my own plan I had my own desires. I wanted it my own way. And I didn't get that. And now I'm grumbling because you didn't give me the idol I wanted. I'm not going to fix that idol unless morning by morning my day is set out before him. I had a terrible Friday. I got bad news on my phone on the way into work. I got bad news when I got to work. It was a day filled with personalities that I would rather not spend time with. It was just a bad day But but it was really nice. With each of those things to just take a strong breath and a heart swallow and go Sovereign or not? Like I I'm preparing a lesson to teach a room full of people, not to worship at my own idol. And if this thing can't be taken from me, or if I can't walk through this hard situation, then I felt an idol. I want it my way. I want to bow down at the thing that I create, that has the image that I want, that does for me what I require. There's a lot of I in that, and none of it's good. It's a lot of me talking. Why don't you turn your Bibles open to 2 Peter chapter 1 3 and 4 And if I could relate this back to my comment about Kirk's uh feedback and the practicality here, I don't have do's and don'ts. I have a way for you to think about your life morning by morning And I would ask you to adopt it. Start in his word. Start in his word. Something small, something large. If you're cold every morning when you get up, get a book like this that inflames your heart. But be in his word. Not a book about his word. I mean those are good. I use them all the time. We're using them for this class. But make sure you are reading God's Word. And then I just uh it's probably dumb and I probably shouldn't do it. I don't know, but I don't know how to do this better. Put your hand in front of you and in your mind set your day. Father, husband, uh transmission repair guy, uh backhoe hydraulic fixer Guy that fixes the antennas on the roof, because for whatever reason, though I own an engineering company, nobody seems able to fix the antennas on the roof On and on and on. Welder of high security hinges because the contracting company that I got doesn't seem to be able to do that My life is weird. Friend of an amazing woman who has her own struggles, which I often aggravate, either through ignorance or lack of attention or misprioritization or whatever else On and on and on, right? Just put your life I don't know what it would look like for you, I only know me, right? Put your life in your hands and then go, Lord, this is all yours today That as a Christian, I have no right to my own life. You told me to take up the cross. You said the only way is to take up your cross and follow me daily. This is not my life. And even if it were, I don't want it. I'm not doing it well on my own. I created the idols. I bowed down at them. I am not satisfied. And I am tired of the hurt that they caused me and those around me. I guarantee you you're going to stand up and ten minutes later on the drive into work somebody's going to send you a message that kicks you right in the guts. Because we live in an age at a time of suffering. We are exiles But at least then my mind is prepared for that. That's a gut pump, Lord, I would not have chosen, but I just finished praying. Not my life, Lord. And unless this is all a lie, you are in charge of the gut punch. And all the goodness that should come from it. And you say, well, how can you say that? Because that's what he promises Not only in this life, but in an excess in the life to come So you want practical? That play that out every morning. That's the best I got for you Outside of that, I would, I feel like I'd be usurping the role of the Holy Spirit or the Lord in the truths that he shares with you in your life. 2 Peter 1, 3 through 4. His divine power has granted to us. Pay attention to this. I mean like think about these words. The divine power his divine power has granted to us, his people All things that this this was no longer general like in Romans 119, but specific to his own All things that pertain to life and godliness through, notice what it's through, through the knowledge of him. Who called us to his own glory and excellence, by which the knowledge Through the knowledge by which He has granted to us His precious and very great promises So that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature. I I I don't even have the time to go into how precious that passage is to me I weary of people talking to me about faith as though it were a thing that meant I don't know and I can't see and so they throw up their hands If you tell me you have faith and are trusting in God, my very next question for you is, which promise are you trusting? Because it's his precious and very great promises that enable you to become partakers of his divine nature. So which promise are you trusting? Which truth are you clinging to? The innocence of youth, the uh trustingness of a child is beautiful in some sense. It really is. But it does not honor the Lord in the way our confident hope in Him does, rooted in His promises. And for those of you that think it's cute as of an adult or And by that I mean like somebody over twelve in this particular instance, especially for some of you young guys in the room. I am talking to you For those of you that think it's cute to generally be well-intended about serving the Lord in some sort of vague notion of what that means With no clear view of what the Lord's charge for your life is, what promises you are trusting, how it is he is working in your life right now through discipline, by the way If you are a child of Christ and you are under his discipline right now, because that's what he does with those he loves He rebukes and chastens them. If there is some thought in your mind for how the Lord is training you right now through that discipline, there is not a specific knowledge Of who and what you are before the Lord and what he is speaking to you about. You don't have biblical faith. Or you're not walking in biblical faith at that instant. This instant, I guess I should say. Scott, these are these are severe statements. What do you want? You know what the vagueness of today? As long as you feel good about it and you're being authentic, you're great. That's what the world is better. It's not true. Well, Scott, that hurts my feelings. I I am sorry about that. It is not my intention to discourage anybody. I pray every day before I stand up here, Lord Encourage and refresh. Those are two words that I say all the time. Encourage and refresh. And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding so that we may know him who is true. Why did he come? So that we could know him who is true. And we are in him who is true in his son Jesus Christ. He is the true God and eternal life And then it follows that right up. Same section, same verses. Little children, keep yourself from idols. How do we fall victim to idols? We do not walk in the unity and particularity of God's truth. He's vague and up there and good and powerful. But not in specific ways that order our thinking and our heart and our actions during the day. But you have been anointed by the Holy One. And you all have knowledge. That idea of anointing, right, to set you apart, to make you special, to uh Invest you with his authority to imbue you with his power and grace. Right? Everything about that anointing is this particular setting aside For a special purpose. What is that? With us and with Christ? You have been anointed by the Holy One and you all have knowledge. I write to you not because you do not know the truth. But because you know it, and because no lie is of the truth, and then he goes on to say these later things, which he concludes with, little children, keep yourself from idols What's the lie? The lie reduces the truth. The lie contradicts the truth. And Nancy Pearcy spent all of her time talking about various isms, which we'll touch on in a minute. I'm doing okay on time. Um we'll touch on it in a minute, but they are um they're all specific to general revelation for the most part. Materialism doesn't actually make sense when you think about it in the world. It it it's a reductionist to truth, and it has consequences And so on and so on, right? I'm I'm not going to go through all those. We've reviewed them many times, but they're a lie. They're a selection of a specific view of the truth. They are a quasi-truth. They are not a unified truth. They are not all of the things of God. At the same time, in the best way that we can, asking for the Holy Spirit to explain the parts that we struggle with. Not trying to harmonize the contradictions in God. Contradictions? God, that's nearly heretical. You tell me how an infinitely good God can also be infinitely sovereign I I can't do it. I've tried super hard. I have books on it. There's a word that J. I. Packer uses for it that I'm always struggling to remember. Antinomy? I think the word is antinomy. There's a cute word for you. Describe two truths about God that just refuse to be mushed together in our brains. I said it wrong. I'm sorry. But I think that's the right cute word. We're so busy trying to harmonize all of it How can God be infinitely sovereign and yet we be infinitely responsible for our behavior? Oh well, we're just gonna go with God's sovereignty because it lets us off the hook. Read your scripture, people. And don't read it through the lens Oh, you're an idolatry. Let the words to frighten you. Not with servile fear, because that would be to take the fear of God and reduce it to only that part where we just cringe at his holiness. And yet we see a picture of the fear of God in passages like Isaiah 6. And there is a cringing facet to it, but that's reductionist. There's also a set me free facet of it. There's also an appeal to be made right and to be reconciled with God. I deserve to be consumed, but I'm asking you to reconcile me so that I can stand before the amazing glory of God. And be safe. Accepted. Be commissioned into obedience. Just to be clear, it's not that the truth isn't available to us. It's never true that the truth is not available to us. So any one of you there that's like, well, I just don't know. I'm sorry. Find a new excuse In God's general revelation, every created human is held responsible for what they know is true about God. And it is a great truth. You as holders of God's scripture, how much more responsible It is impossible for you to say, I am depending on Christ as Savior, but I just don't have the truth I need. To that is impossible Not because I don't think you have a different story that I don't know. You do have a different story that I don't know. I don't know what is going on in your life. I don't know what advantage or disadvantage or victimization or privilege. I don't I don't know any of those things. I don't have to. I have God's word that says when He saves us, He gives us this amazing knowledge. He saves us through this knowledge. And imparts those promises to us that we might walk in the fullness of Him, which is infinitely good. You do know But you have reduced that knowledge to something that fits within the framework of your thinking or your feelings, or the thinking or feeling of those around you, which you've still accepted, you're still culpable in Even while others may also be infinitely culpable. We choose not to honor him as God. We decide not to take up the effort of knowing him that we might find Identify and destroy the idols, and replace them with that which is most glorifying to God, and that which is most amazingly joyful to us. And if you said, why are you so on this topic? It's that last part. We come together every week and it feels a little bit like a social club. I don't know how to do anything other than be honest with you. Even in the prayer room, there are times when I am so frustrated by the patternness of our prayers Do you know what's going on in the lives of people in this church? Any of them? It is significant. It is hurtful, it is painful, it is frightening I'm focused on the bad here. There's a lot of good that happens here. Even this morning I'll just sh I don't think she's in the room. She's in the room I can't see her, so I'm not trying to pick on her. I love to listen to Connor's prayers I know that that woman bears up under some difficult trials, and if you know Colleen, you you might know some of them that I'm alluding to But she is purposeful and deliberate and busy about honoring the Lord. And even when you can hear hurt in her voice about the things that she's still waiting for the Lord to do for her There's a joy in her dependence on him. I can almost hear her every time I you're not allowed to tell her this if she's not in the room, right? She's just gonna be angry at me for putting her on the spot like this. I I can almost hear her say, this hurts more than I can take it, but thank you so much, Lord, that I have the anchor of your goodness to depend on. That I know that your timing is perfect and your will is I I don't know. I just she prays and I'm like, Scott, what do you have to complain about? Praise the Lord So why am I so passionate about this topic and so many like it? I long to see you all lifted up in Christ in that light, set free from the mundaneity of your life. Or from the hurt of your life, from the boredom of your life, from the indignity of your life. Not by magic wands But by you doing the hard work of digging in the truth of God's Word, surrendering your life to Him each morning, each day, and and I don't mean like, oh Lord, I'm surrendering my life to you. I mean Lord, heck out it resigns on Friday That hurt. That two million dollars I just spent on the skip and now I gotta go in there and weld hinges and paint doors and do what that skin's That surprise tax thing that I got a few months ago? There was supposed to be like twelve coming back to me and instead was six figures going the other way Those kids I gotta take care of again today. That never say a word of thanks. That Ofie husband that comes home from work and never seems to understand that my day is filled with more trial than his day. He gets to go to work and have people affirm him all day long. You're an excellent accountant, you're an excellent financial manager, you're an excellent doctor, you're you're s When do the people that stay home with kids ever get to hear that about their work? Whatever it is, right? Are you specific about it? Scott. Sure. Uh one one example in scripture that I read recently, and I I tend to want to label it as reductionism, would be the the whole death of Lazarus and And in bed for for three days, and Jesus, if you had been here, he would not have died. And so Jesus tries to reassure them, your your brother will live, and he will write again. And so it was both Martha and Mary, I think, in different retellings of it, that uh they said, Yeah, yeah, yeah, Jesus, uh we we Um we're reducing what you're the truth of what you're saying. He's not literally going to rise. He'll he'll rise again in the resurrection. And And so their their go-to, I guess, theology was to s to reduce Jesus the No, he's not cop uh he's not God, he's not capable of actually bringing him back to life, as he says and taking his word literally So I guess we do that maybe every day in our life as as far as um e even I was reading the passage. Um until now you have not asked for anything in my name. Ask and you will receive And so Jesus gives a uh a blank check, at least to his disciples, and maybe by inference to us, to actually take them as at his word and to to pray according to his will and it will be done for you. Yeah. Rather than reduce his his promise or his uh offer. That's great. The Mary and Martha one in particular really plays into that green little graphic I have, like bottom third of page two. God on the mountain and God ascended, that's in the top floor, that's up there, right? We believe it, but not sure how it fits into our lives And me down here. That's what they did there, right? Yeah, we we know, Lord, that you have a grand thing up there, but our child right here, right today, right in this instant We're not expecting you to pour out your goodness, even though you just said that you would. That two-story thinking, we we are so good at that We are so good at that. We even get angry when people try to pull the goodness of God down into our everyday lives. Because he doesn't give it to us cheaply and he continues to ask us to walk through obedient trials in our lives while he somehow s makes us swim in the ocean of his goodness all at the same time. That was good, Kirk. Thank you. I have several examples for people that are believing the lies, and they're surprising. But you should go through these. Examples of Israel on the mountain. God was right there, and they were so afraid that they were begging Moses not to make them have to talk to God on the mountain because he was so true, so real, so present, so powerful. And they literally turned around from the mountain. God's right there, thundering. Right there. He's so close that God told Moses to go down a second or third time and say, keep the people back. That's how close I am. And they turned around and they built an idol idol and they worshipped it. Do you know what the name of the idol was? What's the name of the golden calf? When they offered sacrifice to it, they they called it by its name. Aaron called it by its name. I heard it. It's the name Yes. It's the name of God given specially to his own people. The rest were w allowed to call him God or Lord or you know the the grand pubar or whatever it is. But when he told his people how to address him, he says, you will call me Yahweh. Because you were my own. That's what they called the golden calf. Do you see how our idols sneak into our lives? Israel after Babylon, that's Ezekiel one, chapters one, and then skip forward and immediate read read eight through eleven, and you will see what it looks like. One of the things I was most impressed with there is that the priest in their private chambers right there along the wall of the temple prayed to images of created things. They they had their own personal way. Now out front they were Orthodox Christians Just like you and me. I get it. But I think you also understand the point. And in their own private lives, they were busy trying to work out how to be successful and how to cope and how to deal and how to get the pleasure and and peace and enjoyment they needed to the exercise of their own religion. Them injecting themselves into the truth of the Lord. Man, is that not a pic come on. Am I the only one? That's me. I'll tell you that. That's me. That's me every time I surrender in the week what I teach on Sunday morning. Because everything I teach on Sunday morning I love. I love. I can't teach something I don't love. I just can't And yet in the exercise of my week, I find myself manipulating the truth. Just want you to see where all these you have such powerful examples in the Old Testament, but in 1 Corinthians 10 uh verses eleven to twelve it says now these things happen to them as an example. Happen to them And he's specifically talking about Mount Sinai in that particular instance and the golden calf and all that other stuff. These things happen to them as an example But they were written down for our instruction, on whom the end of the agents has come. Therefore let anyone who thinks he stands take heed lest he fall. Call the alarm Call people to look back at this and see themselves in it. Call them to stop building up some separation for themselves because they're New Testament Christians. This is a New Testament church. It will be like this in the end. Revelations one one through three and nine twenty make it clear that uh The problem of people is idolatry. I already talked a little about God on mountain, God ascended, and me down here, that dichotomy that we tolerate in our lives. I actually feel somewhat hopeful that many of you will walk out of the room and say something like, that was a good lesson, Scott. We really agree with you. And that's you down here. And on Monday morning you you won't even remember what we talked about here. And there will be nothing changed about your lives whatsoever. The root of every ism. And I want to add Christianism to that, by the way. It's not a word, but I want to add it. I am making it up. My work And it's a thing. What all isms share is an eternal reference for truth. They all reject God as sovereign creator. in actuality, if not in thought. Uh word. The last two chapters of our study have been dedicated to self-referential absurdity. Identify the contradiction in the things that actually happen and identify the internal contradiction to all these other isms. Well I want you to do it with Christianism. Stop looking out there and let's look in here. We do this when we selectively apply the truth we believe, living by truth or walking in the light, as the scriptures talk about it. 1 John talks about it. We create a two-story face. God is sovereign in election, but has little control over my everyday life. God has been good to his people in the past and will be good to his people in the future, but I can't trust him to be good to me today I have to make changes. I have to secure what I want. I have to pursue. That's interesting. Because uh sometimes I get caught up in my own ambitions and I'm given those and then I have to uh I think to the point that maybe I can angry about it. I come to the point where I think, well, Lord, what is your purpose for this happen? I have to settle it in my mind. This world is passing away, and nothing that is not of eternal significance will last. But I am willing to let work, career, affirmation of community, financial security, personal safety, challenge the lasting things of marriage, family, childbearing, Christian community, ministry, and personal growth in Christ. Men we are about to pick up a book called Five Lives of Our Anti-Christian Age, written by Rosaria Butterfield. And she is taking almost a this is like a um Summa of her life, if you will, right? This is taking her experiences as a uh uh PhD in queer theory and a lesbian and a proponent for those things and a young Christian and uh Frankly, uh disadvantaged and and uh really not cared for correctly in some of the first churches she was a part of. Um a d uh a disappointing courtship arrangement, um a marriage eventually to a Presbyterian pastor, um you know just on and on and on. She takes it all and she picks these five things and you can just hear the anxiety of her heart as she cares for the people that she comes alongside through this book. But it's largely targeted at women. Because she's a woman. And she's speaking about her own experiences And it's not my intention to target women in the room. I just love this. And in each of these lives, I see a failure of masculinity and a failure of manhood. You say, what's the point there? I I I don't know what women think about. I I've said that a million times, but I do know what men think about. And I am willing to go out on the limb and say, young and old alike You men, if you wanted to take one practical statement out of this room that you pinned up on something and read each day, it was this last one we just read. The world is passing away and nothing that is not of eternal significance will last, but I am willing to let work and career and affirmation of community and financial security and personal safety challenge the lasting things of marriage, family, child rearing, Christian community, ministry, and personal growth in Christ. When is the last time that super important thing to you at work got put down? For the thing at home. Well Scott, you don't understand. It had to be done. If it wasn't done, like this was gonna happen and this was gonna happen and this was gonna happen. When when when when did that happen I don't have time to embellish that, but men consider that. Never mind that the lion's share of the New Testament. This one's a little geeky, but. Stay with me, I'll explain to you. Never mind that the lion's share of the New Testament is written in either a protraptic or parenetic form. There is no condemnation, so nothing is required of me. It's just two words that describe a a style of exhortation. Protreptic means continue in the way that you have been going. It's a style of preaching where uh in the epithets, for instance, they often say, but you are this thing. So so continue it. Like you have done well. He's doing well. That's protrustic. Parenetic is saying, this is the right way. Come do this. Don't go that way. Don't get off the path. Come back. And there's clearly some mixes of the two as well. But do you understand that the entirety of the New Testament could be characterized as either protraptic or parenetic It's the apostles inspired by the Spirit going, Come on, come on, keep going. Don't go that way, go this way If that is true about the New Testament, why are there not constantly times of getting back up to seed in our pursuit of the Lord? Or getting On the race, in the race for the Lord. Why is every Sunday, every reading of God's Word, not a time when we either quicken our pace or correct our pace? Is that your experience in church? If it's not, you may be reducing the truths that you're reading and their implication for your lives to something that looks remarkably like an idol God is sovereign but the experience of my everyday cannot be trusted to His good control I need my own actions, the intervention of government, the values of a political system to get me there. We're going to talk about feminism is one of the things we're going to talk about. And it's very difficult because it doesn't appear in Scripture. It's not that it's bad. But at the end of the day, it is a philosophical system or a political affiliation or a community emphasis And I'm so glad that I don't have to teach it and it's all on Chester shoulders. I will be praying for you before that one You have to take responsibility for these things. I've introduced the next section. We're going to be using the book I said. You see what the lessons, the lies that we're going to study are there. Um Chester and Lorfee are gonna fill in the first four weeks, all the really hard ones as far as I'm concerned. And then I'll pick up at the end there. It's a great book. I hope that all of you will come prepared to think through those things. But in closing for our study of Nancy Pearcy's book. I just want you to see where Romans 1 leads to. It read leads into Romans 2, because you, the judge, practice the very same things. This This turning toward the lie from the truth, he will render to each one according to his works. To those who by patience in well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality, notice it requires you to be patient and continue in well-doing. It is a persistent and courageous and patient and trusting walk, day by day, step by step. Every one of those steps needs to be seen in the context of your work and walk and relationship with the Lord, in his truth. And to those who are self-seeking and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath and fury. Don't don't dismiss that. Be like Isaiah Stand before the God whose wrath and fury will be poured out on those who are self-seeking And rather than turn away from one truth, toward your own version of the truth, toward your own reductionist view of God, just go, Laura, I don't want to be into your wrath and fury Help me to walk in the light as you are in the light. Help me to keep your commandments as you say those who love you do. I love you too little, God. Help me to love you more And if you are sure that you yourself are a guide to the blind, a light to those who are in darkness, an instructor of the foolish, a teacher of children, having in the law the embodiment of The embodiment of knowledge and truth, you then who teach others, do you not teach yourself, you who abhor idols? You hate the idols, is what he's saying, in other people's lives, but do you not hunt them out in your own life? You criticize those that bow down at idols while you yourself make them, value them And surrender. If if you have learned anything of me over however many years I have been at this church, there's no part of this that I meant to be I mean to be somehow particularly spiritual. And in that sense, all I mean is I am thinking about every real role that you have to play out in your life. And I w I I do not have time to list out all those roles. But yeah 19 year olds, and I don't know exactly how old you are, Evan, but if I could go through the room and find the categories for each one of you as you were going, I I am talking to you The scripture is talking to you as you head off to college, as you head off to work, as you're trying to figure out how to split your time between wife and mother and worker and minister. and servant and master. As all those things occupy your time, are you teaching yourself about how the Lord plays out in those? Does it not bother you how like the world we are I uh I was convicted this week. I think on Monday uh I was listening to two uh young ladies conversing and and the one uh was asking the other one if Crap was a curse word. And I thought, what in the world are we talking about? But I had to talk to one of the people about work, so I walked into the middle of the conversation, I had my little thing, I was like, by the way, what are you talking about? She goes, Well you said crap the other day and so it can't be a curse word. And I thought, really? That's the sum total of my testimony? I don't generally curse And so if I use the word crap and I don't curse, that must not be a curse word. And I was like, well actually I I I do think it's not p a polite word. Like I I would feel guilty if I used it in polite company. Like I I feel a little guilty that I'm saying it this morning on the thing that's gonna be on the internet and I'm teaching a class and yeah it's all bad. But I just thought really Lord is that the sum toll of my testimony that I don't swear And I'm ashamed of that. Why aren't they talking about how near God is about how he trusts God and everything that happens at work? That would be preferable. Are our lives so ordinary that whether or not I use a scatological term, a light schatological term at work is my testimony? How about you? How about you? Are you a distinctive light for the glory of the Lord? Or do you look like everybody else? Wasting the time, efforts, energies, and God-given dignity bowing at the idols that you have created because we will not press into the truth that we have in Christ. I don't know if anybody else out here needs any of this, Lord, but I do. You have shown me the idol if in gratitude. I don't remember when it was Maybe a year, maybe two ago, and I am not doing a great job destroying it. I am grateful for grace I am grateful that you keep calling my heart and my mind and my actions to you. And I am grateful that because of the promises, the very literal promises written in your word. I actually have a grand hope that you are correcting me and forgiving me for the Billions of times I turn and look at that idol instead of lifting up praise to you And how I let it affect my marriage and my work and my um teaching of my sons the Teaching specifically of the example of my life, which I know is always louder than my words, I am grateful for grace. But I would continue to ask, Lord, that you would help me to kill the idols. I don't like them. They hurt. They steal. They cheat. They lie. They take from me that which I am unwilling to have taken. And yet I find some horrible addiction to them nonetheless. And for anybody else in this room, Lord, that has that prayer, please, please, Lord. I would have you capture me, even if it is quote unquote against my will, because I know that to serve you is better than to serve my idols. Be glorified, Lord, in this body of believers. Help us to be conspicuous in our idol slaying and our God glorifying. These things I pray only in your name. Amen