I would like to hear what you guys think about stuff rather than me just standing up here and just telling you what I think or what the Bible thinks. Have you ever thought about evil? What is evil? Why is evil here? Has anyone ever asked you, if God is good, why is there evil? It's a good question. It's a good question. So I'm going to do something. I have here a list of kind of ideas to kind of engage our thinking and just to talk about. So what we're going to do As maybe we'll just pair up in twos or something. How about that? A list of concepts and questions and challenges. Concepts and questions, challenges, you guys want to share. Just think about. Let's take like 15 minutes. We'll kind of read it and then I'll let you all discuss it And let's have an engaging conversation for about a half hour and then And then I'll pass out the notes. I don't want to pass out notes to you anyway. I really want to get your feel for this. Don't have to answer everything, but if there's something in there that kind of like intrigues you or sparks some conversation. That's what I would love to see. Some conversation on there. So I I wrote down a lot of stuff just uh to spur some ideas on. Um So, you know, evil obviously it exists. And we see it everywhere. It's in us. It's all around us. We are forced to address the idea of evil. Wha but why is evil there? If God is this great, good, all-powerful, all-knowing, sovereign God Why doesn't he just say why doesn't it just get rid of people completely? Wouldn't that just wouldn't that just make everything easier? Wouldn't that make more sense? Isn't it more reasonable? Um Why would God allow man to have the capacity to do evil? If God exists and is good, wouldn't he want his creation to live in perfect happiness? Wouldn't that be better? So um How do you resolve the issue of God being good, loving, wise, kind, powerful, and yet the world is totally dominated by evil? In all kinds of forms. So take fifteen minutes, talk amongst yourselves, and then you can identify a person and they can have five minutes up here to write your answer. No, you don't have to do that. But we'll talk about it. So I'm gonna put this on pause for a little bit. No, no, there's nothing with that. I don't know if it deserves the outcome of two thousand Alright, so what did you guys come up with? Anyway, we share so many thoughts? Hello brought up only when price was on the crowd. You're the son of God, how don't you bring yourself down? Right. Oh, right. Well, it has to do with the parts of the will. Right, so maybe the way we approach this question is also considering what is God's will and what does that mean for us as believers in understanding this Yeah. So I said like the it's a similar question in that seem to be like yeah, if you're all powerful God, why don't you just figure yourself out? If this was the God, the father's mother's son has to be identified. Otherwise we wouldn't have any celebrity. So that's you know the linear answer, but I guess it's a larger framework of this question Alright. Yeah, yeah, no, it's it's a s it's a struggle. And I don't think there's one Well, I think there's one it's a complex question, but I think there's some good answers and I think the only way That you can come at this question with any kind of resolute is from the Christian perspective versus any other perspective. I'll go into that in my notes Any other thoughts? That's a good start. Will. The will of God and maybe will of man. And maybe Maybe God has a purpose for evil. Anyone else? Yeah, I was gonna add to that. not I'll I'll give two reasons for not you know killing everybody because everybody in this world is evil to him anyway. It's just that some people want to change that and he realizes that so we don't see to he wants to allow them or give them a chance to come back to him, you know, in the way that he you know, in the way that he wants to be So on top of that I was gonna say he also uses the evil so state, for example, and not told him so state for example uh you know, somebody in your family was killed or maybe by you know somebody let's just say somebody wanted to take revenge out of them. Now you have two options. You can you can want to take revenge out of them or you can you know, forgive them. So God forgives that evil that somebody did to you and now if somebody knew that you were forgiving that person because for one people are going to ask, you know, why did you forgive this person you know, blah blah blah move. So if somebody sees that, you know, God is the main reason as to why you're not doing this, more than likely more than something. Alright, I'll say A lot of people wouldn't pay attention to that or at least be intrigued by why you're not doing this. It's the first instinct that somebody's gonna have to do this if somebody you know died because somebody killed them, your first instinct is to probably even want to kill them back. Which every everybody's gonna understand, but now that's really it, you're only going to understand it to that certain extent. And still even name kill somebody. And everybody on this planet pretty much says kill somebody. You still did something bad, it's still murdered, it's still bad. Now if you forgive somebody, forgiving is harder than just Yeah, I'll say forgiving somebody is harder than killing somebody because now you pretty much gotta look at them And say I'll forgive you and still realize that the person that you love is dead. So I'm just using that word. I like that. In fact at the very end of my notes Okay, they address just exactly that. God has a purpose for evil. If it wasn't for evil, how could you forgive someone? That's giving greater glory to God. But yeah, that's an excellent point. Forgiveness. How else can you forgive if there is no evil to forgive? I'm going to go into that. That's a good point. Anyone else? Thoughts? Challenges from the outside? Yeah, I think this is the most common one. I can see I can raise it in my butt in the basic as much. How do you spite our bodies? How do you spend five colors? Good question. From people who are like on wrestling with it people. Yeah, but also for people who are concerned. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Yep, good question. Yep. Why do people reject God? And then therefore why do they desire to go to hell rather than to be with God in heaven? I'm not even reading the same, is there? Because nobody nobody because everybody you know knows what hell is to a certain extent and everybody knows his bad. So nobody intends to do it, but they just don't care enough to realize that what they're already doing. is setting them down that path. But now some people now some people may some people may know what they're doing, some people may not, but still even then, it's you're still going down that path. So Whether or not whether or not you want you want it to happen or not you still would you rather God force you into his kingdom? So it's a little bit of scripture. Like from the moment before we literally have no desire to discuss our own developer. Yep. So I guess the question of how it's hell or not. Um like the choosing of it, like our entire nature itself is it. There is no inherent choice at that stage in our life because since the moment we were born we are our our one way to get easy paths in hell. God says like we were born rebellious And we told each other that we die rebellious. Whether that's subconscious or thought you are sittered. And and I would think as time goes on your your conscience becomes more and more dull to that Um but I would say yes, it's we know right from wrong from the very beginning, and as our lives go on Doing something wrong isn't s you know, my my conscience has been seared and it no longer bothers me as much. Um, so that's a great topic. And I'll definitely would like to get more into that. The difference why does God send people to hell? But let's look at why is there even evil in the world to begin with? Did God create evil? Well a question from from the Worldview Conference. Um what do you mean by legal? Okay. Okay, that's a so yeah, so there is I think I put a whole bunch of descriptors there in the in the top of your sheet there, like what is evil? And it manifests in a variety of different ways. Um but essentially if I had to say if I had to do bring it down to one sentence, I would just say it's rebellious rebellious actions against God, um, or just a fall in the the nature of a fallen world Right? So evil exists. Uh it's pervasive, it's subtle, it's powerful, it's it's inside of us, it's all around us. Um And I just kind of put a couple of little bullet points of examples of e what evil is. It could be disease, death, disaster. Um there's a whole you know um you can go on looking at, you know, examples, finding examples of kind of natural evil. Uh moral evil, primarily f from within us, is our witness, sin, uh, pain, even false religions, uh, but also supernatural evil. You have fallen angels and demons as being that's a supernatural evil. So there's a variety of examples of what evil is Um but the essence is rebellion against God and just kind of the fallen nature of this world. Um which God has is powerful enough to totally wipe all that away And I would say, on his timetable, he will one day. So why is he allow it to exist at all Is there a greater purpose for you? So if we flip over to your next page there in your notes, I just put a couple of scenarios. Then maybe you've heard. God is not powerful enough. God was able to do this. God is powerful. He should be able to get rid of this. Um but this runs against all we understand of who God is, um, and it would leave God defeated by evil. Which we know is not the case. In fact, God, even today, suppresses the full evilness that could be that w that we could be experiencing But at some point, he will remove his protective hand and allow evil to run amok, and then at some point in time, God will end the reign of evil But we recognize that evil does exist, um, but God is powerful enough and he will um in the end Show that he he will triumph over evil. In fact, I would even say Jesus Christ has already demonstrated his power over evil in terms of death the greatest of all evils. Um God allows for free will of people. Now this one I So I read a whole a bunch of a bunch of perspectives from a variety of different theologians way more smarter than I. And you'll find you'll find several people who still believe that there is, or they'll just talk about free will And I would agree there is an aspect of free will. I could I could choose to sin or not to sin. So there is an aspect of free will. Um but I think there's a greater purpose Although I think this is mixed in um with um the issue of evil. God is all powerful, but he restricts his power so as to not interfere with our free decisions. So there's and you'll get people who will totally disagree with this. Um but I can't explain why I still have the option to sin or not. And a lot of times I do. I choose what I you know, I I I choose what I know is wrong. Um so there is an ask you know, and it's not God making me So it's it's it's somehow it it it's a me it's a me. Um God does it so that human love Uh God does this so that humans love him by choice rather than coercion. Humans can reject God through acts of evil. The outcome is not God's fault. The blame of evilness lies within ourselves. Um the truth is a bit more complex. Um but humans do make poor, sinful decisions, but God ultimately works those according to his plan. So he's not surprised or is his sovereignty over all things challenged. So that last that last little sentence. But God ultimately works all things according to his So there seems like there's a purpose. God's not just like totally hands off of evil. Whoops, how'd this evil slip in? Uh now I need to figure out how to how to how to react to it. No God has allowed for some purpose of evil. And I would say Christianity is the only view that we could gain some kind of understanding um understanding of evil, uh that makes any kind of sense. Now again, there's also just kind of a mystery of evil, and you know perhaps we will, at the end times, recognize the full purpose of why God allowed evil. But let's go a little further into what might uh God have. What kind of good reasoning would God have for allowing evil So I put a couple of scriptures down rather than just me like just talking. How do we view these scriptures? So there's uh number one, 1 Samuel 2 Six to eight and it's it's in your notes, I'll just read it. The Lord kills and makes alive. He brings down to the grave and brings up. The Lord makes poor and he makes rich He brings low and lifts up. For the pillars of the earth are the lords, he's sovereign, right? He has set the world on them. Or How about Amos 3. 6? If there is a calamity in this in a city, will not the Lord have done it So here, God is taking full responsibility. For example, here, uh natural, could be a natural disaster, the existence of evil. Since he is God and he controls all things, right? So evil is no disruption to God's purpose, and he's not surprised by acts of evil So on your third your third page there, um This is where I've seen and I'm I'm also going off of that book. Um I should have brought it the uh uh the the book that was sent I always forget the name of the book. Huh, what's the name of the book? The 101 Thank you. Is it religion 101? Religion Surviving. Surviving College in a Worldview. Yeah. So it was that book. This th there's a section in there on Uh it's a letter to his daughter regarding this question of why does a good God allow evils So I've also taken some excerpts out of here, um, and I've gone to a number of theologians, and this seems to kind of be a consistent perspective that God allows evil to exist. So let's let's read through uh these pages a little bit. So purpose number one, God uses suffering and evil to make us more Christ-like. So 1 Peter 1. six to seven. And this you rejoice through now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials. So that the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than go gold that perishes, though it is tested by fire, may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. So evil, hardship, trials, um, all being used to make us more Christ-like Without it, how how without having to suffer and to fight and to be challenged, how could you grow in your Christianity. And this goes back to sanctification. How can I be sanctified without trials in my life? And I would say, how can I be assured of my salvation if I'm never challenged? Evil is a great way to challenge us Looks like if the Romans would be good. There would be no sense of morality Right? And then to add on to that, right, uh somebody might ask, like, yes, if God can control your every action to make you every good, then there's no freedom. in that either. And so the question you should ask is, does having no freedom mean best good or evil? In God's respect is evil because God himself says there is freedom found within me. Right. The shackles that are undone through me, right? That's another layer that as well. Really good in the color actually. controls we could we would have like I can mention any contrast to compare. Yep. So the mindless puppets on a string. Right. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Yep. Yep. Good, good. Any other thoughts out there? So look at Hebrews 210. in bringing many sense to glory should make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering. So again, suffering, sanctification, uh working together. Um I don't know how else you would do that without the existence of evil. Number two, God uses suffering evil as a form of divine judgment. So in Genesis 6, you have the flood sent by God because of the great wickedness across across the world. Number three, existence of evil is for God's glory. And I think this is really where it comes down to. Um I think this is key. Um some quick examples there are the lives of Moses and Joseph, um where evil things happen to both these men, and yet in the end, um You know, these men persevered and were through their lives brought greater honor and glory to God. Number four, Romans 3. 5. This is just a little excerpt out of that out of that verse. Our righteousness, our righteousness serves our I'm sorry, let me re-say that again. Our unrighteousness serves to show the righteousness of God. How could God If we had no contrast, how would we know what righteousness is? And how could we know that God is the only one who is righteous, not us? Contrast between God's righteousness if there is no evil, wouldn't I be as righteous as God? With the presence of evil, God is definitely righteous, and we are definitely unrighteous. Um I highlighted this one. The reason God allows evil is for his own glory. I think this is where what is really the culminating purpose of why evil exists. It really is to bring greater glory to God. God has made infinitely more glorious because evil exists. We praise him because of what he has done to overcome evil We praise him because he has saved us from our evil selves. Um So I'm just going to read this section. Without the horrific and unjustified behaviors and accusations towards JC is Jesus Christ that lead to his death upon the cross, the resurrection, and payment for all believers' sins would not be as magnified or maximized. Justification through grace, which is grace giving us a most valuable, undeserved gift, was given even in, or I would say, especially in the face of evil. Um highlighted earlier in that Romans 3. 5 verse of how our unrighteousness amplifies God's righteousness. Our sin, our fallenness, our inequity, our corruption, wretchedness. That's this all puts the righteousness of God on full display. So again it's kind of like that contrast. That contrast amplifies the righteousness of God. You see there that as a loving and gracious and merciful as God is as eager and willing as he is to forgive the sinner, he still has to carry out infinite punishment on a substitute, Christ, to deal with his righteousness. God uses evil murdering his own son to bring about a greater good. So the problem of evil, though it is difficult and troubling This does not provide a reason to reject God. I think a lot of times you'll have you'll have people who will, um, like you mentioned, two camps. Those who are really struggling with the idea of evil And then you have those who just bring up evil just to just to shut down the conversation. Um in those cases Ask them, so how do you explain evil? So if you're like an atheist and you believe everything just kind of atoms and molecules came together Wh where did evil come from? Wouldn't everything just kind of be erasing to become better and better? Why why evil? How do you explain away evil? For an atheist, evil and good, there should be no difference Evil and good is just a waste of time. Get out of my way. That's that's evolution, right? Get out of my way I'm going to survive. Survival of the fittest. So it's what's wrong with that? It's evolution. Evolution at its at its best. We're being evil by allowing the weak to survive That's the only way you can come down with a atheistic evolutionist idea. Why make laws at all? It's just evolution in progress. You're actually inhibiting evolution A lot of things to go unlock. So we've looked at a couple of reasons of evil But I think bringing him the greater glory as the most significant reason for allowing evil. Um and and God doesn't explain the reasons fully to our liking. I mean I would I would love to have a more in-depth greater understanding of what evil is Um but on the other hand, the Christian view brings the only sensible rational understanding of evil. Um I'm just gonna read that last little paragraph in the end and then maybe we can open up for a little more dialogue. Without God Everything would be permitted. From the worldview perspective, it would be a world where both good and evil don't exist. Or maybe unable to tell the difference. They do both exist. The problem of evil is not a roadbrock for Christianity. Our entire our entire story is about God triumphing over evil And this is not the case for all the religions. Atheism can't even make sense of evil. Um there is no right or wrong in the atheistic world There's no moral principle with atheism, but only in Christianity is the problem of evil addressed clearly Um and then I kind of wrote the that last sentence of the concepts of forgiveness, grace, mercy, propitiation of sin, holiness. Sanctification, repentance, obedience, conviction of sin without evil. How do would there even be a purpose for these concepts I think evil brings a greater light to God and the Christian perspective gives a greater understanding that evil has been allowed. God is not the creator of evil, but he has allowed it to bring greater glory to himself. And for the purpose of us in concepts such as these, especially sanctification. How can we grow more and more like Christ? How m how can we grow more to Christ likeness if we can't distinguish between good and evil? So there's a purpose for evil. God's not the creator of evil. And at the end We see that God conquers evil and saves us in the process. And I don't see any other religion that does, that comes close to that. Any thoughts, questions, concerns? I remember this very since Romans 80s and Paul says the subjects of this present time are not worthy of the word that is just on that. I mean right. Like those offerings that we literally now And especially in our Christian lives are intended for us, right? They're not randomized unfortunate circumstances. Like a series of unfortunate events. those books. Um like everything is intentionally orchestrated in our lives. And I think if we forget that frame of reference analyzing this, then we'll head into a bunch of wishy-washy, halfway ideas about who dog really is. So If you look at the increase rate, you know. clearly an evil event. I think every human baby is to say that was an evil event. Was that was that event ordained by the sovereignty of God or was it a product of human free will? Yes. So the word and where of it. How do you know? So I'm John, I don't want to take my life by And so he involuntarily body up as youth the Roman authorities as well as the Jewish leaders and yeah. Does that mean the the Jewish leaders and the Romans had no guilt? No, ESD was just so it's me to know Yeah, I mean on the Jewish side I mean book of act very clearly eventually Mm-hmm. Also like the bunch of spy watches who says, I have nothing to do with this. This is on his blood is on admission of the um on his part and the um Yeah, thank you. I think like like Juno alluded to, uh Acts two twenty three, crucial verse. Acts two twenty three. This man is talk Peter is talking to the the uh Jewish crowd in Jerusalem. This man delivered up by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God, you nailed to a cross by the hands of God with them and put him to death So how can those two things both be true? And how can God have preordain this and and planned before the foundation of the world for Christ to die, and yet Peter, inspired by the Holy Spirit, lays the deal for that on Moses. God knows people. So we say for example uh well for one he made every person So he already knows your ins and outs way more than you do yourself. So let's say for example and then God knows God knows the future, he knows what's the hand future all the same time. So he knows what you're gonna do in the future and What you've done based on the past and what you've done in the present. And what you're going to do in the future. Yes, what's going on happens now if he has all that in his plan Keeps that in mind, so he knows what you're gonna do. He knows he knows the part you're gonna do. I was gonna say I forgot the term for it, but it I go there's more than one natural explanation for something that's you know, spiritually natural is not such you know, one thing that could be most more easy to have I'm like in my head. Awesome. Yes. So let's not insist that there has to be only one explanation very at least a there's a human level explanation and then there's a god level explanation too Can anybody think of another uh area of life where where that control? is for now, you know, where where we see explanations of operating at two different levels and we give we give I guess weight for for freedom both of parenting the child. Parenting the child, yeah, okay. Uh so say for example. Um Let's just say, okay, you for a couple of things. You can ask your parents like uh the child's party. And let's just say You tell your parents that there is going to be drinking, but you yourself are not going to drink. Your parents are more than likely still going to say no. Even though they say, even though you said you may not drink, now your people surrounding you influence on you that may you know they have to drink so the kids when you think while children are not gonna drink the parents gonna see everybody around you is gonna be I mean more than likely you're still gonna do it. And then on top of that the parent may have experienced all that so they've probably seen repeating it. Yeah. So and if your parents say no you can't go, are they are they being unloving? That's the whole reason for the game. It feels like it's great. Hey, why don't you want to give me some good things? Well, you know, making three friends and good Kind of another example that If so God made the human body and he gave us nerves and he gave us the ability to experience pain. Pain hurts. I don't like pain But if I take my hand and I no longer have nerve endings and I don't experience pain and I put it on a hot stove and I just kinda hang out here for a while Uh yeah, that would not be a pre-side. So there is a purpose for pain. Um we may not actually see it as being purposeful until we put our hand on a hot on a hot stove Everything is a purpose. As much as I need to close and what is that purpose really? Yeah, everything has a purpose. Alright, so I think when we Stop seeking the intentionality and purpose of anything that we lose all meaning. You can't just start repeating it seriously. And we see we see the same kind of chemical operating in in like works and fiction. Like somebody named names and picture if not. Correct. Who who's seen who's seen the the Marvel cookies? Like the whole R Santa and all that thing. Was was Thanos evil? Yeah, he wanted to kill half of all of those things computer, right? So he yeah, he's clearly evil and So inside the Word, right, inside the the Marvel universe, we can say Thanos is evil, he is a testable villain. Now, I don't know who who who wrote the the plot of that part with that Stanley. It was Stan. Stanley. Okay, so is Stanley evil for writing a character Okay. I mean I know he's a human, so we're all evil, right? We're all right. But was it evil for Stanley to write the character of Venus? Why not? And uh whatever they need to say. Guess what? They fiction too. But we're not fiction, right? So John's in the same relationship to us as Stan Lee does the argument, right? Like God is authoring the story of salvation of human history. Yeah. I just I think that it's it's sort of a helpful way to think about it, right? God is the author of everything. He authors he he wrote the story of the crucifixion. We used to find this in the ladies' bottles. Well, two rights and then a few other labor systems. But the whole point was here coming back to teaching them. This is why it has predicted suffered. Thus it is written that the Christ should suffer and on the third day rise to be dead, and that repentance for the sins should be put in his Um really. Yeah, well so that gets the point of like When why did Stan Lee write the character advanced? Wouldn't one wouldn't it have been a better series if he just liked it? So how did that how did that relate to that Okay, so that was the most situation code. You know, the devil in our situation is bad. So if you don't if you don't have you know the devil you can't see you know, obviously the worst evil that there is. So now then now there's no contrast on you know the devil and God and the devil is not there entirely. So that was just the only thing that you wanted to Yeah, and why why did God even bother to create a universe with like and angles and to be a story that illustrates his glory. Okay. I didn't mean for that to run. But you know he was good though he created everything is to show his glory. So You know, the whole point is for is telling telling uh stories, but creation is a work of artists. And that purpose can't be satisfied without a concept without a evil stuff. Something that you really show is attributes of grace and forgiveness as well. I mean I don't like that. Doesn't make sense to me. And uh kind of stupid. So, you know, as a believer talking to um an un an unbeliever. I I tend to boil it down to a very simple concept. A lot of what we talk about, they're just not ideal. But the simple fact is, uh you you alluded to this when you talk, is that God is he's God And whatever he decides, and why he decides it, we don't get we don't get to pick it apart. We don't we don't we don't get a say. We never had a say I mean, it I mean we need to pick it apart in order to understand who God is. And I think what's just more important for us as we look at God. But the belief the unbeliever just has no appreciation for who God is. And and and so um the the the simple answer is just because. God said this is what I want and this is this is what I want to do, this is how I want to do it. And and you don't get a say of that. And I think that's very difficult for us. Because God also made us in the image, so we think like he thinks. You know, he has the ability to think, we have the ability to think. And then we just we just make it more comfortable. And you know, I like to think about the fact that God could have, you talk to the software stuff, you could just destroy everything. And then what will we what would we say? You know, you know, you're unfair. No matter what he does, we people are gonna say he's unfair. But he's not right So happening he can never be wrong, no matter what he does. Right, yeah. Right, right, yeah. I mean that's that's that's that that's it. He he he's got it. But wouldn't that stop like like if you just like sent us all to help and then you'd be like dang that's pretty good Like we we can't do anything about that. That's like I don't know, I think it's like hard for like I remember like I was talking to someone else about this um and then they're basically like so like God could just So like God's basically like he he he's bas he basically created a problem kind of and then he's just like solved that problem is like wow now it's like awesome because created the problem and now I solved it. But like they just created it with out of policy in the first place or made it in a way where, you know, maybe Maybe like Adam didn't sit in the first place or something like that. Like why why would that be pretty good? Because if that would like to like okay and that's if that's the case. Because the the whole reason why that even started was because they of their free will. So if that was not to happen that was going to happen. Could it not still create free will and have the rules where people do it Well T3 in that is the T tree. There's a tree that on your thing. And there's a tree of light. And as soon as they ate of the tree and all the people shut down the garden. They could because if they ate of the tree of life, little ebb was evil. And so I mean, who knows? I mean I don't know, I'm just saying. Yeah, it's interesting scenarios to wrestle with. Yeah. They can value a free brain over everything. I wish I was God. Yeah, actually. Maybe for different reasons though. Yeah, yeah. I'm I'm gonna create a computer simulation where everyone goes to help a story where everybody or you know created a world where where everybody has free will but they they choose right and there's no sense. Um That would be like Stan Lee writing the Marvel universe without any film at all, right? Would you watch that movie? No, but like what's it is it isn't that basically like saying that like God like we're basically out here for like God's entertainment I think that's it. By worshiping him in heaven forever? By knowing him and in glory. Can we know and enjoy God in His fullness without experiencing His forgiveness and His grace? Can we experience this forgiveness and disgrace without sin and suffering? What is the basis of a gratitude? The basis is that thank you God would have you need that. Otherwise you wouldn't be gracious. What would you be gracious for? You can't be gracious over what you already have without knowing what you could have had in in the future which is what you have. Always. And how I mean, what about how yes is suffering, yes burning, yes, being able to bodily throw people into home, but it's very shouldn't be And what is Jesus Day is people are going to be doing in hell besides suffering? Like when they're thrown out into the outer darkness there will be We see that like a day. Yeah, so the reason separate. The mashing in T that comes from I don't deserve this. Right. That comes from people saying, God, you are not fair to throw me in hell. I don't deserve this. I deserve things. I deserve better than this. And so we will yeah, we'll keep our free will and help. We'll we will continue to believe that we are justified in what we've done all of our lives and that God is not justified throwing us into hell. I would even go one step further. I don't think it's not God throwing us into hell. It's more of us choosing We uh my free will is I want to go now. I do not want to be in the presence of God. So okay, here you go. I don't think you see that more and more too. Like as I've gotten older I see that more and more For people to say, Well, if my husband's involved and I want to be a speech, what people say something. I've heard people say they're gonna be partying all the time in hell. I tell them, put your hand in the fire right now. Keep it in. It is really doesn't a taste of our choice. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. All good good questions. I mean that one works in terms of you know like the angels at some point. for Lucifer to choose, I want to be like God. Uh in fact I think I can't be like God. And people should worship for what I'm not people yet. But you guys should worship me. And one part of them maybe again when we get up. But okay, here you go. And then you guys close up. They can't choose anymore. And there's no grace for them. There's no grace for angels. And they look with wonder I don't know. Yes, but for now they're about to think. God gave us a joy, right? God gave the angel They don't have a choice. They obey the team stuff. Yeah. But also they're really tiny when they are between the choice of light. Yeah. But you think it might be a real phone like, you know, John Baptist dad with me to space. I don't know what's up to me like I am behavior. I can't have the right hand. Good. Good good discussion. Yeah, it's a difficult question, but again I think the only The only uh satisfying answer um is found in in Christianity, knowing that God has been has been addressing this from the day of Genesis and will one day resolutely solve this issue of evil. Well yeah, maybe we can talk about uh yeah, heaven and hell. That'd be another good topic to discuss. Um let me close this in prayer. Um So I hope you guys like more of the interactive class. I think I kinda like it better too. Let me close in prayer and then uh we'll we'll run over to worship. Dear Heavenly Father, thank you for um providing us a s a uh a view of what the evil is, um and that um you are not the creator of evil, but you you have allowed evil. It is satisfying to know that one day you will resolutely destroy evil. In fact, your son has already accomplished it in one sense. Lord, uh, bring us into worship today that we may give you this um the glory that you deserve. Uh may we um May we respect the idea of evil and its purpose to bring you greater glory. And that it in in in in our case it makes us cling. to the cross, cling to your Savior, cling to the son your son more tightly, knowing um uh of what the difference is between evil and righteousness is. Lord um Again, thank you for this class, and may we uh continue to have these types of discussions so that our faith is strengthened. And again, your glory is elevated. And it's in your son's name that we pray and give you thanks. Amen