Flesh. Nevertheless his days shall be one hundred and twenty years. The Nephilim were on the earth in those days, and also afterward when the sons of God came into the daughters of men. And they bore children to them. Nevertheless, his days shall be one hundred and twenty years. The Nephilim were on the earth in those days. The Lord was very sorry that he had made man on the earth, and he was grieved in his heart. The Lord said, I will blot out man whom I have created from the face of the land, from man to animals. And then verse 8 is our transition verse into the next section. But Noah found favor in the eyes. of the Lord. If you were here last Lord's Day, you know that we were only able to introduce the times of Noah. Really barely cracked the book open, so to say. We mentioned that those days right before the flood were uniquely evil. Our time may be increasingly evil, but that time was off the charts in terms of evil. And it makes it relevant for us because we see our society becoming increasingly foolish and wicked. So there's something here for us to study and learn. To understand the background to this text, we scanned backward in the early history. We noted how little there is in terms of a recollection of that history. Here we have a text that tells us what happened during those 1600 plus years. from creation and fall to what I call the fallout. That is, man began to multiply through the marriages, but also through all of that came increasing wickedness. We're not going to even get to explain all of the wickedness today. We're only going to talk about one facet of that wickedness, but there's quite a bit that happened in that time. As we arrive at Genesis 6, 1 through 7, which I just read, with verse 8 as that transition verse, we noted that there are two halves to our text The first half mainly talks about man's wicked actions, verses one through four. The second half reveals God's righteous response to the sin of man, predominantly in verses five through seven. There is overlap, though, in both of those sections. And we'll talk about that too. As we began talking about man's wicked actions, we noted that the text talks about three actions here. The first is The sons of God grab wives for themselves. They took wives. We're still in the m middle of trying to understand that statement. The second action and the third we'll get to next time, God limited life to 120 years and There was the birth of these Nephilim. So today we're going to delve deeply into the identity of the sons of God and try to understand that. We noted last time just as a tickler to you to whet your appetite for today, but there are three divergent views about the identity of this this uh oblique kind of statement here, the sons of God. And I think if we can go more deeply into it and really look at some of the details, if you come to the same conclusion I did, I think it will add color to our understanding of that anti-deluvian world. It will be like, wow, I had no idea that there was a history on this planet that was like that. And it may help to understand better why God decided to utterly and completely Sometimes we read these familiar stories and we think, yeah, God flooded the world, he destroyed them, men were wicked, but we don't think how wicked were they? Why at this time? Why when there have only been two times God said He'll completely destroy the world that this was one of those times? So buckle up, so to say. Today's message will be quite exploratory in a lot of details. The first view is that the sons of God were princes, nobles, or great men of ancient days, who broke with the proper behavior, proper decorum, if you would have it. And they decided to marry outside of who they were supposed to marry, commoner women. And they developed harems for themselves. They wanted to promote their greatness and advance themselves, so they took wives, even multiple wives. They followed their base instincts. They grabbed women as they desired. They took advantage of their position. They practiced polygamy, and all of this brought about much more wickedness in those days. The interpreters who promote this particular view think that this action indicates that man from the top down was in full rebellion toward God. To these interpreters, it shows that corruption had reached the highest levels of society with sexual promiscuity run amok. It also reveals their unashamed arrogance, their abuse of power, and everything that came with that. This view is an intriguing view. It is, I think, a creative view. And there are some some uh good scholars who hold this view. Yet it's held really by very few Because it really fails to work hard at proving that that title, in fact, those titles, the sons of God, the daughters of men that are used here in Genesis 6, mean what they claim them to mean. It also fails to prove itself from any development of the flow of thought from the context. In fact These interpreters tend to give, and I say that because I'm generalizing, they tend to give greater weight to what they read about early religion outside of the Bible. In other words religion in other civilizations and how they developed and think that the Bible is giving stories that kind of parallel things that happened outside of the Bible And then they interpret Genesis in light of those extra-biblical practices and titles and religious events. But as far as the Hebrew Bible is concerned, which is our concern, there is no precedent anywhere in the Scripture to use that title, the sons of God, to refer to great rulers or princes. Or mighty men, really, of any kind. While it is true that ancient pagan kings after the flood considered themselves offspring of deity, or at times even demigods Nowhere in the Bible itself is the term sons of God used in reference to such rulers. Nor does the Bible affirm that it is appropriate to use such titles for rulers. Those were uh arrogant titles they assumed unto themselves, and the Bible doesn't go along with that. Nor is there any precedent in Scripture to use the designation daughters of men to refer to mere commoners The phrase most naturally in its context just means human women, daughters of men, descendants of Adam. Also devastating to this view is that there is nothing in the context to support it. The whole idea of power-hungry rulers seeking to establish a dynasty by the acquisition of a harem or princes forcing themselves upon commoner wives would make for great cinema in Hollywood, but is forced on this passage. So this interpretation really is contrived, and any interpretation which is a manufactured interpretation we need to reject. Scripture must interpret Scripture. It's one of the cardinal views that we have in approaching the Bible. There are even more problems with this view, and I'm only going to outline this. Another is that they are not even sure that there were any nations or princes or kings or royalty of any kind before the flood In chapter 9 of Genesis, after the flood, God introduces for the first time, as far as we know, human government. Plus, before the flood, everybody spoke the exact same language. Which after the flood, changing the languages, became the impetus for forming the nations and the kingdoms, and thus the kings and the princes Furthermore, since these marriage unions are part of what God sort of leads God to conclude that a worldwide flood is really needed to wipe out all of humanity This view doesn't seem to provide some suitable evil cause to provoke such an unparalleled divine judgment of worldwide magnitude. Why would God wipe out the entire world because rulers took inappropriate wives to display their pomp and their grandeur? I mean there have been plenty of rulers after the flood who have done even worse. Exhibit A would be Solomon. Do you know how many wives he had? And don't get any ideas from this, guys. Seven hundred. And if w that weren't enough, he decided to throw in three hundred more concubines. So there's a reason why very few take this view. It really is not convincing. And of the three, it is the weakest. The second view prevailed from the time of Augustine to the reformers and beyond. The sons of God are the godly and believing descendants of Seth, the thirdborn son of Adam. And the daughters of men, as they see it, were the worldly or ungodly daughters descended from the line of that unbelieving son called Cain. So you have the Cainites and the Sathites developing after creation time and after the fall. The idea is that when you look back to the children of Adam and Eve, what happened? There was Cain and there was Abel, but Cain killed Abel, so Abel's gone. He doesn't have descendants. So then what do you have? You look into chapter four of Genesis, and supposedly that documents the corruption of Cain and Cain's line, Cain's descendants. Particularly noteworthy is a fella there in chapter 4 of Genesis named Lammock. Now there are two Lammocks. This is the bad Lammock. And Lamak decided to rebel against God and his pattern of giving man and woman. And he decided to take two wives who actually are named. And he boasted of doing this, and then he boasted of his ability to take violent revenge on anybody who would stand against him. Then you go into chapter 5, the end of chapter 4, and into chapter 5, and supposedly a godly son is born to Adam and Eve, and they name him Seth. And Seth's descendants then are also supposedly good. And they are the ones that engage in worshiping the one true God. In chapter 4 of verse 26 in Genesis, it even states that after Seth's birth Men, quote, men began to call upon the name of the Lord, and that surely sounds like a wonderful development to indicate the start of formal worship Where they would gather and they would actually worship the one true and living God. One of Seth's descendants is Enoch And uh Pastor Rod read from Hebrews 11, and we know he walked closely with God, was a strong man of faith. And then of course Noah is from Seth's line. So were Methuselah. And the other Lammock, the good Lammock. Proponents of this view argue that the context of Genesis chapter 4 and chapter 5 and the flow of thought into chapter 6 is in their favor. And unlike that first view, I think that this is a legitimate attempt to make sense out of what's going on in that context However, the immediate problem for the Sethite view is why Moses, who is the author of Genesis, didn't just simply State that would have made it a lot simpler, wouldn't it have been? Why did he employ titles like the sons of God not used previously for Seth's line if what he meant was Sons of Seth. How do we get sons of God from Sons of Seth? In fact, not even the title Sons of Seth is used to view them as a group. And why did he employ the title daughters of men, which really is daughters of Adam, if he only meant the daughters from one line from Adam, that is the line of Cain? That is hardly an obvious connection. The names Cain and Seth or their descendants are not even carried into chapter 6, except of course for Noah because of the flood. In fact, that little opening phrase, if you look back at verse 1, where it says, Now it came about, coupled with these brand new titles, sons of God. More likely indicates that when you get to chapter six, there's a shift in subject matter, not a continuation of subject matter from the previous Chapters. Furthermore, it states in verse 1: not that the line of Cain was multiplying, but that men, humanity in general, were multiplying. So if you think about it, there's nothing actually in the context of chapter 6 which leads us to identify the sons of God as the sons of Seth. That connection must be assumed. Furthermore, and this in my mind is definitive against the Sethite view, that title the daughters of men is actually defined in chapter six. Did you notice that? It's defined as human women. Notice again in verse 1. Daughters were born to them, it says in verse 1. Born to who? Born to men, born to mankind, born to humans. So what does that mean then? That means human daughters. Then immediately next in verse two, the title Daughters of Men is used. What does that mean? It has to mean the same thing. The reader must assume that daughters of men means human females, just as it did in verse 1. Verse 1, verse 2. To be consistent, the daughters that are born to men need to be the same thing as the daughters of men So this view, though it tries to make sense of the context, really strains the titles and strains the text, and it is really an unlikely view. And there are more problems with the Sethite view. Again, just only time for a survey here. First of all, it is a stretch to say that there was a godly lying of Seth and an ungodly lying of Cain. It's not a stretch to say that Cain was of the evil one or that Seth was a believer, but to say that their entire line was either godly or ungodly. That's possible But it is not something that is known for sure. It's a conclusion that is drawn from a very limited amount of information that were given from back then For example, even some of the names, the actual name meanings that are in Cain's line, are names that are oriented toward God. There was still some awareness of God, and we can't be sure that all the descendants of Cain, just because they were descendants of Cain, were ungodly people. There may have been some godly in the line of Cain And back in chapter 4, it was not the line of Seth alone who called on the name of the Lord. If we go back to that key verse in chapter 4, it says, mankind in general began to call on the name of the Lord. And flipping to the other side, if the line of Seth was so predominantly godly, it sure didn't end up showing up too much, did it? For they must have had a lot that defected in vast numbers even before this time Certainly before the flood, otherwise God sure drowned a lot of godly people in the flood, because there were only eight that made it under the ark in the end. And if they were so godly, why did they not find Godly women who believed to marry. Were there no pretty or beautiful women among the multitudes of the Stephites to marry? And what made the daughters of Cain so much more attractive than When you think about it, Cain and Seth were brothers. And you look around, brothers tend to look alike. And their offspring and cousins and the second cousins kind of look alike also. How could you have a bunch of beautiful women and a bunch of ugly women? It doesn't make sense. And by the way, what happened to the godly women in Seth's line? Did they marry the ungodly men in Cain's line? And why would the ungodly men marry them if they were so ugly? And if the sin was the sin of failing to keep separate from unbelievers, where was that command from God? As far as we know, that command is not issued until much later in human history in the law of Moses. Furthermore The Sethite view does not explain why the offspring of these unions would be, quote, mighty men of old, men of renown, as it says in verse 4. MidwestApologetics. org appropriately asks this question: Why would the children of these marriages be any different than the children that come from unions of unbelievers and believers today? Chuck Mistler, in his, I would say, ardent defense of the angel view, asks this question How does the Sethite interpretation contribute to the ostensible cause for the flood, which is the primary thrust of the text. And he's right, those are good questions. The whole point of this is to show why the flood was so needed. So there's a lot that has to be assumed, and when we start looking at the details to this interpretation, it begins to unravel. Dr. Merrill Unger concludes this the Sethite view is found to be manifestly weak and unconvincing in satisfying the evident breadth and scope of the passage. And I agree with that. The third view fits the wording best. The sons of God is a title for angels Angels who abandoned their own spiritual domain and entered into the world of men. They violated the separation that God demanded from his creation between Between the spiritual world, which he also created, and the physical world. They audaciously crossed over into this physical world, gazed upon human women, because there are no female angels, they lusted for them. married them, had sexual relationships with them, and also bore them children. In other words, these are not good angels, these are fallen angels. who defied Almighty God and did something that not even other demons who rebelled against God before then or since then have dared even to do. So this text indicates a sin of only some of the angels after the original fall of angels along with Satan. These angels dared to take their sin to another level. In some interpretations in this view, the children of these unions are very large offspring. In this interpretation, they believe that the Nephilim are the product of these gross unions. Some who take the angel view do not agree with that. We'll get to that eventually. Let me try to lay some of this out for you because I know this is a strange a strange thing for a lot of people when they hear this for the first time First of all, let's take a step back and remind ourselves that angels are not imaginary. Angels are real. Angels are in the universe, and angels are also active in this world. They're real spiritual beings We also need to understand that God gave angels the capability to materialize and come into this world and actually be touched and seen and interact with this world, but only when God permits it. Only when the Lord permits it. When they materialize, they are able to be touched, they are able to be heard, they're able to be seen, they can even affect changes within the physical elements of this planet. So, angelic actions are common in human history. You won't get this from the secular history books, but as a believer, you have to include this in your understanding of your worldview. They should not be considered a myth. They should be considered as real. They should not be considered as something contrary to science. Science is not able to test and verify things that are in the spiritual realm. For example, what can angels do? Well the Bible tells us some of the things that angels can do. We have a whole course on angelology in our Bible Institute, by the way, if this is interesting to you. Angels fought in warfare. They actually killed other uh killed men in battle and shed their blood. We have examples in the Bible of an angel making a campfire, something as mundane as that. Angels cooking real food, the first angel food in the Bible. Angels eating real food, that's right, consuming it, swallowing it, and it being gone. Angels opening prison doors, angels having shackles fall off of Peter, angels blinding men with light so they cannot see. And frankly, angels just acting like men in general. In fact, angels can look and act so much like human beings. The writer to the book of Hebrews has to tell us in Hebrews chapter 13 and verse 2 Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers, for thereby some Have entertained angels unawares. How could they not be aware that they were entertaining an angel in their own tent or in their own house? And the answer is because they looked exactly Exactly like men, they acted like men, they that you shook their hand and hugged them, and they were like men. Demons, or evil spirits, as they are sometimes called, are simply angels. Who disobeyed God. They are not some other order or some other species. They are angels, but they are fallen angels. Now, they're filled with lies, they're filled with malice, they're filled with disobedience. But they are just as much an angel as the good angels are There are angels that are called in Scripture elect, and there are angels in Scripture that are called evil or evil spirits. In James 2. 19 it says You believe that God is one, you do well, the demons also believe and shudder. They're there and they're knowledgeable. Jesus said in Luke chapter 13, verse 32, Behold, I cast out demons fallen angels, and performed cures. Just like he really cured people, he really dealt with the angelic world. Demons and their activities and their words are mentioned multiple times throughout Scripture. But even so, granting that How did demons take human wives for themselves? This sounds like even outside of the box, doesn't it? It just sounds incredible to modern ears. Well, there are two variations to this angel view. The first is that the angels have the ability to materialize and become physical in this world. God told them not to. But they went ahead and did it anyways. They materialized, they took they looked like human males, they had tangible bodies, even sexual parts, and they took human wives and they procreated. The second is that these evil spirits did not have that ability and they possessed human men in mass, controlled them in their bodies, and took wives that way, never materializing, but still empowering the bodies of men. Much like you see in scripture when a man is possessed by a demon, they take on extraordinary power. You see one throwing off seven sons of skeva, or you see the Gavarean demoniac that nobody can That because there's a supernatural spirit inside of him, it gave his body supernatural power. And that then is that then works into the offspring and invests them with great size and great power. This view assumes that because men got so wicked before the flood. They either flirted with the occult and demonic power or they threw all of that off and forget the word flirt. They actually invited demons to invest in their own body. This was a world, as we're going to learn, that was so filled with violence. There was no law and order. There were no governments. And a man who was powerful was a man of influence. And if he could have supernatural power in him, then he could have a reputation and he could be great and he could indeed dominate other people and make life better for himself, or so they thought So they coveted superhuman power. By the way, do you see that tendency growing now? A lot of the entertainment is about how you can go to the next stage of evolution. Oh, they have different ways of putting the same old lies Or that you can invite superpower in your life, or have your super ability. And a lot of it is to get man to think in that category. Well, that's always been in the heart of man It would make perfect sense that it was in the heart of man back in those days, wanting demons to come in, indwell them, and control them. I know again, upon hearing the angel view, many believers take a huge step backward and they object. Wait a minute, Pastor, this sounds like mythology. This sounds like fantasy. Don't we have enough trouble trying to defend the Bible without bringing up angels procreating with human beings And by the way, didn't Jesus say angels can't marry and can't procreate? No, not exactly People read too much into that statement of Christ in Matthew chapter 22, verse 30. It does say this, for in the resurrection, people, human beings Neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven. Jesus only stated that the holy angels in heaven Do not marry and do not give in marriage. He said nothing about their capabilities or the intents of evil angels rebelling against God on earth. And he did not say that angels were sexualists. A lot of people conclude that. Every time that angels appear, they always appear as what? Men, there's a reason for that. They are male. They were made male. They have male titles and they function as males. That explains why they don't marry in heaven. Because they are all male. Took you a while, didn't it? Do you remember the homosexual men in Sodom? They lusted after men, after angels. Who looked like men, who looked like incredibly good looking men, and they lusted after them so strongly, they would have pressed against Lot, they would have beaten him up or killed him, and they would have forced themselves upon these angels. Abraham himself thought that they were men as well. So open your mind a little bit here, people. I did not invent this view. A sizable number of scholars and preachers, both ancient and modern, have held the angel view. All of the early Jewish and Hebrew writers, as far as we know, held to this view view without exception. All of the early church fathers held to this view. In modern days the great creation scientists Henry Morris holds this view, the noted expositor Donald Gray Barnhouse, Dr. John MacArthur, I think you know him, Dr. Merrill Unger, the esteemed Old Testament scholar, A. W. Pink, S. Lewis Johnson the Old Testament Hebrew stalwart Dalitch and many, many more. So there must be something to this view that the text forces on us because none of us would just choose to believe this, you know, if we were not If there was something that wasn't strong coming from the text. Modern people have a propensity to consider any strange story from Earth's history as, well, put it into the category of legend and mythology. Rather than taking off their evolutionary glasses and quit looking at human history as if everyone far back was naive and they were just developing in their understanding and they all worshiped rocks and stones And these were just stupid people, and we're so far advanced beyond them. That is an evolutionary model of the development of humanity, and it's not the correct one In fact, many of the earliest civilizations it's been proven, they started out believing in one God and they degenerated into believing many gods. Realize too that there are records of events by early men which we need to take seriously. Some of them, of course, have been embellished, some of them have some kernel of truth to them in the past, and what is called myth has some truth to it. And we need to retrain our thinking about understanding very, very early human history. That's what makes this so exciting. By the way, the Bible records some very strange things that happened in the ancient world. You want me to give them to you? Remind you of it? There was a woman who was made by an operation where they took a rib from a guy. And they fashioned a woman, and then the woman came walking up to the guy, and they were both naked in a garden. Do you remember that account? That happened. That's literal. That's history. In Genesis 3, it speaks of a serpent in a garden talking. How about that? In Genesis 4 and 5, it says men live more than 900 years. That's to be taken as real history. Now in chapter 6, we're going to be talking about a worldwide flood, every mountain covered, and animals who decided all on their own to kind of walk towards the ark and get there. Outside of the Bible, there are abundant records of tales and very strange occurrences from very strange animals. Some of them sound like a dragon. All over the globe. And you think, were they all imagining that? Or were was there really some kind of a reptile animal that was back there at that time? Or very large men and tales of very large men that are no longer in their time as well. And this permeates societies all the way across the globe. The people living back in ancient times were not dumb. Their building projects, their astrological calculations alone prove their mental capacity. In some ways, I think moderns are more naive because they fail to understand the spirit world that the ancients understood. So if you can push aside modern prejudice and look at the text again, let's see what we see. We already noticed that the sons of God are juxtaposed with the daughters of men. What does that indicate? It should indicate to the reader that the sons of God are of a different variety, a different kind than the daughters of men. Otherwise, this intended contrast makes less sense. Furthermore, when you look at the context, up to this point in time, Moses, the author of Genesis, has never used the title Sons of God for any of the men. So we have to go to the broader context to understand why would he be putting this here? The sons of God, Bani Elohim. in Hebrew. It's only used five times in all of the Old Testament. The two in this passage which are in question and three more times all in the book of Job. Job chapter 1, verse 6, Job 2, verse 2, and Job thirty-eight seven. All three times in the book of Job, everybody agrees they speak of angels. In fact, in Job thirty-eight seven, it refers to angels rejoicing at the very time of God creating the world So Job's references are definitive. They're angels. And they are even more significant when you remember that the book of Job, along with Genesis, are the two oldest books that we have in the Bible. Job was written around the time that Genesis was written, and that makes the verbal usage even closer. That in and of itself makes the angel view the strongest view. In addition to this, other Old Testament titles similar to this refer to angels. Psalm 29 and verse 1, and Psalm 89 and verse 6 call angels sons of the mighty. Now, some people point out that Isaiah chapter 43 and verse 6 and other Old Testament references were similar titles, also used for human beings who were believers. But those are not the same title. And they are in the context of the nation of Israel as a nation in covenant before God, formed by God, and the nation of Israel itself, God calls my son. And so using those to try to define the title, sons of God, is not all that convincing. Others object and say, but aren't believers called sons of God in the New Testament? Yes, they are, but never in the Old Testament. In Moses' writings, and in the rest of the entire Hebrew Old Testament, the title is never used of believers, and it is never used of human beings. Human beings, when they're referred to as sons of something, are simply called sons of men. A very appropriate designation Sons of men are human beings. So try not to read your New Testament understanding of the use of the term sons of God back into the Old Testament context. I want you to think a little bit more about the title Sons of God. It's a very special title. It's a title that is not usedly loosely. It's reserved for creatures. Directly made by God or for the eternal Son of God Himself. It is not used of offspring born through the agency of men. What do I mean? For example, in Luke's genealogy of Jesus in Luke chapter 3, everybody in that list is called the son of somebody, the son of his human father. Canaan, not Cain, Canaan is the son of Enosh. Enosh is the son of Seth. Seth is the son of Adam. But when Luke gets to Adam, he labels Adam the son of God. Why? Because Adam had no human father. Adam was directly created by the hand of God. So he's called the Son of God Jesus is called the only begotten Son of God, the non Ganesh in the New Testament. Why? Because in his deity He had no beginning, he had no human father, he's eternally generated by God the Father, and he's in a class by himself. There's no one in between producing Jesus. Believers in the New Testament are called sons of God, not because of their human lineage or their human fathers. Our human birth into this world, despite what people say today, does not qualify us with the title Sons of God. Someone says, well, every human being is a son of God, a child of God. That does not qualify us for that title. Rather, what qualifies us in the New Testament sense to be called sons of God is our new birth in Christ. Which wins for us this distinctive and reserved title. We are directly recreated in Jesus Christ as sons of God. And there are no human intermediaries between us, between God and us. No human beings, in other words, caused us to be born again, to have the new birth. Only God directly regenerates. His own elect. As it teaches in John chapter 1, verses 12 and 13. As many as received Jesus to them, listen, he gave the right to become children of God. So you're not you don't have a right to be the child of God because you're born into this world. You only have the right to become a child of God, a son of God, through faith in Christ. And then it goes on to say, even to those who believe in his name, who were born, listen, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh. Nor of the will of man, but born of what? God. Directly born of God, a son of God. Directly made by God, a son of God. John chapter 1, verses 12 and 13 points to the coming and the work of Christ as necessary for believers to have the right to become the children of God through that miracle we call regeneration. Born of God, born again, born from above, not from below, not from a human heritage. Now think about the angels Angels are not procreated by other angels as men procreate men. Angels don't marry in heaven We already heard about that. Every last angel was directly created by the hand of God. They have no fathers other than God themselves. The number of angels never increases. and it never decreases. So the title, Sons of God, before the Christ event is reserved for the angels. Do you see then, with that understanding of that title, how shocking that statement is in Genesis 6: the sons of God from heaven made by God? came and looked upon the daughters of men and took wives for themselves. I mean it's meant to be shocking. This doesn't happen every other day. It's meant to show how bad things got before the flood. It's meant to give the rationale for a worldwide destruction of humanity. I know some object and they say, but isn't this the normal language for taking wives that human beings would use with other human beings when they get married? Isn't this the language that is used? They took wives. Yes, it is And that is what either the materialized angels did, or that is what men possessed by demons did. They took wives and they married them. We know demons can possess men. We also know that Satan had already entered into the realm of animals. And showed up in dwelling some kind of a special animal. We call it a snake, but it was some kind of a strange animal in the garden, a very shrewd animal. But he took up residence inside that snake and deceived Eve from what he did. That's what spirits can do. That's what spirits seek to do. In our demonology and understanding in the Gospel of Luke, we see that they actually go trying to find a body to get into. And it's kind of hard for them And they look and they hunt, and when they can't find one, they go back to the same body they were in before and bring back seven spirits worse than themselves. We also know that angels can materialize. We know that Abraham dined with materialized angels We know that angels fought in wars, and I'm sure the soldiers that fought them in battle said they were they were quite concrete and and real. We also know, as we said, the sodomites lusted after the bodies of angels Either way, this is what they did. Now, I want to take you to the New Testament quickly because I'm running out of time Because the New Testament supports this very interpretation. If you would turn to the little letter of Jude, which is right before Revelation, I want to show you where this comes up in the New Testament. Jude chapter 1, there's only one chapter. It's quite obvious that when you read Jude that he is familiar with an ancient Hebrew book called the Book of Enoch. Which he actually quotes in his letter. That doesn't mean that the book of Enoch was inspired or lost scripture. It just means that there were some accurate things recorded in other books besides the Bible, and because they're not inspired, they also had error in them. But some of what was written in the book of Enoch was true, and some of the recording of what happened there was true. And Jude quotes from it later in his letter. But first I want you to notice in verse 6 of Jude that it says Angels who did not keep their own domain, but abandoned their proper abode, God has kept in eternal bonds under darkness. For the judgment of the great day, in other words, they're being reserved for judgment. What angels are these Notice back one verse and forward one verse that Joe Jude is giving examples of God's judgments on apostates. From the Old Testament. Apostates are those who were with God and then they fell away from God and then they practiced sin. In verse 5, the apostates are the Israelites, and that comes from the book of Numbers In verse 7, the apostates are Sodom and Gomorrah, and that comes from the book of Genesis. Sandwiched in between those two Stories and accounts from the Pentateuch, from the writing of Moses, in verse 6, we would expect that we would also find a story about angels sinning in the Old Testament and in Moses' writings in particular. Because that's where these other two stories come from. Notice also that the sin of these angels is similar to the sin of Sodom and Gomorrah. Look at verse 7. It says, just as Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities around them, since they, that is the cities, in the same way as these, that is the angels, indulged in what? Gross immorality. And, very interestingly, went after strange or different flesh. It's not strange because it looked kind of strange, it's strange because it was different. The connection between these verses is even clearer in the Greek language with the conjunction host, the word as So we would expect to find an Old Testament historical account that tells of angels sinning in gross sexual immorality and then chasing after, going after some kind of different flesh. Sodom and Gomorrah, you may remember, were guilty of not only men lusting for men, that's the sin of homosexuality, but human men lusting after angels Who appeared like men. And I don't even know what the term is for that. And that's why it's called strange flesh. Now, I want you to turn to 2 Peter. Just turn back a couple of books to 2 Peter. Chapter two and verse four. It says in verse four, For if God did not spare angels when they sinned But cast them into hell, or Tartarus, and committed them to pits of darkness, reserved for judgment. Then he goes on and did not spare the ancient world. And so He does not spare Sodom and Gomorrah, then he's the conclusion is he knows how to judge evil men, basically, and rescue the righteous. That's verse four. Focus on verse four. So here again, Peter mentions some sin of angels that God judged severely, not will judge, already judge. If you read through verses 5, 6, 7, and 8, and follow along there, you'll see that Peter is writing accounts in a chronological order. First, there is the angels sinning. Then Peter writes about Noah and the destruction of the world. Then he writes about Sodom and Gomorrah. And then he writes about the story of Lot. So most likely the story of the angels sinning, who were cast into Tartarus, comes, listen, from Genesis. And comes before the flood of Noah. So where in Genesis, before the flood of Noah, does it contain an account of angels sinning by going after strange flesh? This cannot refer to the sin of the angels in the fall with Satan from heaven. Why not? Because that sin did not involve going after strange flesh, as verse seven says these angels. did. And that sin is not told or described anywhere in Genesis or the Pentateuch, or for that matter, in all of the Old Testament. And most conclusive, not all fallen angels today are kept in eternal bonds in a pit awaiting a future judgment. Many demons still roam the earth, as was clear in Jesus' day. When some demons encountered Jesus in Luke chapter 8, verse 31, they begged Jesus not to send them into the abyss, the pit, Tartarus, where there were already other fallen angels. They did not want to go there. Why would some demons be worse off than others? Well, because, as Jude says, they abandoned, they left their domain. They went through the process of apostasy as a remote. They left their abode, they took human wives, they went after strange flesh They were given domains, they were given boundaries, they were told not to cross those boundaries, but right before the flood, they transgressed the command of God. It was never God's will for angels to procreate. That was only given to the realm of man. Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth And that is why their departure from their God given design was so grievous. That is why it invited the wrath of God like never seen before on this planet. Listen, obviously something very evil was occurring in the pre-flood world that incited the Lord above To judge the entire world. Think of that. Think of that. God ordered the absolute destruction. Again, we don't know how many were there. It might have been into the millions of people. Instead, they all need to die Every last one of them, their time is up. It's over for them. That is an amazing judgment, and it has never even come close to anything like that that we know of. I mean any of the activities that the disasters that we hear about today aren't but a fraction of the human race. Here God said it's over for all of them. I mean eight people out of whatever the number was God was starting all over with Noah. He even said, I'm grieved that I've made man. This is the only time in all of human history the Lord wiped out the human race to start over. There needs to be a reason commensurate with such a severe judgment. That reason includes it's not the only reason, but it includes a full demonic intrusion into world history, the likes of which have never been seen before and won't be seen again until the end times. I don't care if this sounds legendary to moderns. My concern is what the divine revelation reveals to us and the lessons that we can learn from this Some ask why? Why would these angels transgress that clear boundary and do such a heinous and audacious thing? The answer is we don't know. Some speculate that Satan had heard the promise that God gave to Eve. Indeed, he was still there in the serpent, right? That from your seed, Eve, one will come that will deliver all of humanity. And they believed that Satan was masterminding a half-human, half-angelic race that could not be redeemed and that would thwart all of God's plan. Ruin God's redemptive plan and promises forever. Scripture, largely we know, is a story of the battle between good and evil, of Satan trying to usurp the throne of God. bring angels after him, affect human history, and steer it in the direction that he wants. It's like Satan to do such a thing. He's audacious. He even tried to turn the Son of God into the Antichrist when he tempted him out in the wilderness. A bold move on the part of Satan. Or the reason might have just been these fallen angels, in their fallen state, evil, empty Discontent, would have looked at something they did not have in their realm, women or female angels And they would have lusted for them, as the text seems to indicate, they looked upon them for they were beautiful. Listen, we know that human beings do absolutely crazy things to fulfill their lusts. Maybe that's all the impetus that fallen angels. Whatever their reason, God shut them up. They are now chained in darkness, in Tartarus, the lowest pit. They are not walking on the earth. They're not some of the ones that Christ cast out of people. God's anger fell upon his own creation so hard. And that is a warning. It's meant to be a warning. The days of Noah are supposed to be a warning. Not even angels will escape the fury of the Almighty's anger if they turn away from doing God's will. How is it that men think that they will escape? Beautiful angels corrupted into vile spirits, now locked up and lost forever. Such a terrible end that the demons begged Christ put us in the swine rather than in the pit. There's so much more to explore. And we'll get to that next time. But one more question. If this was the sin of angels why did God punish men? Because men cooperated with the demons. The Bible speaks of two destructions of humanity, once in a worldwide flood with a promise that will never happen again. But the second in a global inferno. It is no coincidence that right before both destructions, satanic and demonic activity will crescendo among the sons of men. Men need to know that if they dabble with evil and evil spirits, they will face the wrath of God. Idolatry, the occult, demonism, witchcraft, paganism. Even pantheism, these things are already on the increase in our society, and they will get worse as the end times approach. People need to know the violent way the Holy God of heaven reacts to men when they start dabbling with those things. In Deuteronomy chapter 18. God was telling the Israelites, when you enter the land, destroy every single altar that is built to every false God, because that's really the worship of demons. He said, There will not be found among your nation anybody who makes his son or his daughter pass through the fire, anyone who uses divination or practices witchcraft. or interprets omens, or a sorcerer, or a medium, or a spiritist, or one who calls up the dead. And he answers with this For whoever does these things is detestable to the Lord your God. And because of these things Because of these things, the Lord your God is driving them out before you. God hates this stuff. He hates it with a passion. People need to know how the Holy God of heaven reacts to spiritual wickedness and sexual lewdness. And they need to run to the Savior and seek salvation in Jesus Christ today. before they see the wrath of God in their own life. Now we have not developed all the evil that has happened and how man cooperated with all of this, but he certainly was caught up with it. It wasn't something that was just happening to him. He was enjoying his sins. He was inviting this as well. And so he is being faced with a judgment. Of course, Genesis is the story of what God is doing with men, not what God is doing with angels. We learn of their punishment. And we'll pick up with more descriptions of that very heinous and wicked time before the flood next Father, we pray that you would aid and assist us in understanding by your Spirit just how wicked wickedness is. That you would help us to be sober and holy in the daily age. And just help us, even this week, to turn aside from wickedness, to see how bad it is, to love you with all of our heart, to follow after you closely, to watch ourselves and guard ourselves, and to look after our brethren. May your blessing, Lord, be upon us in this church as we seek to obey you. Thank you for the excellent example of Noah, and we pray, Lord, in the midst of wickedness that we might be a little bit like him. Amen.