The Apostle Paul writes, I do not write these things to shame you, but to admonish you as my beloved children. For if you were to have countless tutors in Christ, yet you would not have many fathers For in Christ Jesus I became your Father through the gospel. Therefore I exhort you, be imitators of me. For this reason I have sent to you Timothy, who is my beloved and faithful child in the Lord, and he will remind you of my ways, which are in Christ, just as I teach everywhere in every church. Now some have become arrogant, as though I were not coming to you. But I will come to you soon, if the Lord wills. And I shall find out not the words of those who are arrogant, but their power. For the kingdom of God does not consist in words. But in power. What do you desire? Shall I come to you with a rod or with love and a spirit of gentleness? Now, last time we began looking at the great concern the Apostle Paul had for the spiritual well-being of the Corinthian church. Paul was the first to proclaim the gospel of Christ in the city of Corinth, to gather together the believers and form them into a local church. And so he considered them to be his very own spiritual children. He loved them. He begot them through the gospel, through the preaching of the good news of Christ. God, of course, is always the ultimate father of all believers. He is the real one who grants life. No human can do that. But God uses preachers and evangelists of the Word to communicate a life-changing message that grants eternal life to anyone who believes. And because they believed, they became not only Paul's children, but the children of God. Yet these Corinthians presently were not being all that obedient as children of God, were they? And so Paul has some strong correction to give to them in this letter. Here we hear of tough love. You know about that. Many of you have children and you know what you have to do sometimes with them. You love them. But you have to love them with tough love. You have to correct them. Here in verses 14 through 21, to say the least, Paul is speaking strong language, but he also is explaining why he's been writing in such strong language through the first four chapters He's explaining to them their motives. He's explaining to them his own motives, what his purpose was in being so strong to them. We know when we talk tough to our kids, they can misunderstand that We know we have to do it, but they can misunderstand it. And when we get real strong with them, they almost always misunderstand it. And so we have to explain to them I'm not saying this to shame you, to hurt you, to put you down. I'm saying this to build you up, to correct you, to admonish you. That is exactly what the Apostle Paul is doing in this section. And by doing that, he becomes an example of a spiritual father to all the rest of us who love believers, particularly those that we have led to a saving knowledge of Christ, or those we're discipling or looking after, or trying to teach in some capacity. His heart gets revealed and bared in this section and we can Look at his heart and listen to his heart, and we can learn from that and ask ourselves, do I have the heart of a spiritual father or mother? Next Sunday is Mother's Day. Hopefully no one has forgotten that. If you have, that was a free advertisement. Don't forget. But you don't have to be a mother or father of an earthly child to be the mother or the father of a spiritual child All you have to do is be faithful, to go out and give somebody the gospel and pray earnestly for them. And perhaps, as it says in 2 Timothy 2, God might grant them repentance. leading to the knowledge of the truth, and then you would have been used by God to lead them to truth. And guess what? You are now a spiritual mommy or a spiritual daddy. Be faithful in getting the gospel out to others. You can't expect God to grant life to someone if you're not giving the gospel to others. You want to be a spiritual father? You want to be a spiritual mother? Quit witnessing to the same two or three people that refuse to listen to you and learn to spread your seed more broadly. Give out the gospel to a number of people. Pass out tracts, talk to new people, offer yourselves in one of the evangelism ministries of the church. Take a little risk, step out for Christ, be used of God. God will use you He'll use you just like anyone because if you can talk and say his gospel, his gospel has the power in it, as we're going to see this morning. And you can have the joy of being a spiritual mother or a spiritual father. Now last time we learned three insights about being a spiritual father or spiritual parent, if you wish. Three insights about this The first one was in verse 14. Just glance back there. He says that he was admonishing his children. So what does a spiritual father do? A spiritual father admonishes his own children. He corrects them, teaches them, implores them, urges them so that they would be true to God. He's not doing it to shame them. The second insight was from verse 15 where you see he cherishes his special relationship to his children. Yes, they may have many teachers, many tutors, many guardians throughout their Christian lives. But he was the one that founded them and he had a special relationship to them as a spiritual father. And you can see that he cherished it. In fact, in order to ex Explain why he got to speak especially strong to them. He brings out that relationship right here and says, you know, you may have many tutors, but I'm your father in Christ through the gospel, and so you really ought to be listening to me And then the third insight was from verse 16. Again, would you look at it? He talks about imitating his life, letting his life be an example Children, look at me and live like me. Listen to me and do what I say. Watch my life and learn from me, and that's what a father wants. A father lives a sincere and strong Christian example so that any of his children can look at it and not catch him doing something wrong, but see him doing something right. Well, today we gained two more insights about spiritual fatherhood. And I'll tell you, they really run quite contrary to what a lot of people think today. And I think you're going to hear a strong, strong plea and a message from these verses. These are potent verses as we look at them. The fourth insight is in verse 17, if you would look at it It is that a spiritual father wants his children taught correctly. Verse seventeen. For this reason I have sent to you Timothy, who is my beloved and faithful child in the Lord, and he will remind you of my ways which are in Christ's just as I teach everywhere in every church. A spiritual father wants his children taught correctly. That's what verse 17 shows us. Notice that he starts out at the beginning of verse 17 with the words, for this reason. And that refers to the imitation of Paul. Timothy was sent to the Corinthian church so the Corinthians would imitate Paul and Paul's ways. Do you see how that works? Paul wasn't there with the Corinthians, they couldn't see him. He was all the way across the Aegean Sea over there, still ministering to the church at Ephesus They couldn't see him. They couldn't imitate him. And so he sent someone else who had done a close job already of imitating his life. His name? Timothy. And notice how Paul designates Timothy here. He calls him my beloved and faithful child. Do you hear some affection and also some confidence? in that. He closely loved his own spiritual son Timothy. He also trusted his son Timothy. He trusted Timothy. Why did he trust Timothy? Because Timothy was what? He was faithful. He was faithful to Paul's ways. Timothy would do exactly what Paul wanted. Timothy would say exactly what Paul taught. Timothy would set the right example. Timothy would do the right teaching, and so Paul could trust his spiritual son, who was an obedient son, to go to the Corinthians who were not so obedient and show them and teach them again his way. Oh, how much fathers love wise and obedient sons. Do I hear an amen from the dads out there? You love it when your children are listening to you. You love that. It says in Proverbs 10, 1, a wise son makes a father glad. That's true. You see your son listening to you, he does what you tell him to do, and you're happy about that. But that proverb goes on to say, But a foolish son is a grief to his mother Well, the Corinthians were a grief to Paul as a father, but Timothy was a joy as a father because he did what he was supposed to do. Timothy also was Paul's child in the faith. There are two letters that are written to Timothy in the New Testament. 1 Timothy 1, verse 2 opens the letter with these words to Timothy, my true child in the faith. He also was a spiritual child of the Apostle Paul. In Acts chapter 16 and verses 1 through 3, it tells of Paul picking Timothy up, bringing him along on his trips. Timothy was trained by Paul. He was taught by Paul. He was taught firsthand by Paul. Timothy also had a history with the Corinthian church, and that probably is another reason that Paul felt he needed to send Timothy to them. Timothy accompanied Paul to Macedonia and also caught up with the Apostle Paul at Corinth according to Acts chapter 18 and verse 5. And that is why Timothy is referred to in these letters in 1 Corinthians 16, verses 10 through 11. You see Timothy's ministry again to the Corinthians when you read the second letter to the Corinthians, chapter 1, verse 1, you see that Timothy is included in the introduction to the letter. He also is referred to as an example to the Corinthians again in 2 Corinthians 1 and verse 19. And so Timothy is an example, he's a teacher to the Corinthian Church, and Paul trusted him. Now, what was Timothy supposed to do when he got there Well, he was supposed to remind the Corinthians of Paul's ways, which are in Christ. Timothy was an example, but he was sent really on a teaching mission. Paul sent Timothy to the Corinthians to make sure that their understanding of Christian teaching and Christian living was correct. As you know quite well by now, the Corinthians were not correct in their teaching and they were not correct in their living. They had departed from a lot of what their spiritual dad had already tried to communicate to them And that, I think, is proven beyond measure in the first four chapters of this letter. But isn't it just like children to forget? You have children, you know. If you've worked with children, you know. If you've seen children, you know. You've been anywhere around children, you know. They're told something, and then they they look at you, they say yes, and then they just forget And they forget over and over, and so they needed to be reminded over and over. Children could be just plain rascals. They can be so forgetful and they can get into a lot of trouble. Children can be so slow to hear and so quick to speak. And that's why so much of instruction to children has to be repetitive. Go ahead and mark this down. Good and effective parents always have lots of patience. You can't get around that If you don't have patience as a father, patience as a mother, you will not be an effective parent. They have to have a boatload of patience, not a lot, a whole boatload of it. Why? Because they want their children well taught, they want their children living correctly, and they don't get it the first time, or the second time, or the third time, or sometimes the hundredth time And to be well taught and to communicate a message, a message with love and gentleness that gets through to the heart of children, you have to have patience. There's no way around it. You have to teach and then you have to reteach. And then you have to teach some more. And then you have to put up with disobedience when they disregard what you taught. And then you have to correct them, which is teaching all over again. And then you have to add some more teaching after that. And that takes patience. That's the way it is. 2 Timothy 4 and verse 2. Preach the word. Be ready in season and out of season. Reprove, rebuke, exhort. Here it is. With great what? Patience. Not just patience, great patience and instruction. All the reproving and the rebuking and the exhorting for children won't mean anything if a parent doesn't persevere and continue to endure their fickle nature, their forgetful minds. Oh Lord, give us fathers and mothers, both in the natural realm and the spiritual realm, with lots of patience. So Timothy was sent to reinstruct the Corinthians, to remind them of God's way. For look at the next clause. Just as I teach everywhere in every church, Paul, right? I think this is a great insight in how Paul thought about his relationship to his children. That word there teach by the way is Didasco. It means to teach with doctrine, to instruct doctrine. Every church that Paul planted and stayed at, he taught. And he taught them doctrine. He taught them thoroughly. He taught them the whole counsel of God's word to borrow his words from Acts 20. See, he did not just teach the Corinthians. He sent Timothy there to teach what he had taught everywhere, in every church This is what Paul did. The Corinthians weren't something special, they were getting an extra dose of teaching. This is what he did everywhere I mean we have very long letters from the Corinthians who might say, well, he taught them more than others. No, he just corrected them more than others. They had a lot of problems. So we have these long letters and it gives us lots of instruction But he taught verbally, orally, over and over the people. Sometimes he said he did it night and day with tears for the churches until they understood the will of God. This is what he did If we were in a church in the first century, we want to know what did the apostle Paul do there? He talked and he taught. And he went on and on and on. One time a guy even fell asleep in the window and fell out and he died. Remember that I mean he taught a lot. We think we get a lot of teaching at hope. No, we don't, really. We don't get a lot of teaching compared to the way they used to We just can't absorb as much these days it seems. Can't sit there and listen to it. I'm like you, I'm not blaming you. I'm American. You know it's hard to listen on and on But lots of teaching was always what happened. The Corinthians were not something special. They were not to have their own little movement. They were not to come up with their own little brand of Christianity, their own way of teaching They were to live just like the Christians lived in Rome and just like the Christians lived in Ephesus and in Jerusalem and everywhere. There was no unique brand of Corinthian Christianity. It wasn't allowed They fit into a universal movement, a universal church, one body of Christ connected to one head in the heavens, the Lord Jesus Christ. You know, Paul had to repeat this very thing to the Corinthians over and over. What I'm telling you is what I'm telling all of the churches. He says he writes In 1 Corinthians chapter 7 and verse 17, we'll get to that in a few months. He says, So I direct in all the churches. Why does he write that? Because he had to tell them. What I'm telling you, I'm telling all the other churches You come to 1 Corinthians 11, 16, and there it is again. If one is inclined to be contentious, he writes there, we have no other practice, nor have the churches of God. You hear what he's saying? You've got to be like all the other churches. You come to the end of the letter, 1 Corinthians 14, 33. God is not a God of confusion, but a God of peace, as in all the churches of the saints. In case some were sitting there so we don't want to do that. We we don't have to be that way. Yeah, all of the children have to obey dad. That's right And a spiritual father wants his children taught correctly. He wants them orthodox in their doctrine. He wants them to sound like all the Orthodox Christians in every place, in every era He wants them correct in their Christian living, the way it is taught and lived throughout Christendom. He's not satisfied with just doing what is right in their own eyes, making things up Oh, how much spiritual leaders today, spiritual fathers and leaders and pastors and teachers need to copy Paul's example today. There is just an amazing departure on the part of the modern church from centuries of sound teaching. We after twenty years of church history ought to be the best taught generation in the history of the church because we have all of these teachers. I mean we really have nothing new to say today. It's all been said, it's all been articulated, it's all been illustrated, and we have all of this mess, and we don't listen to any of it. Like we're the modern thing, you know, it's got to be relevant for today. You know, we just sweep aside in arrogance twenty years of teaching doctrine. Twenty years, twenty centuries of teaching doctrine, excuse me. Paul yearned for his spiritual children to be taught sound doctrine. And today, church leaders often even malign the teaching of solid Bible instruction. Direct and honest Bible teaching are just jettisoned foolishly by leaders who actually think they're being helpful to their congregation by throwing out all of that teaching. One pastor of a megachurch in the Washington area is heard regularly on the radio, many of you I'm sure have heard him, promising that when folks would visit his church they will not hear sermons. That's great. No sermons here. You'll like it here. That is exactly what he claims over and over again. He's got it all backwards. And so do hundreds and thousands of pastors these days. That is the exact opposite of what Paul would do if he were in their church today. As a loving spiritual father or leader. Strong and regular teaching does not hurt children, for goodness sake. It helps them. You can always tell homes where the dad is lovingly Nourishing his children with the word of God and the one where the dad is neglectful and he's not teaching. You can always tell. I was a teacher for ten years, and I could tell. I could see mothers struggling with trying to get it across because dad weren't doing nothing You could tell a home where dad is teaching the word of God. You can see it in their kids. See the same thing in churches today. These days people go to church and then they go to church and they go to church year after year and they learn next to nothing. They're largely ignorant of God's holy word, the vital life-changing truths of God's Word, the doctrines that bring peace and joy and happiness and faith and productivity and fruitfulness for the kingdom of God. They they they don't know too much about that. They have no idea about most of the things the Apostle Paul taught the churches in the first century. Yet they still feel they're being so relevant and so wise. But what they're doing is they're being neglectful of their father's duty. You see this heart of a spiritual father. Also in that of a shepherd. I want you to just keep your finger at 1 Corinthians and turn to 1 Peter chapter 5. Because you can see the same heart from Peter as he talks about shepherding. 1 Peter 5, verses 1 and 2. Being a spiritual father is just a lot like being a shepherd. He says, therefore I exhort the elders among you as your fellow elder and witness of the sufferings of Christ. And partaker also of the glory that is to be revealed. He's always exhorting the elders. Elders are pastors, they're shepherds. What does he tell them to do? Look at verse 2 First thing he says is what? Shepherd the flock of God among you, exercising oversight. And then he goes on with the right attitude. That's what you need to do. A shepherd is to shepherd, and and how do you shepherd? You feed and you guard I mean that's so basic. What does a good shepherd feed his flock? Well he only gives them healthy stuff to eat, right? A flock is dependent on that shepherd for finding healthy feeding grounds. They don't know. They don't go looking for the best kind of grass. They don't understand sheep are dumb animals. They need a shepherd. They have to have a shepherd to lead them to where. Now eat here. This is where you're going to eat. Stop right here. This is the good stuff. They need someone to tell them Congregations aren't going to just go up to their pastor and say, you know, you're giving us all the wrong stuff. No, if they're if their ears are being tickled and they're laughing and they hear good stories, they're going to be like, oh, this is fun, we're going to go listen to this pastor. They don't understand. They'll accept all kinds of garbage and think it's just fine. They don't have any sense. It's up to the shepherd to say, no, this is what they need to eat. I know this is what they need to consume to be healthy It's the good stuff. It's the green pastures. What good is a father who does not earnestly instruct his children? What good is a shepherd who does not feed his flock? In fact, God asks that question in Ezekiel 34, too. He says, Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel. Prophesy and say to those shepherds, thus says the Lord God, Woe, shepherds of Israel, who have been feeding themselves, should not the shepherds feed the flock? What's the answer to that? Of course. Of course they should. But a lot of pastors, a lot of spiritual leaders don't. And many who do don't work all that hard at it. Really, for the pastor, feeding involves really one thing, teaching doctrine. Impressing that doctrine on the hearts of God's people. The better and more thorough and passionate and clear the teaching from the book, the better the feeding of the sheep, the better the nourishment and teaching of the children, and then the better the growth, the better the health. Timothy, as a pastor of the Ephesian church, was told there, take pains with your teaching ministry, be absorbed in it. That's what he was supposed to do. 1 Timothy 4:15. Now you know that many of you came to Hope Bible Church because of a previous experience. And you said, you know, I was at this church and I just wasn't getting fed and I've come here and And I've been through some hard times, and I just need to receive some instruction, and I need to be built up in the Word. And so you come in here and you sit down and you begin to listen and you begin to realize there's a lot in God's Word I don't know And you go to a class and you begin to absorb that, you begin to see sin in your own life, and you begin to be changed, and you begin to sense the fullness of the Holy Spirit. And I praise God for that. I see that going on in your lives You know, Deuteronomy 8:3, man does not live on bread alone, but what? Every word, every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God, not just some words, not just the popular words. Not just the easy words. Our soul must feast on all of God's word. Job said in Job twenty three, twelve, I have not departed from the command of his lips, I have treasured the words of his mouth more than my necessary food. I dare say that's not true of too many Christians. Now people treat Bible preaching like it's an unwanted dried-up prune or something. Timothy in his pastoral work was told, preach the word. You've got to feed them constantly, give them instruction with great patience, as we already read. What does the Word of God do for the children of God? The Word of God encourages God's children. The Word of God gives direction to God's children. It clears up confusion. It comforts the hearts of God's children. It corrects God's children when they wander away. They get too proud. They get careless in their Christian walk. It's not the psychologies of the world which will meet the deepest needs of our souls, the deepest needs of new converts. But it is the Word of God. In 1 Timothy 3. 2 it says, Elders must be able to teach. There's one skill they must have besides managing their home. It is in the church they must be able to teach and refute False doctrine. Doesn't say they must be able to crack jokes. Doesn't say they must be able to stand in front of a camera and smile nicely. Doesn't say they must be able to tell riveting stories You know, the truth is, I just the truth is that many, even most church leaders today, I think I can say most, I think I can say the vast majority know more about business than Bible. They know more about drama than doctrine. They know more about storytelling than scripture. They just sprinkle enough in there to look and sound like they're being biblical. To the undiscerning. Paul said in Acts 20, I did not shrink from declaring to you, listen, the whole purpose of God, not bits and pieces of the Bible The whole thing he taught them, everything it says, all of its theology. But today preachers shrink from declaring the vast majority of it. 2 Timothy 3:16 says, every scripture is profitable to the church, but today preachers think that a lot of doctrine is not profitable to the church. That's their wisdom. We saw last time Paul told the elders, be on the alert, remembering night and day for a period of three years I did not cease to admonish each one with tears. What dedication the Apostle Paul showed to instruction and doctrine and admonishment? Why? Because he had the heart of a spiritual father, that's why I can't understand the multitudes of spiritual leaders, the fathers, the shepherds of the church who spend each Sunday with all those people in front of them, sometimes thousands of people in front of them. And they have all those people there and they don't give them God's word. I can't even understand that I remember when we had about 25 people in this church, and that was counting anything that crawled in, the crickets, anything that just came in. We just count whatever we could And let you you like what would you do if there were you had a greater responsibility? We don't change anything. If you're preaching to one or preach preaching to yourself, you don't change anything. You preach God's word. To not feed a congregation richly on the words of God is to neglect children, God's children. Ephesians 4, it says, doctrine that is taught by church leaders helps the church grow up to mature. So you miss that, you don't grow. To not teach doctrine is a direct violation of the command of God. You know when children are taught correctly, it also protects them. from spiritual danger, they develop more discernment. They understand what can lead them astray. They understand the subtleties of how Satan works to lure their little heart away into some kind of a sin or some false teaching. They're more alert to that. Their antennas are a little bit higher. They're a little sharper. Their vision's a little bit clearer. And they understand that doesn't quite sound right. What's wrong with that? And they don't fall prey to that. If you're a dad and you don't do what you can do to teach your child so they'll be protected when they go out into the world, what kind of a dad is that? The church must have men who not only proclaim the truth, but have the courage to point out error wherever it exists. No one likes to be disliked, do you? I mean I don't. I I know the people that are going to dislike me for the things that I say. I don't like to be disliked. I don't wake up in the morning rubbing my hands together thinking, who can I get to dislike me today? Let's just cause some controversy I'm not like that. I really like a peaceful I like to work in my garden. Leave me alone. I'm that kind of person. Just let me work out in my backyard. Leave me alone. I don't want any trouble. I really don't But spiritual leaders must have, listen, write it down if you're a teacher, write it down. You must have greater allegiance to God's word than anyone else Spiritual leadership is a most serious calling. And for those leaders who don't teach doctrine, Ezekiel thirty-four, two still says, Woe to them. Alright. I hope you can see Paul had a heart for teaching his children, even to send someone else in his place if it need be, because he couldn't be there. We should have that too. Now turn back to 1 Corinthians 4, and we'll come to our fifth insight. In the spiritual fatherhood. A spiritual father, number five, a spiritual father holds his children accountable. It's one thing to tell them what you want done, but a spiritual father has to actually hold them accountable to do what they were told. Now hang on your hats and take a gulp because this is an explosive section of scripture. Verses 18 through 21 is very strong. He writes, now some have become arrogant, as though I were not coming to you. Boy, there's a threat in that. But I will come to you If the Lord wills, and I shall find out not the words of those who are arrogant, but their power. For the kingdom of God does not consist in words, but in power. What do you desire? Shall I come to you with a rod or with love and a spirit of gentleness? Can you imagine how the Corinthian church felt when that letter was first read in their public worship service? What do you desire? I'm coming. I'll come with a rod or I'll come with love and gentleness. Can you imagine how they felt? Big gulp. I want you to remember the context because the sum that he's talking about here at Corinth that had become arrogant probably were some of the leaders, and they probably have some Spirit of triumphalism because they thought Paul's not going to come, he's not going to enforce his way, and so they basically were slowly getting their way at the church. Some one of the factions that we've already seen. You get a hint that they're not believing that Paul's going to come. They really think he's not. They're arrogant about that because they think he's not going to show up. Even when you read 2 Corinthians 1 and verse 17, Paul has to defend his resolve to have come. He said Therefore I was not vacillating when I intended to do this, was I? Or what I purpose do I purpose according to the flesh so that with me there is a yes-yes and a no-no at the same time? In other words, they thought he's saying he's coming, but he's not going to come He says he's going to do one thing, but he doesn't really do it. And they thought that that was true of him, and they'd become arrogant because of that. And Paul says, Yes, I'm coming, I'm coming soon. And there was going to be accountability when he came. You could just entitle this section of scripture, Just Wait Until Daddy Gets Home. Because really that's what it's about. Disobedient children run far away from accountability. And when they think that even when they're at home and they're not going to get accountability, they start to get bold and they're disobedient. Act like there's not going to be any accountability. Sometimes they're running all over mom, and mom has to say, just wait till daddy gets home. Just wait till daddy gets home. Because she's lost control. So Corinthians were acting like children playing naughty, who were saying to themselves, nobody's going to do anything about this. We're Scot Free. They were naughty and they were lifted up in pride. Maybe in their minds the very fact that Paul was sending Timothy to their church and not coming himself was showing Paul was a chicken. He wasn't coming. And so they were hooping it up. But daddy made a phone call in through this letter, and he's saying you better be ready because I'm coming He really emphasizes his coming in this letter too. In chapter 11, verse 34, you can jot that reference down, or chapter 16, verse 3 keeps saying, I'm coming. I'm coming. He has only one qualification, it's if the Lord wills. That is not a softening of his resolve to show up. That is simply him subjecting his own plans to that of an almighty sovereign Lord. There are always things that dads cannot control. They're out of their hands. They resolve to do what they're going to do. But of course they have to subject all their plans to the Heavenly Father and His guidance. There's an old saying that says, Man proposes, but God disposes. That's true. Notice the strength of Paul's resolve. Next he writes, and I shall find out. I mean, those are penetrating words I'm going to find out who has been doing this. You can almost see the finger extended there. I mean these are tough words. What was he going to find out? If what the Corinthians were saying were just words, or whether or not there was power there, just words means empty wind. The church built on empty words, distortions. Prideful boasts, the words of people which can never avail in the church. Paul is saying, talk is cheap with you guys. I want to see whether you have any power. What God does, God does with power. That word power there is dunimus, strength, ability, or power. What did Paul mean by this? Sounds like he's almost coming to pick a fight, doesn't it? Sounds like he's gonna really rape some people over the coals. He's gonna blow some people up or something. I mean he looks like he's he's coming for a direct confrontation. What did he mean by power? Well some have wrongly taken the statement by the by Paul that the kingdom of God is more about um miracles, displays of power than it is about words. In other words, what we ought to see going on in a local church are miracles and tongues and healings and displays of power and casting out demons. Not worrying about words and teaching and Bible preaching and all the rest of that. That's not what he's talking about here. The words in this context has to refer to the words of men as you look back, to human wisdom, to human teaching He's been attacking that since chapter one. Human wisdom and human teaching, it all sounds good. It may be spoken with great oratorical skill, but it's foolishness and it lacks power. That's what he's saying In contrast to that, there is a message that has power. It's the message of the cross. The world makes fun of that message. It sees it as foolishness But the Apostle Paul has already written in chapter one, verse eighteen, that the message of the cross has power in it. It's the power of God. When Paul uses that word power, he's thinking of the power of God at work in the message of God, and that's the message of the cross In 1 Corinthians chapter 2 and verse 4, just to remind you, he wrote, My message and my preaching were not in persuasive words of wisdom, see, just a lot of talk, but in demonstration of the Spirit and, here's the same word, of power. See, there's a modern fascination, I think, with miracles. Miracles becoming more important than Bible preaching and teaching. Paul did not share that fascination. In fact, ironically, the very downgrading of preaching in churches in order to focus on what they perceive to be miracles actually diminishes the power of God in a local congregation. And spiritual fathers ought never to want a reduction of power for their children. True Christian teaching, you see, the message of the gospel is not just words, it is the word of Almighty God. And since it is his word, it comes and it must come with power, particularly as people are responsive to it. Divine power is invested in divine teaching and godly doctrine. The gospel itself, we are told, is the power of God to take a sinner and transform him into a believer and a saint. Paul makes the same contrast of word versus power in 1 Thessalonians chapter 1 and verse 5. Just listen. He says, For our gospel did not come to you in word only. Do you see? It wasn't just talk. But also in power and in the Holy Spirit and with full conviction. It brought about a transformation in their minds. They were convinced It was the truth of God, and the Holy Spirit impressed the word upon the hearts of God's people in Thessalonica Today, when you think about worldly wisdom, the putting on of drama, the fabulous sound systems, the amazing Audio video productions that are done in different churches. That may sound fantastic, that may woo people, they may ooh in awe as they listen to that. They may come out of there just talking all about that message But it is a whole lot of fancy fluff if it is not solid doctrine. It's stuff that tickles the ears but does not transform the heart. It changes nobody. It doesn't have God's power in it It's not from God. It has no divine power. There's no substance in it. There's nothing the Holy Spirit of God can take and use to transform a person into the very image of Christ. It's empty. It has nothing. Q, here's a Texas idiom for you. You better learn before you go down there. It's all hat and no cattle. No power in it, they say. The gospel does not simply tell men what they ought to do. The gospel invents through the power of grace within them in the indwelling abiding spirit of God in their hearts. It gives them the ability and the power to change. People on drugs can be transformed. People who are drunkards can can put aside the booze and learn how to love Christ. People who have been lusting their whole life can have the Spirit of God transform them. People who can't control their tongue can see the Spirit of God get a hold of them. And it is power that God uses It's not emotionalism that comes high on Sundays and then dies away. It's God's power God's power comes from the message of the cross. God's power comes when people are humbled by the message of the cross, not built up in pride and self-worth. God's power comes when people realize the truth about God and they realize they had a false understanding of God or a false understanding of Christ or a false understanding of God's will. They hear the truth and it changes their minds and their hearts. And they put away the lies of the world. God's power comes when the conscience feels the sting of the holiness of God, that he doesn't put up with any sin. And then we want to put away our hidden sins. We want to stop playing games with God. We want to have a heart that's clean. God's power comes when the Word of God is impressed on us by the Spirit of God. Answering the prayers of the people of God who are interceding for the church of God to the advancement of the kingdom of God. Power descends down from God And it descends upon a church in revival when that church listens to the word of their heavenly Father and gets their hearts right before him. Paul says, I don't care about those that are doing all their crowing there at Corinth. I want to know what power is working in them. I'm not impressed with high-sounding words. I want to know what their teaching does to change them to be like Christ. Oh, verse 20 teaches a profound theological truth. It's funny how it's just sandwiched right here in this pastoral section. You could just blow past it and not understand how profound this statement is in verse 20. The kingdom of God does not consist in words but in power. That's not an exhaustive definition of the kingdom of God, but it does highlight one very important characteristic of God's kingdom, and that is, it is powerful. Did you know the church is now part of the kingdom of God? Some people come from background where they don't understand that. They don't know that. No, the church is not the full and visible manifestation of the kingdom that Jesus will reign over during the millennium. There is a future aspect to the kingdom to come. He even talks about that in 1 Corinthians 6, verse 9. He says, Do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? He's talking about something that needs to be inherited, and it's in the future. Also later in 1 Corinthians chapter 15 and verse 50, he says, Now this I say, brethren, flesh and blood cannot inherit, and there's the phrase again, the kingdom of God. Nor does the perishable inherit the imperishable. That's a future involvement in the kingdom of God, you see. But though there is a future aspect to the kingdom of God, the church is part of the kingdom now. It is the spiritual kingdom of God, the presence of God's rule in this world today. Colossians 1. 13 makes that clear. He says, God rescued us from the domain of darkness and transferred us, that's past hence, to the kingdom of his beloved Son. Again, in Colossians 4. 11, it says, Jesus Who is called justice? These are the only fellow workers and it calls them for the kingdom of God. We are workers in the kingdom of God. We've been transferred into the kingdom of his beloved Son. We're in the kingdom. We're part of the spiritual kingdom now. The kingdom is not an abstract theoretical idea, Paul says. It's a reality. It's a spiritual reality, it has a real presence in the world, and it has power. The Church of God has been invested with power. Everywhere the church carries the gospel and lives loving lives towards other people. It is Involved in demonstrating the very power of God. You know other religions they they get fanatical and they they can be devoted and they can work hard at their religion and they do all those things, but it's external. It's just rearranging sin in their life. It never transforms them from the inside out. Only the cross of Christ can do that. Only Christ can grant new life, entirely new life to someone. Listen, if you're there and you're not sure You have the life of God in your heart, you have to repent of your sin and call on Christ to come into your life, be your Lord and Savior, He'll give you new life. That's the power of God Even false expressions of Christianity, which many so-called Christians, cultural Christians, have been used to, and they've lived under that kind of teaching, and they think they're Christians because they've been coming to church. But they only have the externals, they don't have the power of God inside. And people go to these kinds of churches all their lives and they never get born again, never get transformed. Never taste of the power of the Spirit of God. Sometimes the children in our church they come and they listen to message after message and they think they're Christians because they're sitting there and taking notes, but until you repent, so you have God in your life, children You haven't experienced the power of God yet either. Believe me, the apostle Paul knew about the power of God. And the kind of power he liked to talk the most about were not his ability to do miracles as an apostle. He talked about the transforming power of God. Turn to Philippians real quickly. Philippians, I want you to read this passage. An amazing statement of how God had worked in his life. Chapter 3 of Philippians, verses 7 through 11. Philippians 3, 7-11. In the verses prior to that he's talking about what he was before he was in Christ, all of his credentials. And then in verse seven he says, Whatever things were gained to me, those things I have counted as lost for the sake of Christ. And then he goes on, look at verse 8. More than that, I count all things to be lost in view of the surpassing value of knowing Christ Jesus, my Lord. For whom I have suffered the loss of all things and count them but rubbish, so that I may gain Christ. And listen Verse nine Be found in him not having a righteousness of my own derived from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which comes from God on the basis of faith That I may know him and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death, in order that I may attain to the resurrection from the dead. Power. Power to change a persecutor of the church into its greatest proponent and apostle. The power of God working inwardly. Even to raise us from the dead. Beloved, he's talking about life-transforming resurrection power, the same power that raised Jesus Christ from the dead that was exerted that first Easter morn and just raised Christ in brilliance and gave him power. That same power is active in our lives to transform us and one day to raise our bodies from the dead as well. How do you think drunkards turn into disciples and sinners into saints and blasphemers into believers and fools into followers of Christ? 2 Corinthians 5. 17 says, if anyone is in Christ, he is a what? He is a new creation. Old things passed away, behold, new things have come. The gospel turns worldly worldly toads into godly princes. Oh, so many people have reduced religion to externals and don't understand the transforming power of God. In Romans 14, 17, the Apostle Paul wrote something similar. He said, The kingdom of God is not eating and drinking, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. That's also power. So Paul finishes with the accountability. What do you desire? Do I come with a rod or with love and gentleness? You don't have a choice of me not coming, by the way. Notice that's not in there. I'm coming. Here's your choice. I can come with a rod, you know what that is. That's punishment. That's the beating of backs, as it talks about in Proverbs. Or I can come to you with love and gentleness. We can sit down and share in Christ together. We can make confession of sins and enjoy fellowship with one another. We can have joy in each other's company. We can do that. We could have that experience together. Or I can come and I can lower the boom on you. What did that mean? What what was he going to do? It could be that he's talking about doing a miracle. It could be. It more likely refers just to his his exercising his authority as an apostle and preaching the gospel and teaching them, correcting them, and if need be, and excommunicating them from the church, if that was needed. I think that underestimated Paul and his resolve, but this is the same man who confronted another apostle, the Apostle Peter in Galatians When he saw that Peter was being hypocritical in his example and what it reflected on with the gospel. Paul, directly to his face, corrected and confronted the apostle Peter. I don't think he'd have much of a problem with these Corinthians. The Apostle Paul knew how to wield power correctly. He wrote in 2 Corinthians, though we walk in the flesh, we do not war according to the flesh, for the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh, but divinely powerful. for the destruction of fortresses. We are destroying, listen, speculations and every lofty thing raised up against the knowledge of God. And we are taking every thought captive to the obedience of Christ. But he didn't want to come heavy-handed. He wanted to come gently. Proudase, a humble, kind, gentle manner. But it was all up to the child how dad would respond. Well, I hope you can see Paul's heart as a father here. I hope you can see how much and earnestly he wanted them taught doctrine, how important it was to hold them accountable to that truth that they as a church would be holy, that they would practice what he said. You're looking after people, teaching people, have people in a small group, people you're witnessing to, someone you've won to Christ. This is the heart that you ought to have. You ought to want to admonish your children Cherish your special relationship with them, set an example for them, teach them doctrine correctly, and hold them accountable. That's a spiritual father. That's what the heart of a spiritual father is all about. about. That's love. That's what Christ was like. That's what the Apostle Paul was like. That's what you and I ought to be like. I say again, may God give us many spiritual moms and dads who have this kind of a heart, the heart of the Apostle Paul, and all we do in this church.