Alright, so uh we didn't get to finish all of the slides last week, but as a quick review of what we did manage to cover We were still making our way through all the genres. In fact, we finished up all the different genres that the Bible uses. Uh specifically last week we addressed the Psalms, we addressed the prophetic books, we learned how the Psalms are part of the larger category called poetry, right? which uses looser or colorful figurative language. And we showed the difference between Exodus 14, which was just a straight up historical narrative account of the Exodus story, the Israelites going through the Red Sea, right? And then the chapter right after Exodus 15 is what is known as the Song of Moses. It's a poetry. It's telling of the exact same account, but it's doing it in poetic form. And you can see, you can compare and contrast the two genres, the history in Exodus fourteen, the poetic recounting of the history in Exodus 15, and you can You can see how the language is a lot looser, it's a lot more colorful, you use different poetic mechanisms like simile, metaphors, the like. So that should be hopefully pretty clear, not too different from what we think of as English speakers when we think of poetry. And this is just a diagram I thought would be helpful so you know where the Psalms and the Wisdom books like Ecclesiastes and Proverbs live. The larger category is poetry, more specific types of poetry in the Bible are the Psalms and the Wisdom Books. Okay, so this is all uh from what we learned last week. Okay, and then you guys will remember when it comes to prophecy, um You always want to start by um assuming that it can be taken in its literal ordinary sense until you see some indications that you're dealing with prophecy, which include um Recognizing that there are figurative symbolic language. Do not make an object figurative symbolic as literal as possible. Remember we talked about like those mountain ranges Recognize prophetic foreshortening. So sometimes events will seem like in in uh the prophetic books that they're jammed right next to each other. They should happen like within the same week, right Not always the case. In fact, frequently not the case. Frequently it's as if the uh prophet is looking at a bunch of stacked mountain ranges head on. And they seem like they're right next to each other until you look at it from the side. And uh in our analogy, it's like once you see the prophecy actually being fulfilled, you recognize, wow, sometimes there's hundreds, even thousands of years of space in between But we should expect literal fulfillment. We should note the internal interpretation sometimes within the prophetic passage itself it'll tell us what some of these symbols means. Very gracious of God to do that for us. You see that a lot in uh Daniel, Daniel's prophecies. There's an angel that accompanies Daniel in these visions and God actually instructs the angel, hey, teach to my servant Daniel what he's looking at. And uh also there are a lot of parallel prophecies in the Bible. It's the same historical event that's being spoken of to different prophets uh over and over again. For instance, the 70th week of Daniel is a very important period in human history. This is what we uh call the Great Tribulation. And it's repeated in Matthew twenty-four by the Lord Jesus, and then later in a vision given to John in Revelation chapter six to eighteen. So you want to make sure that they all harmonize because Because they're all speaking of the same historical event. It's very helpful that you have parallel accounts because then it'll start filling in some gaps of what you're seeing in Matthew 24, can be filled in with Daniel 9, can be filled in with Revelation 6. 18. Okay, and we ended last week by talking about the most important historical grammatical tool you can use, which is just looking at the surrounding verses, right? That's what is known as context. And uh context can be described by this diagram. And when it comes to coming up with your initial interpretation, you want to stop at the level of the entire book that uh um wherein your passages contain. Okay? And And I said that for a reason, and we're going to get into that hopefully uh today, I believe. Yeah. So context can be thought of as a bunch of like b uh broadening conceptions So you have the immediate section should carry the strongest weight. So if you're trying to understand some passage in, let's say, Matthew chapter one, verse four or something. Then look at Matthew ver uh chapter one verse three and verse five. The immediately surrounding verses is your immediate section. And the closer you are to the center of this diagram, the more weight, more authority it should hold for uh guiding the interpretation of the passage in question. Okay? And that just kind of makes sense, right? I mean think of it intuitively. If uh you're seeking a sentence to somebody or you're writing an email to someone and there's some word that could be interpreted several different ways, obviously just the immediate context surrounding that sentence is probably going to tell you what you meant to say That's just how we talk, that's how we communicate, and the human authors of the Bible, they were the same. So the immediate section, just the verses immediately surrounding it, that should carry the strongest weight, but sometimes that doesn't resolve it Sometimes you're still confused. So go to the surrounding sections. And what do I mean by surrounding sections? Well go back to your outline that you made in step two. And in your outline, you've probably, in your mind, logically separated the entire book into different sections. So use your outline to inform what's the section before it, what's the section after. It'll probably be something like the paragraph before, the paragraph after, the chapter before. None of these things are you know, that's not actually in the original manuscripts, the original autographs. Um they're put by Bible publishers, chapters and um Or not the publishers actually, it's a tradition from hundreds of years ago. We don't have to get into that. But the point is, it's not in there, but it's helpful um to to reference. But in any case, use your outline. It's probably the best thing to use, something that's you're familiar with, and look at the surrounding sections if the immediate section is not helping you directly. And then, if the surrounding sections still don't help, go to the entire book and use the context of what is the author trying to say in the whole book. Does he use that same phrase or sentence you're struggling with in some different chapter, maybe several chapters later? Um that's how you ought to use context. Now, uh we discussed last week the reason why we want to wait to use the whole Bible, right? Because what is missing in this diagram we made We are missing the whole Bible, right? The whole Bible is actually outside the context tool. You're not immediately jumping to Daniel to help you understand Matthew 24. You're stopping at the book of Matthew, right And a lot of people think, well, why can't I just use the whole Bible? It's all scripture. It's all written by the Holy Spirit. That's true, right? So you're talking about something that is known as the analogy of faith If you've ever seen who who uh has seen that term before, analogy of faith? Okay, so analogy of faith, theologians uh when they use that term Sometimes uh I'm sure there's a good reason a lot of these terms came about, but um y sometimes you don't know where it came from. But the analogy of faith is just a fancy way of saying that all of scripture should harmonize So if you're using the analogy of faith tool in your hermeneutical process, you're basically just saying, I'm going to jump into a different book of the Bible to try to help understand this book of the Bible that I'm trying to interpret. So in order to understand Matthew, I'm going to jump to Daniel. You're using the analogy of faith. So I don't know where that term came from. I'm sure there's some um origin to it. But that's all the analogy of faith is. And a lot of people think, well what's the harm, right? Because it's all written by the Holy Spirit, divine concursus, right? It's not just the human authors, it's also the Holy Spirit. Why can't I immediately jump to other books of the Bible And the reason why we shouldn't do that is because, again, divine concursus, yes, every single book of the Bible was written by the Holy Spirit, but you can't ignore the fact that every book of the Bible was also 100%. written by the human author. It's both. But that means you can't ignore the fact that if you have two different human authors writing two different biblical books They're going to write those two books in a slightly different way, in their own slightly different manner of speaking and thinking and the way they like to use words and uh phrases. We're gonna discuss something today called semantic range. Everyone has a different kind of conception of what's known as a semantic range. So you can't ignore the fact that you have different authors And even if you have the same author, if you have Paul that both Romans and Colossians, it matters that Romans isn't Colossians. It matters that they are distinct books. So you can't automatically assume every phrase and word is going to be hands. So yes, you do want to harmonize with the rest of scripture, but it comes after you make your initial interpretation. Okay? It comes in the verification stage, step 10, when you're double checking your work. After you come up with your initial guess, I think this is what the meaning of this text means After that, then use the analogy of faith, check with other passages of Scripture, and double check that you didn't make a mistake. Okay? Because if you use the analogy of faith too early If you immediately jump beyond your book to the rest of the Bible, this is where a lot of people's traditional, you know, how you grew up, your biases start to sneak into the exegetical process. And we'll see that in a second, I hope But it's as soon as you start immediately jumping to another book of the Bible to make sense of Colossians or Philippians or Matthew or whatever, that is where a lot of unconscious like biases that You know, that phrase is so loaded these days, but it's true. That's sort of a lot of like your unconscious like biases that you have, things that you just grew up with and that's emotionally very like precious to you, doctrines that aren't necessarily from the Bible, but doctrines came from like your favorite pastor or Sunday school teacher growing up. That's where a lot of that stuff can accidentally So to be as objective as possible, stick with the book first. We are going to use the rest of the Bible, yes. All the Bible books of the Bible were written by the Holy Spirit, but wait to do that at the verification. Okay? Now that being said, just like last week, the most difficult passage, sometimes you have to jump ahead. That's one of the marks of what makes a passage. Okay, uh before we continue to the other tools in our toolkit today, I want to, just because context is so important, these are the slides we didn't get to last week. Let's use the context tool together. So you guys have to be actively engaged here. Let's turn to Colossians chapter 1 actually And I want you guys to use this tool because it's so important. We're gonna go through at least one example passage here. You guys are gonna Solve for me a problem. Alright? That problem is does Colossians chapter 1 verse 20 teach universal salvation? False teaching known as universalism. Everybody gets to go to heaven. God isn't a God of justice. He's not going to impose his justice on sinners. He's just going to be like, ah, you know, I'll just You know, whatever. Uh let me start reading from verse fifteen here from the ESV. Colossians one, verse fifteen The sun is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. So this is talking about God the Son, Jesus. Verse 16, for by him, by Jesus, all things were created in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible. Whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things were created through him and for him. And he is before all things, and in him all things hold together And he is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, and in everything he might be, that in everything he might be might be preeminent. For in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell. And this is the important bit that gets confusing for some people. Verse 20, and through him to reconcile to himself all things. whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross. Okay? So that is the passage. That's the phrase in question. What does it mean That Jesus reconciles to himself all things. And some would teach that this means God is going to save every single human being. Right? So why don't you guys take the next few minutes, get yourself familiar with the passage. And uh if you're kind of ready and you guys are ready to engage, just kind of look up so I know everybody's thoroughly read the passage and familiarized yourselves. And then let's start talking this through. And I want you guys particularly, you can use any of the tools that we talked about, historical, grammatical, hermeneutic. But particularly use context, because I think that's going to unlock the meaning of this passage. And you can flip around all through Colossians if you have to. Okay, what have you guys got for me? What do you guys think? No, it's not a teaching universal science. No? Are you sure though? What do you think? Give me some evidence for your position. The book is written in in Uh paragraph two. The book is written to the saints and faithful brethren of Christ. So it's not being written to everybody, it's being written to them. Okay, I like that. Verse 18, he talks about how Christ is the head of the body. of the church. So let's talk to the church. Uh in verse twenty three she talks about if you would if indeed you continue in the faith firmly. Again he's talking with the people that are in faith And uh finally in in verse twenty six he talks about the mystery having been manifested to his faith. So it's not to everybody, it's to believers. I like that. So there's a lot of good stuff embedded in there. So first and foremost, you discovered that the the the setting, the audience, right? Is specifically to Christians. We see that again using context, just go all the way up to the beginning of chapter one you said. And you see this letter is addressed specifically to the saints in verse 2, faithful brethren. And then you also use context. You jumped down a little at verse 23 and you saw that this idea of salvation is actually conditioned right on faith. Faith isn't a work, as we know, but that's that's a necessary condition that that's the first gate that has to be gone through. Faith in Christ has to be the condition upon which salvation is given. Okay, that's great. That's perfect. Anyone else have any other thoughts? It's okay if you have disagreements too, as part of the learning process, yes. Um Verse six to three when he's saying all he's saying it's not just for the Jews, it's for the Gentiles because he says They preach throughout the whole world. Mm-hmm. And they're be bearing fruit. Everyone who believes. So kind of the same idea that salvation is uh kinda attached to fruit. There's a condition to kinda understand its existence. Okay, good Any other thoughts? Um yeah, this was very quick. Obviously it's you're gonna need a lot more time. I could tell a lot of heads are still kind of down, so I was probably too optimistic about how quickly we can do this. And that's that's perfectly normal. Exeg exegesis should be a very slow methodical, thoughtful process. But I think we have some good comments we can work with. Well let's let's start I'm sorry, yeah. there being a a former state. They were formally aliens and hostile to uh to the uh to to to Christ. And you were engaged in evil things. So it kinda talks about a condition of this group of people before uh before Christ. Yeah. Yeah. So I think you guys did a really good job showing that Colossians as a whole doesn't teach universal salvation, right? There's still a demarcation like Willie's pointing out between the wicked, which we all were at one point in time You know, before we came to know Christ, we didn't become good people by ourselves. But there are those that have faith on the one side, verse 23, there are those that are wicked, right? Like Willie was pointing out So clearly Colossians is not teaching universal salvation. That part's easy, right? So we know however we interpret Colossians 1 verse 20 This reconciles to himself all things. Remember, that's the problem statement. That's actually what we're trying to figure out. Whatever interpretation we come up with for reconcile all things to himself, it can't mean universalism Everyone following me so far? However, something I didn't hear yet is so what does it mean reconcile all things to himself? It it clearly can't be universalism because Paul would be contradicting himself right in the same chapter. But what does it mean that Jesus is reconciling all things to himself? And yeah. That's what I was talking about with the whole world. Jesus just isn't coming to save the Jews. He's coming to save Oh I see what you're saying now. I'm tracking with you. Okay. So this gospel is going out to all people and all who believe will be saved. I see. So reconciling all things, so the all things is like a general all. It's like it's made available to all. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Anyone have any other thoughts or comments So it th the way I'm reading it I might be wrong, it was the Father's good pleasure for all fullness to dwell in him and through him to reconcile all things to himself. I think, you know, he wants everybody to to come to him, but that doesn't mean that People will. Okay. That's another good thought. Yeah. Um there's another thing that I noticed here that um for example in chapter one. Um let me see verse ten or eleven. Verse verse ten it says, every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God. I'm wondering all things might be their sanctification. In other words, in in other words, reconcile to himself all of these things. They're their knowledge. Their and being strengthened with all power according to his glorious might. So all things doesn't refer to like every creature or part of creation, but all categories of blessing kinda? Okay. Okay. Interesting. Yeah. My disagreement there though is I I would say the word reconcile though is pretty well defined. And I think it would refer to this idea of God and Jesus being united with Yeah, more than like conferring every kind of blessing. But I like the way you're thinking. I like the way all of you guys are thinking. This is good. This is wrestling with the text. That's exactly what we've got to do. So we're trying to define what reference I think it's helpful. Oh it could be trouble with that what you're trying to ask? It could if if you guys have trouble with the reconcile part, that could be part of it. I think the more problematic part, the the more difficult part is the all things. Like how is Jesus reconciling all creation? to himself. Because doesn't that teach universal salvation? Everyone being reconciled with Jesus, right? All things made in harmony with God, in other words, right? And if you look at verse twenty one, reconcile is used again and he's specifically talking about like Lily was pointing out about how you formerly were once this way but now you've been reconciled. Yeah. So it differentiates. Yeah. I'm sorry. Doesn't that make it doesn't that make verse twenty difficult? I thought that was what the that's what I was confused about when I first saw this passage, but do you mind elaborating? Maybe I'm not seeing something that you guys are s pointing out. So you're talking about universalism versus election of my mind I'm seeing There's a differentiation between people who are alienated and hostile in mind and have now been made reconciled. So you're saying that this is specifically the all things in verse 20, I think I haven't read here. That's one of the options here to resolve this. It's specifically only talking about people in Christ. Okay, okay, good. Alright, let's let's go on from there. That's that's good. And by the way, I'm fully cognizant of the fact, like I said, every single person has imperfect theology So you may walk away from this example problem disagreeing with how I'm handling Collections 120. And that's that's fine. I mean I might be wrong and I want to be refined here. But the point of this exercise is to illustrate how to use context, okay? So but if you guys disagree that's completely fine. Well we'll see we'll see. Anyway, I do think that's one of the oh yeah, Rachel. Where my mind goes with that the aspect of particular um believers is um he talks about um over an eleventh sportiness aspect of where he has So I guess for my thing to go to the small things we'll we all have numerous in the team. Again, I I I like the I like the way you guys are thinking. I hope nobody feels embarrassed about offering their thoughts because again this is exactly what wrestling with the textbooks. This is exactly what the exegetical process looks like. It's a messy process. You're throwing things at the wall. I'm asking you guys to do this in like ten minutes. It's not a fair, you know, setup. But that's exactly what your personal Bible study should look like. Like it maybe it's this. Let me look at the context again. Well maybe it's that. Well no, that doesn't quite fit. Let me use another tool, but it's a it's an art more than a science And remember, this is a very dynamic process where the Bible itself is living and active, like the author of Hebrew says, and we have the Holy Spirit, real person, God's Spirit within us, guiding us through this process. You know, it's a very dynamic organic thing. Alright, so I do think one of the attractive ways for a lot of people to try to resolve this is to say that verse twenty Just like it was pointed out earlier by I forget by who, that Colossians in general was written explicitly to Christians, right? That the all things refers only to people that put faith in Christ Okay? That is an at and hopefully you guys are tracking why that's an attractive way to resolve Colossians 120 because now you can read it as not saying through him You know, Jesus reconciles all creation, including non-believers, and takes them to heaven as the implied, you know, afterward. That doesn't make any sense. So we say, wait, wait, this means he's gonna reconcile him to himself all Christians, all all believers, right? So that's one attractive way to uh uh reconcile this passage. However I think the problem becomes the fact that all things is a phrase that's used repeatedly throughout this section. Verses 16 to 17, for instance, where it states, uh, let me read from the ESV, for by him all things were created. You see? So at the very beginning, when all things is used in verse 16, starting off this section this section, I think it's pretty clear, at least to me Use in context, the section before, that when Paul is going to use all things repeatedly throughout this long section, he starts by pointing back to creation itself. literally all of the universe. All things were created in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities. And again, uh and oh by the way, not again. And by the way That uh passes there, that could be in its own exegetical exercise. The thrones, dominions, rulers, or authorities, I would argue that's clearly in reference to also demonic authorities To have temporary rule over the world. So these are demons. These are evil creatures. And that is part of this all things category that Paul is referring to. Verse 17 as well. He is before all things. And in him all things fold together. Okay, so far so good. Jesus is before all these created things, including demons including evil creatures and all things hold things together. Even Satan, he ought to give thanks to God for his continued existence because it's through Jesus that he continues to exist. And then that's where I believe, based on this immediate section context, verse 20 comes in, where he states, in light of all these things God created, that Jesus is above That Jesus holds all things together, even these evil things. Verse 20, all things he's he will one day reconcile to himself. So I I track what you guys are saying now, Willie. I I think you're saying in verse twenty-one you also have uh and you who once were alienated and hostile mind doing evil deeds. Um it's I I think uh there's there's uh an appeal to state that verse twenty is referring to just a specific group of creation, which is believers. But in my mind at least, based on the context, and I'm happy to be proven wrong if you want to, you know, uh wanna keep interacting here. But I think the context clearly makes all things comprehensive, everything in the universe, which is why this passage has historically been very troublesome for a lot of theologians. because how is it then that even these demons, authorities, and thrones, they're going to be reconciled with Jesus unless reconciled does not mean immediately salvation. I think that is the key to unlocking what this passage means. And we saw in the larger context, Paul is not teaching universal salvation in Colossians. So I think the part that we need to jettison in our mind is that the term reconcile does not always mean salvation. Okay? It literally just means reconciling, bringing together, harmonization. And let me give you a preview. Is it always going to be a nice, voluntary, happy Reconciliation and harmonization, or will it sometimes for certain people and creatures going to be a forcible you must bow the knee to Christ? Reconciliation. All things will be reconciled. Is it gonna be happy or will it not be so happy for you? Okay. Yeah, yeah, I was looking up here. Sorry, we'll have to go yeah. Let's go ahead. Okay, so yeah, I was looking at the uh the Greek translation of the word is pos. It can be translated, it can be thought of each, every, any, all, the whole, everyone, all things. And my mind was immediately taken to um Romans Uh let me just uh bear with me here. Romans um eight yes. Uh Romans eight twenty-eight, you said? Uh uh. Is that what we're thinking? So we're getting out of the way. No, no, I just thought that's the one. It was the passage about creation groans. Uh-huh. Oh, all creation world. So you know we we use that we use that ability to um uh now bear with me I'm trying to remember which one that is. where we where we refer to other um text to kind of reinforce what is being said here so it's one over ten. Verification, exactly. So when Paul says, hey, look, all things we can refer back to when he says all things the creation groans in anticipation because it's been subjected to judgment. And so when Christ came to bring all things including creation, we say that. Yeah. You know, that he can Yeah. So I think it's probably and probably in that light. And perhaps early Colossians, Colosseans were instructed in that So they were kind of familiar with that with a separation now. I I com a hundred percent agree. Um and you hit the nail on the head where you notice what you were doing. You are jumping ahead to the verification tool because once again Again, this diagram. That's fine, that's fine. It's a valuable thought. And you should keep that thought in the back of your mind. If you kinda know like how this phrase is used, especially by the same author, Paul, who also wrote Romans in another passage, absolutely, you shouldn't ignore that. It's just you have to be able to separate sequentially when you're going to use that valuable piece of information. And like Willie and like yourself was saying, you want to wait till verification for that to really start guiding your interpretation because we've jumped outside of the whole book, right? Now we're using a different book of the Bible So that's going to be a very good double check, and I think it's going to come in handy just in a moment. But um yes, sticking with the passage itself though I think uh the first thing we should recognize is whether or not you guys realized it, and I did this too when I was first wrestling with this passage, a lot of us probably were bringing this unwarranted assumption that this word reconcile always has to mean salvation in the way we think of it, like voluntarily, like confessing your sins before Jesus. And that is why exegesis is a process in general, I would use the word precision to describe Handling the Word of God is all about precision. It's all about checking your biases and your assumptions at the door. Stuff that you were taught in Sunday school over and over. You we we have all these like mental jumps that we like to make. Just 'cause tha that's how humans that's how our minds were made by God. You know, we gotta make quick decisions day by day. So you you use these like little mental jumps to just kinda jump to a conclusion to get to the goal faster, right? But when it comes to handling the Bible, especially when you get to this granular like verse-by-verse level, you really have to take it very slowly. You have to train your mind to be as precise as possible and think to yourself, what does that word reconcile mean? Does it have to mean what I'm just going to assume it means? Always means salvation in Christ. What does this word all things mean? Does it literally have to mean every single aspect of creation? Now I think I would argue the answer is yes, but we see that from the context, verse 16 to 17, all things, that phrase is referring to all creation But those are the kind of questions and double checks you should be asking yourself. Is my assumption correct? Right? Assumptions, precision, those are the words I would use. Okay, so at least I've established, and I hope you guys agree, but you know, if you disagree again, I'm very open to being corrected here. But I think based on verses 16 to 17 in particular, the way Paul keeps using this phrase all things, it can't just mean this subset of creation, Christians. It means literally every single creature. So the immediate context reveals, I believe this is the wrong interpretation. You can't interpret Colossians 1. 20 saying, and through him to reconcile to himself all believers. Okay. Oh I'm sorry. You had your hand up. I forgot to go back to you. Oh I think is it is it also possible that you're concluding that recent sum in version Verse 20, you're looking at it as a word. Like if you agree first thirteen is clear that we're describing Christ and the rest of the following verses up to twenty It's just a description of Christ. We're seeing uh see the images from the physical god. Um nineteen. It starts with a position for anything um of the fullness of God was pleased as well. So we're just saying that God was pleased to use Christ, God was pleased to Uh 20 through price reconciling things also. So it's it's less that price is actively reconciling, but that he is Um the reconciler Kyler. And then you see that split also in the next verse twenty-one, it's you see uh before then verse in twenty it's uh we're trying to price he has pressed like some use um um and got the spleen for that twenty one view so now we're splitting onto everything after twenty one describing you and then um what was also says in twenty three like um are n R needs a continuous base to to be reconciled. So if I'm understanding you correctly I think you have some pretty profound thoughts there that I I gotta think through. So you're saying like verses sixteen to twenty, the emphasis is more on just a description of who Jesus is. And it's not so much meant to describe like humanity and how we're gonna like our relation with God, how it's gonna be repaired. That's not the point. That comes later starting in verse twenty one. Is that what you're saying? Like focusing on like all things but and also reconcile as a verb, but not necessarily reconciler as Yeah. Yeah, so your argument is in verse 20, if you're reading the into this at all, this question of universal salvation, you're already kind of reading the point of this section wrong. Is that what you're saying? Yeah, that's a really profound point. I think you're 100% correct. My only pushback would be I think yes, you are totally correct that verses 16 to 20, the main character is is Christ However, it's it's it at least that, but it is also, I think, more than that in that verse twenty has to have some kind of um implications about how humanity relates to Jesus But I think your I think your read on that section and the point of the section is totally correct. I would just say it has to also there are there are implications that come out of that necessarily. Does that make sense? Yeah, I like I really like that comment though. And I I apologize because I came in a little bit late. That's okay. you a different word other than reconcile for that passage that brings out the meaning a little differently. I I completely understand and agree with your assessment that reconciliation doesn't necessarily I'm just wondering if that's another translation that brought out the meaning different Yeah, let let's see. Let's look at some of the m uh other popular translations. I'll look at just a couple. Uh KJV verse twenty uses reconcile Um let's see. I'm the answer, that didn't mean we decode. No, it's okay. It's an interesting uh we and we talked about different translations how uh or different um yeah um translations. Yeah, and it's it's helpful actually to go through the different ones, especially the ones that are all formal equivalents as it's called, word for word translations, and they do help you and get a a better sense. Um let's see a couple of the ones I went through here are still using Reconcile. Yeah, I don't know. Uh All the ones I'm seeing so far all use reconcile, but that would be a that would a hundred percent be a good exercise to do as you're doing exegesis. Let's start let's stop with the NIV. Yeah, reconcile. They're all using reconcile. So everyone opted to use that word? There's probably some Greek based reason for that. The contemporary English version says but bring back bring all things back to God. Yeah, okay. So they chose to go a little a little See the Greek translation is apokata lato. Which is can also be considered bring back a former state of harmony. Mm-hmm. Yeah, harmonize. That was another synonym I kept using. Yeah. Yeah, and you guys hopefully you're pretty clear on the where I'm trying to guide us here is that re term reconciliation is broader than just harmony through salvation. It's harmony in the general sense of the term. Okay, so here is uh another um option for uh interpreting this verse And I think this is the correct one. Obviously I I gave it away. I think that word reconcile implies a harmonization that is done both voluntarily or forcibly. And I think when we recognize that reconciliation here, the way Paul is using it, is used in the general sense, it could be a happy or an unhappy one for the person being reconciled, right? It can be voluntary or forcible the passage suddenly becomes very clear and also harmonizes, no pun intended, with the purpose and the greater context of Colossians, which you guys hit it out of the park Clearly Paul is not teaching universal salvation based on the context of the greater book of Colossians. So reconciling all things to himself cannot be universalism. And I think the way to address that is to recognize that the word reconcile is broader. So let's use the context tool again a little more systematically. If you look at verses 21 to 23, so we're at the surrounding context level, concession circle, that second circle, it is revealed that Paul specifies a subset of universal all things reconciliation. So you guys, uh somebody noted that, that if you go down, look at the next passage, verses 21 to 23, Paul is specifically addressing believers, right? A specific uh part of creation that is being reconciled to Christ. Okay? And this subset, they're described in this manner. In verse 21, they are transformed from evil into good. Verse 22, they are made home holy, blameless, above reproach. Verse 23, they are those with faith in the gospel. Right? So you guys noted that. That was a very important uh piece of evidence that he had to latch on to that later on in verses twenty one to twenty-three there is a subset of these all things that are being reconciled that are described in this way. They're Christians, in other words, they're just described as Christ-like. The implication is the broader category of the universal all things reconciliation do not have the distinct characteristics of the subset. So I like diagrams. Here's another diagram. So here's the broader oval. All things will be reconciled by Christ to Christ. And in verses 21 to 23, Paul is specifying, within those all things, there are some people being reconciled in this manner. They're being reconciled to Christ because they're being transformed into Christ's likeness, right? There's this peaceful, harmonious becoming into a uh like Christ's behavior and his likeness that's happening with some of the things that are being reconciled by Christ to Christ. However, the whole book context reveals, so this is the largest concentric circle in our context diagram reveals in chapter 2 verse 15 Paul teaching that Christ has already forcibly subdued demons by his death and resurrection Which cancel the debt of sin. So I'm just going to read verse fifteen from chapter two here, but uh you may want to go back and just uh familiarize yourself with this entire book really, uh if you want to um Be a little more convinced about uh the interpretation I'm putting forward here. In chapter two, verse fifteen, Paul states he decides says Jesus disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame by triumphing over them in him. So recall just a few minutes ago I stated that I think Clearly in my mind in Colossians chapter 1 1 verses 16 and 17 that the all things include thrones, dominions, rulers, or authorities, demons And lo and behold, Paul gives us insight into what happens to these thrones, dominions, rulers, and authorities. How are they being reconciled? in with Christ. In chapter two, verse fifteen he says very specifically with Jesus' death, burial, resurrection, he disarmed these rulers and authorities. Right? Same kind of phrase, rulers and authorities Put them to open shame. The process of the forcible reconciliation of all things, the evil elements of all things, is already occurring, has already initiated with Jesus' uh resurrection. You guys seeing that Okay, so what I'm going to do here now is I'm actually going to jump ahead and use one of the verification tools, and one of the important ones, not the most important, by the way. We'll discuss that later. I don't think we'll have time today Not the most important double checking tool, but an important one is the use of commentaries. By the way, one of the uh many mistakes that new believers in particular make is you jump to your commentaries immediately. You should never do that. Never ever ever do that. And the reason is because if you just jump straight to your commentaries and you haven't even studied seriously the entire Bible at at least once in your life, you're just going to be made in the image of the commentator. Right? You don't want that. And because uh I have some bad news for us. Uh even among genuinely saved, you know, faithful commentators, no two commentaries are going to be the same. So I hate to break it to you, but commentators disagree on some matters of theology. In fact every believer does. But the important part is that you have to come to an understanding of Scripture for yourself between you and the Holy Spirit. Alright? You shouldn't just become a sponge having your mind, you know, um molded by whatever latest commentary you're picking up. But we jump ahead to the verification tool after I came up with an initial interpretation that this is both a voluntary and forcible reconciliation, just like Jesus did with the demons. He started doing with the demons in chapter two And FF Bruce agrees with us, and this is what he says. This is a good double check. This is a good verification. Quote, the reconciliation of the universe includes what would otherwise be distinguished as pacification That's another good synonym he uses for the forcible reconciliation Jesus will do, pacifying, right? Like a stronger nation pacifying a weaker one. The principalities and powers whose conquest is described in Colossians 2. 15 are certainly not depicted as gladly surrendering to divine grace but as being compelled to submit to a power which they are unable to resist. It is the Father's good pleasure that all in heaven and on earth and under the earth shall unite to bow the knee at Jesus' name. and to acknowledge him as Lord. Okay? Now keep in mind, in this exercise, we are, for the most part, only limiting ourselves to this one tool context, right? Number eight. And it is the most powerful one. However, in reality, and some of you guys already kind of did this, this passage's meaning becomes much clearer if we also mix in the other tools. such as the author, Jose, that's what you were doing. You re you recognize the author, Paul. Well he also wrote Romans and he also had something to say about all things and all creation, groaning you know, waiting for their uh Lord. So that's another powerful tool you can use. Knowing the author doesn't teach in other books of the Bible universal salvation And knowing the author also teaches in other books, Paul, that, you know, Jesus is going to forcibly reconcile parts of creation to himself That's another tool you can use, the setting, the purpose of Colossians. We didn't even get into that. But you know, Paul is addressing some of these uh ascetic false teachers that were very beholden to demonic uh worship basically. They're they're scared of these demonic spirits and they thought they had real power. That's another very powerful understanding of the purpose of Colossians that would help us understand that this reconciliation, ge you know, Paul's trying to comfort these Colossians that are being uh led astray by these uh demons by saying Guys, these demons don't have power over you. Don't you know Jesus is going to forcibly reconcile them, pacify them one day? You don't have to bow down and worship them and do their bidding. And uh canonical location is also very important. So we didn't use any of the other tools. We just used context just to explain how to kind of use it, but um hopefully you guys are seeing this passage a little clearer Any questions before we go to our next example passage? And I think we're going to have to finish for today. Okay. Hopefully you guys are seeing why context is considered king, right? That is gonna unlock 90% of your exegetical troubles. Just look at the surrounding passages Alright, how about Genesis chapter 1? Let's look at all the different um elements of Genesis 1 to 11. that a lot of people, even so-called professing believers, feel very embarrassed by, and as a result, they sometimes come to some very strange conclusions about the nature of the book of Genesis Well, Genesis teaches the universe was created in seemingly six twenty-four-hour periods, right? Chapter one. Humans are made from dust. Chapter 2 verse 7. Women were first made from the rib of a man. That sounds pretty incredible, right? There was a talking serpent at one point in history. There was a worldwide global flood that was so much water it was higher than like the highest mountaintop. And at one point all the human languages we speak today, well probably not all of them we speak today But all these different human languages were created at once at the Tower of Babel, right? Now these sound like pretty incredible happenings And as a result, there are a lot of theologians that come to the conclusion, in my opinion, not based on any evidence, that well, this is too incredible for me to believe, this will not help me get my PhD, I won't be respected. in theological academia, I'll be laughed at at school with my, you know, my college roommates. So I'm going to just wave of a hand, say Genesis one to eleven. Ah, it's all mythology. This is all just poetic mythology. Right? Now, what do you guys say to that? What do you guys think? And specifically, use the context of Genesis. It's a big ask. It's a big book. But is there anything in Genesis where if you just start by putting on your exegetical hat, get rid of the social embarrassment or whatever, if you're just looking at Genesis itself, can we come to this conclusion that Genesis one to eleven is Is mythology and why or why not? Using context. I think that's the big one. Genesis is full of historical accounts that read like historical accounts. Any features specifically in these historical accounts that make you realize that this is history, this isn't supposed to be mythology? What do these historical accounts often consist of? says evening and morning. Yeah. It gives a description of a twenty-four hour period. Very specific sense of time. Yes. Yeah. That's good. What else? When you have some like uh battle being depicted in Genesis, for instance, you know, how specific does Moses get? How specific does the author get in describing that battle What are some things that you see that you would expect to see in history? The location. Yeah. Yeah. So wine. You have very specific locations. You have specific like what king was ruling at the time. You have specific personages, but specific name. names being called out, right? Very specific battle techniques. If you just use the context of Genesis, you guys see where I'm getting at. It reads exactly like history Uh here we go. This is the part, number two. Sixty-four geographical terms in Genesis one to eleven. Eighty-eight personal names forty-eight generic names and twenty-one cultural items, all being very specifically called out in just these few chapters. Woods, metals, buildings, musical instruments. And by the way, in God's wisdom he included all of these different artifacts purposefully because now we have a new science called archaeology And archaeology, time and time again, to the consternation of non-believing theologians, keeps proving Genesis's history, right? There are things like the city of David that People historians thought, oh, this can't exist. You know, we have no archaeological evidence for it. Just recently, I think within the last decade, we discovered artifacts that showed, yes, there was a place called the City of David, right? Yeah, these various people groups And the non believers at one point arrogantly thought, well these people groups couldn't exist, and then lo and behold, we find some artifact, we dig it up, and it turns out the Bible's description of history in Genesis happened exactly the way that God said it did. Okay? But just looking at the immediate section's context, we have these discernible historical features Another point I would like to make is there is no literary distinction between chapter 11, verse 26, and suddenly chapter 11, verse 27. Where a lot of Christians, so-called Christians, start to say, okay, now I'm going to start taking Genesis more literally. This stuff doesn't read as incredible to me. But the truth of the matter is, 1 to 11, there's no clear mark And like you don't suddenly go from some symbolic prophetic genre where maybe you can make that argument, remember prophecy should be taken literally by default. But there's there's no indicator. Remember those indicators that we talked about when you when you're handling figurative language or s or prophetic uh genre? Like you have to look for something that compels you to say to move away from your default position, which Just to read it ordinarily and literally and then move on to reading it maybe uh metaphorically, maybe there's a simile, maybe there's some poetry embedded in there. Nothing between eleven twenty-six and eleven twenty. Alright. So that's the surrounding sections context. Oh, that's it. Yeah. But um just using context And we again we didn't use any other aspect of the historical grammatical hermeneutic. Just using context, we have to walk away by concluding Genesis one to eleven, this part that a lot of people get very embarrassed by. It has to read as history if you just follow the good principles of interpretation. Does that make sense? Is that clear? Okay. Any questions or comments? We have a few more minutes. Unfortunately, I can't stay and take questions today. I gotta pick up my family from home But feel free to track me down after service if you have any questions or comments, or you can always email me. But I have a few more minutes here if anyone has any questions One of my favorite context uh contextual uh verses to deal with um hanging fruit is uh in Corinth and uh uh Yes, uh no, yes, first Corinthians where it says the body of the temple. And everyone that I've you know previously, everyone that I've uh heard talk about it usually makes that as uh talking about how you t to take care of yourself and uh all this kind of stuff. But the context is sexual immorality. Right. It's not it has nothing to do with you know, a a better body fitness or whatever, is is sexual immorality with most people just completely um uh uh uh miss that point in in that scripture. I think it is the second Corinthians six specifically Okay. You also have in Second Corinthians six the same concept, temple, that your body is a temple. Yeah. Oh you you're saying 1 Corinthians 6 is what you're referring to. Yeah, first Corinthians six nineteen twenty. Mm-hmm. Yeah, the whole food is meant for the stomach, stomach for the food. Just follow your natural impulses. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Not that we should abuse our body physically by any means, right? But you're right, the immediate point of the immediate point of that that verse is that you know th th we should be Pew you we should we should um uh we should be kind of moved away from sexual immorality is that is that reason for the scripture. Right. Particularly damaging sin because it's against your own It's it's it it's your own body. Yeah. Every other thing is outside of your body. This thing is to your body. Yeah, Paul's immediate teaching here isn't stretch in the morning and make sure you're limber Don't smoke, don't drink, too excess. Now that can be an application, right? Of the interpretation as you pointed out, Willie. That can be an application is I need to take better care of my physical body because God cares about how we manage his property, which is our bodies. It doesn't belong to us, right? Yeah. But context is everything there too as well because If you read eighteen, right before it says fleece sexual immorality every other sin. Yep, just like Willie's saying, just look at the surrounding context. the surrounding verses to understand what it means that your body is a temple. That's that's a great example. That's a good one. I'm gonna have to steal that for the next time I uh teach this class. Okay, let's pray.