This will be quaint. We'll do old school whiteboard. I haven't used one of these in a long time. So we're on lesson seven today. And what I'm saying Of course the marker wouldn't work Tell me whether these work. Okay, we'll use red. That is too funny. Why don't we start doing it this way? So recall that what we're studying can be in a technical sense called the historical grammatical hermeneutics. That's the way, and hermeneutic of course is the science of interpreting anything. It's a philosophy, a way of interpreting something. And the way to interpret the Bible, and this isn't because some Ivory Tower theologian sitting around came up with it, the reason why we teach the historical grammatical hermeneutics is because as we discovered several lessons ago, that is the way Jesus and the apostles and the prophets, all the biblical authors, handled the Word of God. And as such, we uh have a model in them in how we're supposed to be handled. So we learned. Um again this isn't inspired by scripture, um, but uh I like to break down the historical, grammatical, hermeneutic. Everyone that teaches hermeneutic likes to uh talk about the individual components a little bit differently. But the way I like to break it down is You s uh have basically a tool bag full of specific tools that you take out for specific uh purposes and times when you're handling So you want to start with prayer. Uh we saw in the book of James, for instance, uh the Word of God says that if you lack wisdom in any You can ask the Lord and He'll give it to you. And He won't disparage you. He won't make you feel stupid for asking. That's the kind of gracious Heavenly Father that we have. And uh God says that He is the resource, He is the fountain, the source of all wisdom, right? Here the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, as Proverbs said. And then you want to outline the entire book that uh contains the passage that you're struggling with. That gives you that map. This is all not new information, I'm sure. If you're joining us for the first time, go ahead and listen to the older. Knowing who the author is can be very helpful in unlocking meaning. By the way, anyone remember? You can say it out loud. What is our definition of meaning that we're working with in this course? What did the author intend to say, right? It's you don't get to subjectively put someone else's meaning into their mouth, right? You don't do that in our day-to-day occurrence. Why should we do it with the Holy Spirit? Let the Holy Spirit speak for himself. Let his words mean what they mean. So that's the author, and that helps us unlock meaning setting. So where was the author located? What time period? Who is he writing to? Where is the audience located? What's the purpose? That was super, super important, right? And uh where in the history of the Bible being progressively revealed book after book was uh that book located, the canonical location. So when you talk about uh like Star Wars canon is the example I always use. Right, you can tell I'm a little nerdy. So you have Star Wars fans who they say there's a particular lore in Star Wars that's canonical, that's the official rendering of the story, and then you have non-canonical rendering So in Christianity, our canon is the 66 books of the Bible, and you have all sorts of books outside of that, like the Apocrypha, that is not canonical. But in any case, the Bible was revealed in layers You didn't you didn't have all sixty-six books at the same time, right? Uh God revealed the Bible book by book by book. And that matters when it comes to doing her Because if you have information, detailed information that wasn't revealed yet to that author, he can't be referencing that. He doesn't have that information, he doesn't have access to that yet. Right? So I keep using the example of, for instance, every time you see the word assembly in the Pentateuch, it can't mean the church, because the Holy Spirit himself said the church was a mystery that was revealed later So Moses was not thinking of the church every time he used the Hebrew word for assembly. And vice versa, if you know that the author of the passage that you're trying to interpret had access to some information you know, think about what but Bible books he did have access to. That will likely inform what he's writing about. So where in the history of progress and revelation you are, that can also unlock meaning. Also a very useful tool We started with genre last week and we covered the first three genres we're going to tackle, which was narrative accounts. And narratives in many uh senses of the term is the most Um simple, it's the easiest genre to deal with. It's very familiar to us because it reads a lot like a history book. So whenever you have a news report that you read Or a history textbook or something that happened under the reign of Charlemagne or whatever. That's a narrative, right? Such and such events happened to so-and-so at such and such place And then chronologically this thing happened, and then after that, this thing happened. Now, the narrative genres of the Bible are not always chronological, but uh that being said, it reads a lot like a chronological historical account. Sometimes the author, for one reason or another uh we'll want to jump around, be a little more editorial in what events he shows in what order. But uh Luke, for instance, was uh very particular that he gave a uh chronological account. And he said so in his book. He said and then we see that word then used a lot. Jesus did this. Then this happened. The next day this happened But anyway, narratives in many senses are the easiest ones to tackle. We learned that um whenever you're dealing with a narrative account, uh what you uh First at first flush think the word means is what it means. It uses a lot of ordinary language, not a lot of figures of speech, which we're gonna get into today And then we talked about the legal genre, which, as you guys uh may recall, refers to laws and commandments in the Bible. There are sections of scripture. The genre is all about laws and commands that God gives. Right? And recall that there's a couple different types of laws. You have a law that is a general statement, universal. And then you have other laws that are case laws, casuistic laws. Do you guys recall that? So case laws and those general laws as well, they're not meant to cover comprehensively every single type of moral situation You might be in for all time. God in his wisdom laid down principles underneath the laws that can cover all situations for all time. But he did not explicitly write out when you go to Walgreens in the year twenty twenty two and someone cuts in front of you at the grocery line, you should We should do this, right? That'd be ridiculous. I mean the book would have to be infinitely long and expanding. That's not what God did with the legal genre. God in his wisdom I'm going to lay out some general principles that you now have to use wisdom relying on the Holy Spirit living inside you. That's one of the many reasons God gave us the Holy Spirit, by the way. Isn't He gracious? He gave us help You are supposed to go into the Word, dig out, mine out that raw diamond of that principle behind the law, and form that diamond into a specific application. Whatever circumstance you're dealing with, what happens when someone cuts in front of you in line at Walgreens, right? Well, now you have the law, you have the principle behind the laws of God and you know how to apply it. You know how to be gracious. Do not, you know, turn the other cheek, things like that. Okay. And then uh finally we wrapped up last week talking about epistles, which are letters and they are formally written from one person to another person. Just like the letters we write today. However, the epistle writers knew they were writing scripture. They knew they were being carried along by the Holy Spirit. And even though it was formally and directly written to a particular person or a particular church congregation, you can use So that was just a very quick review of what we covered last week. There's a lot of stuff I didn't talk about just now, so once again we have the recordings and the slides from last week. Today we're going to start talking about figures of speech, as I alluded to earlier. And figures of speech, we're gonna broaden it to talking about the poetry genre Um wisdom genre, wisdom literature, and finally knowledge. This would be a lot easier if I could show the slides, but I have some diagrams that are helpful when it comes to these genres and I'll just have to recreate it by hand. Okay, uh today's lesson on genre uh is going to be largely based on, I said this last class, but there's four books. You'll be able to see it in the slides when it's uploaded by Jeff Roy B. Zook, Robert Stein, John MacArthur with uh um Dick Mayhew created uh systematic theology called Biblical Doctrine, and I'm borrowing a lot of thoughts from there And uh Duvall, J. Scott Duvall and Hayes called Grasping God's Word. So again, these are your probably go-to texts if you want more details on how to deal with different genres. Alright, let's start with figures of speech. I really like a quotation by E. W. Bullinger, theologian Bullinger, and he states that a figure of speech can be defined in this way. Quote, a word or sentence thrown into a peculiar form different from its original or simplest meaning or use And hopefully that's pretty intuitive to you guys. For those of you who are native English speakers, you know what a figure of speech is. you probably use it all the time, right? It's something different from just the ordinary sense of the term. It's flowery, it's poetic. Uh Roy B. Zook says it this way, the figurative is a colorful vehicle for presenting literal truth. Now, why do you guys think God likes to use figures of speech instead of just writing everything in like a narrative or legal sense Why does God use figures of speech, poetry, songs? Why do you think he doesn't just stick to the ordinary language? Any ideas? I don't know where to reach people. What can you elaborate on that a little bit? Just another way to understand. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. I think that's a great answer. It gives you another perspective on looking at the same truth. Yeah, figures of speech are very powerful for that reason. It's like, oh I never thought of it that way. It's a comparison like uh we're gonna talk about different specific types of figures of speech and grammar, but like a simile, why do we use a simile? Like fast as a hare, for instance, right? It makes you think like, oh rabbits are really fast. I that's another way to think of how fast this person is, right? Yeah, that that's a great answer. God uses figures of speech to clarify or make you think of something a little differently. Any other thoughts? Yeah. To personalize message to make it more personal and Yeah, yeah, I like that. It it can sometimes feel more relatable when God uses a metaphor similar that's familiar to us It's not a mistake that when we look at the parables, which are often figures of speech, right? When we look at the parables, God uses a lot of agricultural metaphors in his parables. Why do you think that is? It's because the audience, it was an agrarian society. It was very familiar to them. So when God says the Lord is A shepherd, you the audience is immediately able to personalize it, like Karen is saying, and conjure up an image of like, well I'm a shepherd, like I care for my sheep and yeah, if one goes lost, you know, I go out of my mind to find it and suddenly it becomes very personal and relatable. Yeah, I think that's a great answer. Any other thoughts of why God may use figures of speech? Yes. I think it helps uh um understand God's nature better and like if it says you know God if he just says God is strong. Yeah okay. But if you say his mighty hand or something like that. Yeah. And that that's a specific, that's a really great example, mighty hand, because that's uh what's known as uh man Not quite anthropomorphism, but it's the idea that oh maybe it is. Uh we'll talk about it in a second in one of these slides. But you know, God doesn't have a physical hand, not the way we think of hand, right? But that's a figure of speech This idea of a mighty hand and I I really like that answer as well, elaborates on God's nature, makes it more understandable. That's good. Any other thoughts I appreciate you being brave and offering answers, by the way. I'm very much a more of an interactive style teacher, so I love questions and comments, but I know it can be a little nerve-wracking talking in front of everybody Yeah, I love that idea. It just uses one form of communicating I think as a musician, that's probably my favorite answer. You guys nail uh like you know, uh hit it out of the park. Those are all the answers I kinda brainstormed as well. But at the end of the day, God is a beautiful God, right? He's mighty, he's a genius, you know, the highest IQ being ever. He is uh all-wise, all powerful God is also very beautiful. He's stunningly beautiful. And we only see a reflection of his beauty in the beautiful things that he made, right? Marred by sin, of course, because of man's rebellion. But it's an it's an amazing testament to how beautiful God is. Uh even after sin came into the world and corrupted things, he still has so much stunning beauty. You go to the Grand Canyon or you know, you see these waterfalls, you see the different color leaves and stuff. God is Aesthetically pleasing, right? And God loves beauty. And again, as a musician, I like that idea that God uses poetry just because it's nice, right? It's god it's just a beautiful thing to use. It makes language more colorful and interesting. And there's nothing sinful or wrong about that. That is part of God's nature. So for teaching reasons to clarify truth, to make things more impactful, attract attention was another reason I uh listed here, make an abstract idea more concrete. That's kind of what you guys are saying, how God's character becomes more relatable if you use a figure of speech like the mighty hand of God. AIDS retention, that's another one. It's a good memory vehicle. So you might not always remember the details of doctrine so-and-so, such and such But if you remember something like, you know, um uh some specific figure of speech about God's character or something that can help you remember. Uh for instance, uh the tongue is a fire. That's an example I listed here from James chapter 3, 6. So God says, be careful with your words, right? And that may be a little harder to remember, but if you remember your tongue is like a fire, like a metaphor, and you're and then you realize, oh, tongue is very powerful, right? It's just this tiny muscle and you don't think it's a big deal. You have that common mantra, which is totally not true. You know, sticks and stones break my bones, words will never hurt me. The Bible says just the opposite. Be super careful with how you use your words. Every careless word, God will hold you account. So uh tongue is the fire is a good way to aid that kind of retention about being careful with how we um use their words. It encourages reflection. Yeah. Using your words can build up someone over so much. Yeah. Super, super powerful. Super powerful. Yeah, exactly. And uh yep. And uh yes, so God uses figures of speech for many, very different reasons, and we're grateful for it. Okay, now When it comes to figures of speech, great. So we laid out what it is, we laid out some reasons why God likes to use it, but we're doing hermeneutics, we're doing interpretation. So how do we interpret figures of speech? And I think this is important enough that we're going to write it on the board. Where is the Z writer? Here it is. Okay. I have these listed again in the slides. You guys can take a look at that. Point to your leisure. But when it comes to handling figures of speech You should always by default first assume it is ordinary and literary Okay? This is going to be a theme when we handle other related genres of the Bible like prophecy. But you always want to just start with the ordinary. That's always the safest place to start. Anyone have any sense why I'm emphasizing that so much that you want to start by assuming a suspected figure's features literal first? Why is that you fall into the habit of kinda over Spiritualize things. Yeah. Over metaphorizing everything is probably not a word, but you know what I mean. Making everything figurative. Do you remember the Alexandrian school of theology that we talked about? Third century after the apostles, what was their problem? Origin, you guys remember that guy This was an allegorical hermeneutical school, right? They turned everything into allegories. They allegorized everything And the insanity that comes out of assuming allegorical, which is the opposite of assuming defaulting to the literal is your interpretations become as many as the interpreters. Completely subjective. And we know that can't be true. God is one. He's unified. He has one particular truth he's trying to convey by every passage of the Bible. Right? Again, if meaning is controlled by the author, not the readers, right? That means we're looking for what's factual and objective. We're looking for what's singular. We're not looking for myriad. We're not doing the whole sitting around at a small group and a small group leader asking, what does this passage mean to you? And Charlie gets an answer, Joey gets an answer, Mary gets an answer. And then you don't arrive at any conclusion, right? That's of chaos. God is not a god of chaos. That's what the Corinthians were reviewed for So the reason why we first want to start with the literal is because when dealing with figures of speech, you've got to be very careful because you can very easily start to go down the path of the subjective And just man's opinion and then you get all sorts of chaotic multi you know, multiple interpretations. And that that's not what we're looking for. We're trying to read the Bible, not because it makes us feel good Not because it gives us joy and peace in our heart. That's all true. But the main and most important reason we're trying to understand this book is because we want to know what God says. That's the main reason, right? It's not about us. It's not about me. It's not about you. It's about what did God intend to say. And that's why you want to always start with the literal and that grounds you Okay? Now that being said, God clearly uses figures of speech. So even though we default to assuming the liberal, we s we uh literal, we start there How do you know if you're dealing with a figure of speech and do you now go on to dealing with a figure of speech as a figure of speech? Anyone have any idea? What are some indicators that tell us that we're dealing with figurative language and not ordinary language after we assume that maybe this is ordinary. Let's try to shade it ordinary. Oh, this doesn't work. What tells you it's not working, Karen? Well it doesn't make sense in the plane, right? So it doesn't make sense Yes. Very good. If the literal is absurd or impossible. It makes no logical sense. I'm not saying miraculous, okay? I'm not saying it has to be supernatural, but it's literally logically impossible. If A and not A, you know, in symbolic logic terms, are both true if we use the literal, it's absurd. That is an indicator, very important indicator to you that you're dealing with most likely figures That's good. Any other indicators we look for to know if the ordinary makes no sense? Yeah. or in like a language. Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's good. So uh grammatically, yeah. I actually don't have that listed, but that's a good one. Yeah, there are grammatical clues I think I do have that listed. Yeah, yeah, I do. Yep. And I'll be more specific. The grammatical clues that was uh just listed, if you have like a qualifying Adjective. Okay, and this is we all have to go back to grade school English here to remember what an adjective is I won't embarrass anyone here. I mean I forgot until I was preparing for this course years ago. But an adjective, remember, is like a word, like a like a quality of something. Like a red chair, for instance. The red is the adjective. And you have John chapter 6, verse 32, where Jesus says, My Father gives you the true bread from heaven. So the adjective qualifies a specific word. It adds a quality to it. It talks about some attribute that makes you think, oh, this isn't just bread. This isn't just regular bread. The fact that Jesus is emphasizing with an adjective, it's True bread, that is a hint that you're dealing with a figure of speech. And then you can also expand it to not just a single word, not just an adjective, but let's say you have some kind of prepositional Phrase. Okay? So if you have a prepositional phrase, then they usually start with the word of something. So Ephesians chapter 6. 17, where it talks about the putting on the whole armor of God. Are we talking about literal helmets and literal swords? Well, let's look at those two pieces of armor and take the helmet, not just helmet, period, blank. It's helmet of salvation. Of salvation becomes a preposition. So just like this adjective that qualifies a specific word and makes it probably not ordinary. bread it's true bread the preposition of salvation tells us this isn't just the helmet it's a helmet of salvation this is probably a bigger So grammatical clues, that's a good one. That's an indicator that you're probably not dealing with the ordinary. How about some other answers? What are some other ways you may know, you may get the sense you're dealing with figurative language Yeah, can you elaborate on that a little bit though? Either um you know of course when you read something, I would read something previously to kind of went into or even asked the situation to kinda decide what they were talking about previously. So all about a context is constantly um Let's turn to Matthew 13. I'm sorry, I didn't mean to cut you off. Please continue. Oh that's that's great. Now remember uh the way we're defining context is very simple. Context is literally just what do the surrounding verses say. Okay? Now if you go to Matthew ch chapter thirteen Let's go to Matthew thirteen. I'm going to read uh let's tell them Uh uh let's uh let's pull them. Let's start with my brain went two separate sentences at once. Let's start with verse three. I'm gonna read it out loud from the English Standard Version. And Jesus told them many things in parables, saying, A sower went out to sow, and as he sowed, some seeds fell along the path. and the birds came and devoured them. Other seeds fell on rocky ground where they did not have much soil, and immediately they sprang up since they had no depth of soil, but when the sun rose they were scorched And since they had no root, they withered away. Other seeds fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up and choked them. Other seeds fell on good soil and produced grain, some a hundredfold, some sixfold Now, once again, what do we default to? We assume the literal and the ordinary So you want to start by thinking that Jesus is talking about real seeds, real soil types, right? Now, for those of you who grew up in Sunday school, going to church, you immediately know this is known as the parable of the four soils, right? Or the parable of the sower, whatever you wanna title it. And you want to maybe immediately jump there and think, oh I know this is figurative, you know, I learned this in Sunday school. And uh you would be right. However, there will be sections in Scripture, particularly when we get to uh prophecy, where it's going to be trickier. And that's why you want to keep in the back of your mind this is the methodical way to do it Don't take shortcuts because there will be trickier sections of scripture that you don't know whether it's particularly figurative or if it's actually literal. Revelation twenty is going to be a hot one we're going to discuss later. Uh I think next week About the millennium. Actual one thousand year rain, literal rain of Jesus on a literal earth where he literally comes down from the Mount of Olives Or is a thousand year like a nice round number that disfigured it for a long period of time? Lotta hot debate about that between genuine Christians But anyway, let's do this methodically. We know this is the parable of the seeds, parable of the four soils. Let's do this methodically methodically. Is this just ordinary seeds and ordinary soils that Jesus is talking about? Is God up in heaven literally throwing seeds into different phototypes? And what, based on the just the three indicators that we saw so far, It may tell you that that's not what's going on. Well first of all, is the literal absurd or impossible technically? What would you guys say to that No. I would actually say no. Yeah. I would actually say no. So that doesn't work. Any grammatical clues? Are the C's qualified with any kind of adjectives? No, right? Not really. Preposition? The true seed? The spiritual? The seed of the spirit? Something like that? No, right? Okay. So these two don't work. How can we use context though What tells you that this is clearly bigger than terrible. You guys are all saying the same thing. Look at verse 3 It says the Holy Spirit tells you oftentimes. It's amazing. A lot of people get they you just gotta look around the verse and oftentimes you'll know immediately the Bible will God is not trying to trick us. That's another theme I want to keep emphasizing. The Bible is not meant to be a book of riddles. It's not like the Epic of Gilgamesh or any other religious text. It's not meant to be confusing. It's not meant to be chaotic. God wants us to understand it. And oftentimes he is so helpful to just tell us, guys, this is a parable. It says in verse 3. And he Jesus told them many things in parables. And then right after as well, look at verse 10. Then the disciples came and said to Jesus Why do you speak to them in parables? And how does Jesus answer, oh, you silly disciples? That wasn't a parable. This is a literal text about C No Jesus implicitly agrees and says, let me explain to you why I'm speaking figuratively, parabolically. Okay? So context. That's a great one, Tyrand. Context can often just tell you right off the bat whether or not something is figurative. Remember, context is king. That's one of the tools in our historical grammatical toolbox. And if there's one one tool that you remember in this class, it's always just look around. Always look at context. Context is king. That is the most important. If you forget anything else, just look around at the surrounding verses, okay? Alright, are there any other indicators that we're missing you guys think There's one in particular I can think of that we didn't list. How else do we know if figurative uh if uh something we're reading is figurative versus ordinary? How about if the literal is immoral? Sorry, my writing's getting more and more slanted, and you can tell I don't have a good handwriting. If the literal is evil, if it's sinful, if it's immoral, if it contradicts some other w uh law of God That is another very important indication that you're dealing with figurative language. And I think a really important one that I see a lot of Christians get hung up on, I I did it too, until I I studied this in Word detail is in Luke chapter 14 verse 26 where Jesus states if anyone comes to me and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters. Yes, and even his own life he cannot be my disciple And let me just resolve that for you really quickly. We know this is figurative language because it is immoral to actually, in an ordinary sense Hate your family and even your own life, right? You're supposed to preserve your life. You shouldn't be suiciding yourself. Body is a temple. You ought to be taking care of your body not because of vanity's sake or anything like that, but but because it's God's property, right? It's uh it's heavenly property, so you don't get to do with your body whatever you want. And the same goes for your children and your wife and your and your wife and your mother, brother, sister. You're supposed to take care. In fact, uh the Bible says in the epistles that anyone who neglects to take care of their family. They're even worse than an unbeliever. And what Jesus meant by that is even unbelievers know you're supposed to take care of your mom. Right? So this is um this is figurative language And as it turns out, we get some help when we dig up some other rabbinical literature, and what Jesus was employing here was a very common rabbinical rhetorical technique of hyperbole. Rabbis love to exaggerate things to make a rhetorical, figurative point about something. And that word hatred in particular was used uh very commonly in Jewish literature to indicate strong preference for one thing versus another, not literal hate. That is also by the way how you resolve uh in Romans where God says, Esau I hated, but Jacob I loved. It's not that God had this vindictive This completely arbitrary, frivolous hatred for Esau. That being said, every sinner is rightfully condemned. It's not a matter of people going to hell, that's the surprising part. part that people get to go to heaven. That's the amazing part, right? But nevertheless, God is not indicating this strong just hatred out of nowhere for the womb, just frivolous and trivial. Uh God instead is saying that I had a strong predestinating preference for Jacob versus Esau election. That what is what he's speaking to. And in Luke chapter 14, same thing. Jesus is saying you must have a preference, you must have a prioritization of God. above even your own family members. I hope that makes sense. Okay? Alright. So these are some four very helpful indicators. You do this intuitively in all likelihood But hopefully laying it out methodically and systematically like that helps you in the future when you encounter some more difficult texts of the Word of God where you're not sure if something is ordinary or figurative, once again Just consider, does the ordinary, does a literal become absurd or logically impossible? Is there something in the grammar that indicates to you that this is probably not just this normal thing that you're thinking of, some qualifying adjective or preposition? Look at the surrounding verses. Daniel is another good example I didn't list in my slides, but the prophecies in Daniel, um, you know, uh Daniel 9 to 11 in particular, after he sees a lot of these things. God says, you know, angel, come explain to Daniel what these symbols mean. That's another area where context just tells you right off the bat, oh, this is a prophecy with symbolic language. This isn't all ordinary. And then is the literal immoral or evil, right? God never contradicts his own moral commandments. Any questions before we continue? Okay. Hopefully pretty clear. Uh specific figures of speech. Um if you go to chapter seven of uh not in your bible, in Roy B. Zooks book uh basic bible interpretation, he lists uh twenty-five different biblical figures of speech. So that's the comprehensive treatment of all the different figures of speech that the Bible uses. In my slides here, which of course you cannot see, I just listed six of the most common. And they include simile. Uh again, go back to grade school English class. In English, if you have the word like in there, something is like this. You people are like dogs, that becomes a simile. A metaphor. Metaphors are very common. You drop the like, it becomes an implicit comparison. You people are dogs. You don't have to like dogs. Something known as hypocatastasis is a direct comparison. So not you people are like dogs, similarly you people are dogs, metaphor, you dogs becomes hypocatastasis. You see that in the Bible a lot. Personification. Human characteristics are given to an object, animal, plant, trees will clap their hands, the desert and the parched land will be glad. Isaiah chapter 55. That's personification Trees don't actually have hands to clap. Desert is not actually glad and happy, right? Anthropomorphism, so I was correct. Human emotions that are attributed to God. Now, this is uh don't mishear what I'm saying God has emotions. Okay? I don't know if that's news to you guys. And this isn't blasphemy to say either. God is actually a person with a capital P. Okay? Remember we're made in the image of God. God is not a machine. He's not like a theology machine. He's not a magic genie. You know, he's like the prosperity teachers. You don't just input the coins into the slot, pull the lever, and you get blessings. You know, just do the right commands, say the right you always have to end your prayers with, In Jesus' name I pray, Amen. That's not what Jesus meant when he said in praying anything you pray in my name, right? Um It's good tradition, it's a it's a good way to know if the prayer is ending or not, that's why we do it. But God isn't a machine, He's actually a person, He has emotion. The tricky part is he just doesn't have human emotions. He's not like us. We're petty. We're frivolous. We swing wildly in our moods and in our thoughts and stuff. God isn't like that But that being said, God isn't totally unrelated, unrelatable to us. God is a capital P person. He has emotions. He feels strongly about certain things. He hates certain things He tells us because it's in the Word. But of course, uh God condescends by helping relate to us according to our human emotions. That gives us an idea of what he's thinking. But there is also what's known as a transcendence of God. God is unlike us. He's a completely different category of being. So you can't say his anger is exactly like our anger. That's the best way I can put it. Hopefully that makes sense Okay? He's a person, he has emotions. They're not human emotions, they're God emotions, whatever that is, but he condescends and helps us understand what he's thinking and how he feels about certain things by revealing himself according to our human emotional terms. That's called anthropomorphism. And finally, hyperbole, like we just discussed, deliberate exaggeration. Deuteronomy 1, verse 28 is an example I use where it says, the cities are large and fortified to heaven. That is a figure of speech. They're not literally being fortified to the heavens. It's just saying it's very large, very tall. And again, Roy Zook gives a more comprehensive treatment And his excellent hermeneutical textbook, Basic Bible Interpretation. Actually not that big either. Pretty thin. So that's worth picking up. Okay, a big caution that I want to note about figures of speech. Sorry, I'm gonna erase this. Okay. Caution. Big, big caution. Worth writing. The same figurative language can sometimes have Multiple meanings. I'm not talking about multiple meanings in interpreting a given verse. I'm saying, for instance Figurative language for do, right? Like what you find on the grass in the morning. That word do, you cannot always assume. Every instance of this word being used in the Bible is going to be used the exact same way. And here's a shocker. Sometimes even in the same book of the Bible by the same author Do with the example I have in front of me. That word will sometimes be used a couple different ways. Another uh example would be like um Leaven. Jesus talks about leaven in both a negative and a positive way, right? Anyone remember the negative way leaven is used by Jesus? What does he compare to leaven in a negative sense? The Pharisees' teaching is like leaven. You just let a little bit of that false teaching in and it just looms in your mind and ruins everything, right? That's why I'm I'm o I've always been a little skittish about a phrase that a lot of Christians often use. when they read some really poor theologian's you know book or sermon and they say, well I'm just gonna I don't I don't want to toss out the baby with the bathwater. You know, I'll I'll spit out the bones, eat the chicken I'm like, yeah, there's some truth to that, but be really careful because just like Jesus said, you let a little bit of that false teacher in It's gonna be really hard to disentangle the good from the bad. Some people it's better to just ignore, just completely ignore what some people say. Yeah. But what's the good version of leaven that Jesus himself used? What what's the good comparison to leaven? Anyone remember? Do you remember the leaven about the kingdom of God is like leaven? And it's this is debated, but I believe And Jesus when he uses the parable of the kingdom of heaven being like leavening he says it grows and grows, he's saying that you know you start with the small little tiny tribe of Jews and then They end up fulfilling exactly what the Abrahamic covenant was supposed to do. That God's people was supposed to be a blessing to the entire world, all nations, right? So, another example is in Hosea. In Hosea chapter 6, verse 4, it states the following. What shall I do with you, O Ephraim? What shall I do with you, O Judah? Your love is like a morning cloud, like the dew that goes early away. Now in Hosea chapter six, what's being compared to uh the spew that goes away in the early morning. Love. Israel's love. Is that a good or bad comparison? Very negative. Very neg you're you're temporary, like dude. You're there in the early morning in the dawn and then you're gone by the afternoon sun. That's the kind of faithfulness you're showing me, Israel. But then you just skip down a few chapters later to Hosea chapter fourteen, and it states here in verse four to five, this is God speaking, I will heal their apostasy. I will love them freely, for my anger has turned from them. I will be like the dew to Israel. He shall blossom like the lily. He shall take root like the trees of Lebanon. Okay, in this chapter, Hosea chapter fourteen, what's being compared to do? God's love and provision. Yeah, just the opposite. You see that? So that's why I put this big capital caution because this is a hallmark of a lot of false teaching. A lot of false teachers, I think I mentioned this the first week, a lot of false teachers treat the Bible like it's a connect connect the dots like puzzle. They just look for the same like key phrase and they put like connections everywhere in the Bible. Like every time I see the word do, I'm just gonna assume they always mean the same thing And that's how sometimes you get this very shoddy, but on its face, it seems kind of persuasive, rationale for all sorts of false teachings. But you have to be careful. You have to remember, meaning comes from where? The author. What the author meant to say, and let me add to that sentence, what the author meant to say every instance of what he's saying. Every particular instance you have to look at its own particular context. What did the author mean to say in his use of the word do in this chapter in this verse? Because it could be different Even in the same book I just showed you by the same author, Hosea, he uses that word due completely opposite ways, and you will get into a lot of trouble if you try to connect the meaning of these two verses just because you see that same So figurative language can have multiple meanings. Okay? And there's another caution I would add, so that's the first caution. Second caution is that figurative language usually has a single truth that they're trying to get through to you. Okay? Now, this is really, really important because figures of speech, because they're very colorful vehicles for conveying truth, you can really let your imagination run crazy, right? And think about every aspect of the do, the molecular pro what does the oxygen molecules and do the and do? What does that mean about God? You know? Like, oh, how about the location where we see It's always you find it most oftenly in Austria in the summertime. So what is it what is it about uh you know, I'm being ridiculous, but you know what I'm saying when you have figurative language it's trying to say one thing and just stick to that one thing and then move on. Alright? Don't look at don't look too deeply into every single aspect of do or some colorful language, some figure of speech, and then make it blossom into this huge crazy thing. There's this one single truth that God's trying to explain with that language. It's usually pretty obvious on his face, and then you move on. And same goes for parables, by the way. Parables are just extended figures of speech And one of the great ways, uh one of the uh guidelines, uh the bumpers that you should put up in your mind when you deal with parables, is the parable is trying to display one single truth. Again You know, there's many aspects to a parable, there's different characters, different actors doing many different actions, but they all point to just one singular idea that you're trying to get across. So the same thing, don't don't let your imagination run wild. I'm sorry? Yeah. One scenario. One scenario. Yes. Yes, it's an example of what may happen if XY takes place or what things may look like. Yep, yep, yep, that's a good word to use. Revelation sixteen fifteen, for instance, that's another one. It says, Behold I referring to God And coming like a thief. Okay? So by the way, which indicator do you use? I know I erased it, but how do we know that when God says I'm coming like a thief, that's not you can't take that in the ordinary sense? Which one? It's immoral, right? It's evil. God can't be a thief. Thief is a bad guy. So what aspect, what singular truth is God trying to convey by his him saying, warning, behold I am coming like a thief. What aspect of a thief is God's coming like? Exactly. That's it. Don't add on all these extra connotations about thieves to God. He's trying to say one singular thing. Like a thief, I'm just gonna come in a surprise, and I believe this is referring to the rapture, the part that we don't know, right? And uh that's all guys trying to say. So that's how you deal with figures of speech and parables, which are just extended figures of speech. Any questions before we move on to poetry? All right Very good. Okay. So poetry is a collection of figures of speech typically. And when it comes to these last three genres, I drew this, I hope, helpful diagram for us. So this is the poetry genre generally. And specific types of poetry in the Bible are the Psalms And the wisdom books. Okay? I hope this diagram's clear to you what I'm trying to say. Every song is a poem Every wisdom book is a poem. Wisdom books are not necessarily psalms, they're distinct, right? And just because you're dealing with poetry does not mean it has to be a psalm. Okay? So psalm is the more general category. A specific type of poem are the Psalms, a specific type of poem are the wisdom books. Hopefully that makes sense. The books of poetry in general are Job, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song of Psalms, or Song of Solomon, and then of course the Psalms. So those first four, Job, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song of Songs, goes into the wisdom bucket. And the Psalms, of course, goes into the Psalms bucket surprise Now, there are poetic sections. You will encounter poetry, the poem genre, within, oftentimes, other books of the Bible, but usually just sections. Whereas the Psalms is entirely poetic, right? For instance in Genesis chapter 1, when it comes to the creation account, you do have poetry in Genesis 1. Okay? Uh, especially in the narrative books of the Bible. So if that's something to distinguish in your mind that just because you're in what's formally a narrative genre, like Genesis that we're defining That doesn't mean you won't sometimes encounter other genres in tiny sections. You you get uh legal genre, right, in Genesis, things that you shouldn't do. Anyone who takes the life of a man his life His blood will be still. And then uh again, Genesis 1, the creation account, you get poetry. Alright. Now the features of Hebrew poetry, as you would expect, is very different from what we Westerners would expect with poetry. So typically when we think of poetry you think of rhyming lines, right? That's one of the aspects of poetry, like the rhythm and stuff. Well you got rhythm in Hebrew poetry, but it's not so much in the rhyming It's in what are known as parallelisms. You have parallel ideas, the same idea being repeated in a different way, line by line by line. So that is the defining feature of Hebrew poetry, is parallelisms. Parallels. Another feature of biblical poetry is they emphasize emotion-evoking language. Again, that's generally what a figure of speech is, right? A colorful vehicle for So poetry is no different. It it's commissive in its language. It tries to evoke some feelings, some emotion So again, emotion's not bad. Beauty, aesthetics, art, this isn't bad. You know, good doctrine is not mutually exclusive from beauty and emotions. They should go together, in fact. That's why God says you should worship him with not just your mind, heart, every aspect of your being in other words. And uh so poetry is emotion evoking, that's what it emphasizes, rather than just statement of fact, referential type language. like the narrative or legal genre uh uses figures of speech. We already said that. You see a lot of short lines in Hebrew poetry And you see equal line length. That also cements this idea of parallels. And you don't see a lot of conjunctions in particles. Think A, V Yeah, but things like that. These are short little, you know, uh conjunctions that connect uh thoughts together, particles, A, things like that. said that. Alright, let's talk about the different parallelism. This is important. So one of the most common are the synonymous parallelisms. And this uh is a way of stating that you have like really wish I had the slides, I'm sorry guys. Line one and line one prime. And they're saying the same thing, basically. It's just restated in some different way. So Matthew chapter seven, verses seven to eight is an example of a synonymous parallel. You guys can turn there. That actually might be helpful since I don't have the slides. Matthew chapter 7, verses 7 to 8. And what you'll notice is the first line, verse 7. parallels in concept. It kind of reiterates conceptually the idea in verse eight. Verse eight Is it parallel to verse seven? So verse seven says, Ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock and it will be open to you. And then verse 8, for everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be opened. So you guys see that? It's kind of the same concept, but in the synonymous parallel, that second line is restating the first, but just kind of bringing it to a higher degree. It's it's kind of opening it up to more detail. It's taking you to the next level. Ask and it will be given. Let me elaborate on what that means in the second line, because everyone asks who will receive. That's that's a mark of poetry. Okay And then you have uh antithetical parallelisms. And this is exactly what you would imagine, just the opposite, right? So you have line one Then you have an opposing line two. So here's the first idea. And typically you'll have the second line saying and The reason why you shouldn't do the first idea is because this thing happens. So Proverbs ten verse one, the first line says, A wise son Makes a glad father, but a foolish son, the opposite, is a sorrow to his mother. So you even have the parents, you know, and antithesis, you have no even of the parents split So Proverbs ten, that's that was Proverbs chapter ten, verse one if you want to see it. A wise son makes a glad father, and instead of the second line elevating the idea of a wise son, right, you have the opposite, you have the antithesis. But a foolish son is a sorrow to his His mother. You also have what's known as a step or climactic or staircase parallelism Whoever receives you receives me and whoever receives me receives him who sent me. So um I think I misspoke earlier. When it comes to synonymous parallel, it's not so much that they're elevating at the second line. They are kind of more just a research. statement. I was getting confused with the the staircase parallelism, which is where you get line ones and you call it like line one plus one call it that it's where you elevate the idea placed in that first line to the next level so whoever receives you receives me this is Jesus talking And he says, and further, in fact, you not only receive me, whoever receives me receives basically the Heavenly Father, God who sent me. And that's Matthew chapter 10, verse 40. And lastly, you have what's known as has a chiasm that comes from the Greek letter chi which looks like an X and a chiastic parallel. takes on the form of X, where you have this is your first line A, and then you'll have some other second line B, not really related. space, but then what you end up getting is a V prime, which is kind of a restatement of V. So you get a you get like a synonymous parallel in the middle here. And then you end with another synonymous parallel. So it's like bookends And we can tell it kind of looks like an S, which is why I call it a chiasm. And an example of that, if you go to Matthew chapter 23, verse 12 Matthew chapter twenty three, verse twelve The first line, A, is whoever exalts himself, and the second line becomes, will be humbled. Whoever exalts himself will be humbled. B prime becomes and whoever humbles himself, so you see how B and B prime will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself You have that synonymous idea there, will be exalted. So you have exalt at A, will be exalted, A prime. That's the classic kaya. Okay? Alright, now why are we talking about these? How does this help us interpret the Bible? So we just described different aspects of poetry that we'll see in the Bible. Once again, it's all about parallels Why is that helpful? Anyone have any idea how having this information is actually really, really useful if you're struggling with one of these poetic sections? just by mere definition, like when when you see these in scripture you you can now say, oh this is an epithetical parallelism or this is a synonymous parallelism. How do you think that could be helpful specifically? Can you dive into that? You're definitely on the right track. I mean it helps you interpret what you're reading. Yeah. Let me get let me get more specific. Yeah, you're right on. So let's say you realize that you're dealing with a synonymous parallel in the Bible, just like what was stated. You're struggling with this section right here. I do not know what the second line means. Where can you go if you know you're dealing with this kind of parallel? Where can you go to get help to understand the second line one. See that? If you know that these sound the same, using the same words, they're probably speaking for the same idea. I'm in a poetic section of the scriptures I'll see these parallels. If you're struggling with one of these lines, you have this beautiful process of elimination where you think, well it it has this structure. I don't know what line two means It must be something like the opposite of line one. So going back to my example, let's say uh when it comes to antithetical parallels, Proverbs 10. 1 Let's say you're doing a deep study into wisdom. You want to know the Bible likes to use wisdom a lot. It's repeated all throughout the Proverbs, throughout all scripture. I want to really understand wisdom. Well Proverbs 10. 1 says, A wise son makes a glad father. And you're thinking, what does it mean to be a wise son? I want to be a more wise son. I want to apply that in my life. But what does that wisdom look like? Well, I know Proverbs 10. 1 is an antithetical parallel, so it must be whatever the opposite of the next line is. A foolish son is a sorrow to his mother. Let's say that second line is more clear to you. Oh, a fool is someone that just like is a huge headache, just gives grief to their parents with their foolish actions. Just make them feel so ashamed. So that helps fill in, doesn't it? Suddenly what wisdom looks like. Wisdom is something that brings your parents honor. that brings your parents gladness and happiness. You see that? You see how we're helped to understand what a wise son looks like by just inspecting that second line? And you could do vice versa. Same thing. Let's say you want to know what it means to be a fool, right? Well, again. Look at that first line, try to understand that. So parallelism is uh in a word I would use it is it's process of elimination. It helps you use the tool of process of elimination. If I know what A means, if I know what B prime means, but I'm struggling with A prime, you know, uh look at what this means. Uh if I'm struggling with this one, look at what D prime means. So if you know that these things are attached together conceptually, look at the lines you do understand, look at the parts of the parallel you understand. That'll help illuminate the parts you don't understand. Does that make sense? Are you guys understanding? You know what I mean? I don't know that I would go and say, Let me see. So I don't know if there's an illustration where maybe in Revelation or some other place like you pointed out We'll get to the hard ones. because of um the snow last week. But the last week of our class we're going to tackle some of the tough texts and we're going to use these tools. I don't want to confuse you with the hard texts now, but these are pretty it seems kind of simple and pretty obvious. But it's good to know the methodical way of doing these things when you do come across a hard text. uh maybe linguistical where like you know in English we'll use rhyming to kind of just be artful. Yeah. And uh I can't remember the the passage off I had, but there's one that I I had a similar struggle and then I went to the original Hebrew and saw that the Hebrew had very s like rhyming type rhythmic added to it. Okay. Um I guess that's a little more tricky on identifying the languages because sometimes the that's interesting. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I'd be interested to uh know more detail about your referencing. If if you can dig it up somewhere and send it to me, I I'd love to improve the course as I go Yeah, I can't unfortunately I can't speak to a lot of that stuff because I don't know Hebrew and Greek. I took one seminary Hebrew course. By the way, if there's anything like taking some seminary courses taught me It's like you can't walk away from seminary saying you know Hebrew and Greek. I mean you really have to just mean like a seminary student with an MDiv is not a Hebrew scholar by any means. Like I took that course I was like, man, I'm disappointed I thought Yeah. All right. Let's go to uh oh but you know, uh as we talked last class, but We can rest in God's sovereignty and providence in knowing that because God's will is for us English speakers to know his word, he provided us with good English translations. can rely on. Alright, uh the wisdom literature, which again, Job, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song of Songs, we'll have to go a little quicker. uh because of time. Uh wisdom sayings are basically compact sayings that illumine a general truth. From observing life. So general is the key operating phrase when you're dealing with Proverbs or Ecclesiastes. These are true isms Okay? So the Bible has everywhere, not just in the wisdom literature, they make general statements and the Bible makes particular statements that deal with specific people. So universalist These false teachers called universalists that believe everyone will be saved, uh they run into this problem a lot when it comes to scripture speaking about salvation for all, for everyone, or whatever. Oftentimes these word all and everyone is specific. specifically speaking to the audience, like in the epistles which were Christians. You see that at the beginning of the letter in the first chapter. But even in cases where uh you don't have this specific directing to believers All typically when it comes to salvation is a general statement. Okay? God made available salvation to all. It doesn't literally mean ev to the microscopic detail every single human being born throughout all of history. So you have to differentiate differentiate the fact that God uses general and particular statements. And when it comes to the wisdom literature, it's It's almost ninety-nine percent of the time dealing with the general. These are truisms. Okay? These are not promises. These are typically not commandments. This is not saying that if you do A, B will always happen. It's saying this is generally the pattern. This is generally the case. We use the same kind of language, okay, if you catch yourself and really catalog the things you say on the day-to-day, you guys probably use general statements all the time, carelessly And then it's always obnoxious when somebody goes back and Yeah, how about that one specific kind, you know, what that's not true? It's like obviously I'm not speaking to the particulars. I'm making a general statement You know, dogs are cute. How about this one ugly dog that my friend has just like No, I'm I'm talking about dogs as a general category, not every single dog in the history of mankind, you see? So, in the same way We allow ourselves to flip between the general and particular, and we expect people to use context to understand us why do we not do the same for the Word of God? Another analogy I would use to cement this point home is when you're dealing with the wisdom literature, you're at the 30,000-foot view. You're in the airplane looking at the entire forest, the shape of the whole forest Okay? You're not down three feet from the ground looking at each individual tree. Each individual tree might be very different from the rest of the forest. You go up to 30,000 feet and you say, oh, the forest is green, right? You go down to each individual tree, some might be brown, this tree might be dead, right? We're not talking about tree level. We're talking about 30,000 foot forest level, okay? So exceptions can exist, in other words. That's the conclusion here. Because we're dealing with general truth, exceptions can exist. Now, it doesn't always exist. That's the other opposite extreme with dealing with the proverbs That we don't want to get into. It doesn't mean every single verse in Proverbs is just a general statement. Sometimes it is truly exactly A, A happens and then B happens. So let's go to Proverbs chapter 22 to illustrate this point. And in Proverbs chapter twenty two, starting with verse twenty-two The Holy Spirit says, verse 22, do not rob the poor because he is poor, or crush the afflicted at the gate, for the Lord will plead their cause and rob of life those who rob them. Is God going to punish every single person that is a robber, that is a thief? Is that a general or just a particularly true statement all the time? It's true all the time. This is actually a particular statement, right? Even though it's found in Proverbs, that's the point I'm trying to make. Okay? It's not always a truism. That's true. God will always punish People that are thieves, right? They'll bring everyone to account unless you, you know, fling yourself unto the mercy of Jesus Christ and repent But then most of Proverbs look more like verse 29. So jump down in the same chapter 29 where it says, Do you see a man skillful in his work? He will stand before kings, he will not stand before obscure men Now is that always going to be true in the particulars? Every single tree in the forest, if it's a very talented tree, very skillful, they're an expert at their craft, are they always going to be in the court of a king or a president No. No. Now, do we generally expect that to be true? Yes. That's a generally true statement. The cream rises to the top, as another idiom goes, right? People that are very skilled, they often get recognized and they tend to elevate in their careers to the next level. But there are some of you in here probably that are very skilled at your work and maybe you're frustrated because you're not being promoted to the next level Maybe because you're a Christian. That's a possibility. Very, very uh common possibility. But you see what I'm saying? Most of the proverbs, most wisdom literature will speak more like verse twenty nine. It's a generally true statement. It's a general truth. It's a truism. It's a pattern in how God created the universe, but you can't take it as a promise. Okay? You cannot make verse 29 your life verse And say, God, I'm gonna hold you to account. If I'm not working for the president by next year, I'm just gonna uh you know, stop studying so hard. That's that's not a command. It's a general truth. Okay Alright, uh so uh obviously then how to interpret it, um don't hold it to just the particulars, expect general truth and the wisdom literature. Alright, we have to go through the Psalms next week because we're out of time. But if you have any questions or comments, feel free to uh talk to me after class. Happy to take them. Let's go before the Lord and pray.