Alright. Recap. So I like to think about the historical grammatical hermeneutic like a box of tools, a toolbox You guys know that by now. And I like to think of each of these things as an individual tool you take up and use as is appropriate So not necessarily chronological order, but we've kind of been going through them sequentially. So you start with praying for wisdom as you're wrestling with that text in the Bible that you're having trouble with. You want to outline the entire book that uh contains that verse that you're working with or a passage. You want to figure out who the author is And that often uh provides a lot of clues about what he will or will not say. So if you know uh the Apostle John, his He's all about the Trinity that Jesus is God then any book that that author, Apostle John wrote you know, will not teach against Trinitarian theology, will not teach Jesus is not God. You know, he's not going to teach that Jesus is a created being. So that's why author can be very helpful. You want to know the setting. Uh where was the book written? Who is it written to? What time period? What location? And we discussed very early on how setting can be very helpful in uh understanding unlocking meaning Purpose is super important. You want to understand why the author wrote the book that he wrote and purpose statements if uh you know Uh sometimes it's explicit, but most of the times you kinda have to tease out clues for why uh the author wrote what he wrote. Uh implicit clue, so we talked about that several weeks ago as well. Canonical location. What other books of the Bible does the author have access to that will likely inform what he's writing in that moment What information does he not have access to yet? Because it's been hidden by the Holy Spirit as a mystery to be revealed later. And though and as a result, those details cannot be the meaning of what the present author is talking about We went through all the different genres of the Bible, and they include, you can see on the screen, the narrative genre The laws, commands of God, legal genre, the epistles, which are just letters, a lot like letters we write today to a personal friend. The Bible contains Holy Spirit, divinely inspired letters, epistles figures of speech and the poetry genre uses figures of speech heavily. The wisdom genre also uses figures of speech. These are general sayings. Truisms is another way to describe the wisdom books, Ecclesiastes, Proverbs. We talked about the Psalms and uh last week we ended by talking about the prophetic genre. And then we discussed the most important tool of all, the one that'll solve the vast majority of your hermeneutical troubles, which is just Looking at the surrounding verses. That's all context means. What do the surrounding verses say? And you want to start this concentric circle diagram, start with the immediately surrounding verses that's going to have the strongest authority. If that doesn't help, expand your circle. Go to the surrounding paragraphs. Go to the surrounding sections, as indicated by that outline you made, that second tool. And then, if that doesn't help, go to the entire book. And now you want to stop there. You want to try your best to come up with your initial interpretation at the boundaries of the whole book. So if you're dealing with Colossians 2 stop at all of Colossians. Try not to try your best to not go beyond the whole Bible because we're going to dis discuss today when you jump out of the circle and you start relying on other books of the Bible Especially other books of the Bible written by different authors to try to inform your interpretation, technically you are doing what is known as verification. You're trying to double-check your work. Now it's very important you should check with the whole Bible, but you should try your best not to do it immediately. And the reason is, does anyone remember? Anyone know why we want to try to stick to the boundaries of the book first? Yes. Um some of the language that would have been used in the Old Testament or in the New Testament had it been Yeah, yeah, and I would go even further and say even if you're sticking with the same testament, different authors are going to use their words and phrases in different ways. Each book of the Bible is not written robotically in the same like factory mass-produced style. Each individual author's personality shines through in the way they handle their Greek or their Hebrew So it gets very tricky uh when you assume that, you know, every sixty-sixth book of the Bible is written in that very mass-produced uniform way and think, well I can just connect the same words and phrases and they're all going to be in the same things. No. They're written by different authors. So in fact when you jump out of the Bible immediately to start massaging the interpretation of the immediate book that you're dealing with, that is actually where a lot of personal biases can creep into your theology. So I've talked about this system of theology over and over, and it's a little beyond the scope of our course to discuss what it is in detail, but There is a framework, it's really a hermeneutic in my opinion. There's a framework for interpreting the Bible called Covenant Theology, and they're held by Genuine Brothers and Sisters in the Lord. People I read all the time, in fact, that I've been blessed by. However, there is this entire hermeneutical framework called Covenant Theology that starts with this very dangerous assumption that basically the Old Testament can't truly be understood without first superimposing the New Testament. Right? You have to first have the New Testament and let the New Testament drive the meaning of the Old Testament. And that's where you get a lot of these erroneous conclusions, like The church today is Israel. We're the fulfillment of Israel. We're the new and better Israel, right? And you have to ask yourself where did these um conclusions come from? Which I would argue if you just read the Bible in its context clearly, right, and don't have that assumption that you need the New Testament first. These Old Testament Hebrews, they had to wait hundreds of years before they could truly understand their Bible, right? That's one of the implications of come out of that. I think that's a very dangerous implication to make. If we don't start with that, clearly Israel is Israel, the church is the church. We're both made by God. That's why we have a lot of similarities. It's the same creator that made both bodies, but they're distinct, right? And even in the New Testament, you never see the apostles state that Israel is the Gentiles. They're always two distinguished bodies They can they're both people of the Lord, but Israel clearly has been put aside for a time, and we're that new branch that's been grafted in, and then that old natural branch will be grafted in as well later when Israel repents when they see their Lord and they realize they they killed him, right? When they see their Messiah. So um that being said, um that assumption of covenant theology is exactly what we're trying to avoid here. You don't want to you not not even jump to between testaments, but try your best not even jump out of the book because that is where a lot of these false assumptions can start creeping in. So each author, we're trying to understand what each author of the Bible, both the Holy Spirit and the human author meant to say. So Colossians We're trying to ask the question when we're exegeting Colossians, what did the author Paul mean to say? Not what did Peter mean to say? They were contemporaries. They both spoke the same language, but they're not the same person, and that matters So that's why you should do your best to keep the boundaries of your context tool to the book itself. Yeah, Willie? You know the interesting thing about that theology is that They've even written in two different languages, the New Testament and the Old Testament for the most part is written in completely different languages and different words are interpreted in different ways. So how can you kind of I well I I get the theory that you know God being you know uh that uh kind of the the author of the book. But but they're two different languages. Yeah. So that they how did you even start with that assumption? Yeah. And I think frankly, yeah, I see your hand, Karen. I think frankly, um And of course a lot of Presbyterians are gonna kick and scream me saying this. But I can't I come from a Presbyterian background by the way, I think I told you guys that already. But honestly, I think they started with the traditions first. They started with the conclusions they wanted to get to. I want Pheta-Baptism. I want amillennialism. You know, I want to believe that the church is, you know, um the new Israel. I want these conclusions So let me work backwards and figure out how what kind of exegetical games can I play to get to that point. Yes, exactly. Exactly. Yep. We all carry them, but we have to be presupposition Yes. Christian ones. Exactly. That the Bible is God's work, that it's It says that is infallible that you know that it you know that is accurate. But but even further, what I did mean to say is like we even all of us even carried the wrong ones, to be honest. We have to be humble enough to recognize all of us have blind spots But um, you know, half the battle is recognizing that you have it and praying to the Lord and doing your best. God help me not to bring false assumptions. Let me just let the text exegete, you know, exit the meaning comes out of the text. You know speak for yourself, don't let me speak for you. Yeah, that's a great comment, yeah. So is dispens dispensational theology sort of the opposite. In other words, we're believing that competing framework Jews are um as I remember says they're gonna be when the full measure of Gentiles come to accept Christ you know they'll be a remnant of Jews that would be grabbed it in. And so that we're just the opposite of dispensational behavior is very different from Covenant. Correct. And the reason why uh so dispensationalism, yes, that that is a competing hermeneutical framework. So I would argue dispensationalism it's not so much defined by these particulars like you believe Israel is Israel and church is church that they're distinct, things like that. Dispensationalism and covenant theology, new covenant theology, these are all just hermeneutics. These are all competing hermeneutics. And that's why you guys probably don't remember, but the first week of class, I said this is probably and I'm not I'm not saying this in flight myself. I say this in my own journey, theological journey. This will be one of the most important classes you take Because all these different theological debates we have, it all starts with how are you interpreting the Bible? What's your system? What's your hermeneutic? If we get the hermeneutics right You're not guaranteed going to come to the right conclusions every time because again we're humans with our biases we're sinners, right? We read what we want to read And I have theological blind spots and by definition I don't know what they are. I think I have perfect theology right now. But I know I'm wrong. I know I'm obviously think I'm not wrong, but I know, I know theoretically, something I believe is wrong And same with all of you guys. But hermeneutics is half the battle, more than half the battle, probably seventy-five percent of it. Yeah. Yeah. Yes. What do you call the hermeneutic lead towards Uh covenant theology. Uh I I think covenantalism, covenant theology itself is the hermeneutic. Yeah. Well actually that's actually a great point. Let me back up a second Covenant theologian, brothers and sisters that believe in covenant theology, they also say they use the historical grammatical terminator. Yeah. They all do. New covenant theologians like John Piper, uh Covenant Theologians like uh R. C. Sprohl, senior, you know, um dispensationalist like John MacArthur, we all claim we use the historical grammatical hermeneutic. And at the principal level, they'll probably all teach the same stuff as us You know, they'll say you gotta make an outline, you gotta know the author, you gotta know context. The difference is one of us or all of us are not applying it consistently. That's the problem. One of us or all of us is not com uh applying consistently. Now the one distinguishing factor is, I would say, at the context level, this is the one place where we kind of distinguish from each other. Dispensationalists like myself We teach, you gotta let each book of the Bible speak for itself first. That's your initial interpretation. And then you jump out of it to check your work, verification. And Covenant theologians, they say the opposite. They say, no, don't for don't don't worry about the circle. You can just immediately start grabbing whatever verse from wherever to help form your 'cause they have to. But that is the assumption, the presupposition, like Willie said, of their theology. They st They grab all over the New Testament before they even start looking at the Old Testament itself. But they also say they use a historical grammatical hermeneutics, but one of us is not using a contest. Can you speak more to the point though of they're they're doing that to to try to put things upside down, if you will, to um come to the conclusions that you've just mentioned before, uh just specifically um uh millennialism and and things like that. It I that's like processing in my head. So how how do you get that? Uh yeah, how do you get that? Like I don't understand how that you know because I wonder, you know of pre-trip, mid-trip, post-trip. We we have these different ideas and they all could be valid, but we were taught obviously, you know, we both Yeah. And because I've been taught this way, and this does seem to be the most logical way Because if you go to the New Testament to kind of figure out the old, like Willie was saying, it it doesn't make a lot of sense. But How do you get on millennial? Like scroll things Right? So how how does that work? Like I'm not sure. So I we can't go too deep into this, but I I will address the Millennium Kingdom first and hopefully that gives you an idea of where they're coming from. And maybe we can talk more after class. I can give you some resources. But again, so we remember we learned in under the genres when we're dealing with prophecies, I actually have a slide here. that you should recognize that it does use figurative language. We all agree about that. And uh but the second one I think is another actually distinction between Yeah be between You know, uh our church's uh convictions versus someone like R. C. Swirl Sr. is you do want to default to the literal as much as possible. And I think that's a pretty solid case to make because again, uh this is the only way to really guard us from going down this subjectivist, you know, multiple truth kind of thing. This is the exact error that Origin and the Alexandrian school made. Hundreds of years ago. Now R. C. Spro Sr. and these covenant theologians, you know, they denounce origin and the Alexandrian school as much as everyone else, uh much as every other Christian. Truth is objective, right? The problem is, I think they failed to recognize that the spirit behind the Alexandrian uh error was they didn't default to the literal and the ordinary first. You know? They they didn't start by saying, can I just take this in an ordinary manner? No, it's impossible or it's absurd or it's actually sinful if I take it in an ordinary way. This must be figurative Yes. And you want to do that as much as possible because truth should be singular and objective. So I think a lot of uh covenant theologians miss that And so when they deal with prophecy, they kind of just arbitrarily jump between the figurative and the ordinary. And that's exactly where people like R. C. Sprose Sr. or William Hendrickson, uh uh commentator, Revelation commentator, theologian you get these really crazy uh interpretations of the book of Revelation where you get to places like Revelation twenty and then this no longer becomes Thousand years is a thousand years, they immediately start to instead of defaulting to the literal, they say, let's just make this symbolic for a very long period of grace, of God's grace. You know, Satan bound in hell, instead of taking that in an ordinary way, which I think it absolutely can be, there's no reason that's absurd, you know. There are genuine demons shackled in hell right now because remember they they went beyond their bounds uh you did during this Genesis episode when they saw these uh daughters of men. So that literally can happen, but they take that to me, no, Satan's power is just diminished in this church age today, you know. You have more Christianized nations uh in the world, we're gonna become more and more Christianized things like that. But it really starts here, number two. They don't default to the literal. I get it. Thank you. That that clarifies. That clarity is so good. That Yeah, I'm glad I'm glad to hear that. Yeah, so those are probably the two distinguishing ways our teaching of the historical, grammatical, hermeneutic to your question is a little different, is we always try to default to the ordinary as much as possible And in when it comes to the context tool, we don't want to immediately jump out of the Bible. And I think we can make a pretty strong case for that. You guys probably you guys heard me over and over explain why I believe that Uh and you have to make up your own mind whether I'm convincing or not. Alright, today let's get into word study And after word study is where I I should probably put that in the chart. This is really at this point, I know it's not really chronological, chronological, I guess it roughly is After this ninth tool, this is where you have to come up with your initial interpretation. Everything after that, I would technically say you're not really doing exegesis anymore. You're just checking your work to make sure something didn't go wrong, and then you're applying it. Of course, prayer and we asking the Lord to help you apply these truths in your life. So it's really after word study that we form our initial interpretation and then after that you're doing something else. You're no longer really doing exegesis and it's uh per se sense. Okay, so what is word study? I forgot to animate that one. Word study starts And centers around identifying and inspecting key words in the passage. So obviously the follow-up question at this point is What is a keyword? I offer this definition. A keyword is any word that you think is important for some reason. Very ambiguous, right? So this is uh again cementing the statement I made last week. Now hermeneutics uh can definitely in many respects be more art than science. I wish I could give you this very neat mathematical equation. Just do just plug away with these steps and then you'll immediately get right theology every time. Obviously it doesn't work that way because Christians wouldn't be disagreeing about things. in otherwise, right? But uh it is more of an art and science. Uh but some passages you'll notice that there are some words that kind of stick out at you, or there's some words that are problematic because It's like if I only understood this word, this entire meaning of the passage would be unlocked. Those are keywords. Okay? So any word that you want to do a study on for some reason, those are your keywords. And if you can't understand it at the sentence or the paragraph level using context, Regrettably, you have to go to tool 9, which is you have to study the word itself. You have to do a word study. Now, before we get into how to do a word study, we have to define a very important term which is known as semantic range. Okay? Now a semantic range is nothing more than all the possible meanings of any given word. So every language has this concept of semantic range. It's a general linguistic term. So our English word, spring, the semantic range are some of these definitions. A spring could be a metal coil, right, that you use in a machine A spring, or spring, could be a season of the year, right, that follows winter. Spring could be a source of water, it can mean to jump. These are all the cement, the range of different interpretations, the range of different meanings that a given word has, that is what semantic range is. Pretty clear, right? I hope, at that point. Well, just like in English, in the Bible, in the biblical languages, Hebrew, Greek, sometimes Aramaic, each word has a semantic range. Okay? So it turns out in the Greek I don't speak Greek, so I'm probably pronouncing it wrong, but pistis in the Greek, it does not always mean the same thing There's a semantic range to this word pistis. So when you see this word as a translator and interpreter, you have to keep in mind it could be a number of things. It could be a mental ascent of facts It could also be wholehearted trust. It could be a body of belief, right? Paul sometimes says, I delivered to you once and for all the faith, right? So it could be an entire collection of doctrine. So it's the same way, but a semantic range is a very important concept that we're going to dive into a little more detail because it means a possible it means a word has a possible range of options that you have to carefully select from. It'd be nice if every single time one word always meant one thing. That would make the work of interpretation a lot easier, but it's not. And we do this intuitively in English all the time. So if you just see the word spring, I'm going to ask yourself, would you know which one of the semantic range to pick? No. You need the full sent you you have to say, can you use it in a in a sentence? Why? Because we use context. That's what you're doing. You do it intuitively, you don't know that you're doing hermeneutics But when someone says spring, you're gonna ask them, can you give it to me in a paragraph? Can you use it? I don't know which word you mean. That's because the word spring has a semantic range Uh now I said uh so how do you define the keyword? It's any word that you think is important for some reason. Theoretically, if you want the absolute safest route when you're doing exegesis You can technically do a word study on literally every single word of a passage that you're struggling with, but that would that's a very inefficient route. It's probably not something that you want to do 99% of your use case. So that's why we tend to just zero in uncertain words that you think are particularly important for some reasons. And also the truth is 90% of your interpretation should have been formed already before you even got to this word study tool. Once you get to context, once you apply all this other stuff, you probably already have a pretty good idea of uh what the passage means However, again, sometimes a particular passage's meaning, unfortunately, is heavily dependent on just like a single or a handful of key terms, and that's especially true the smaller your passages are. So if you're trying to struggle with a verse that's very short, word study becomes proportionally more important. That makes sense, right? Because each word becomes a greater percentage of the passage that you're struggling with. So when you're dealing with a very short passage that you're having trouble with, maybe even just one verse, uh you probably more often than not need to use your word study tool. Okay, so uh I commended a first step. So first you have to identify the semantic range, right? If you don't speak Greek or Hebrew, biblical Greek like I do, then you could have to reach for something like a Bible dictionary. You have to use a Hebrew and Greek lexicon. There's all sorts of online resources for stuff like this, by the way, that I think I list later. But you want to first recognize the fact that each word has a semantic range. You can't just like one-for-one plug in the same definition every single time. And you want to find that semantic range by using one of these resources, Bible dictionary, Hebrew, Greek, Lexica, because semantic ranges are different for different languages You know, that word that might be translated spring into the Bible, it's not gonna have the same semantic range in English. That hopefully makes sense to you, right? Okay, next. Alright, now use the previous tools. So one, two, eight, we were doing what is known as a sentence study. So you should recognize the fact that all of these first eight tools, right, we were dealing the sentence level at least. We weren't dealing with just singular words. We were dealing with entire sentences. Purpose statement is unlocked by looking at sentences. We were looking at those concentric circles of context. Well that was at the sentence level. And you have actually this feedback loop. where your sentence study with the first eight tools informs your word study, tool number nine, and the word study, if done properly, should inform your sentence study. This is known as a hermeneutical circle. Some theologians like to use that technical term. And that is to say that none of these stuff should be used on an island. That's why I've been saying it's not really you shouldn't really think of it chronologically It's kind of a push and pull where it's a very organic thing where you pick up the word study, try that for a while, get stuck, go back to context. Get stuck, look at the purpose, go back to the word study, and they kinda inform each other in this uh looping kind of mechanism, if that makes sense So don't use a word study on I on an island. Don't just look at singular words and think you got it all figured out. And at the same time, don't just look at the sentence level and neglect the fact that sometimes passages are very much dependent, heavily dependent on just a single word, and you got to get that word right. And I think this quote illustrates this very well. This is um I forget who stated this. Ah, I forgot to write the author. But anyway. I have the reference here. And this author states, quote, word studies alone will not suffice Indeed, over occupation with word studies is a sign of laziness and ignorance involved in much of what passes passes for biblical exposition in our times. Oh I do have the author. William Barrett. Yeah, thank you William Barrett said that. I thought that was a pretty startling quote. And um he's he's stating this because uh you may recall a couple weeks ago I stated that one of the hallmarks of Christian cults is they are super, super obsessed with the word studies. They're super obsessed with treating the Bible like one of those connect the dot exercises. They just look for one word Invariably in English, they don't even deal with the original languages, and they say, let's take that word faith and connect it to every other translation of the word faith everywhere and make them all say the exact same thing They just take that one thing in their semantic range. They don't they don't even realize it's a semantic range. They'll always take that same definition, put it everywhere, and you can get some crazy results if you do that. So that's why William Barrack is so strong against saying people that just use word studies alone, that's just laziness. It's actually much harder to need to use context. You need to understand the author's entire thinking when you use context Word study is a fun little connect the dot exercise, but using it by itself is very dangerous and it's lazy because the harder work is I have to read the whole Bible, I have to understand what the author is trying to say, I have to understand how this Paragraph of thought closer to this other paragraph of thought. It's hard work, right? But that is the only way to unlock meaning. Any questions before we continue? I have one, so let's When I do my precept study, so um you know the Hebrew and the Greek so depending through the Old Testament or the New Testament, you take the word and then you use your references to look up the actual verse that that word so it's got a number, right? That's like are yeah, that's like the strong number typically concordance number. So uh that same word could be many different things depending upon again the context and it helps you to identify oh okay here's the passage that was used in so you must understand that word in that particular context. Is that how We would do it in this. Yeah, that's a big part of word study. Yep. Concordances, strong concordances. In fact, I think I have it find and stuff like that. I have it in the next slide here. This is too small for you to see. So go home and take a look uh when you get the slide. Um but these are good. I and full disclosure, I don't own and I haven't used all of these, um, but I use about half of them and um the ones I've used are pretty good. I trust the professor, he was my professor when I learned Herman Newtus Brad Claws and And uh these are just some resources that he gives to uh start doing a word study. Uh per and you need to rely on this heavily once again if you're like me and you don't actually speak or can read and deal with the Greek and Hebrew, you gotta rely on other scholars that we trust that uh d do know Greek and Hebrew and they put together Resources like this, like this, uh lexicons, word books, uh Bible dictionaries, and then of course commentaries at the end Which we will talk about later. Commentaries should not be the first thing you reach for, but commentaries are very helpful word study tools Alright, let's get to verification. So you should have stopped at this point at the word study step and you should have formed your initial Let's call it, uh I can't think of a better word, guess, of what you think the passage means. I think this is what this passage means. I think this is the interpretation, your initial interpretation Now I call it initial interpretation, and there's a theological reason for that, because if you inspect the Word of God, passages like Romans 12, 1 Corinthians 12, no Christian walks alone on an island. We are the body of Christ. Every single one of us needs every single one of us. Right? We need other believers to keep us in check. Not just in terms of our day-to-day practical walk for encouragement, you know, for service, for things like that, but even for informing what we believe, our theology. We need other teachers. We need other preachers. We need other people. Even if you're not like a preacher, teacher, pastor, or deacon, or a or anything. All of you inform one another's theology, unconsciously or consciously. Little things you say to one another when we fellowship later after service, those are actually grounded in what we believe about God. That's you're doing theology So as such, because none of us exist on an island, especially when you're wrestling with the Word of God itself, the source of our theology itself, you need to check what you believe, your interpretation With other Christians. Okay? That is what you're doing when you do verification. We should not be so arrogant and to think that we all have perfect theology, that we're all perfectly applying the historical grammatical hermeneutic, which I stated earlier, all Christians claim they believe. We should not be so arrogant to think that we don't oftentimes inconsistently apply this hermeneutic. So we should always double check our work. That's the act of humility to say, hey, look over what I did. It's an act of arrogance to think To think I'm gonna stop after step nine, I've got it all figured out, I don't need anybody else. We all need help. We all need other people to keep us accountable Now, the verification process I would commend as follows, and I I think this is sequential, so I would give the the first and priority attention to just check for common exegetical fallacies people make So just just check to make sure you're not doing the obvious mistakes that a lot of people accidentally, myself, fall into. We'll go into what some of these common exegetical fallacies are in a second, but I would just This is a low-hanging fruit. Just make sure you're not doing the the really obvious mistakes first. And then now check your interpretation against the whole, what you understand about the rest of the Bible. And theologians like to call this the analogy of faith. I'm not sure where that term came from, but you'll see that a lot if you read commentaries or things like that. But you want to check your interpretation of Colossians, some passage in Colossians chapter 2, against the rest of the Bible. They should all be saying the same thing because the same Holy Spirit It's not just the human authors, divine concursus, the same Holy Spirit also wrote the other 65 books of the Bible. They should all be teaching the same theology. God does not contradict himself. That is an aspect of demonic theology, not Christian theology. The cults are always inconsistent. The cults always contradict themselves. There's always some contradiction. Not in the Bible. Now you want to check with your local church. You have this great resource called Hope Bible Church. You have these great resources named Pastor Gay, Pastor Allen. You have your small group, Sunday school teachers, right? And then you have just ordinary believers. There there's no reason to believe that ordinary believers don't do theology. We do. Every Christian, if you're a believer in Jesus Christ, you're a theologian, whether you like it or not The only question is are you a good or bad theologian, right? But we all have theology to offer each other to one degree or another. So check with your local church. You know? Maybe you have a friend that loves studying the end times. Maybe you have a friend that knows uh you know doctrine of baptism very well because that's something they struggled with last year Ask them, hey, you know, Jim, what do you think about this passage I'm struggling with regarding baptism? Check with your local church. And I put number three purposely above commentaries, which is the greater church, because again, according to the Bible Whenever the Bible in 1 Corinthians 12, Romans 12, talks about the need for the church, how we are the body of Christ, and we're members of a body, you have to recognize doing good hermeneutics In 1 Corinthians 12, Paul is primarily talking about your local body of believers. They didn't have internet when 1 Corinthians was being written. Okay? There was no such thing as celebrity pastors. Okay? You didn't have sermon audio. You didn't have MP3s. When Paul said, you believers in Corinth, you need other believers to keep you in check and to help you in your faith, he was primarily thinking of fellow Corinthians Right? And in fact if you go even further back, it's probably these house churches. You didn't even have like like a nice central building that we could come to. He probably had a much smaller body of Christians, but a body of Christians nonetheless. And those Christians were not John MacArthur from way across the land of the Roman Empire, MacCarthius or something. John MacCarthius of the Roman Empire, you know It was your local church. I'm very passionate about the local church, and this is something that I've been just growing in my conviction in when it came to the COVID environment. And I I think this is a big blind spot in the greater evangelical church as a whole. We've become so accustomed to thinking that we can just do church on our couch in front of a Zoom meetings conference call. That's not church Church is what we're doing here. Church is a dynamic interaction, a real human interaction with other believers where you share lives together Sitting passively and just getting information from a preacher, by all means, that's a good supplemental thing to do. But that's not church. Don't delude yourselves Sitting in front of a WebEx, a Zoom, a Teams meeting, that's not church. That's just information. You're just getting a theology. You're pulling the lever and getting theology out of a theology machine. Church is the body of Christians that you know and they know you and you're interacting together in this vibrant, rich way, life on life. The local church is so important. And so many Christians in this COVID environment do not understand the first thing about the church. Amen. Yeah, I'm getting fired up here. So anyway. You guys get the point. Don't underprioritize your local church. You we need to be attending church regularly. You guys, I'm obviously preaching to the choir But I'm giving you this information so you guys can go out and give the information to other people. You cannot neglect the local church. Sitting at home and listening to John MacArthur is a good supplemental thing to do, but he is not your pastor You have no clue who John MacArthur is. Think about that. You think you do, you don't. You have no clue. You know who I am. I know who you guys are to one extent or another. John MacArthur is not your pastor He's not going to knock on your door when you're sick or when you're falling into sin and correct you. He's not going to help you along when you need encouragement. He has no clue who you are. And you don't know who he is either. So you gotta stay at the local church and that includes for informing your theology and your handling of the Word of God. Now I'm sorry, what did you say? And he would say the same thing. He would. I'm not knocking John MacArthur. He would say the exact same thing. Yes. Sometimes we say think that. That's my problem. Celebrity pastor culture is a It's just a stain on the church and John MacArthur and John Calvin would be rolling in his grave how we have this thing called Calvinism, you know, he he would hate that. Anyway, now after you check with the local church, which is your first and foremost resource of other believers that God has by His sovereignty given to you to keep you in check. That's when you should also, I'm not saying do one and don't do the other. That's when you should also lean on the fact that we have this resource called the Greater Church You know, the Capital C Church, the Church Universal. And these include books, by the way. Okay? And then here's another mini rant I'll get on. A lot of folks And I I think it's well intentioned. I used to think this way as well. A lot of folks have this almost like very wooden Bible only kind of mentality Now, it's true, the Bible should be our first and primary resource. It's the only rule of faith, right? It's only the Bible that rules how we live our Christian walk But a lot of people, you know, and you should prioritize the Bible and really make it your primary diet, especially if you're a new believer. You know, for the first couple years, just stick primarily to the Bible and stick to the local church But then after you start growing this idea that I'm only going to read the Bible literally, like literally I will only ever read the Bible in no other book. It's you're really just Notice what you're doing. You're just ignoring other Christians. That's all books are. You know, other books outside of the Bible, sometimes people have the superstitious feeling that I'm almost like cheating on the Bible if I read another book that's kind of Christian or theological Um but the truth of the matter is books are nothing more than other believers' thoughts, right? So if you know that you need other believers, sometimes those believers write down books and words and Just because you read a commentary or read a theological book by so-and-so, it's not a worthless exercise. You're just leaning on other Christians beyond your local church community, the greater church. That's all a commentary is So I'm trying to bring both sides of um this the argument here. Some people jump straight to their commentaries and then they just become a sponge that become a reflection of you know, rather than in the image of God, you become an image of a certain commentator, right? And then you have the other side where it's saying I'm only ever going to read the Bible. Commentaries are worthless to me. No, commentaries are actually a very helpful supplemental resource Especially if the verification step. So it's important, not primary importance. Does that make sense? That's the balance I'm trying to strike here When we talk about exegetical fallacies, the common errors that you just want to go through real quick and make sure you're not committing, I'm going to borrow very heavily from chapter 9 of the Sueval and Hayes book, Grasping God's Word. So we're going to uh very heavily lean on the checklist they provide, which I think is really good. So let's go through them one by one. Number one, English only fallacy is what Duvall and Hayes call it. This is the common error of thinking the semantic range of the Hebrew, Greek, and Aramaic is exactly the same as the semantic range of English. And we talked about this in brief earlier, but just think about it. This word paraclesis in the Greek has a very interesting semantic range. It can mean comfort. However, paraclesis sometimes can be used to mean encouragement. Sometimes it can be used to mean an appeal. Very different, right? Comfort and encouragement kind of sound the same But appeal is pretty different. Now think about it. Is there any English word that can have this range of meanings? Answer is obviously no. Can you think of a word that can be both I appeal you to do something but also an encouragement? No And that's just an obvious way of stating that the semantic range of the biblical languages will not be exactly equal to English. Alright? So when you come across this word paraclesis or the English word translated from Paraclesis, again, don't do what the cultists do and just do a connect the dot exercise and look for every other word comfort in the Bible and make them all say the exact same teaching because you c you're thinking in an English only way. Different words in different languages have different semantic ranges. Okay? Would you say that's especially true in Greek? So in other words as I'm studying Hebrew and Greek Whereas in Hebrew I don't think I see that as much as Greek is really unique Unique in that way. Our language is one word with one meaning pretty much. Meanings to one word or is it more unique to the Greek language? No, I th I think it's a it's a product of languages in general. Every language, each word has a range of different meanings. Now if you're asking does Greek have Do the tenth have wider semantic ranges in Hebrew? I don't know. I feel like they do. Yeah, you might be right. I'm not sure. Yeah, you have to ask the linguists. I'm not sure Yeah, but Hebrew as well as Greek, yeah, we'll have a range of words, which is why again you want to use those resources I listed earlier, concordances, lexicons, bible dictionaries Yeah. It's an interesting thought experiment. I don't know. Uh just one quick question about the Greek. Um is that Greek, I mean because you know how languages evolve over time. So when you're studying Greek Greek for the purpose of uh doing this kind of study. Somebody who's a Greek uh speaker now Wouldn't necessarily be in Blue Chalia. Correct. Yeah, that's that's a great point. Yeah. I I've been trying to emphasize biblical Greek, Koine Greek is the type of Greek that a lot of uh biblical authors are using. And it's beautiful. They were using just the Koine Greek was the common low denominator level Greek. That's Christian Christianity in a nutshell. We're just trying to persuade the normal person, it's not the high hoity toity lofty Greek. But yes, uh the modern day Greek is not exactly equivalent to what you're seeing in the Bible. There's a funny anecdote by uh a pastor that I like to supplement his teaching with my local church, Dan Phillips, and he said when he was uh dealing with um I think it was like Romans. He became like a Romans expert in the Greek. And then he like went to the Yo Johannin letters, John like first John. He was like, what language is this? So yeah, very different Yeah. Okay. Good question. Alright, a second common mistake is what's known as the root fallacy of the etymology, getting too hung up in the etymological roots of a word. And that means thinking the meaning can always be unlocked at looking at the linguistic root of a word. Now in English, the word nice A lot of you don't realize, I didn't until I was preparing this slide, that the root comes from the Latin It means ignorance. Very different, right? So that is just a product of the fact that words change. In fact, uh Johann Ernesti says it this way. The fluctuating use of words, which prevails in every language, not good or bad, it's just what languages do, gives rise to frequent changes in their meaning. There are but few words in any language which always retain their radical and primary meaning. Great care therefore is necessary in the interpreter to guard against rash Etymological etymology, the root of a word, etymological exegesis, which is often very fallacious. Etymology often belongs rather to the history of language than to the illustration of its present meaning. In other words, it's it's a fun exercise if you're a linguistic academic and you just want to learn where the history of a word comes from. Pretty worthless to what we're concerned with, which is hermeneutics. It's not for it's not for interpreting. uh by and large. And rarely does it exhibit anything more than a specious illustration. So uh recall the definition of meaning is what the author consciously will to say that is the origin of meaning. It's not what the etymological root of that word is. It doesn't matter. What did the author mean by his use? of that word. That's always what we're trying to understand. They did not care. They probably didn't even know about etymology. How many of you guys know like what the what root you know linguistic origin of all the words we're using in our sentences? We don't know The biblical authors, they didn't know they didn't care either. They don't care about etymology. They care about using words as they are understood by the audience. I had a really great comment before class today. And uh that was uh one of my my big pet peeves with uh the song Reckless Love that became kinda controversial a couple of years ago. And my big problem with that word is we know what that word reckless is. It's never a good thing So it's pretty blasphemous to assign it to God because you want to be edgy and you want it like this clickbait culture wherein everybody wants clicks and eyeballs and It's a great way to get a lot of buzz about your song and shoot it up to the top of the chart. You ever re realize there's always a monetary dynamic behind a lot of these things in the church? Sad to say, right? But uh, you know, we don't call God's love reckless because reckless is not a good thing. Now, in a hundred years, will the word reckless change? Probably Maybe it'll mean a good thing later. But clearly today it's a bad thing. You don't a reckless person is not a good person. It's an irresponsible person. God's love is not irresponsible. It's called grace. It's undeserved That doesn't make it reckless. It's very it's a very conscious decision by the Lord to love unlovable people. That's not a reckless love. It's a gracious love. It's a merciful love, right? It's a good love. It's undeserved but it's good, yeah. What do you think about Francis Chan's book? Because I love it. Crazy love. Same thing. Crazy love and then you have Tim Keller, prodigal God. I hate that stuff. Yeah, I hate it because Look, words have meaning. We all know what these words mean. You can't just just again, I keep going back to the fact that this is our clickbait culture. There's so much noise out there. But think about it. If you're a Christian author and you're motivated by making as much money in as many book sales, as many record sales with an artist as possible, you've got to get the attention buzzing And a great, easy, sinful way to do that is cause controversy. I forget who said it, but some marketing guy said, no news is or how does it go? I'm gonna butcher it like Even bad publicity is publicity or something like that to that effect. Right? And that is often the underlying psychological dynamic behind a lot of stuff like that. Crazy love, reckless love, prodigal God. Oh, what does that mean? I've never heard God used in that way before. Let me buy this book. But uh it's all a bunch of garbage. It blasphemes the Lord and uh you gotta use the words as they meant to be as they're meant to be used What do you think Keller meant by using prodigal God? Yeah, so the central thesis of his book again is this idea that God's love he's redefining grace to mean it's like a crazy ridiculous over the top thing. The word ridiculous is key. So he's a prodigal God. He's he's just uh you know, he uses prodigal to mean like overabundant. But again, it's like that's not what most people know prodigal means Yeah, prodigal obviously for most people uh just think of like a non-Christian on the street, ninety percent of the mainstream culture. We understand prodigal means uh a bad thing. Yeah. Again, that word might change in a hundred years and we gotta change with it. We gotta use the words as they're understood if we wanna communicate well. association with the parable of the product of sun. That's exactly what the book's based on. But it but it was worded maybe in a way to be edgy. And this is what I wanted to say is that a lot of times we um appropriate the world in our religion and that can be dangerous. It's one of the things that I've had dealt with with another with a previous church Is that they're you know, they want to appropriate some of these other uh spiritual practices that that we can't agree with. Yeah. Yeah. And it's dangerous. And I think that's what's going on when you see uh uh reckless love, you know, you want to reach out to those people that are reckless. Yeah. You know, and then you want to do other things for other people and you want to kind of reach that generation. And I don't think that's correct. I think the spirit is the one who does Totally agree. Totally agree. Really valuable comment. Yeah. Underlying is a wrong idea of how to grow your church is a is another way of I think stating what you're trying to say too. Yeah. That's good. Yeah, so uh etymology is pretty worthless. You gotta use words as the author meant to use that word as it was understood by his audience. Okay? We do that in English again. A lot of our words change in their etymological structure, and it's the same thing in the Bible. So this is another very common mistake. is you're struggling with a passage, so you go straight to the the root, the prefix, and you think, ah, what did that word mean and its origin? That's often not actually the uh um uh the meaning that the author meant to say in the Bible Now, here is an asterisk. Etymology actually have a couple limited uses when it comes to interpretation. These are very special cases, so if you kind of forget this in class, don't worry, you're not losing much. But in a very few number of cases in Scripture, you we have to use enamology. One for a pretty legitimate reason And another as a desperate last measure, basically, with very hard, very s very few by remember I said some, the minority of scripture is difficult Well among that minority that's difficult, that can be resolved by careful context and things like that, there's an even smaller minority among the minority that we genuinely don't really know what to do with it. Doesn't change doctrine Doesn't make an impact really, but there are some words. We're gonna explain what they are in a moment. But uh these are for dealing with what are known as Hapex ligaminons I mentioned this term a couple weeks ago, but a happix logomonon is a linguistic term for words that are only used one time ever in a body of literature. And uh the Bible has a number of happix logominants. And most happix algominants uh can be resolved by um usually relying on contemporary literature of the biblical author's time that uses the same word and they can be easily easily resolved that way So we may not know what this particular Greek word means by only looking at the Bible, but we have other Greek literature written in the same time. They use that word, so it's like, oh, clearly it just means that it just happened to only be used one time in scripture. But then there are other happecamanons where it's almost like the Bible author like made it up. They like made up a very specific, unique word and we don't have other contemporary literature, we don't have archaeological information. That's by the way, half exogamans, the number of the tricky ones are shrinking by God's grace year by year as more and more archaeological evidence digs up these contemporary artifacts They never change the doctrine, but we do have a f a small number of them where we just have no clue what to do with them. And an example, a good example is Matthew 6. 11 Uh believe it or not, that word daily bread, you know, you have your children recite it before bed and everything. We actually don't really know what that word daily means. So daily, uh the error's in the wrong place, but the underline. Daily in the Greek means epiusios. And the best we can do, using etymology as a desperate last measure, we're like, well give us the state our something bread Well, epi means on or during. We're using etymology. Usios means substance or being. Bread is something that you have to back then before preservatives make regularly It makes sense that you want to ask for it every single day, so as a latch, last stitch, desperate measure, translators have translated typically into daily. Okay? Now, does that change theology? Does that change what we think about prayer, right? Does that change how we pray? You're asking for bread, clearly even when it comes to physical sustenance, you have to ask God. Does not knowing that Word daily at B UCR says that's change anything about how you live your life. No. Right? By God's grace, God gave gave us everything that we need to know to live our life, to be Christians, to believe in doctrine But there are little little artifacts like that in Scripture that we have to be honest about and say, yeah, these are some of the genuine difficulties of Scripture. And praise God, these difficulties are pretty small, pretty insignificant. But that's an example of a hapexagamina and we have no clue what to do with that PUCS. Until maybe we dig up some kind of papyrus or something. So only few happixagamina in the Bible, four hundred in the Old Testament, twenty-five in the New Testament. The numbers are shrinking with more and more archaeological discoveries. Most meaning is queer with temporary uh contemporary literature and of the remaining genuinely difficult Hapak Sagamana by God's supervising providence doctrine is never affected. Okay, the second reason you would ever use etymology is because actually in scripture, God actually uses etymology to give names to people. So for instance, can anyone think of an example actually in scripture of someone that God named? Your name is now this. Yeah. Father, it was once a great father You know, na and now be Abraham now becomes Abraham, father of many. God was actually using the etymology Sarah, Sarai became Sarah for laughter, Jacob struggling with God. Yeah. So God actually likes to use etymology to change people's meanings, uh change people's names, excuse me. So those are the only two really reasons. One's pretty desperate, one is actually legitimately how God tends to use etymology. Okay, another common exegetical fallacy is what's known as a time frame fallacy. So that is importing different past or future meaning into an author's words. Once again, words change. It's not a good or bad thing. That's just what words do. Linguistics change. Okay? But you can't take a word that has a future meaning, like how it's going to change thousands of years later. and make it mean what Paul meant to say in Romans one about the power of God being the dunama dunamis dynamis of God. You know, you can't say, Oh, he's saying it's the dynamite of God. What what is dynamite in ancient Rome, right? It doesn't exist yet. So di this dynamis means God's power, right? That's clearly what Paul meant to say in Romans one sixteen. like the question barrier but translation. What about like to try and simplify things? Um I'm thinking of for instance like uh the NLT, you know, they would probably use a word like dynamite to try and relate it to our Is that bad? Yeah, so had a good conversation about this with another brother. Really, really good question. But no it's okay. No, never apologize for questions, guys In all likelihood, it'll somebody else have the same question or you're going to trigger a good discussion. So don't don't be apologetic at all, Jose. This is great. So I think when it comes to the work of trans translation, translating You gotta be as faithful as possible to just import over one word into our English word. That's the work of a translator Now, if you're saying maybe you can use this concept of dynamite to show the explosive power of God or whatever, okay, use that as like a sermon illustration You know? Like or use it as an analogy that you're making up to explain the gospel to someone. But in the work of translation, this has no dynamite has no place to play in uh a translation of Romans 1, is is my argument Dynamite is more something you do when you're evangelizing to someone. Like, let me give you an analogy of how powerful the gospel is for salvation. It's like dynamite explodes away. your your sin or whatever, you know, I'm making things up. But does that make sense? I think the work of translating is really just going from one word to the other. And that's how you really honor like the very last chapter of the Bible, Revelation twenty three, I think, is very clear. Don't add to you, don't take away from the Word of God. God's gonna add to you. The curse is found in this book. God's gonna take away your share from the tree of life And I take that very seriously and I think when it comes to the work of translation that that's very much applicable. Does that kinda answer your question? Yeah, if you're trying to make the word of God clear, that's that's a very good um goal to have as a preacher, as an evangelist. As someone trying to reach out to your friend, not in the work of translation. That's how I feel. Yeah. Okay, the overload fallacy is remember Once you recognize a word has a semantic range, you're supposed to pick one of them. Don't put the entire semantic range into the sentence So in English, spring is my favorite season cannot simultaneously mean uh the season of spring is my favorite season. The metal coil is my favorite season, jumping is my favorite. It's not all of these Knowing that a word is a semantic range is supposed to get you to the next step where it's like, okay, now pick one of them. Which one goes fill in the blank? You know, which one goes into the sentence you're trying to interpret But some some people do an overload fallacy where they put the entire semantic range into the word, and it's never that. It's always one of the options Number five, word count fallacy. Thinking a word carries the exact same meaning every instance. And this is really tricky for us as English speakers that don't know the original languages. Because the Bible translators will sometimes use the same English word across different books of the Bible. I gave an example here, Galatians 3 and in First Corinthians first 1 Corinthians 12 in the ESV, they both use the word suffer. As it turns out, it's actually a completely different Greek word. Suffer in Galatians three four is uh epiph epiphetae, don't know how to pronounce it. And then suffer in First Corinthians twelve is uh su Sumpa Sumpae. I don't know. I should have just put it in English. But I was trying to illustrate the fact clearly in the Greek. It's there there are even two different words So don't just count up every word, suffer every time the word suffer comes up and say, okay, I'm going to form my doctrine of suffering based on every single time that word is used. In fact, in in these two contexts, it's clearly very different, right? In Galatians three, four, did you suffer so many things in vain? If indeed it was in vain. It means like enduring. Did you put up with something like putting up with, enduring, uh persevering? And then in First Corinthians twelve, if one man suffers, it kinda speaks to more of the pain aspect, right? All suffer together So uh be be uh again, context, context sustained, context. Don't just get too hung up on the word study part Word concept fallacy is kind of similarly related. Thinking that I've done number nine, word study, I now know everything that concept represents. I've done a word study on the ecclesia, the church, as it's kind of the assembly of God, the the church of God. I've done a word study, I've just I've just used that ninth tool on ecclesia, I know everything about ecclesiology, the doctrine of the church. No. You gotta go to the sentence level as well. It's not word study by itself. Remember that hermeneutical feedback loop? You gotta look at the full sentences and paragraphs and phrases. Selective evidence fallacy, this is a really insidious one. Only choosing passages that define the word according to your bias and ignoring others. So this is where we pick up uh pick on our Catholic friends who often do that with the doctrine of faith, and they love James chapter 214 because it seems to define faith the way they want to see it defined, which is that there's a works aspect cooperating with God's grace. So it's not completely accurate to say Catholics teach salvation by works. It's actually more subtle than that. Still blasphemous and heretical. They teach salvation by grace. plus works. It's both. God's grace meets you halfway. You gotta do your part in uh securing your salvation and getting rid of your sin. So it's not holy works, it's actually both, but that's not what the Bible teaches. But maybe you'll only zero in on James 2. 14 because you think it helps your case. What good is it my brothers if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can that faith save him? Now, you might get hung up on this passage as a Protestant because you think, wait a minute, I thought salvation was by grace alone. Well, what James meant to say here is filled in by looking at other passages that he said concept of faith. Galatians two sixteen says, yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law, but through faith in Jesus Christ. Through other passages like this we come to a genuine biblical, the Protestant understanding of faith, which is Faith is by grace alone, right? But it doesn't stay alone. There's evidence that accompanies genuine saving faith to show you that it's genuine saving faith. And what James is saying, if someone says, Oh, I have faith in Jesus, but then he continues to do evil, unrepentantly, loves his evil, you know, and lives his secret life and doesn't care Then obviously that faith that he claims to have, that's not a saving faith. That's a fake faith. Right? James is saying your faith has to be evidenced by something. I need to see the evidence to know you're real. Not because doing good works contributes to your salvation. But genuine genuine faith it's like that li light that has to shine. You have to see the light emanating to know that it's real, right? So it's evidence. It's the fruit that comes from a good tree and that is a fuller understanding, a biblical understanding of faith, if you look at all the passages that talk about that word. Okay? So you don't want to do a selective evidence fallacy where you think I'm only going to look at the passages that align with my biases and what I want to see in scripture That makes sense? Alright, so this is a good starting list. And then uh next week we'll get into the Other verifications that we can perform, which include the analogy of faith, checking with your local church, checking with the greater church. We're gonna go through applying our the all the great rich theological information you should have gathered through the hermeneutical process And then we're going to start looking at some actual, we're going to actually do it. So that's the fun part. We're going to use these tools on a couple hard uh passages that a lot of people struggle with. You're going to see how I personally would handle it using what we learned over the last several weeks. And hopefully that'll give you an idea of how to do it in your personal life as well. That's the most fun part. Is that next week? I can't wait for that. I think in two weeks unfortunately. We might start next week though if we have time. Yeah. Any questions? Yeah, who's it? Yeah, going back to that fallacy the the uh This one? Oh Happex legomina, yeah. Yeah. Uh what about the word logos? Would that be considered one of those fallacies. Yes. No Lagos was a thankfully really well defined uh not only in scripture but through all of the contemporaries literature. In fact John was very clearly when he said in the beginning was the Lagos, the word He was clearly like pointing to what like the Roman Greek philosophers thought about this concept of the logos, the word. That was like their closest idea to God, like this all being that like is the divine source of information and truth and facts and reality. But um yeah that's not a happixagaman thankfully Lagos is pretty well understood. Yeah. But you would have to go back and study the history of Ye uh to to understand what John meant like in John one where he says in the beginning was a logos. Yeah, because it's not very as far as I recall, it's not very prevalent within the scriptures. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, absolutely. I think understanding like I said that John was referring to his contemporary philosophers would help unlock the meaning, definitely. But I think that Word uh can be understood pretty well just by using like these other tools that context and John's purpose statement Yeah John is a good example of an explicit purpose statement as you guys remember because in like John twenty one or something like that he specifically says I wrote this to show that Jesus is the Son of God and Well it could be perplexing because At one point you could say, okay, a word. Yeah. Like God spoke a word. Right. Or like what they believed it was that all inclusive, you know, um Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, I think studying the history would definitely help with that. I totally agree. Yeah. Yeah, it's it's uh uh the reason why it's technically not a half exagominum though is because it is used multiple times. But but you're right though. The concept itself can be a little confusing. What does he mean by in the beginning with the logos and stuff? Yeah, that's a great point Alright, let me pray for us. And if you have questions you're embarrassed to say out loud, you can come to me after class