Okay, good morning guys. It is 9 30 and I just want to be respectful for those of you who came on time. So we won't set the precedence of starting super late. Um so people can just come in whenever. If you guys are late, don't feel embarrassed in the future. Just come in whenever. I I won't be offended or anything like that. I get it. I got kids as well. But please bow your heads with me. Let's go before the Lord in prayer and ask him for his blessing on today's lesson. Father God, just as I stated, we do ask for your blessing. We do ask for your help. First and foremost to me who's teaching this material And also for all of us here in this room that we would have ears to hear and understand what it means to hear your word rightly. to not try to distort it to fit whatever biases that we all honestly bring to the text. And the reason God we want this The reason why we ask this of you is because we love you. We want to understand what your will is We want to speak of you accurately when we evangelize and seek to make disciples of all nations as we were commanded by the Lord. And God, we want you to be glorified in all things. And we know it starts with what you revealed about yourself Lord, we want to do right exegesis as we learned the word last week. We want to let the meaning of the text come out. We want you to speak for yourself. Uh but Father God, uh once again we do confess that we often want to see in the Bible what we want to see because of some pet sin we want to hold on to or some pet theory or whatever that we came up with as convenient to us, whatever the heart motivation might be, you know, Lord. So Lord help us to understand how to handle the Word of God. Um Lord, it is a a very sobering task to handle the Word of God. It's it's not a light matter at all. And that's why we're in this course. We all want to understand your word uh in a deeper fashion, deeper sense Thank you, Lord, for being a God that watches over us throughout every single moment of our lives. Just being here this morning alive, getting through this week, that's something we can't take for granted, God. We know that your word teaches in Colossians that Jesus holds together the entire universe. All things hold together in him. That includes our lives. The fact that uh we're not uh Dead this morning. We got here safely in our car ride. These are all blessings that come from you. So we take this time to remember all those seemingly small blessings and remember that they're all thanks to your sovereign hand. So once again, Lord, we pray that you be glorified in everything that we talk about in this course. If there's anything that I speak of wrongly, I pray for the blessing of fellowship, the blessing of accountability, my brothers and sisters in this room. Perhaps is there something I'm off and they know the correct truth that you can use them to graciously correct my thinking, that we can all help each other. So thank you God for the fellowship of the saints, and we pray all these things in your Son's name. Amen Oh yes, sorry Josh. And the reason that's important, just reinforcing what Jeff said, is if we don't get you on the attendance sheet, uh you won't be part of the Hope Book group where we post these slides and recordings and stuff. So if you want these resources, you have to make sure you're on the attendance sheet. All right, quick review from last week. We asked the question to start off, is the Bible difficult to understand? And we stated that the answer is yes and no, right? There are parts of the Bible that's difficult. We know this authoritatively because the Bible itself testifies that there are parts Uh Peter specifically talked about his fellow apostle Paul. Paul was something of an intellectual. You know, he studied at the Harvard of his day. He had like the Pharisaical training of Pharisaical trainings. And he was uh he was an intellectual, he was an academic. And uh God used uh Paul's mind to um uh reveal some of the deepest uh most profound truths of Christian theology, and Peter testified that some of you know our brother Paul's teachings are difficult. But then in that exact same text, Peter says it's not an excuse though, because he goes on to say some parts are difficult, but then people twist the little bit of difficulty instead of truly letting scripture scripture speak for itself, they make it convoluted and they come to the wrong conclusion. But the majority is clear. The majority is very easy to understand. So easy that Deuteronomy 6 recall commands that we have to teach scripture as a whole to even our children. So you can't think of anyone more ignorant and more uninformed than little kids, no offense to my son, right? But children are pretty ignorant and if children can understand scripture, right, if they are called to be taught scripture, then anyone in this room that's You know, over the age of five, we can understand the majority of scripture. In 2 Timothy 3 as well, uh Paul talks about how Timothy he was taught by his grandmother Lois when he was a very young age. So kids can understand scripture The Bible says that it makes the simple wise studying the word of the Lord. So if you're simple-minded, you know, if you're a child, you can understand scripture. The majority is clear. And then we also went through some definitions. If you've never encountered that word before, hermeneutic, it's the science of interpreting. It can be applied to any field, right? But uh specifically in our class, our classes context We are interested in doing biblical hermeneutics, right? We want to understand how to interpret scripture. There's a distinction I've seen that hermeneutics, technically, if you use it in the plural It's supposed to be the specific tools of Ahermeneutic. So we saw some of these tools. Here they are. For instance, uh outlining or using context, knowing which genre you're in. So these are the different hermeneutics or the tools of hermeneutics. But that's like a fine distinction. A lot of people conflate them, and I I do too. It's not super important. But just something to keep in mind, technically speaking, a hermeneutic is a philosophy or method of interpretation. that has specific hermeneutics within it. But again, I've seen them usually used synonymously. And we are going to be teaching what is known as the known as the historical grammatical hermeneutic. Next week we're going to be defining This term a little more finely. What does each component of historical grammatical mean? What's a non-historical grammatical hermeneutic Why is the historical grammatical hermeneutic being taught? Did Elias make it up, or is this something that the Bible endorses And then uh we talked about exegesis, which uh as I just prayed in the opening, you see that word ex, that prefix, looks like the word exit. So it means literally you want the meaning to come out of the text, the Bible. Isegesis is what you don't want to do. It's the opposite. Isegesis is putting into the text your meaning, your subjective opinion, right? So if you're using the historical grammatical hermeneutic, you are practicing exegesis, hopefully. But we all do it inconsistently. That's the problem we talked about at length last week. Once again, these are the 11 tools of the historical grammatical hermeneutic in rough chronological order, not really, other than the prayer portions You want to start by asking the Lord for wisdom, as the book of James talks about. It all starts with the Lord. Uh otherwise it just becomes knowledge that puffs you up. Like it says uh in in scripture, right? So you want to ask God to help you understand the word of God rightly and apply it rightly, then I commend the practice of outlining the entire book. that contains the verse that you're having trouble with that you're trying to interpret. So if you're having trouble with something in Revelation chapter 3, outline the entire book of Revelation first and that gives you a map so that helps you Build context, which is super important later in step eight. You want to figure out who the author is, figure out the setting that he's writing in and who he's writing to, figure out why he's writing it the purpose Where in the progressive revealing of the books of the Bible, because the sixty-six books again didn't get revealed all at once. They were revealed in progressive stages. So what in other words, when this author is writing his book, what information did he already have access to that might inform his writing? What detailed information does he not have access to yet? So therefore it cannot be the meaning of what he's writing about right now. genre. The Bible is not just one genre. It has many different genres, just like we have different genres in our, you know, English literature. And each genre has its own set of rules, which we're going to talk about in more detail later weeks. So you've got to keep in mind what rules are you s what rule set are you supposed to be using because of the genre that you're in. Context is king Number eight is the most important. Context is nothing more complicated than just look at the surrounding verses. You know, the verses that are immediately surrounding or the paragraphs immediately surrounding the section. You can look at the entire book. Context. You don't want to jump to another book of the Bible yet, by the way. And I said that last week. You might still be wondering why I say that, because isn't all of the Bible revealed by God? Isn't it all inspired? It is But there's a reason why it's dangerous to do that immediately. We'll talk about that later. We'll save that for several weeks from now. But you want to get to the context of reading the entire book up to that point to try to understand the verse you're having trouble with And then if you're still having trouble, if it's like a very small verse that's really difficult to understand, you might have to do a word study where the meaning of that verse is going to be unlocked by an individual word. And that's always really tricky when you get to that point And it's best if you actually know the biblical Greek and Hebrew, which I do not, not well, at least. So I can't speak to that too authoritatively, but I'll just give you theory when we get to that week And then verification, you want to double check your work. There's many different methods of verification that we're going to teach about, but think commentaries, for instance. But not just commentaries, there's actually more immediate verification tools you should be using. And then you want to make sure that you're prayerfully applying what you just learned and not just letting it sit in your brain as theory that you can just use to impress people at your next, you know, biblical cocktail party or w I don't know, whatever. You know what I mean So it's not just information for information's sake. That's not the Christian life. It's you're supposed to use it. We want to be the wise builder that built his house on rock, and Jesus said about that wise builder he Hears and obeys. So it's not just the information. You've got to put it into practice. How does it impact your life? Okay, I have a question for everybody. Kind of a tricky question. Where does meaning come from when you're reading the Bible? What is the source of meaning? Where do we get it from? Who do we get it from? You can answer that however way you'd like. Where does meaning? That's what we're trying to do, right? This class is called interpreting scripture. So when we're trying to interpret scripture, who gets to control the meaning of the Bible you're reading? Where is the source of that meaning coming from? The Holy Spirit? Holy Spirit. Can you either of you guys elaborate on that a little bit Yeah, that's a great answer. I guess here's a d oh yeah, please. The creator of the thing, the Holy Spirit, the author, right? Here's a dumb question. Are are you the Holy Spirit? No, right? So there's another way to answer this question. Um well actually before I reveal the choices here, have has anyone ever been in like a Bible study or a small group before? Certainly not this church, but where you're going through some passages of scripture. And then the leader's like, so what does this passage mean to you? Oh yeah, yeah. And then Charlie says an answer, Susie says an answer, Tommy says an answer, and the leader says, Ah, all very good points. Okay, let's pray. No conclusion. I'm laughing, obviously. But is that a valid way to do Bible study to interpret and handle scripture? Why not? Yeah. Isn't that narrow minded though? I mean, we're all entitled to our opinions, we're all different. We all bring a different perspective. Why can't we bring different perspectives to the Bible, right? The Bible might speak differently to different people, right? What would you guys say to that? Let me ask another question. Can the Bible speak differently to different people? You you said sure. Do you mind? Oh, sure. Oh, sure didn't shit in, oh okay. Anyone think yes? Any brave soul want a venture yes at yes? Yeah. Caitlin, right? Yeah. What about that answer? That doesn't sound so bad to me. Okay. I think you guys are really hitting all great answers. You guys are hitting the nail right on the mark. I'm mixing up metaphors. You know what I mean. So there are three possible sources of meaning. So again, this it doesn't just apply to like Christianity or biblical exegesis, but in general. If you're reading the U. S. Constitution, your medical textbook, if you're in medical school, you know, a letter from your grandmother, there are three possible sources of meaning. The meaning of that piece of information, let's say writing, can either come from the reader, right If you're reading the letter by your grandma, you either you either get to you get to determine what your grandma is saying, her what her words mean The text itself, this is kind of tricky, and I mean like in a disembodied form, like literally the letter of your grandmother is like carrying its own meaning. Or your grandma, the author. The author of the text is the source of meaning. Now let's go to scripture and find out from God's own word, what he thinks about where meaning originates from. Because again, um I could, you know, teach you whatever I think, but it doesn't really matter. You're not here to get my opinion, right? We want to know what God actually thinks And God actually gives us guidelines for how interpretation of his own word is supposed to be done. Let's go to Acts chapter 8. You can turn there if you prefer your own translation, but I'll be reading from the English Standard Version And it states, starting from verse 26, I'll give you guys a moment for those of you who want to use your own text. Otherwise I'll have it on the screen. Acts chapter 8, verses 26 to 35 gives us a picture perfect illustration of how to answer this question: where does meaning come from? Verse 26 starts as follows. Now an angel of the Lord said to Philip, Rise and go toward the south to the road that goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza. This is a desert place. And Philip, he rose and went. And there was an Ethiopian, a eunuch, a court official of Candace, queen of the Ethiopians, who was in charge of all her treasure. He had come to Jerusalem to worship and was returning, seated in his chariot, and he was reading the prophet Isaiah, so this Ethiopian eunuch, he was something of a believer, he was something of a devout God-fearer, right? And uh that's why he'd come to Jerusalem to worship the one true God, and he was reading the prophet Isaiah. Verse 29. And the Spirit said to Philip, Go over and join this chariot So Philip ran to him and heard him reading Isaiah the prophet and asked, Do you understand what you're reading? So that is the crux of the issue, right? That's why we're in this course. Do we understand what we're reading? And there's a very illuminating response that uh the eunuch gives in this exchange with Philip. Let's continue to find out what that is. And the eunuch said, How can I unless someone guides me? And he invited Philip to come up and sit with him. Now the passage of the scripture that he was reading was this. Like a sheep, he, that's the Messiah, this is Isaiah 53, very fitting by the way, for the Christmas season, right? It's a it's a messianic passage about Jesus and what he did Like a sheep, he, the Messiah, was led to the slaughter, and like a lamb before its shearer is silent, so he opens not his mouth. In his humiliation, justice was denied him. Who can describe his generation? For his life is taken away from the earth. And the eunuch said to Philip, this is the important bit, about whom I ask you, does the prophet say this? About himself or someone else? Then Philip opened his mouth and beginning with this scripture, he told him the good news about Jesus. Now, why is this question so important? Who does the Ethiopian assume the meaning of Isaiah They didn't have chapters back then. But chapter fifty-three in our Bible, Isaiah fifty-three comes from. Where did he look to for the source of meaning? Was it the reader, the author, or the text itself? The author. Look at the underline portion. Who does the unit look to? He says, I'm having trouble reading Isaiah 53. I don't understand this prophetic passage. Sheep led to the slaughter, land before humili. Who is this person? Who's this lamb, right? And the eunuch believes by his question, if I am to understand the identification of this lamb that's led to the slaughter in Isaiah 53, I need to understand what the prophet Isaiah meant. who the prophet is talking about, the author. You guys see that? And Philip, led by the Holy Spirit, he didn't deny the assumption in the question, right? Notice verse 35 did not does not say then Philip opened his mouth and said, Ah, you silly person, don't you know that uh you are supposed to just look into your own life and What is this what is Isaiah 53 speaking to you? What do you think? Who do you think the Lamb is? It's all about your feelings or it's all about, you know, whatever you f you think the author means. Or he didn't say, Oh, you silly eunuch. You know, Isaiah fifty three, the text itself takes on a disembodied life of its own. It becomes whatever it wants to mean in the hands of, you know, whatever circumstance it's in. You know, nothing like that. The eunuch wants to know the meaning of this text, and he knows the answer is going to what the author meant to say. You see that And Philip implicitly says that is the correct question. And Philip says, Let me explain to you who Isaiah meant. And it apparently means Jesus. Jesus is the identity of this land that is silent even though it's going to a slaughter. Do you guys see that? Now this is just one text I pulled out of scripture, but Acts chapter 8 is a great um text that proves to us that the meaning of the Bible, really the meaning of anything, has to come from the author. And this is the way we're going to work with the definition of meaning in the Bible. This is an important phrase that you want to make sure is drilled into your mind because this is gonna everything's gonna build off of this. When you're trying to interpret scripture, when you're trying to do exegesis When you're trying to use the historical grammatical hermeneutic, when you're trying to get meaning, these are all synonyms, by the way. Don't get messed up if I switch between all these different phrases and words. Meaning is always found in what the author consciously willed, what he meant consciously, consciously willed to say. And I'd go further and say, again, hermeneutics is a general science. We apply it to scripture, but anything in life, think about it. This is, it sounds technical, but this should be pretty much intuitive with how you live your life. When you're interacting with your coworker, just having a casual conversation at the water cooler, if you want that conversation to be productive and not just devolve into nonsense. You are actively working with what what you believe your co-worker is meaning to say, right? Right now, when you're listening to my words You're understanding what I'm saying, but you're working with what I mean to say. You're not making up your own meaning as I'm saying sentences. See, anything we do in life, we just intuitively know when we talk to our spouse or girlfriend, boyfriend, friend, best friend, whatever, children. that meaning has to be controlled by the person speaking, right? And then you get angry if someone is misinterpreting what you're saying. He said, you said this. How could you say you said that's not what I meant to say? You're totally misunderstanding. We had a miscommunication. People get upset. Because we all intuitively know meaning is controlled by the author We don't get to put words into someone's mouth. That becomes libel, slander, right? You get uh you know punished in our legal society for doing things like that Because we just know that meaning is always controlled by the person giving the words. And yet, when it comes to one very specific book, You know, sinners have no problem with this definition in their day-to-day life. But when it comes to one specific document, the Bible People love to just put whatever meaning they want into it. We don't do that anywhere else. No, you take an engineering manual like how to build a bridge. You try putting your own meaning into like how much force, you know, this Ibean can hold or whatever. You find out the consequences of doing egesis when it comes to an engineering textbook or your medical textbook. Cut off the left leg. I'm gonna cut off the right, you know? You find out, you know, do Icistus with your spouse later today and find out what happens, right? We don't do that in any other arena of our life. And yet, sinful people And even us as Christians, we still struggle with the flesh. Sinners like us. I'm gonna include us in this mix. When it comes to one very specific document We violate this principle. So this isn't a technical term. This is how you live your life day to day. I'm just saying be consistent The same way you let everybody else's, every other author, every other speaker, they control the meaning. We do the same thing in the Bible. What did the author mean to say, just like the eunuch asks? Now the author is simultaneously, you guys said the Holy Spirit, right? But there's also a human writer that is 100% writing every book of the Bible. Now that is a mystery known as divine concursives. Okay? So it's not like automatic writing, you know, Isaiah didn't just be like, you know like went into a mystical state and just like wrote whatever his hand, you know, the Holy Spirit came down and controlled his hand. It's not automatic writing. They didn't you know, John MacArthur uses a joke. They didn't like s tact him and switch off verses. Holy Spirit gets one, Isaiah gets the other one. It's both. Okay? Isaiah, when you ask the question who wrote the book of Isaiah, you get this mysterious answer that it is both 100% Isaiah and it is 100% God. Now, let's dig deeper. You guys answer for me. Why is it important to believe and understand that the Bible had to be 100% written by God? Why did the Holy Spirit have to write all of Scripture? Yeah. Especially prophetic passages, that become problematic if a human's in control of that, right? People get stuff wrong. You can't forecast the future. Exactly. What else? Why is it important for the Holy Spirit to be the rightful 100% author of Scripture? What happens if we're sinful by the way and you try to do something the right way? Do you get it right all the time? You make mistakes. Scripture is inerrant, right? I think I think it was Willie last week after class that asked a really, really great question, which was should we bring some assumptions or presuppositions or first principles or axioms to to the um the practice of interpreting scripture. I thought that was a really profound question because number one, everybody always brings assumptions in life in general. Nobody has a worldview that's free of presuppositions. We all start somewhere. So a lot of atheists, materialists, you know, they like to consider themselves scientific people that I don't bring any biases, I just let the data lead me wherever the data leads me. That's a nice thought, except the problem is Whenever you have data, you always have to interpret the data. There's no such thing as data in a vacuum that tells you one thing or another You always have to bring some kind of grid that knows how to handle the data and interpret what the data says. If any of you in your career work with data for a living, you know this is true, right? Data itself isn't this thing that just tells you the truth. You have to bring an interpretive grid. You have to bring an assumption. We all have biases. Again, going back to the picking on the atheists, they have a bias that supernatural things cannot happen because they just have this assumption that God doesn't exist, right? So no one can escape our presuppositions, no one can escape our assumptions. I think a fundamental way to describe salvation is God gives us the right presupposition. And this is exactly what scripture means in the Gospels, where Jesus says that the sheep know my voice. The sheep knows his shepherd's voice. You guys probably experienced the same thing, but when I became a believer, I just knew that Scripture was the Word of God. Right? Now, what's helpful is God provides plenty of supplementary evidence that scripture is the word of God. Like I encourage you guys read uh again since it's the Christmas season go check out Daniel 9 to 11. It's incredible. Like the calendar of events That's going to lead up to Jesus' birth, it's exactly on the right date, right? That's amazing. One of my personal favorite uh pieces of evidence I like to cite, um, as an engineer myself, did you know that the dimensions of Noah's Ark? was the perfect dimension to be a seaworthy vessel. And that's one of the reasons we know the flood story was the true flood story versus the other flood mythologies that by the way like almost every culture has, which tells you it was a global flood, like Gilgamesh, the epic of Gilgamesh is the one often cited. The problem is, anyone know what the dimensions of the Gilgamesh Ark was? It was a cube. You know what a cube does in rough waters? It just spins like crazy and all the occupants get bludgeoned to death Somehow, this super old book, you know, hundreds and thousands of years before modern oceanic engineering knew the exact right dimensions for a boat that wouldn't be too fragile, wouldn't be too unstable, just perfect, right? You have all sorts of evidence like that in scripture. But that isn't the reason why we know the Bible is inerrant and perfect in the Word of God. It's because the Holy Spirit came into our heart and changed our dead heart into a new heart. And a new heart brings new assumptions. We know that God is real. We know that He speaks. And we know he speaks perfectly. Okay? So it's important to understand the author has to be 100% God. Isaiah has to be 100% written by the Holy Spirit, because otherwise there would be errors in it. Now Here is a little more difficult question. Why does every book of the Bible also have to be written 100% by the human author? Why is it important to also know According to Divine Concursus, that Isaiah also wrote the book of Isaiah. Why is that important? Why can't we just say it was just the Holy Spirit? Oh, what do you mean by that? Yeah, that's a great that's a great answer. I didn't think of that, but that is a really good answer because humans are bound by time Right? And it's helpful to know that if Isaiah is the one, the human, writing the book of Isaiah, we know what information Isaiah has access to. That's actually a really good point. That goes along with something else I was going to say, which is If we know that each book was also one hundred percent written by the human author, you need to get out of your mind uh, you know, um Common misconception I think a lot of believers carry, I carry this, where a lot of people think, oh, you know, the Book of Colossians, you know, it's an amazing book written by the Holy Spirit, but you know, come on, Paul had the Holy Spirit Like how hard could it have been or whatever? It disappeared, right? That's not true. Colossians was the effort and the work of a man that was a student of Scripture. He was a theologian through and through. He studied hard He studied theology and Colossians was an output of his life of theology. And I think that's a good application for all of us, right? Uh you know, you don't become useful to God just sitting around and waiting for Jesus. just take the wheel or whatever. You gotta put in the effort, right? That's a really good point. Yeah, canonical location is only applicable if you're a human because you have a Limited lifetime. That's good. Any other reason though? Think about God's fundamental character, right? Think about the attributes of God as theologians like to say. God is described as, you know, he calls us his friend. He even calls us family, brothers, sisters. Right? Very intimate. But God is also, is he just imminent? Is he just near us and close to us? It's the opposite of imminent. I probably didn't answer uh ask a good question. I see blank looks on everybody's faces. He's also transcendent, right? God also is fundamentally unknowable. That's not all he is. He's also imminent, as theologians like to say. That's that's the Christmas story. God became man. He became so relatable to it to us. That's what Scripture says. He knows every temptation you're going through because he went through it. He overcame it too. So he shows you how to overcome it. But he knows every single temptation and trial you're going through because he went through it in some categorical form. But God also, he's not just close to us, he's not just near and intimate and and and very familiar God is also fundamentally God. He's transcendent. There's so much about God's mind that we don't understand, right? And uh that can be a little bit intimidating and discouraging because if we consider that scripture was just written by God Himself, there could be an argument made. Some people could get tripped up and say, well, who can really know the mind of God? Maybe some of these words that we're reading in Scripture It's some heavenly mysterious word that I'll never have access to. And what God does in his wisdom is you say, no, it's not just written by me. It's also 100% written by a human just like you And just like we talked about earlier, this book that you're reading right now that you're struggling through, it was written by someone who willfully, consciously decided to write those words because he knew that these would be the words that would be as clearly communicated as possible to fellow human beings. Do you see the encouragement of the fact that we understand divine concursus? There's an encouragement knowing that every verse of scripture you're struggling with was written by a human being. A sinful, saved by grace human being just like you. And that means you guys suddenly share the same linguistic ground. We're not sharing linguistic grounds with God and just God. We're sharing linguistic grounds when we read scripture with a fellow human being that also uses language the normal way we would use language. You guys see what I'm saying There's no trick question or trick verse in the Bible that's like some heavenly angelic mysteries. These are words written by humans For humans to understand. It's not a puzzle. It's meant to be understood, and it's written by people. Does that make sense? So that's why it's important to understand that Isaiah was also written by Isaiah. 100% Isaiah. 100% human uh 100% Holy Spirit, excuse me. Alright, why do I say consciously willed? Well, that's because um there are some theologians out there that Uh basically once again they try to get around this idea that meaning has to be controlled by the author by stating, well, yes Paul is the one that gets to control what he's writing about. But we have to get behind what Paul wrote and see his psychology. If we study Paul's life, you know, Paul says I do not permit a woman to teach in the churches. But we have to understand he he was uh sexually repressed and in his background he had all this psychological baggage. He he kinda didn't like women and I I met a friend, you know, unfortunately that basically said that. So I'm not making this up, sadly. You know, he he had all this psychological baggage and burden. So when he meant to say that, you know, he he was really coming from a place of hurt and trauma. So what he really meant to say was, anyone that's qualified can teach other men in church, right? The problem is it's completely speculation. And that's just a weasel word way to get around the idea that once again I don't want to let the Bible say what it says because this particular doctrine makes me uncomfortable I want to reread it the way I want to read it because I'm embarrassed by it or because it's it's you know, speaks a little bit too you know, uh it hits home a little bit too close. And I want to just let me, the reader, control what the Bible says. You can't get behind an author's words. All you have are the author's words. That's it. Okay? You can't even if Paul were standing here right now, you can't read his mind. Just let his word be what his word meant. Right So that's why all we have is what Paul stated in the text, what he consciously will to say, you can't go into a subconscious and start like plain therapist. Do you guys understand where this is coming from? So that's why I worded it that way. So once again, meaning is found in what the author consciously willed to say. Once again, we do this intuitively every day with every person we talk to, every book you read We just consistently need to bring it to how we handle scripture. Alright? Any questions so far? Or comments? Alright. There are three very important implications that come out of the fact that meaning is controlled by the author. So if we let meaning be controlled by the author, not the reader, or not the text in some mystical, disembodied way, three important conclusions. Number one, meaning becomes objective. Right? Meaning is objective. It's not a matter of opinion then There is something the author meant to say, that's what the author meant to say. It doesn't become a matter of that small group situation I pointed out where everybody gets to go around the room. Charlie gets a go at interpreting scripture, then Tommy, then Susie. I'm sorry if any of you are named that way in the room, but you know, it's not a matter of opinion What you're meant what you're supposed to do in a small group in a Bible study is what does the Bible say? Right? There has to be a conclusion at the end. So meaning is objective, it's a fact. Number two, meaning becomes very similarly singular. There's only one author. in terms of the human sense, but also in the divine sense. One author. Holy Spirit and the the human that God mediated his words through. So that means there's only one meaning. Right? There isn't plurality. It doesn't get to mean several things. When Jesus says I am the way, the truth, and the life, we'll see that example in a second, actually, it doesn't mean several different ways. It's what Jesus meant to say. That's it. Meaning is singular, it is objective. And third, meaning becomes literal Now, when I say literal, let's plant on this word for a second because there's a lot of baggage associated with it. I still use it though because I think it is the best way to describe what I don't mean I don't mean it's allegorical, okay? Now, literal does not mean the Bible doesn't have figures of speech. Like we just stated, the Bible has different genres like poetry, a lot of prophetic texts use figures of speech, right? But the figures of speech themselves, I would argue, is literal in the sense that like the author is literally using poetry or whatever. Okay, allegorical, what I don't mean is an allegorical way to interpret scripture means meaning can be whatever crazy wild-eyed meaning that you want it to mean That's an allegorical way of interpreting even a book of poetry. So when you say like, you know, let's let's take like uh you know roses are uh my Wife is as beautiful as a rose or something, right? The literal truth behind that figure of speech is you're you're trying to say like the prettiness of a rose is like your wife, right? The allegorical way it says my wife is like be as beautiful as a rose, the wife actually refers to his cousin and the rose aspect means my cousin is as tall as, you know the you know, World Trade Center or something like that. You see? I made that off the cuff. I should have had that prepared. But you guys know what I'm trying to say. Allegorical means You don't look inside the poetry for what the poetic images actually literally mean. You're just allegorically making up whatever fits your fancy. Okay? So that's how I'm trying to distinguish. I'm not saying by literalism by literal but like a wooden literalism literalism, some people call it, where you say there's no figures of speech, there's no similes, there's no metaphors. That's not what I'm saying. Okay So, for instance, let's take an example just to hammer the point home. Ephesians chapter 6, verse 2 says the following: Honor your father and mother. This is the first commandment with a promise. Okay, which of the following is the correct interpretation of Ephesians 6. 2? Pop quiz class. Interpretation one. I need to call my parents more. Why are you guys laughing? Could be could be right. Interpretation two. I should help my parents shovel the snow from their driveway. Which is the correct interpretation of Ephesians six two. They're both right? They're both correct? You should do both of those things. Okay Anyone else have any thoughts? They're both the correct interpretation. Okay. We're getting warmer, we're getting warmer. So I No, no, these are the only two choices. So I did a mean thing. It's a trick question. But uh yeah, neither. These are applications, right? Because again, let's go back to the previous slide. Meaning has to be singular, right? If meaning is controlled by the author, what the author meant to say is what he meant to say. It's just one meaning. But it can't be both of these things because that would be plural. So I I know what you I didn't mean to make anyone feel silly or anything And a lot of people mix this up, but I want us to get into the habit of being more precise. That's the reason why we're having this class. A lot of people mix together application and meaning. And look, let's be gracious and understand they're not trying to be a false teacher most of the time. What they're trying to say is The way I want to honor my father and mother, just like you guys stated, is probably stuff like this. I should call them regularly and I should help them shovel the snow from the driveway. Okay, that's what most people mean when they say this is what Ephesians 16 means means to me, right? But the reason why I want us to be more careful, and I think we should really try to change uh the way people handle the word meaning or application or interpretation is because they are different things And this is exactly how legalism creeps into the church. Okay? So anyone have a definition for legalism, the false teaching of legalism they want to share with the class? How would you define that? Yeah, that's that's a great aspect of legalism, yeah. Traditions, yeah Yeah, yeah, specifically traditions that are not biblically stated that have to do more with, you know, rule keeping, man-made rules specifically. So legalism I I would define I think the way most people use it today. I think this is the agreed upon consensus. Yeah. That's right. Or it's not mandated rather. That's another way to think of it, right? It's either unbiblic unbiblical traditions, like you know, praying to Mary, for instance, right? Or it's traditions that, you know, you can do it or you can't do it. But the problem becomes when you start saying, thou, you know, thus said the Lord, you must do So, so and so you you know put whatever thing you want to put into this category. Thou shalt not drink alcohol, for instance. Uh thou shalt not uh Yeah, you should never watch a movie. It dance, no dancing at a wedding, things like that, exactly. You guys know. So legalism is adding to scripture something that scripture does not say you can't do, right? Or uh saying you have to do something that scripture says you shouldn't use. And the way conceptually, mentally, legalism creeps into the church, it typically starts with well-meaning Christians, one generation, well-meaning Christians that Read something like Ephesians 6. 2, and they're moved in their heart by the Holy Spirit to apply that teaching to some specific personal application. So a Christian reading Ephesians 6. 2 that doesn't call his mom nearly enough even after he moved out of the home. He feels very moved reading Honor Your Father and Mother and realizing, ah, I gotta call my mom Like this is how I honor her. She asked me to call her, I haven't been doing it. And they feel so strongly about that because it's so personal and such a precious, intimate application of this text. that they may teach it a little too strongly and then the next generation takes that teacher's perfectly fine application and turns it into a rule. It becomes calcified into a rule. You see that time and time and again in church history. By the way, that's exactly what went wrong with the Pharisees. The first generation of Pharisees in many respects, I think, if we were honest, you know that word Pharisee is such like a it's like the word Nazis. in Christian circle, right? But if you actually go back to the beginning of the Pharisees, I dare say if we were in that time, a lot of us would be sympathetic to what they were trying to do You see, what the Pharisees were doing, they were taking the Torah, the Word of God, the Mosaic Code, and they thought, it is so important for us to obey God's law, because look what happens to us when we keep disobeying. God keeps punishing us, killing us with these foreign nations. Okay. You know what we're gonna do? Just to be safe, let's put a hedge around God's law. God's law says don't do this, but let's broaden the boundaries, just so we don't even get close. Right? So like if again if you're a surgeon, you know technically you gotta wash right here because this is what you're using to do surgery, but let's wash all the way up to the elbows just to be safe. That is what the first generation Pharisees were trying to do. I'm not sure if you guys knew that. They didn't start as evil guys that were trying to like pervert God's word. They were trying to be so careful. to honor God, they said, let's build all these extra rules around the boundaries of the Ten Commandments and the Mosaic Law, just to make sure nobody gets too close. Now the problem with that, we see that problem right at the start in Genesis, Genesis 3. Do you remember what instruction Eve said back to the the serpent. The serpent said, Oh, did the God say you can't even uh touch the trees? He says, No no, he didn't say that. But he said, or did God really say that uh I'm mixing up my story. But Eve's response was, oh I can't eat of the tree but and I can't even touch it. Yeah, that's great. Exactly. But that's not what God said in Genesis two. What did he say? He just said, Don't eat it. Right? So we don't know, maybe Adam added that extra rule or Eve did. Something happened. Something got lost in translation and time and time again. When you try to help out God's word and expand his boundaries, you always get into trouble. And then generations later, in Jesus' time, look what happened to Phariseaism. It became this ugly legalistic system, super burdensome, all the extra rules calcified and became the same level as God's Word. And legalism, once again, it starts with people mixing up application versus interpretation. So let's bring it into today's example. Let's see how Phariseaism can be you know, early origin of Phariseism applies today. I think alcohol is a classic example everyone uses, but think about it. If you had a history of drunkenness, if you're an alcoholic, right? And it tempts you just looking at a beer bottle What's a good application of, you know, do not be drunk with filled with wine, but be filled with the Holy Spirit? It's probably I am never ever going to be put in a situation where I even see alcohol You know, any social gathering that I host, I will never have alcohol at the party. That's probably a good application for you, right? Because you are an alcoholic and that is a good hedge in your life for you to apply The problem becomes when that good principle for that alcoholic, you know, saved former alcoholic Christian becomes calcified into a general rule for all believers because that is not what Scripture states. You see where that uh subtle error creeps in that starts with perhaps a good heart motive? And that's why we have to always be careful to not mix up application and interpretation. So once again, I know 99% of the time when you talk with a believer at church today and they say this scripture spoke to me and said this or whatever, they they're not they're probably not trying to like twist God's word and inter misinterpret it. But if we play too fast and loose with the concept of meaning versus applying it, that is exactly how you get false teaching. That's usually where it creeps in. Is that clear, by the way, where we're coming from? Well I this is an easy one. What where'd you say Tyrant, right? What would you say? Yeah. I think you can though. I I think you're already going to applications. You n you know the word honor, right? Like honoring a pastor, honoring your friend or you know, a a mentor figure in your life. You know what honoring is, right? Like what are some synonyms for honoring? Like what's a close word we could use that's like honoring? Respect, revering, you know, showing deference toward you know? We know what we know what this this is. Y you know, we let's not overcomplicate it. Remember, remember, you already do historical grammatical hermeneutics in your day-to-day life. You already do it. You're doing it right now listening to me. Whether or not you know it. We're not teaching some like mystical science. Once again, we're just trying to get you to consistently apply the historical grammatical hermetic you use talking to your friend, you know, reading your work emails and just applying it to the Bible. So honor your father and mother it means honor your father and mother. I don't know how to disrespect Revere your father and mother. Treat them as important. Show them worthiness. Don't like don't treat them like dirt. And it often looks like obedience. It often looks like obedience. I would also make that fine distinction though. Honoring father and mother does not technically always mean obedience, right? Because especially if you're grown up, you still gotta honor them. If you're out of the house, you still gotta honor them Not necessarily obey him when your mom says, You shouldn't have married that person, you know, whatever. Right? So honor your father and mother means honor your father. That's the meaning It means respect, revere, show deference toward your father and mother, and then you can apply it however personal way you need to apply that in your life You know, you between you and the Holy Spirit, you know what that looks like today. Something you're doing dishonoring them, you know. You're you're an annoying them in some way that you really don't need to be annoying them over or Or even if you disagree with them, there is a way to disagree with them, there's a way to disobey them if you're a grown adult in a way that's still honorable, by the way, right? So and there's a exactly that exactly attitude. Exactly. Attitude. So most of the scriptures like this. Honor your father and mother. What do you think it means? Honor your father and mother. And that's why Jesus, by the way, one of his uh favorite rebuttals Whenever some false teacher would try to trap him in a corner or ask some tricky questions, you know what Jesus would say? He wouldn't say Exactly He says, have you not read? That's what Jesus says. He doesn't say, have you not studied Elias' course, the historical grammatical? You should really take this first hour course and learn the exact mystical arts of No, he says, have you not read It was simple. He says if you just read the text, you should have come away with the right interpretation. Oh, but it just happened to be God's word, so you didn't want to see what it said. You know, the problem isn't with you didn't have the right hermeneutic The problem is you were just willfully choosing not to see it, right? Jesus just said, have you not read? And that's once again our problem is we don't want to read what we want to see Okay. I know we planted on this concept for a while, but it is important. Application is not the same thing as interpretation. When we read a text of scripture, you'll probably immediately see an application you want to hold on to. becomes a very precious application to you. You feel so, you feel like it's such an important way to apply that text. But remember, that's your application. That is not the same thing as meaning. So therefore, Romans 14, don't go around judging other people saying you're not applying that text the same way I'm applying it. Okay? And I speak this from personal experience. Like I said, I was saved from this very It's too bad it's uh the word fundamentalism has become so crazy from what what it used to mean. Fundamentalism was actually just biblical Christianity. point. But we use it today to talk talk about, you know, Fuddy Duddy legalists. Well that that was my background. I was very, you know, grew up in a very conservative household. went around judging other people and I judge people based on what I thought was a good application, but that's not what the Bible actually stated. We have to be careful. That's something I learned from our late pastor Tom Leake. That was how God really mightily used that man in my life I came to church and uh they're not here, so uh it's being recorded, I shouldn't talk. I was gonna talk about their daughter his daughters. I came to church and this great man of God teaching the word of God so faithfully my wife is cringing and then, you know I probably should edit this out later. But her daughters had you probably noticed they have like tattoos I was like, What? You can be a Christian and have a tattoo So anyway, that's what I Because there are real hills we need to die on as believers. There's real boundaries we need to enforce. Yeah. And uh you lose a lot of that force if you Yeah, anyway. You guys know what I'm saying? Okay. Can a non-Christian understand the Bible? How would you answer that question? Oh, okay. Why why do you say yes, really? I respect your courage, brother. It takes it takes a lot of courage to answer. Yeah. Any other thoughts? Can you can you elaborate on that a little bit? I like that answer. So you're distinguishing between what you call a literal understanding versus a The spiritual understanding. What does that look like? What's the difference? So it's like almost a couple different understandings that I think you're hitting on. Yeah, super important point. Yeah, any other thoughts? How would you answer this question? Can a Christian non-Christian understand the Bible? So again, there's an understanding that comes from God, a wisdom that comes from God. Yeah, yeah, that's good. Here's a response. Yeah. Good answers, good answers. Okay, I think we're yeah, please. Yeah, yeah. So a personal testimony of mine, uh I ran into this problem when thinking about this question because I was trying to evangelize to a friend of mine who grew up in church. So he actually knew a lot of Christianity, what the Bible teaches. And then we got to a point where he was like, Well, you know, predestination, I don't accept God and the Bible because God didn't help me understand it. I can't understand it. It's not my fault. I got very stuck there. I didn't know how to I didn't know how to proceed, right? He's obviously ex making excuses. What did I say? Oh I I didn't I probably slubbed it at that point. Gave the gospel though, so that's the important bit But you know, he was being a smart alec, you know, he was just weasel wording his way out of the conversation 'cause he probably heard enough. But it was kinda tricky, right? And I think there's help when again let's go to scripture Let's look at 1 Corinthians chapter 2. And I don't think my friend was thinking of this specific passage. He didn't really know a lot of the Bible, even though he grew up in church. But this might be a passage that at first blush we might think, oh Christian, you know, non-Christians can't understand Scripture. So let's read it together. Verse 12 states Now we have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God that we might understand the things freely given us by God. So stop there a second. If you just read verse twelve I don't know about you, but I would be tempted to interpret that as saying, ah, that means if you don't have the Holy Spirit who's from God You can't understand the things given by God, the Word of God, right? If you just have the Spirit of the world, right, you're not going to be able to understand because God gives the Holy Spirit in order that you might understand the things freely given by God. You see So you might be tempted at verse twelve to be like, okay, non-Christians can understand the Bible. But is that what Paul meant by the word understand? We have to continue. By the way. We're signing we're doing a very meta thing here. We're using hermeneutics, we're using context to understand what this passage says about understanding. Verse 13. And we impart this in words not taught by human wisdom, but taught by the Holy Spirit, once again talking about the distinguishing between there's a wisdom from God and a wisdom from man interpreting spiritual truths to those who are spiritual. Once again, that makes me think, okay, you can't interpret the spiritual truths of Scripture unless you yourself are spiritual. You have the Holy Spirit living in your heart. But verse 14 dispels a lot of this misconception, this wrong notion about understanding Paul is using using that word where it states, the natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are Folly, they are foolishness to him, and he is not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned. How does Paul define for himself what is the author Paul consciously meaning to say when he uses the word understanding? What is he equating that concept of understanding to? Accepting. Accepting. So the way to answer this question, a non-believer is able to linguistically, mentally, theoretically understand the words on this page just fine. And by the way, another proof that Paul uses in Romans, he says, if non-believers basically can't understand Scripture, then how is Jesus going to judge them? Right? Paul makes the argument God is going to judge non-believers, that must mean they were able to understand what they were being told to do. You see that logic that Paul uses in Romans And Paul himself says that a non-believer is able to literally, mentally comprehend what God is telling us to do. But the deeper understanding that comes from the Spirit that they are not able to do is to accept it. Consider these words true and beautiful, trustworthy, worthy of being followed. A non-believer does not understand why the Word of God is fruitful and beneficial for their life, and why they must follow the Word of God in order to give God glory. Does that make sense? That's the distinction that Paul makes between conceptual understanding and a spiritual understanding. But a non-Christian can understand the Bible in the normal sense of the term. Is that clear? I'll give the best answer I heard to that question. How can God judge when you have to have God reveal truth to be safe? Bruce Ware, Dr. Bruce Ware, who teaches at Southern Baptist Theological Seminary, I thought gave the clearest and best answer. to that question. And he it's basically just a summation of Romans one, verses eighteen to twenty three, where it says the unbeliever suppresses the Word of God. And that is to say, God gives enough understanding to every human being sufficient for their judgment. He reveals enough to people that they are the ones responsible for obeying or disobeying. So whatever that level is, where is it? Like this is salv salvation level understanding. This is like you're like a rock. He gives this much understanding where it's enough to be judged. Like he will be able to legitimately look in his book of life and you know book a deeds and say, You did not do this, you didn't do this and scripture says every mouth will be stopped on judgment day. No one will have an excuse. Everyone will agree, like, yep, I messed up. Yeah, exactly. So that's the second half of Bruce Worth's point. God gives enough understanding naturally in our natural state, natural revelation for everyone to be judged. But you need the Holy Spirit to give more in order to be saved, not enough just from natural revelation to be saved. That's why just like you said in Romans Paul says you you know faith comes through hearing first. You actually need to hear the gospel Yeah, that's that's a great question. Hopefully that makes it clear. Yeah, so non-Christian has that understanding. They they're living, breathing, they're talking, you know, if they're not mentally, you know, they're brain dead, then they can understand scripture. Okay? Four implications come out of this, and we're going to end with this. Number one, if even a non-believer can understand Scripture, you know, even more so, us believers We need to rely on the ordinary means. God uses the ordinary means for us to understand his word. That means pastors, the sermon you're going to listen to, class like this, Bible teachers, commentaries, books God uses ordinary means for us to understand Scripture. Don't just wait for God to zap you with sudden insight, in other words. Now God could do that. He could have done it that way. He could have just made us supermature Christians by just zapping us and making us like apostle level theologians. But he chose not to. He wanted us to work And I think this in large part in fulfillment of the parable of that great treasure that's buried. He wants he he desires, he's glorified by Christians showing the word, the truth of Scripture is so precious, I'm going to dedicate One entire day of my weekend. You get two weekends. I'm gonna dedicate a portion of my time just to come to church and understand them better. That's how precious I think the Lord is. I'm gonna dedicate my morning to do my quiet times or evening or whenever you do it. See? Number two, going along with that statement scripture requires hard work. There's no other way to put it. We don't do hard work in order to be saved, to win God's merit, so He loves us more, right? This is in a works-based faith. We do it because we love them and a genuinely safe people will want to do things to love God. So understanding the scripture, it requires hard work. In one sense I say it's hermeneutics is as simple as just what you do on your day-to-day, right? But in another sense, remember those gaps we talked about last week? There's like a time gap, the book The Bible's an old book. There's all these geographical locations we're not familiar with. These are important to know, and that does take some work. You've got to pick up a Bible atlas or whatever, a dictionary. Again, don't pray for God to zap you with sudden insight. Rather, I would commend we pray, ask God to help give me the right ordinary resources. If you guys have to move away and find a new church, ask God. Lord, help me find a good church. Give me wisdom to find another God-fearing church. Help me to understand those resources rightly. You know, help me to not read into them my own biases Let my understanding of scripture shape my life. You know, these are the kind of this isn't an exhaustive list. Again, apply the commandment to pray to God in your own life. But these are some sort of ways we should pray to God to increase our theological understanding. Rather than, you know, just doing one of these and be like, God, let it just There has to be some work. There has to be some literal reading and comprehending and meditating, which is another word for study. And uh next week uh we're going to talk about the history of the different schools of hermeneutics, how different schools of believers and so-called believers interpreted the Bible, and uh starting with the apostles. And then we're going to define the historical grammatical hermeneutic. Any questions or comments with our remaining time? That's all I have for this week. Okay, let's pray together in closing.