That you have all these disparate authors from different cultures, backgrounds stretched across hundreds of years and they came to the exact same conclusion. The church age hasn't been revealed yet. So maybe if some of you are the more analytical type, you're like a doctor or something, maybe you prefer everything to just be spoken in a very robotic, ordinary way, but God apparently um had reasons for why he liked to use figurative language. Then the Lord said to Moses, Tell the people of Israel to turn back and encamp in front of Piahiroth between Migdal and the sea in front of Baelzefan. Verse 16, the Lord said to Moses, Lift up your staff and stretch out your hand over the sea and divide it, that the people of Israel may go through the sea on dry ground. So the sea starts to part, is your life start walking through it on dry ground? we're gonna be on a sitting on a cloud with golden harps or whatever. For those of you who don't imbibe alcohol, you will be drinking wine with the lamb. That's not the point of the song, okay? Or gives me clues that this is non-literal. Let's start with lamb, right? then whoever is reading the Bible can read it however they want. And Satan, again, it's absurd. I mean Virgin must be Israel or it it must be uh symbolic for a very spotless nation or something like that. If Jesus' feet are literally gonna touch the Mount of Olives and it's gonna split the earth open and he's gonna reign for a thousand years, he's gonna reign for a thousand years. And then the angel, he told me and made known to me the interpretation, and he told him, Oh yeah, these aren't like literal animals that you're seeing. Um it's this idea that uh the two thousand year reign of Jesus um or a thousand year reign excuse me of Jesus in Revelation twenty is But they say that oh uh premillennialism didn't come until the eighteen, whatever and it was first made popular with the school I should say culture. Then go to the surrounding section, look at Revelation 19, look at Revelation 21. So just use your outline to show you what the immediate section is. And that causes a lot of confusion if you're immediately thinking, jumping outside the context of 1 Samuel, and you're immediately going beyond the canonical location of 1 Samuel. How is that possible? And that's why even King David, who is genuinely saved, do you remember what he prays in Psalm fifty one after he was caught f with adultery with Bathsheba? Welcome to lesson eight. It's the same Holy Spirit that inspired and um you know was supervising the process of what John, Isaiah, Ezekiel, Moses, you know, what all of these Paul Paul, all these authors were teaching. if you want to put a fancy theological label to it. times of Christ and the subsequent glories. uh when you actually see the fulfillment occurring there was actually a long span of time in between them. You just imagine how tempted that generation of believers must have been to not read this figuratively, to basically violate And he gives and he tells it from the perspective of a different human author. Or are you there to influence them and hopefully steer the ship a little, but you have realistic expectations? Because those are future events. which is in the Old Testament, and you immediately think of the New Testament age, right? Who are the authors of the Bible, by the way? The exact same gospel, the exact same doctrine being taught. But they're all helpful in ultimately answering the question we're trying to understand, which is when we go into scripture, what did the author That's a great way to just check yourself and realize that you're not just seeking to puff yourself up with knowledge, right? or class with prayer. And we learned a couple weeks ago that's particularly important if you're dealing with what's known as a narrative genre book, like Genesis or Luke. Once again we'll talk about this, talks about several mysteries. And the Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord, and they did so. Why do you cry to me? It looks like the word exit, and it means you want to get the meaning out of the text. You don't want to do the opposite, eegesis, where you inject your own meaning into the Bible and you put words into God's mouth. It's just that we inconsistently start to say that God can't do the supernatural. Some strong winds blew the water away or whatever. your sinews and ligaments and stuff. into the sea. It's a song of Moses. the disciples will ask Jesus, why are you speaking in parables? something figurative here. I'm sorry, if it's immoral, if it's sinful for the literal to be true. in the Israelites' worship services, right? Or it can be descriptive praise, a psalm that describes some important attribute of God, his character, his works. Oh, it's just gonna be one long Sunday worship service for eternity, right? Especially if you're uh unconsciously biased by uh what's known as uh Neoplatonism basically. There'll be fruits, you know. They often use figurative and not ordinary language. At any point, how all their friends and even their family betrayed them. Which is default to the literal, default to the ordinary, and then look for those clues that you're dealing with figures of speech. of prophecy. From so and so, from so and so, and it's not straight from God. Now how do you interpret prophecy? Uh there are lots of albeit genuine brothers and sisters. you to some resources. What does the angel just implicitly agree with Daniel about these beasts? in the ordinary world. They're symbolic, right? and you know, it was red or the waters turned blood red in Egypt because of some chlorophyll or something like that. Yeah. Keep uh scripture consistent? And you chose, based on you as the reader, I'm gonna read this email 5 p. So what I meant to say is why is it so important for us to default to literal ordinary interpretation when dealing with prophecy? was take a long lunch and leave at two, right? Okay? A virgin's gonna give birth to a baby. Right? And you have to be very careful and recognize that this person, you know, some some people make very compelling interpretations of the book of Revelation, except for the fact that if you dig deeper you realize, wait a minute, this is just your the interpreter's imagination. So Revelation chapter 8. actual lamb. It's impossible. to say that this is anything other than literally thirty minutes. This is regarding the millennial reign of Jesus on earth. Uh I didn't know the Greek calendar was different, but I know the Hebrew calendar was different than uh how we keep it today. what literally those weeks mean. prophetic foreshortening where events may seem like they're happening right after each other. Go to Isaiah chapter 9 and look at verse 6, and this is a perfect example of prophetic foreshortening. Unto us the child is born, and that he Isaiah may be tempted to think immediately, ah, this child will be born, and then he'll go on to sit on the throne of David, and he'll bring in this era of everlasting peace, the end. and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness for this time forth and forevermore. That's a controversial question. So a lot of Christians get tripped up on stuff like this. to Israelite religion and worship Yahweh. There is nothing indicating to you that this prophecy should be taken in any other manner than the ordinary. and just restating it. and get a much fuller picture of what's going on. It becomes so much clearer. is because this is the only type of hermeneutic that causes prophecy to not become just complete chaos and completely subjective. You start to get very clear, orderly, plain, consistent understandings of the prophecies of the Bible. just said, well my pastor did it that way and his pastor's pastor did it that way. by uh people like Origin actually in the School of Alexandria. And we're in this long, slowly Christianizing period where the whole world becomes Christianized. If if you buy into their wrong assumptions, th there's some merit to it, okay? And sliding into sin that happens. That I think we're trending down, we'll go for history. uh inoculate you from injecting these weird interpretations, knowing like is this something that's something like John Calvin just kinda popularized and we just kinda took it and ran with it? You know, Satan tempting uh tempting uh the woman. It's always important for us to pray and ask the Spirit to continuously give us sight and insight and to protect our faith. And we have the have to have the humility on the one hand to recognize I might be wrong on certain things. Getting the millennium right particularly, I think the fruit that comes out of that is how politically involved you are or what your heart motive is for for being involved politically. Well well I was just figuring out what genre you would classify the parapha. If you just pick up context, that'll resolve, I kid you not, probably eighty percent plus of your interpretive difficulties And context is very simple. Context is nothing other than what do the surrounding verses say? And then finally, the last orbit here is look at the whole book. But if you're trying to uh uh interpret Revelation 20 and you immediately jump to Daniel, you're you're violating hermeneutics. And they might not say the same thing, and that is where a lot of these wrong theologies come from in my opinion. uh the Gentile churches, Israel. What we do with other books of the Bible, they are relevant. You do that to verify. That you came up with the right interpretation. the difficult passages or there are some passages of the Bible and the reason that they're so difficult is they do require going beyond the whole book of the Bible to try to understand what that little passage is saying detail level uh discrepancies. And that's when we have to basically kind of re grasp at straws and says, I don't understand what John is saying here. if you're being if you're being naughty, right? Canonical location is often ignored, forcing anachronistic ideas into older texts. Salvation was always by God's grace, and it you can't lose it once it's given to you, because it's not about us, right? Hundred percent both. that ought to really firm up your conviction in the Lord's existence and his sovereignty. consciously intend to say. and writing down, right? the writings of John will read differently, you know, he'll write in a different manner than the writings of Paul, for instance, right? each individual human author's own thinking and mindset and the preferences for what kind of words and phraseology he likes to use embedded within the sixty-six books and at the same time the Holy Spirit and that is known as divine concursus. letter or book, who was he writing to? Uh and that's important for understanding meaning because it unlocks what information the author might be referencing in what he's writing and what information he can't be referencing because it hasn't been written or revealed yet. to refer to some detailed information God did not choose to reveal until a future point in time. We discussed the narrative genre, which reads a lot like a history book, you know, a history textbook, a CNN news report or whatever. is a letter, a letter written from so-and-so to such and such. So these are the Psalms. Luke, John, for instance, that'll probably be what the author is intending to say. The Exodus account, right? you shall encamp facing it by the sea. And uh which of course doesn't account for things like thought or love or friendship. Notice, what genre was Exodus fourteen? And I will harden the hearts of the Egyptians, so that they shall go in after them, and I will get glory over Pharaoh and all his hosts, his chariots, and his horsemen. And this is known as the Song of Moses. Chapter fifteen Then Moses and the people of Israel sang this song to the Lord, saying, I will sing to the Lord, for he has triumphed gloriously, the horse and his rider he has thrown into the sea. So note the Bible uses different genres and you have to know what genre you're dealing with because there are certain rules apply to each genre, different rule sets, and you gotta pick the right one in order to not do that you know that you've gone from ordinary into the figurative. So once again, this is the diagram I use to illustrate where the Psalms live. all the Bible, whatever crazy meaning, you know, that they want it to be. uh is uh and the proverbs of the two prime uh wisdom books and then you have the psalms which is its own standalone type of poetic book It's either a corporate lament, so a psalm uh can either be addressed to um an entire congregation of believers, so the entire group corporate believers, or it can be an individual. perspective of an individual person, it's for an individual, almost like kind of like a diary entry, for instance. Just as we stated, number one, they were often used to facilitate corporate worship. Right? And uh that's where we get a lot of our wrong ideas of heaven. See a lot? You see so much honesty with how a lot of the authors of the Psalms relate to God. is the material existence is not inherently evil. displayed for all to see and all its gory details if you want to call it that way in the Psalms. And probably doesn't need to be said, but whenever you see some kind of historical event that's being poetically espoused in a psalm, don't expect like a chronological record of events, just like we saw in Exodus 14 and 15. Define isegetically, not found in the Bible, it's not a category that's in the Bible, indirect prophecy, which is, you know, I heard this to his people. Some some prophets say, oh, my prophecies are only like 30% true. According to Deuteronomy, right, and the the law of the Lord. Anything other than that is not prophecy. and or symbolic language. And he, the angel, told me and made known to me the interpretation of these of of the things. to the ordinary and then you look for those indicators that tell you, okay, this is a figure of speech because it's immoral to take it literally, it's impossible to take it literally, or the text itself tells me Meaning loses meaning actually. And that's exactly, by the way, how the authors of the Bible handled their Bible. And you explain to me why. and bound him for a thousand years. Okay? you know, revelation or difference about the Bible. So same thing with numbers. searched and inquired carefully, inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicating when he predicted the suffering Now there are many reasons we suspect God did that, one of them being because he wanted to confuse his enemy Satan, right? Isaiah chapter 9, and I'm going to read from verse 6 from the ESV. But Isaiah was not able to see. It turns out, in hindsight now, with the prophecy's fulfillment, there's going to be this long period of this gracious time for people people to repent before Jesus finally comes back, takes the throne of David, and ushers in this everlasting kingdom of peace. So that is something you see all the time when dealing with prophetic sections in Scripture. Start with the ordinary, let the Bible guide you into telling you when you're dealing with the figurative, expect literal fulfillment in the same way sound hermeneutics, break the rules for this one really almost embarrassingly supernatural passage. And we have to have that same kind of consistent, non-apologizing perspective when it comes to prophecies that are yet to be fulfilled. himself, right? Stuff that we're just emotionally attached to, stuff we grew up with, stuff entire denominations basically grew up with. is not a literal a thousand year. I see a lot of premillennials, fellow pre premillennials make the wrong um fallacy the other way. Remember, uh Satan's very first attack was did God say? Some people can even be drawn away in context like you're referring to with the woman as uh legal. And interpretation. theological perspectives. But there are some other things that I'm maybe not as sure about. important, knowing how to interpret Revelation 20. That's a really good balancing comment. That should have the strongest weight to whatever you're trying to interpret. just look at what he just said and what he said after. You see? objective way to do it. So look at what's immediately surrounding first, that's gonna carry the most weight, and then go to the whole book if you have to. And you can get into a lot of trouble. And even the same author might use it differently in the same book. Do I say when it comes to context, this is what's known as your initial interpretation, why do we stop at just the book and we don't go to other books of the Bible? But what the human author intended to say, and if you jump out of that book, in all likelihood you are now dealing with a different human author. A lot of believers, genuine believers granted, they'll look at that word do and they'll just start connecting it to every reference. How many times is the word do used in the Bible? what that particular author meant to say. Wrong thinking, and it goes completely crazy. However, Scripture itself says there are certain minority passages that are difficult. And those are super difficult to interpret because if it's only used one time and you don't see any other usage for it in scripture, you're like I I just kinda have to guess what this means. To the theology of the rest of the Bible it's called employing the analogy of faith, and the analogy of faith is an important verification tool Using the analogy of faith during the interpretive process versus the verification process will very often create unwitting eisegesis because meaning comes from the author, not another author. That is a seal that's a mark that you're genuinely one of God's children. Take not thy Holy Spirit from me. Where it talks about the Holy Spirit rushing into King Saul, who we know was a non-believer, right? In fact, in 1 Samuel's context, in the Old Testament time, the idea of the Holy Spirit coming in and leaving, that was com that was by default something that the Old Testament believers understood. This is the historical grammatical toolkit. Not the reader. who the person is, um, what his background is, what the setting of the book is, where did the author, when did the author write this book Canonical location, what books of the Bible have already been been written during the author's time, what books of the Bible have not yet been written, and we're going to talk about canonical location a little more today include the poetry books, which include in turn uh the wisdom books and the psalms. You're going to expect, based on the rules of that genre, they're going to be using more colorful or looser kind of word usage. of how Exodus 14 sounds very different from Exodus 15 as a great example of the difference between ordinary and figurative language. But they are going to sound very different. event, right, crossing the Red Sea. who want to help out God, right? Dry ground means dry ground, right? So right off the bat, that's figurative language. No, right? God didn't actually come down with his arm and then throw them into the sea, but you have that anthropomorphism there. A B C D E no, right? Simile, right, when you have that like there. sense. So we talked about the wisdom sayings, which are truisms as we called it. comment to make is you want to assume the ordinary until you find those clues that you're going into figurative language. An individual lament, you know, something sad happens, something devastating. And um there's a theologian, uh I forget who, but I think he said it best where he said, you know, to be honest, I think the senses when you go to heaven, this is speculation, of course uh moments in your life. And third, related to that, they teach us how to reflect on God's works. uh definition. Biblical prophecy, never false, always a hundred percent true. Right? The direct speaking forth of God's words often, but not always, heavily features predictions of the future. As for me, Daniel, that's the prophet, my spirit within me was anxious and the visions of my head alarmed me. are four kings who shall rise out of the earth. Clearly not ordinary, which is why Daniel was alarmed and he asked this person next to him, this angel, like what am I looking at here? relieving and so amazing and such a blessing is once again God didn't write the Bible to be a riddle. Now does anyone want to try to explain why I say that? You have the seventh look let's look at Revelation 8 verse 1. Oh that's the next question. The author, and we do this whenever we interpret anything in life, right? And let the Bible tell you, okay, now pick up your figures of speech rule set. You know, the the all the heroes of the Bible, that's exactly how they handle prophecy. You would be very tempted as that first century Christian before Jesus' birth to say, you know, this sounds too extraordinary Uh how those uh seventy weeks were calculated was according to the Hebrew calendar. Uh you you gave literal for thirty minutes, literal for a thousand years is are numbers more literal into But I knew I do know with the Old Testament Hebrew prophecies when they talk about years and weeks and things like that, sevens that's is sometimes a given figure of speech will be used differently per author or even by the same author, like Hosea, we looked at how the word do, that was a figurative word that was used two different ways, the opposite ways in the same book of Hosea. An example of this is in 1 Peter 1, where it states, concerning this salvation, the prophets who prophesied about the grace that was to be yours Okay? if you you know, you you don't realize that if you look at it this way, there's actually like hundreds of years in between those two events, right? Perfect example of it. And the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. According to my conviction at least, look at verse six and verse seven. At the right hand of God the Father, not the throne of David. Going on, you know, 2022 now, 2,000 plus years, there's this huge gap of time between verse 6 and verse 7. So you have to be very careful. Wouldn't you be tempted to think that is a little too extraordinary? You really think a virgin one day is gonna give birth to a boy. Plenty of evidence that when he says something and there's no indicator that it's figurative or symbolic, he's going to do it. Bible more palatable, make his prophecies more believable. And I the reason why I am not embarrassed to call myself a dispensational, a premillennial, uh these are the the labels you use to describe people who read prophecy as literally and plainly as possible And now changing their whole theology based on that? Theology, we should all be seeking perfect theology, but at the same time we should have the humility to recognize none of us do, unfortunately. Uh like for instance uh the parable of the the cities about how the servants um depending in the at the end of the day God judges them for how they lived their life and how faithful they were. I like to think about context as varying degrees, as gradually widening circles of context. immediate authority and impact on what that verse you're dealing with is saying. Go to some of the surrounding sections. of your passage you're trying to interpret. Okay? before the verse that thou art struggling with in order to get the immediate. that particular author meant to say. One of the driving errors that a lot of other believers make is they immediately start playing like connect the dots. Very subtle error because there's a lot of what are known as covenant theologians that I disagree with. But there's an entire system called covenant theology that starts with this one little inception kind of You see? Most of the Bible is perfectly understandable, right? Different authors can use words or ideas differently. But you want to generally stop at the whole book context. Your problem is you're thinking of the church age, which didn't exist yet. up. Right? One of was one of which was it's just aesthetically pleasing. uh poetic section, you might get tripped up. You have two subsets here, two specific types of poetry in the Bible, which are the wisdom books, once again, Ecclesiastes. So Plato uh popularized this kind of idea, this distinction between the material world and the true good spiritual existence. Let's first define what a prophecy is. Excuse me. And you're justifiably so. um things will be explained or I mean you want to keep consistent throughout scripture and every single time that word is used you can't assume that it's something different. I didn't know the Greeks had a different timekeeping method. Yeah. And you don't have depth perception, right? But uh that being said, another reason would be so that we rely upon the Lord, right? I was saying, well back in the day they didn't have heatro, so Same horrible judgment event, this great tribulation as we often like to call it, this judgment of the seals, trumpets, and bowls, that is what is known as Daniel's 70th week. Uh espousing because it was helpful to me from years of you know struggling with scripture, uh this generally works. These are very small passages. But let's uh quickly wrap up um where we came from and where we're gonna go. So if you interpret some Old Testament book as meaning the church, your interpretation went wrong because you should know in the Old Testament, according to the canonical location of the book you're interpreting Okay, so uh another quick recap. So recall how the narrative genre just uses a lot of ordinary language. The psalms can be divided into five separate categories. But I I think it's instructive. No marriage, that's true. not just ordinary language. I approached one of those who stood there, an angel, one of these angels that was in the in in in this vision, this prophetic vision he's received received. You'll get as many interpretations as there are interpreters. That's how long Satan will be bound in hell and Jesus will be reigning on earth until that final rebellion. Yeah. When this passage started getting fulfilled though, what actually happened? And the example I use, Isaiah 7. And uh so you want to make sure they're all harmonizing because again, Divine Concursus says the Bible's written by individual human authors, but also by one singular author, the Holy Spirit, and the Holy Spirit doesn't contradict them. Post-millennial, amillennialism, taking the thousand-year reign of Christ allegorically, that was a new theology that was injected later. is meant to be understood. Right, in like whatever nation that you're part of. Probably looking at the sentence before and after is going to be the strongest way to understand what he's talking about, right? Okay, so you have these things called hapex legominans in linguistics. Okay? And this is a very interesting and illustrative section of scripture because you have actually the exact same historical event being described across these two chapters. Anthropomorphism, the right hand of God, glorious in power, etc. But anyway, that being said, uh what were we talking about? and asked him the truth concerning all this. Okay, number two, however, just like with figurative language where you default A little baby born in Bethlehem, our Lord Jesus Christ. Yeah, that's a really good question. Oftentimes the Bible will tell you itself when you're dealing with the symbolic. And it's worth studying because, excuse me, you realize that a lot of our cherished doctrines comes from just tradition um just recently have been bringing up well especially in in the um idea of uh women preaching like well if you look at the context is a clear evidence of constantly praying and asking the Lord to keep our eyes um keep our faith, keep our eyes focused on the truth because the enemy is so deceptive that he can even Or Moses, same thing. Can you elaborate? If you start with a prophecy and you just go in there making whatever you want figurative, right? Except for the fact that the biblical authors, if they interpret it that way, you would recognize that, wow, God really just meant what he said. Yes sir. This is the first vision he receives. You have to put yourself in the situation of an old testament b old testament believer. If you disobey these rules when you're dealing with prophecy, suddenly prophetic books like Revelation, that's everyone's biggest puzzle, right? Yeah, yeah. Okay? In fact you see in Revelation the saints are lamenting because they're like, How long, O Lord? Um you also present wouldn't have a easy time getting to the conclusion that possibilities. Yeah. So things like the Millennium, for instance. Initial. A lot of the elements that we do, we didn't make it up. They were used to teach how to honestly relate to God. Did that make sense? Hope that makes sense. It doesn't it's absurd. And number six, harmonize all parallel prophecies. And I did I wasn't here for the setting part of it stuff, but is that a new thing? That doctrine is what's known as a mystery that was hidden until the church age. But yes. And we're not going to go over it again, but we discussed several reasons why the Holy Spirit likes to use figurative language instead of writing the Bible completely in an ordinary way. His chosen officers were sunk in the Red Sea. I didn't know whether the creeks had the similar lunar or solar. Such and such, so and so theologian. But yeah, that would be the argument, but I would say that's revisionism, historical revisionism. Hopefully it's becoming clear now why the outline is so important. Okay. They're embarrassed by the fact that God is a miracle working God. You want to look for little grammatical clues exactly. Okay? Contradict what about it. So prophecy, you have to expect figurative language, symbolic language, but do not default to symbolic language. So it's a very subtle error, but context should stop when it comes to your initial interpretation of the whole book of the Bible. And that's when you have to jump even sometimes outside the Bible and you have to go to some other ancient text written by some non-inspired, you know, secular philosopher or something to try to ascertain what they're kind of talking about. Perfect segue. Okay, I I shouldn't get off on a tangent there. So it's just a direct speaking forth of God's word. It would be nice if the prophecies that Isaiah or Jeremiah was showing came true, were fulfilled in just a very neat chronological order of when Jeremiah was received. Okay, and fourth, uh, as we discussed in detail, expect literal fulfillment, similar to rule number two. Why so many people do the exact opposite? That's good. If you think about it, that's not ordinary language. What is it? So hopefully this is just a good very concrete illustration of the fact that the Bible uses poetry a lot of times and you want to make sure you understand when you're they're using figurative language. And I think this is where your outline you made of the whole book in step two becomes really helpful because hopefully you made an outline that very logically maps out how your book breaks down, right? And then you have a lot of um logical impossibilities here as well in Exodus 13. I have a question. And it sounds okay because it's like, hey, it's all the Bible. And we're at time, so we can't talk about some specifics, unfortunately. But uh that being said, we'll just leave it at this definition for now. He's not actually dragon. Okay. That's that's yeah, I I don't have it all in front of me obviously, but yeah, I I would just say that's pretty patently false. Yes, exactly. Again, for the most difficult passages, sometimes the analogy of faith needs to be employed early to even produce an initial interpretation to verify, but very, very uncommon. I thought the Holy Spirit's supposed to stay in you forever. Anyway, so the Israelites walk through the dry ground, the Egyptians pursue after them, and the water comes back over them, and the enemies of Israel perish, right? Um well in this one it's a very clear clue that it you might be going into board uh why you would be supposed to say They look like they're right on top of each other. It's great when this happens. Yeah, well said. But the principle behind it is sound, which is, you know, again, just think about just go outside the Bible. It's it's good to keep in mind it's both. A prophet is a very ordinary thing. Yeah. You do have to do a conversion from what the author meant to say, which is not the calendar we would be using, right? Yes, okay, so go to Isaiah chapter nine, alright? I would say no, he's not. Now they're prophecies in the literal sense, it's a speaking forth of God's word. And some of the tools in our toolkit are listed here. And we are going to also discuss the prophetic genre. Tell the people of Israel to go forward. Prophecy is more than just talking about the future. I'm a little confused, sorry. 1 is an example. Okay? That's a strong word. Okay, let's talk about context. And uh hopefully things will be a little bit easier to follow today just because we have the slides. That's also figurative language, right? Yeah. Assume it's literal. That's what prophecy is. Okay, so recognize that prophecy will often have figurative symbolic language, that's rule number one for interpreting prophecies. It it's just a long period of time. Take the book of Romans. And then you want to outline the entire book that contains the verse you're struggling with. Even non-believers they probably know something about how Israelites, the Red Sea parted, right? So future telling is part of prophecy, but that is not the uh the descriptive mark. Yeah, because what we're gonna do after we come up with our initial interpretation, so some of you know the term analogy of faith. But it is also individual human authors. Yeah, okay, we're going, yeah. And you go wrong on any verse of the Bible, something some bad fruit is going to come out of it. That's a mystery. That's a perfect question. They symbolize four great kings. I what I meant to say is uh sorry I'm I might have not explained. Is this a actual physical lamb? Any figure of speech, a number can be sometimes literal, it can be sometimes uh non-literal, and you gotta let the context control what that number means. What this passage shows us is when it comes to time, the timing of prophecies that were revealed to the prophets throughout the Bible, it was always very tricky. You can't be too dogmatic about the timing of things, especially for particularly for prophecies that haven't occurred yet. That's where a lot of these Roman theologies come from in my opinion, is immediately jumping outside of that particular book. But you should, to the best of your ability, get your initial interpretation from within the book itself. We won't read the entire chapter. That's the Psalms. It would be, right? No court of law will side will side with you saying, well I allegorically what 5 p. Language breaks down. He's not a lamb. That's why 1 Peter says they were inquiring, they were thinking like when is when are all these things going to happen? Okay. So on the one hand, I completely reject this idea that we shouldn't be vigorously debating theological differences because every verse that God gave us You don't do it to come up with your interpretation. That is where meaning comes from, right? Figurative language. And a lot of you guys know this firsthand. An analogy I would have to use is this is the prophet, okay? People get sometimes confused about what people mean when you say what's the context. But that's really important because a lot of people out there, when they handle prophecy in particular, they just jump all over the place Because even David understood Holy Spirit can be inside you and make you wise, make you strong for battle. Heaven may be a lot more similar to what we're doing now than you think. Well, first of all, like poetry, close related to poetry, you have to recognize that prophecy will often include a lot of figurative The virgin must be the city of David or something, or the baby being born must be a great uh revival of the spirit of Israel in repentance. They don't change entire doctrines, entire teachings of Scripture. 100% the human, 100% the Holy Spirit. And the reason we know that, once again, is because Scripture says that, right? Or seven seal, any of these uh words, these nouns, or even verbs, right? 14, therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign, behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son. Just like we kind of do psalms today. So there will be there will be friendship, we'll be recognizing other people, right? In the same sense, do not make an object figurative or symbolic if the literal is possible. That is what I'm calling the immediate context, the immediate sections. But one of the ways to describe a truly difficult passage in scripture is you get to the entire whole book context and you're still confused. Uh and we uh I don't think we talked about the Psalms yet, so we're gonna talk about that um today. For Pharaoh will say of the people of Israel, They are wandering in the land. So um do you don't do you always get that sense or that uh the warning that you want to read So that'll go into a different class where we talk about the gifts of the Spirit, which gifts are still in operation today, that's beyond the scope of this course. That ancient serpent. You know, God talks about there's this principle of the fruits. Now, oh, one little caveat. So we're mixing up context here. I think consistency is a really good key word there. When the Lamb opened the seventh seal, we know from this context, in Revelation 8. But their point is we're slowly gonna trend upwards. Very important. Who wrote Romans? Which the prophets basically don't. Passages like this, right? I don't I completely reject this idea that, oh, we should all just get along. So think like paragraph level. Assume it's just ordinary language. Do you know what the problem is when you're viewing these two events that actually have this long gap in time between them, if you're looking at it head-on like that? So I reject this idea that we shouldn't be debating even secondary doctrinal matters, but yeah, we should be humble and recognize that we've got to be praying that God will help us see things correctly because we all have biases. If you go out of Revelation and you try to get Revelation immediately, help from Daniel or whatever, remember they have to harmonize. God hid it. And this is known not known as we're trying to do exegesis, right? You guys tell me. Prophecy is just a messenger, right? Yeah. He's not an animal. People that want to make the millennial reign of kingdom non-literal. Do you love when God restates some prophetic event, some historical event So as it turns out, Matthew 24, Daniel 9, 27, Revelation 6 to 18, they're all speaking of this Uh any questions before we continue on to the most important tool in our toolkit which is context. No, it's not a new thing. Okay, any other thoughts? And that wrong assumption is the Old Testament needs to be interpreted through the lens of the New Testament So we also ended last week by e explaining that by default when you're reading the Bible, what what's your default hermeneutic? You know, even in the New Testament church, it's it stretches back to the very beginning of time. Uh but um otherwise it uses the exact same rules as figures of speech we discussed last week. The only way we get singular meaning, objective meaning, is you gotta start by reading it as plainly as possible. How you deal with civic society? So Hector, you asked that question of why do a lot of believers differ on certain theological conditions? That's incredible, right? And it actually has uh surprisingly just a very ordinary um Is that an actual thousand years? That's a great question. We do jump out of the other books of the Bible eventually, but you do that as a double check. Okay? And they are going to describe the exact same account, but notice how different it sounds We have we have enough we have enough to go over. Because I guess prophecies sometimes can deal with supernatural things that might not seem like they're possible. Well maybe I misunderstood your question. That's gonna be w uh defining for what that word means. Yeah. And then uh closely related to that, number five, what was the purpose behind the book? Your right hand, once again, which figurative language is that? It's just someone that directly speaks forth God's word. So I think you gotta knowing church history helps a lot to kind of um Yeah. And they make it all say the exact same thing. This is poetic language. Anthropomorphism, very close. He has become my salvation. Or it'll say in the text, the author, one of the gospels, Jesus told them this parable. Yeah. They are poetry. So let me jump off of that, what what these two ladies said. Communication breaks down. He's sitting on a very specific seat. Those are separate things. But I I think it all comes from tradition because the truth of the matter is, especially when it comes to pre-millennial convictions, it traces right back to the apostles and the early church and Jesus. Because remember, Divine Concursus says we're trying to understand not only the Holy Spirit. You can imagine it like a box of tools with a hammer, a wrench, a screwdriver, and they have different purposes and they produce different outcomes. Go forward means go forward. Let me also say this. We learned how figurative language is looser or colorful language as opposed to ordinary language So the Israelites are starting to complain, thinking they were shut in by the Red Sea. That's a metaphor. When the Lamb opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven for about half an hour. No nobody it's an absurd example, but nobody does interpretation that way in anything in life, because meaning because it's anything you want it to be So this is an example where you want to err on the side of caution and say, I gotta take this exactly as it is, ordinarily. So the reason why you don't want to jump out of that book is you are no longer abiding by the principle of we're trying to interpret, we're trying to get meaning from what that author And if you are not cognizant of the fact that you are entering, you are transitioning from an ordinary narrative genre to We think a lot of people they don't get excited about dying and going to heaven because they imagine like It's marred by sin. Any questions before I continue to prophecy? It becomes the allegorical hermeneutic all over again. Books with different genres use different rules of interpretation. Open the seal. Right. I can find it. And we're actually in the millennium right now. Culture. Anyone have a clue? Verification. And a mystery is a is a technical term that the New Testament authors use. He gives a little more detail in one, a little more detail in another aspect in another one, because then you can really start to compare and contrast them And you think, how can Saul, how can the Holy Spirit leave Samuel or leave Saul, right? That's true for 99. If you have like a prepositional phrase that's saying like the tr uh the bread from heaven instead of just bread, or you have like You see that? So if you want grounded, consistent, right, singular, objective interpretation, you have to start with the literal and let the Bible tell you when it becomes a symbol. And then it says right there, there's internal evidence that tells us what the symbol is. Um okay, going back to your question, Hector, that's a really good question. Oh it's gonna be the easy pair. Most of the Bible, it's a complete exaggeration fallacy to say the Bible's so difficult. Right? Because you don't want to start with figurative. Yeah. And that's not what the Bible teaches at all about heaven. You also see the opposite, how much contentment they feel in just knowing the Lord, how blessed they feel that God saved them from their sins or from their enemies. Yeah, that's a great point. And he sees the dragon. Just if he said it, just let it be what it said. Thank you. The most important tool in your toolkit. Paul. Okay, so that's what canonical location matters. It's beautiful, and God is a beautiful God, He makes beautiful things. Right? Okay, uh next, number three, recognize the Bible uses a lot of what is known as prophetic foreshortening Yeah. Yeah. Have the humility, but also have the zeal to defend God's glory, to try to debate it when you think you're right. Yeah, yeah. Or the opposite. That is what interpreting the Bible is. We discussed figures of speech last week, uh figurative language as a whole, and then uh specific genres that use figures of speech. So Exodus fourteen depicts the crossing of the Red Sea. But clearly this was a miraculous account. So you assume ordinary, you assume literal, but what are some of the indicators that you've gone to figurative language? And the psalmists were no different. So this is still a prophecy, but it might be like seventy percent true, it might be wrong sometimes. Um so prophecy is always a direct speaking forth of God's word, so it's always a hundred percent true. And I don't say it's good for people to focus on context. That's all context is in its plainest form. Was anyone literally picked up and thrown into the sea? Um and I think in this case in Exodus fifteen, uh oh also another one that Willie pointed out was sometimes you just have that internal evidence, like in the passage itself. So what does this passage tell us about so this is a vision where he sees these four great beasts, okay? So one of the rules we discussed last week. So again, imagine those are two mountain peaks. Yeah, please. You're struggling with some passage in Revelation. And John 6 says, anyone that the Father gave to me I will never lose. Colossians chapter 1, verse 27 set states the idea of a permanently indwelling Holy Spirit So the Holy Spirit wrote all sixty-six books of the Bible, and that's why we know and we see and this is one of the great evidences That's right. There's also a lot of false teachers out there that believe this. That's a pretty good success rate. You can think of it that way. And I would say things like postmillennialism, so for those of you don't know the term All the future events come true in its exact details, and they try to distinguish that from what they Well lambs can open seals with their mouths, or with their mouth seals? So when you consider a thousand years, would you consider it as how the Greek kept time? This this has gotta be symbolic. Oh parables are definitely in that uh figurative genre as a whole. And then finally, if you still need help, look at the entire book of Revelation. What's the surrounding section? You just go to the text without biases and let the meaning God speak for himself How do I get up? So that's scripture self-testifying that when you're dealing with prophecy, you have to expect that you're often going to be dealing with the figurative. Then he receives another event. They might even be embedded in the exact same verse. We have to be very precise with biblical language. You know, or an aw mil believer, right? What's the paragraph before say? The floods covered them. They're not all just happy go lucky all the time. He's he's seeing these fantastic imagery and he's asking him, what what does this mean? Because in all likelihood, if you're struggling with the meaning of a word There you go. Old Testament, New Testament, they're all written by the Holy Spirit. And that's why even if you're if you're in the same testament, New Testament, the same language, Greek It's direct, by the way, okay? It's uh symbolic a lamb, it's not actually lamb, is that what you're putting? For to us a child is born, to us a son is given. This is just a completely, frankly, arbitrary judgment called the I'm And then does anyone remember what are some of those indicators you look for? Uh same thing. Okay? Why is it so important, just like with figures of speech, we want to default to the ordinary when dealing with prophecy until the figurative becomes impossible. That's what happened to Daniel. Like I I hear all the time, oh I grew up this way Yeah. It's old as time unfortunately, yeah. Okay, uh let's jump down to verse uh fifteen. It's as if God's hand took the horses and the Egyptian riders and threw them. What are these beasts? Open the seventh seal. Yeah. But but I I would say it's not new. That's where things like Pedobaptism comes from. You do that just to make sure that you didn't come up with some heresy accidentally. Paul and the Holy Spirit, right? No human-made piece of literature can ever do that. They probably bring an assumption of something like materialism, that the supernatural can't happen, that the material world is all you see, right? There's all sorts of immaterial things that we just hold for granted. Obviously a miracle. But things like emotions, feelings, all of these things are good things, right? And it's the same with the Bible. Is it symbolic for a very long period of time? Except it turns out if you apply sound, consistent hermeneutics We talked about how you want to start with prayer. If it's impossible, I I think I heard just grammatical clues. And we think that's all we're gonna be doing. And as such, you know, because God knows the future. You're asking us to differentiate when not to take things What is your goal? We're mixing up books. We'll do that next week And my song is God literally a you know, treble clef, bass clef. Kinda like I was talking about my little rant with the Red Sea thing, how they want to make the Exodus account just all this like some scientific explanation, natural explanation m. They don't have depth perception when they were receiving these prophecies. But anyway, you have what this mechanism known as Is Jesus sitting on the throne of David right now? Now, granted, this is something more of an art versus a science because there's nothing in scripture that says thou shalt look at the first two verses How can this bad guy saw who's a non-believer? So whatever at first blush you expect the phrase to mean in a narrative genre, again like Matthew Mark Lu This is my God and I'll praise him. etc. Now let's talk about, let's end our discussion of figurative genre by talking about the Psalms. They're in heaven. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this. John Walver, uh theologian John Walver, he makes an excellent point. I have very strong, unwavering convictions when it comes to the primary things Are parables considered process? So you want to give the highest weight to the immediately surrounding verses. I'll be very impressed if you know why I teach that. Step ten. Okay, so we're trying to understand what the Holy Spirit and what the human author of the Bible meant to say. I don't know. Things like that that come out of knowing how to interpret Revelation twenty. 9% of the time. That's right. It's just anyone that takes what God said, say Isaiah, my servant, uh I say, I say this thing. Yeah. means two p. There is some merit. All of a sudden people are like starting to take scripture and focus more on the context than that literal word. Did God really say? And that's what makes the Psalm so powerful. You're just taking what God said and just explaining it in a plain manner Okay? And what do you think may be the indicator that this can't be Come on. And one of the ways to kind of quantifiably describe Everyone's favorite genre, right? I'll just read a few excerpts, but I'm assuming most of us in here probably are aware of the Red Sea You can read the rest of the chapter. Because that's probably where he's going to be discussing that exact sentence you're struggling with. All that to say, remember at the first lesson in class That means words that are used only one time throughout the entire Bible. Anyway, a lot of people want to help out God and try to say the Red Sea account was, you know, some Migdal means Migdal. It's where you pretend you you pretend like uh figuratively God has like human features. Are they literal? When it said that from a virgin in the Old Testament, you know, a baby will be born Where is Jesus sitting, by the way, according to Scripture? And you were rewarded for thinking that way because 2,000 years later or several hundred years later, that's exactly what happened. You know a bad tree by the f bad fruits it produces, right? They just flatten the meaning of everything. That's the same thing as just a subjective hermeneutic. That's how the Psalms were used. He meant it for it to be understood. If something your boss said, your boss says, stay at work until 5 p. Yeah, and you do have to do a conversion to our calendar today. Have you found just recently I've noticed that with a couple of my friends who are very solid, who wrote very solid questions But I think you're talking about the predictive future sense, right? So it can be a corporate lament And uh another thing to keep in mind, the Psalms, because they are not narratives, Yeah. Once again, we know that dragon is symbolic because if you look at the context of Revelation 20, that's referring to Satan. What are they lamenting about, you think, right? Verse 2, the Lord is my strength. They went down into the depths like a soam. Um You get what's known as prophetic foreshortening. Thank you for saying that, Jose, too, because I don't I don't want to get the impression that I'm like beating up on other Christians that have different differing Again, a lot of them are genuine Christians. All 66 books of the Bible, the exact same theology. But when you get to uh books of the Bible that use a lot of figurative language, so once again, these are the poetic books It was a narrative, right? So a lot like what we do today, there was a time of teaching of the Word of God, a time of prayer, a time of The the the bride of the lamb, right. Yeah, yeah. It's gotta be figurative. And even post millennials, if I'm trying to s strongman their argument, they will admit there are local periods of lack of repentance. Are you expecting to Christianize the world? You're reading that out of context. But the idea of the Holy Spirit being a mark of that salvation, that did not happen until the church age. Not what you want the Bible to say, but what did the author of the Bible, which is That is called false prophecy, by the way. m. I don't know. But he's being given some vision by the Lord about what's going to happen. Those two events, from Isaiah's perspective, those two mountain peaks, overlap right on top of each other. This is why I can't convert to So you have a lot of prophecies in the Bible that if you inspect it a little more closely, you realize it's actually talking about the same historical event. That's when we use the analogy of faith. He was a bad guy. That is what you do that is that is the meaning you have to come up away with if you do consistent So last week we discussed the fact, it might be a shock to you. When they look at past prophecies, There was silence in heaven for about half an hour. Does that make sense guys? After Jesus resurrected from the cross that ushered in the millennium. What does the paragraph after say? It wasn't an operation in 1 Samuel. The wilderness has shut them in. So that's the Psalms. Are they ordinary? Any other thoughts? What verses connect to which verses, and just go up and down in your outline. I'll give an example of this. Do you see them crying out to the Lord from their hearts about how hard they're having it, how they literally think they're about to get murdered m. Daniel was asking these angels as he was receiving these prophecies, like, what am I looking at? It'll be the best wine you ever had for those of you who like wine, right? So the reason why we have to start with the literal is that's the only way to get singular objective meaning. Let me try to see Paul using that phrase and see if we can kind of guess what John meant. And that's why a lot of people get confused about the idea of Saul having the Holy Spirit. Let me let me explain it this way. And I'm just gonna leave early. And then God will put that rebellion down and then we transition into the eternal kingdom. What's the chronological order of events? Okay? Yeah. If you just use one of these tools to interpret scripture You're not you're no longer trying to understand what John meant to say in Revelation 20. That was a term we defined early in this class. So you uh we go into more detail last week, but yes, that that's a that's a great segue. So each psalm kind of fits into one of these categories. Or a psalm can be corporate praise. Christianity's all about joy, joy, happy all the time. meant to me, my truth If we go in assuming you default to figurative and allegorical way of interpreting the Bible And we alluded to this passage in a second. You have to imagine how tempted would you be personally? There's gonna be silence in heaven for half an hour, there's gonna be silence for half an hour I see all of you shaking your head, right? To different degrees, right? You're post-mil, you're pre-mill, you're omil, whatever. So if you think about poetry as a general category Okay? God can do some things that seem supernatural and we want to make it figurative, but it actually happened. Alright, we already talked about this, so let's go real quick. It's amazing. That's what we'll talk about next. Just the two verses before ish, the two verses ish after It comes down to little minor error minor minor little um And right now we are talking about genre Oh, okay. Prophecy has to be directly from God. He didn't want Satan being able to like front run a lot of these things that were gonna happen. That's why I don't believe Jesus is yet sitting on the throne of David. If you're trying to interpret that long, lengthy email from your boss and you're like, I don't know what that third sentence means They were songs. We're just gonna be singing all day or Heaven God made the material world. But there are genuine Christians out there that get confused about prophecy and they tried to finally distinguish between what's known as direct prophecy, which is Yeah, do you know back to the numbers If you are looking at it like this. We don't have to apologize for God. Unfortunately, people have been as long as God's word has as long as Satan's been around, you know, you you start from the garden. Well, let's say Revelation 20. Scripture speaks about the fact that we'll be governing cities, so there'll be work for us to do. Everything good about marriage right now, you have to understand it'll be even better. Um that is a good question. I'll come back to that in a second, Jose. People that want to make so much of revelation symbolic and figurative, more than it should be That's the good fruit that comes out of doing it this way. I think the beginning of your sentence was the key. So this idea of casting doubt on what God's words literally plainly mean, that's been as old as That's where this idea that uh we are the new Israel, the church He he was unrepentant. You want to figure out who the author is This is the same events being described Okay? He wouldn't be familiar with that. Alright. Okay? We think it's just gonna be straight down, but that's not necessarily true. Now if you don't have help there Uh verse four, why don't you jump down there? So marriage. It teaches us how to honestly relate to God. I think what you're mentioning is is We all err somewhere Now anyone notice something weird about this diagram where I stop? It's a city. Yeah. So once again for like the eleventh time What kind of And then that's when you know, okay, I need to bring out a different rule set for interpreting this stuff because we're gonna get some more colorful, looser language. So in Daniel chapter seven, we read starting from verse 15 But then if you actually um If you just read it plainly as possible, let as much of it be as literal as possible And a lot of these mutations just came from just stuff that's cemented over time and they You have to use context. The problem is, if you say the Old Testament is indecipherable until the New Testament comes, that completely destroys the meaning of the Old Testament. How could he have the Holy Spirit living in him? You want to start with asking God for wisdom. You would imagine if you're talking to your non-believing friend and he reads Isaiah 7, he'll be like, come on Parables? And they have no regard for the fact that different human authors will use different symbols and figurative language differently But uh in any case, um you can look at uh the fact Let me just read a little bit, starting from verse one. So notice what prophecy or prophet is not. Virgin shall conceive in s a son But thank you guys for bearing with us with the technical difficulties we had last week Egyptians are gonna get us. We live according to these immaterial assumptions Pretty ordinary. Now how to interpret the Psalms, once again, as you would imagine. You see that? I I I say protect our faith, but that's that's a general meaning for understanding of the Bible There are so many interpreters. And does the angel say, Oh Daniel, you silly. We're dealing with a different genre here, right? Who is the devil in Satan? And I would argue there's nothing in this text that would suggest this is anything other than a literal one thousand calendar years. Of the increase of his government and of peace there will be no end on the throne of David and over his kingdom to establish it. Rule number five, note internal interpretations, just like with figurative language as a whole. And let me say, as a premillennial uh uh premillennial theologian I don't know what's happening, sorry. The Psalms teach how to honestly relate to God. These represent different kingdoms, etc. What does the entire chapter before say? Why Another important reason why you shouldn't jump around. You're seeking to truly understand God's word so that you can glorify him, just like I opened That's poetry. Right? Who gets to say which of these are figurative or literal, right? The sun must be like the blessings that come with repentance. Remember I used that example of that word do, right? I'm not saying these are heretics. That's where we're gonna pick things up It can be a psalm of individual praise. Last week we discussed how one of the fallacies you've got to be very careful about when dealing with figures of speech Again, this gets a little controversial because there are different Christians that disagree on this. It's super, super important. Everyone wants to know the future. So a lot of people like to do eegesis because they're embarrassed by the supernatural sexuality. And here, Moses saying this song, so you have a sense that you're the you're going into song Well it's because they're not completely fulfilled yet. Verse 17, these four great beasts You're gonna get fired And uh I lost the bookmark before I came to class, but let's go to Isaiah and I'll give you an example of But the more I've studied the word and the more I dug in, I realized that now I'm uh And the wider and wider you go, I think it has less and less A lot of Christians get stumbled because they read passages like 1 Samuel chapter 11 And I will harden Pharaoh's heart, and he will pursue them, and I will get glory over Pharaoh and all his hosts. Right? It's the same thing the school of Alexandria and Origin did, right? And the psalms serve three distinct purposes So he received some visions from the Lord, and it was very surprising. You don't know if Oftentimes you have what is known as prophetic foreshortening. Vent two. So once again, think of those mountain peaks. Expect that to happen. They just look up in a concordance on Google So we've talked about this several times, but the church is a mystery. Context is the king. But uh it is a bit of an art versus a science. So you have We talked about the legal genre, so these are the laws and commandments. So let's do that right now actually. Alright, let's go to prophecy Yeah Yeah. And that's because it's not just the human authors I'm sorry? Who gets the control meaning, right? 1, this Lamb is referring to the Lord Jesus Christ. He'd be using his content. Yeah. He says But the half an hour bit, there's nothing I would suggest in this context And I like to think about context in this way. He tells us in the text, like, look, you're gonna deal with symbolic stuff here. All they receive are is event, event, event, event, event. And I just want to hammer home again and again. Israel means Israel. Is the Lord literally your muscles? And uh the Psalms were used often to facilitate corporate praise, corporate worship Exactly. Yes, Jesus was born. So It can also leave you He betrayed the Lord at the end of his life. What kind of figurative language is that And you were stoned for that. Uh actually just summing up what you're asking Jose, I don't know. It can be, I think. Yeah, which prophecies use a lot of. This is all a recap and what we didn't get to last week Well when you're interpreting scripture and you're looking from Genesis all the way through Revelation, there are times where You can think of them as like mountain peaks. The whole world becomes Christianized. So I mean You're trying to interpret millennium. Exegesis, you look at that prefix ex That is uh anyone remember extra credit what kind of figurative language that is We don't have to help out God and make his The Lord said to Moses What are we gonna do? I disagree. I grew up this way. It doesn't matter. And guess what? It's not. That is a pattern you see in all of Scripture. So it it kind of um Like it's very hard to make that argument when you actually look at prime So you get the sense a lot of the psalms were used. I don't know the answer to that. We'll be in another material world. Why wait to use the whole Bible? Let's turn to Exodus chapter 14 Sorry, I think I saw an Okay? I know I would be, if I'm honest with myself. Context is the most important. Right? m. So there's a principle behind that. Like baptizing babies. No, that's not true. The Lord means the Lord. Yeah. Pharaoh's chariots and his hosts, once again he cast into this The physical is not bad in and of itself. Yeah, it's not a fair question because I didn't give you the full context of this chapter. , etc. Like I said before, different human authors are going to use their words and phrases differently. You do it as a verification tool, a validation You have some very difficult This is half an hour. We shouldn't be embarrassed about those things because God gave us They shouldn't say different theology. What is this? It's always straight from God. today You could take the virgin literally, you can take the baby literally, and that's exactly what happened. They're not bad in and of itself. You want to actually default to reading it as plainly and as literally as possible. It turns out Um let me think of one That's your immediate or surrounding or immediate or surrounding context. He made it sound like they're two separate things Does that make sense? I think if uh a lot of believers don't understand the church history. And they look they look monstrous. To us the child is born, us the Son is given These are just four literal beasts. 'Cause I know in Daniel, for instance, that's an old testament book Any other questions about prophecy? Satan right now is bound in hell. Well, start with that exact verses in Revelation 20. Anyone have a question about that? That's where meaning, excuse me, comes from. Then that's fine. Yeah. So that's 14 Glorification means you get a new physical existence, a new a new heaven and a new earth. I I will say though, their arguments That's really, really important. That happens a lot throughout the prophecies of the Bible, including Revelation. Now you're conflating it with what Daniel meant to say You're not gonna get an We talked about this over and over now. Who says God is the person, capital P person. It's not technically someone that op that tells the truth uh tells the future. We could have local periods of revival, you know. It matters And be open to being you know, having your mind changed Yeah. Alright, now let's go to Exodus 15. We know the Lamb, is it ordinary or is it figurative? As opposed to how the Green How or would Now here's the thing. It's because comparing your interpretation of a passage You know something went wrong in your hermeneutic if you get all sorts of chaos. Yep. That's I'll just stop there But God is saying that it's possible that we don't want to And this is event one, okay? Revelation twenty, verse two, this is a really hot topic. It's a very important mechanic to keep in mind when it comes to prophecy. You were not guaranteed the indwelling Holy Spirit. That allegorical hermeneutic where they make Go tell my people that He was shocked. It'll be free from sin. If you have more questions, come to me after class and I can point you And the analogy I would use to explain that, I'll actually draw it since you have Remember, if meaning is controlled by If I was alive in Isaiah's period and I saw this passage Yeah, that's considered prophetic. What do I not jump to for more context And sometimes they're all jumbled together, the timing. And That is what Colossians teaches. I I don't know the Greek time system Great question And the Psalms teach us that beautifully You'd be very tempted to interpret a lot of the prophecies of the Bible that way. He writes verse six and then immediately verse seven, right? We'll be eating, by the way. It's just that's all we're looking at here Blood actually turned into or water turned into blood, etcetera He said, Well, what am I looking at? And what's what's We just talked about this. We talked about the epistles, which Feelings are not bad in and of itself. This isn't based on what the text itself is saying. Nothing like Daniel has ever seen on earth. He's viewing it from this perspective. You have the full gamut of human emotions to So the New Testament Right? These things often represent something else. That's how you interpret We're gonna get new physical bodies. But we know this is Jesus and Jesus The material world What what is this thing that God is showing me? So thank you for sharing that, Jose. Yeah. It can be spoken from the You see that? It can be Now