Or if you choose to interpret your friend however way you want to interpret them, that can cause an argument. So we still have the sin influence, even if in our true identity we're no longer sinners, we still have the influence of sin. Now, if it were a matter of each individual person's opinion what the Bible means, then you would get plurality of meaning. It's about humbly coming to God and saying, I am not good enough. And ultimately, it goes back to how the biblical authors and the Lord Jesus Himself interpreted Scripture. If you ever find anyone at this church or in any church making up some new or novel way to do theology, you should run in the opposite direction as fast as you can, right? Once again, you let the author control the meaning of the Bible, and this really stems from a heart attitude of submission. So the Israelites, when they rediscovered their book, right, when they rediscovered the Bible, what did they realize? That's what happened to our people. He knew that there would be a temptation for his opponents to think, oh this Israel's bringing this this uh this Israelite this this uh this teacher, this rabbi Jesus, he's bringing a completely new radical departure from our Bible So instead of translating every word, I'm just going to translate every phrase. He can't just be merely a man because he needs to be perfect and he gets established an eternal kingdom, right? How is it that in Psalm 110, David calls his progeny Lord, Master, right? So that gives us common linguistic ground with the biblical authors. So I also understand that what David wrote is what God meant to write, and it's perfect. And eventually the true believers have to just jettison it, depart, start a new denomination, a new seminary, and the cycle happens over and over again. So alarm bell should be ringing off, you know, in your head because meaning becomes plural, right? But Origen thought there were three different uh senses of scripture. And we don't focus on how much freedom there are in uh in Christian living. And that's fine to express in every aspect of the church. But uh you grow in knowledge over time and it it helps knowing that the truth is somewhere out there. And the school of Antioch exposed Alexandrian allegorical hermeneutics and taught once again that meaning is found in the literal, the plain, the normal sense of reading any kind of text. In fact, they make up in that fables and call their inanities allegories. It's just the recycling of the same old battle that began at the Garden of Eden. And it's the same thing liberal theologians do today. And it's other people trying to say, let's let Scripture just speak for itself. Like the CCC, the Catechism of the Catholic Church, it is embedded within formal, actual, systematized Catholicism. You have the conservative branch of the Catholic Church that tries to take the Bible a little more seriously. So you have the same fracturing limit of the Catholic Church that any human institution has, including us Protestants, sadly. But I'm saying within Catholicism itself, okay? And I'll just say it plainly. But this is what he says about hermeneutics, and this is where our church traces our historical grammatical hermeneutic from. We just do it inconsistently when it comes to scripture. So things like uh why we don't baptize our infants comes from the fact that our church and myself, we believe we're applying sound hermeneutics more consistently than the reformers did But yeah, he was basically calling out the fact that the Catholic Church was not following the true scripture and that men could read it for themselves. And then he was being snarky and he was saying, So where do you file the Bible in Barnes and Noble? Now that's beyond the scope of our class, but there's plenty, plenty of historical evidence, plenty of scientific evidence that shows that everything the Bible wrote is real and actually happened. And uh he points out himself, he's the expert, that the Bible is it stands alone as this unique ancient document that reads unlike any other mythological document And yet you see all of David's dirty laundry aired because it actually happened in Scripture. The Quran doesn't have that, you know? Once again, the biblical characters characters have real human motivations and flaws. and uh such the like. It stemmed from the Latin grammatico, which means a literal or a plain hermeneutic. It is through Jesus alone, no other Messiah, no other way to salvation. And if they're genuinely a believer, they'll say I use a historical grammatical hermeneutica. So whenever you're trying to interpret or understand any piece of media, or just like a conversation with a coworker or your friend or something, trying to understand the meaning of what But the words they can comprehend it, God gave them enough revelation to understand Scripture for their condemnation. through uh Arta Xerxes, a king that got uh used to allow the Jews to return. You probably had some people that were pretty plain, you know, the left end of the bell curve. You're supposed to pluck the branches from to use as these tents, right? And he was saying, I am going to fulfill even the minutiae, the tiniest detail, not one of them will be erased. I didn't have anything more to say. They probably looked, thought back to their their scroll, their passage, and thought, Yeah, David did say that. 'Cause when you go around trying to pull up all the weeds, you might pull up some wheats along with it. It becomes the God of your understanding. Because sometimes as new believers, if you're anything like me when you became a new believer, you look at all the different teachers and resources and books and churches out there and it can feel kinda overwhelming thinking, I don't know where the truth is It was kinda I was kinda despairing not knowing where to find a true understanding of the Word of God, but and I'm sure I still have stuff wrong too, right? Did God is the Word of God actually its plain meaning or can we play tricks with it and put in whatever we want? The truth of the matter is Catholicism has just as much fracturing within its ranks as Protestants do. And then say, Your mother and your brothers are here to see you. No, please, he ran out of wine. Yeah. who you know he shirked away from eating with uh gentiles when he saw the jewish party. That that was a common like like a bulletin board. Yeah. Which doesn't even mean liberal liberal in its uh original sense, but I mean theological liberals who basically tried to change what the Bible means. Yeah. They don't have Greek experts. Let's do a quick review. in a disembodied way, or meaning ultimately comes from the author, the person that created the media or communication, right? The author. You do that at your work. So we used the example last time. So we shouldn't get ahead of ourselves, we should be humble and recognize. you know, cherished ethical values, what's often called liberalism, classical liberalism. And then you have the progressive, like Supreme Court justices that see it as a living document. But also what the author is unconsciously saying, that's just another way to sneak in your own opinion, right? So as a result, all you have is what person said. So meaning is found in what the author consciously will to say. This is how we do hermeneutics in our day-to-day. And we're just consistently applying it to structure. Just completely up to each person's imagination. Now the application can be multiple, we'll get to that in a second, but the meaning itself, the interpretation, and you guys may recall last week I'm trying to emphasize to this class, it's important that we try to So when 1 Corinthians 2 says the truths in Scripture have to be spiritually discerned, you know, by the Holy Spirit, that does not mean they can't intellectually understand the Bible. What Paul is saying in 1 Corinthians 2, verses 12 to 14 is the kind of understanding that a believer cannot Attaining is an understanding that leads to acceptance, an understanding that leads to appreciation of the Bible, an understanding that leads to So today's outline, I want to launch into a brief historical overview of the different schools of hermeneutics. So if you ever come up with some new theology, you're implying that God failed in his will to reveal what he wants for individual believers sometime in the past. And the opposite of the attitude of submission is an attitude of autonomy. It's either this idea of liberty. I'm going to punish you by putting you in exile. And God warned them from the very beginning, you know, from the first five books of Moses, here is your constitution, Israelites. And then you have fifty percent of the people going, you know, the Torah is too hard to understand. We w we weren't observing the Sabbaths. and other leafy trees to make booths as it is written. And Jesus, how did he respond? where you try to do a word for word translation. If you don't know Greek and Hebrew, which I don't, and I'm guessing most of you here don't as well. about the Messiah and Jesus uh does it by asking a a very pointed question in verse forty one. In other words, Jesus was trying to drive home the fact that he, the one hundred percent man, one hundred percent God, the God man, was the true Messiah. Right? how much he was meditating on scripture day and night, you know, it it's it's the uh output of a human being's life and experience and knowledge They didn't trade off verses or whatever, like as that was John MacArthur's joke. So you always uh unfortunately in this life, when Jesus himself warned in the parable of the tares and the wheat, how the enemy goes and he sows weed among wheat When it comes to this life, and I think personally, this isn't from scripture, maybe it is, if you can show me a verse, but I think personally the reason why God does this, uh well, in the parable he says because you have to be careful. So it happens in every institution. Right? which you can also call the doctrinal or psychical sense of the text. We're kind of drawn naturally. I love creative things. And there is a tendency for people that are the creative type to really enjoy twisting and turning s a shape into whatever you want. When it comes to how you want to decorate the church, sure, express your God-made creativity. polity, whatever. And uh he expressed it this way, and Aquinas came, by the way, centuries after the founding of the school of Alexandria, but he's really the spiritual successor to this school And the quadruga is uh taking the historical sense, the author's intended meaning, the ideological sense. The historical, ideological, and analogical sense. By the grace of God, truth is always able to be found by God's people. The other thing I would say is remember, the quest for understanding the Word of God, it's not just an intellectual pursuit, it's a spiritual one. And John Chrysostom, Golden Mouth, is what his name means. And what I always say back to that is, yes, that is a possibility, but you have to recognize that person is saved in spite of Catholicism, not because of. And there's uh there there there's this one denomination and say opposed to the Protestants who have like hundreds of denominations and there's all this chaos according to the spiritual meaning which the spirit grants to the church. The Word of God itself to tain meaning with the help of the Illuminate by the Holy Spirit, you have to read it through the filter of what the church teaches who has special access to her son. Like, lady, what does that have to do with me? You know much better than I do and may genuinely be saved. That is such an eloquent summation of what I've just been preaching for the first three weeks. Remember the reformers lived they were coming out of the Catholic Church, and that's not why we we shouldn't disparage them. was already a radical departure from the environment they grew up in. But anyway, the reformers, they were a product of their times, they came out of the Catholic Church that baptized their kids, so they couldn't quite let go of certain stuff, and I don't fault them for that. But they're not quite believers? But not actual members not real members in like the true church is in another sense and it's uh I I was infant baptized, so I'm I'm speaking from personal experience. Oh okay, so why was the what he was saying so controversial? But when he nailed the ninety nine theses, in my opinion he was faultless. And that's why when he nailed the ninety-nine theses, it wasn't written in the language of the common man. That was a big division. We're a nation of priests. doing what the Catholic Church here says you have to do, which means you have to defer to the living tradition of the Catholic Church to help you understand b the Bible. your sins will be forgiven. Historical her hermeneutics just means the Bible is a God-inspired record of real events that happened in history to real people. Not a trick question. The circumstance, the author's purpose, what time they're in, the place, etc. He was a polygamist. You know? When you think grammatical hermenitic, you probably are thinking like I did at the beginning, that this is about trying to read the Bible according to the rules of grammar, right? So your parents telling you clean your room and if your kids say I'm going to interpret you allegorically and go play outside. So that's a little confusing, but reading the Bible in its normal plain sense does mean you have to use the rules of grammar, right? It doesn't matter what you know creed or confession or ritual that you're part of, as long as you follow that religion as earnestly and as genuinely as possible, you will find God. Looking at you, Richard War. The problem is they're blind spots and you don't know where they are. I feel like really kind of supposed to be about that and that was um with somebody in the crowd I know where And I just thought like how could we possibly not twist that? that he was the Archangel Michael or something. It was a little bit I I I don't I don't really understand. Grammatically, that word was means always continually in existence, no starting point. to a sufficient degree for our condemnation and we just want to ignore it. After we became Christians, God changed our hearts such that we want to read God's word properly, but God in his wisdom still left us with this outer flesh that we combat, right? the reader ourselves control meaning. is the US Constitution. And any nation that tries to follow the Bible will inevitably produce wealth and prosperity and peace. uh reform the day-to-day vernacular in church life to make that clear distinction between the meaning of a text and the application, the interpretation versus how you can use what what that text, how it applies to uh your personal life, right? And meaning has to be literal. And we know that because God in his will has revealed that he wants all believers from ages past to the future until Jesus' return to understand the full counsel of the Word of God, right? about first of all uh the wisdom revealed in past churches and also God's ability to fulfill his will, right? Well, it's because we are naturally proud and arrogant creatures, every single one of us. I just want to emphasize that I'm not making up anything. in the entirety of Revelation. historical grammatical hermeneutic. Therefore I will let my master and my king and my lord tell me what to do as a servant. We don't like the idea. Once again, if the author controls the meaning, objective, singular, literal, that's what you're going to get as your output. trusting in the state or whatever. The opposite of literal isn't figure of speech. An allegorical interpretation ignores all of that and just makes anything mean whatever you want. is Nehemiah chapter 8. So in Nehemiah chapter 8, the Israelites are in exile, okay, in the Persian kingdom because of sin uh the Lord God and uh what his stipulations are. helps the Israelites rediscover the Bible. They read from the book, from the law of God, clearly, and they gave the sense so that the people understood the reading. How did they interpret? And that is what's happening in Nehemiah chapter 8. said to all the people, quote, This day is holy to the Lord your God. It's the fact that every single person reacted the same way. 25% saying, well, what I got from the Torah was, you know, I a actually I think we're not in sin. Why do you guys think first of first and foremost? It was supposed to be handled so carefully and so exactly and so literally that these details matter. and that they should proclaim it and publish it in all their towns and in Jerusalem, go out to the hills and bring branches of olive, wild olive, myrtle, palm And there's something else very important about how Nehemiah handled the Torah that's instructive for us. of what time of month the species to be observed and how it is to be observed, even what kind of vegetation you're supposed to use And by the way, giving a preview of the future, that's why uh you have to be careful about what English translation you use, because it's two different types of English translations. That's especially becomes important when you get to oops, shouldn't have moved. You can't get any more authoritative than our Lord Jesus Christ, right? They said to him, the son of David. Then David, and he's quoting Psalm chapter 110, verse 1, 110, verse 1, how is it then David, in the Spirit, calls him Lord? If then David calls him Lord, how is he his son? Sit at my right hand until I put your enemies under your feet. Nor from that day did anyone dare to ask him any more questions. Even the Pharisees understood that, and certainly Jesus understood that, and he knew his logic was irrefutable. Meaning has to be controlled by the author, don't you think? In one sense, the author of Psalm one ten is David. So the author of Psalm 110 is simultaneously David and the Holy Spirit. Or Moses writes. And Jesus taught that as well. It always starts off really well. We see that happening before our eyes with the Southern Baptist Seminary, right? Presbyterian Church of USA, right? And they are really the ones that systematized and popularized the allegorical hermeneutic. The reader gets to determine the meeting. in the text. Right? Imagination, exactly. Uh people that maybe are artists, you know. Yeah, creative types love to do allegory. Honestly, very brilliant, high IQ these people were. known as a quadriga or the fourfold interpretation. In all likelihood, it was a bunch of different thinkers that kind of contributed. So some of you might know about the quadriga, the fourfold interpretation. So that's another ask a cool aspect of church history as you read it is whenever you start getting widespread error, there is always that voice crying in the wilderness. The analogical sense, which is the aspect of meaning that reveals unity, continuity between the Old Testament and the New Testament, and then finally again the allegorical sense And uh I don't know who's telling this guy sounds very convincing, this person does as well. And um all I would say to that is first of all find some comfort knowing that the truth is out there. God always preserves his truth for generation after generation because it's his will for people to know doctrine, right? So that's just a little sharing about my particular journey. You could swear that this was written in the in like today's period by like an R. see them as a revered figure. So it says here, again, in their catechism, okay, in their material, read the scripture within the living tradition of the whole church. I'm going to show you verse in a second, but I'll just ask a very leading question. The catechism of the Catholic Church puts between God's people and God's word itself. I know that's what we think the Bible says. So you see just the opposite in scripture and you see all sorts of other doctrines the Catholic Church teaches. And Jesus said to his opponents, them, you have a fine way of rejecting the commandment of God in order to establish your tradition? For Moses said, Honor your father and mother, and whoever reviles father or mother must surely die. Dedicated, given to God, so I can't give to you, Mom and Dad, even though you're ailing and old and you're starving to death. So what is the response that God provided? Very courageous man, imperfect man. Verse twelve, then you no longer permit him to do anything for his father or mother, thus making void the word of God by your tradition that you have handed down, and many such things you do They were, unfortunately, you know, they were a product of their times, and they were inconsistent in their use of literal hermeneutics that Martin Luther was exhorting we all use. It's very difficult for everyone as parents, what do you do with our kids that we take to church? uh so radical during his time. He would start to rely on people like Augustine, who again had good contributions, again a product of his time, used a lot of allegory, used a lot of fanciful imagination So what the Catholics and a lot of like Presbyterians do today is they confuse the kids, they make the matters worse in my opinion, by baptizing them and making them members of the church in one sense I fault current pay to axis for it, but not, you know, John Calvin because they were doing the best that they could with the little knowledge they had. Pastor Allen teaches a good class about uh the land of the Bible, ancient Israel. And if we're honest about our conversion experiences, for those of us in here that are genuine believers, if you go back and think about that time, that period in your life where you became you made that jump from non-Christian to Christian, it's not because you were You knew that the Bible was God, your precious shepherd speaking to you, right? But I don't love 'em. And one of the elements of mythology is it gets more and more exaggerated over time. Well, you don't see that in the Bible. They were just normal, flawed human beings. instead of some crazy allegorical sense. They know what the consequences would be, right? By taking an allegorical sense, which means I am a way. But every Bible believing Christian since the Reformation and really stemming from the apostles, we all abide by this hermeneutic. you know, we'll read something and we apply it to our own personal bias, whatever that is. Yeah. And they put in their propaganda. So whereas they say in the beginning was the word as in like in a finite point in time the word appeared, God was cre you know, Jesus was created. And uh just a quick review from last week, we discovered that there are three possible sources where we can get meaning from. that person is saying can come from three different places. Sinners like to control the meaning themselves. And um I don't want to go too off too much on off on a tangent, but in my opinion that's because um there is a spiritual battle undergirding a lot of what's happening in present day America. Yeah. America, though it wasn't explicitly a Christian nation, we were undoubtedly made great because of our Christian influences. And we do see that battle taking place, I think. From meaning being controlled by the author. It has to be singular. You apply it to your life in different ways, depending on what life situation you're in, right? Please change my heart. Any questions so far or any comments before we go to today's lesson? We came up with some new insight that only our generation has access to. how different people handled interpreting the Bible through the ages. The Bible, the Holy Spirit, the author of the Bible is the Holy Spirit. And uh since Willie brought up politics, US politics, this is one area where I think across the political spectrum you don't have any sort of genuine And uh we have a master that tells us what to do. Christian biblical type of thinking. Libertarianism. Interpretation. Okay? the originators of author controlled hermeneutics. As we discover, they completely lost uh even before the exile, they were completely ignored and then lost an understanding of what their Bible stated. No. Right? Okay, and let's continue. And that's why Jesus in the Gospels, when he arrived, Jesus knew, you know, God knew in his wisdom that what he was bringing with the new covenant teaching, which is really the true understanding of the old covenant Even down to the particulars, it matters. where the uh translator themselves tries to do you the favor of saying, I'm going to try to make the Hebrew and Greek more understandable to an English speaker, make it sound more natural then you want a word-for-word translation of the Bible where you can be confident that a word you're reading in your English Bible probably existed in the Hebrew and Greek as well. Yeah. Pharisees were the classic opponents, ideological opponents of the Lord. You see the logic there? Once again, Jesus is handling the Bible. Psalm 110. The Pharisees have better theology than liberal Christians today. You know, you have some of these like Princeton Theological Seminary theologians that have worse theology Than these stereotypical great enemies of Jesus, right? So you can think of the School of Alexandria as one of the first like theological seminaries. Um he lived from 184 to 253. behind scripture. Within the bounds of Scripture. But not when it comes to theology, not when it comes to the preaching, not when it comes to the Word of God and everything that comes out of the Word of God, right? So this makes uh your imagination the overriding principle for how you understand scripture, and it just destroys scripture, in effect. There is always that oftentimes minority voice of reason that preserves the Word of God. Okay, so that's just how the threefold sense develops over time. But there is always someone out there teaching the truth. who really believe in Jesus as the only way of salvation. Catholicism itself, they like to trumpet that they are the one like perfectly like suc they have a perfect line of succession from the Apostolic Church. But they don't seem to know their own Catholicism. in the churches, the whole corporate, the Catholic Churches, the k in principally in the church's heart, rather than in documents and records, for the capital C, Catholic Church Carries in her tradition the living memorial of God's Word, and it is the Holy Spirit who gives her the spiritual interpretation of the scripture. So again, I can't think of a finer example of uh a fulfillment of this denunciation in modern times in the Catholic Church that does not speak again to your dear Catholic family or friend who It's just very rare, exceedingly rare, okay? pure and natural sense of the words that accords with the rules of grammar and the normal use of language as God has created it in man You know, sinful man, we attest to the fact that we know how to read scripture. respect and we're very thankful for their contribution to sound theology. is because we recognize that the reformers as great as these as they are and we read all of them, we teach them at this church, a lot of their contribution to the doctrine of salvation and the such But when it came for certain other theological doctrines like baptism or handling uh doctrine of the end times, eschatology He deferred to the literalist John Chrysostom, remember of from the School of Antioch, when it came to matters of you know salvation and other exegetical concerns. was a huge affront and offense to the authority of the Catholic Church. He he wrote the ninety-nine theses and basically his big thing was you're saved by grace and grace alone. And I I will say, uh, Martin Luther was an ex personally speaking, I I do think he was a very strong, I'll put it that way, strong personality. radically create like some like revolt and like just burn everything down like you know critical theorists say today and like start over. You know, you guys read this. How are you treating scripture? And as such, meaning is found by studying the passage's history, right? But ultimately, the reason why we know the Bible is true, we're helped by that supplemental evidence, right? you know, convinced into Christianity by evidence alone, right? We don't see exaggerations of the Bible. But uh because we know that the Bible is a historical record, it's a true word of God, we're gonna look at context. Okay, the opposite of reading the Bible historically is reading it mythologically, and I would just say here the Bible completely lacks the features of any mythological documents. Right? You know, I was nice to him, so I think he wanted to do me the favor of trying to convert me to Islam. So, in other words, historical grammatical hermeneutic, read the Bible as real history, not mythology, and read the Bible in its plain normal sense. But the reason why the Methodists and the Lutherans and the Presbyterians and the Baptists and non-denominational churches like ours, the reason why we start disagreeing about doctrine is because one of us applies the historical grammatical hermeneutic inconsistently. But every Bible believing Christian will claim to use a historical grammatical hermeneutic. And many of us mix in man-made traditions. Yeah. sense of what little information we have. Yeah, that's what I meant. Yeah, that's good. control the meaning and yet once again as we stated last week when it comes to just this one specific book recognizing that this is the word of God and it is beautiful and we should follow it and obey it. what our church's um uh Stansa Hermanina Square traces from and where it went awry throughout uh history. So once again, why is it that we like to do eegesis? Alright. So the opposite, the other type of hermeneutic ultimately is the reader getting to control the meaning in one form or another. What will cause someone to be very sad and weep hearing the Bible? Thought the Bible was to be understood so literally and exactly that when it came to the very details And uh at the same time it's also a hundred percent written by the human. application and meaning, interpretation and how it applies to your life. And uh origin and reader-controlled uh exegetes, they were very creative people. uh explained by Thomas Aquinas, who those of you who maybe come from a Catholic background probably know him very well, known as St. basically uh cat organizes the first three and that's what he calls the literal sense of a text. Uh God blaspheming heresies is the way I will put it as simply as possible. uh I think it's too strong to say we depart from the Protestant Reformation. You know, deal in history. Yeah, and he was and he was kind of a crazy guy playing downtown and he was a little nuts himself. Does that help answer your question? gives you a little more confidence of what we're teaching today. I say that and then we're gonna go to the grammatical per portion and it does become confusing. But in other words, you're not going to be able to evidence your non-believing friends into Christianity, right? David was a sinner saved by grace, like every normal human being, like every normal Christian, right? And I've said this over and over again, but interpreting the Bible literally and plainly is similar how we interpret any other normal piece of communication. In the same sense, in a less funny example, theological liberals today, again, that does not mean like American political liberalism. Very precious truth, which says, Jesus, I am the way, the truth, and the life. So were you speaking for in terms of his Catholic background and how he's in and then you're not going to be able to do that? I think what they're using is we actually believe Jesus is the word. She said it said it's a little Ghana. what their law stated, what their Bible said. Well, notice something about the reaction of the Israelites. Um and uh Jesus responds, or rather it's the other way. And of course the Pharisees were just thinking, just a man, like a human king, purely a human king. It's not any one building or logo or or institution. In particular, the Bible. Beginning with the church history, the inspired church history of the book of Acts is every theological battle we have. And uh this is in the catechism of the Catholic Church. Let me read that again, that's super important. Think about indulgences. Undermine? And basically it's saying that you try to determine the meaning of the Bible by studying the words and sentences of Scripture, just like Martin Luther said several slides ago in their normal plain sense. But an autonomous attitude says I get to control the meaning of the Bible. So let's look at those two types of hermeneutical schools throughout the ages. The Bible has to be interpreted by the author. If they force people to go through the filter of their biases. That's true, except you would be wrong in the sense of that's what a grammatical hermeneutic means here because apparently it actually on uh validating, verifying the Bible's claims. But meaning is found in what the author consciously willed to say. Like humanitarians too. I concede that it is possible that there are genuinely saved Roman Catholics out there today. Okay, now let's define so that's where we come from. Exactly. Yeah, Jehovah's Witness to even one thing even more insidious than that. But they had said, Bless the woman who breastfakes premotional. Jehovah's Sites. So you have the originalists, right? So you will go to a good uh otherwise healthy, you know, uh Presbyterian church or whatever, or Lutheran church or whatever. I think one of the ways we commonly do it is uh with the moral like you're reading and you used that example I think last week about going to a movie or wine or whatever it is The author, right? Yeah. Okay, now some reformers, I want to state this, they were inconsistent in their use of literal hermeneutics, and that's where our church Uh he had full revelation of God and what I meant is that his environment was a very strong influence on him that made him twist scripture. And then you look at the description of this supposed little G God and you're like, how can this be any exalted creature? And then Jesus uh gives this uh very interesting counter in verse 43. God is part of the word. He apparently wasn't much of a dad to be honest because all his kids are killing each other, right? I've got messed up things in my life too that I repent of and that I'm ashamed of, just like every person in Scripture, right? First of all, what's the emotional response to hearing the Bible being read to them? And clearly it wasn't hard to understand. He was looking at what historical was happening in the text, what the author meant to say, and then thinking, ah, these are the moral implications or applications of how we should use this in our life. And I give them scriptures and they literally take the scripture because this one lady she said, Well we go by the King James Version. A good translation, there are other good translations of the Bible. An allegory, once again, make that synonymous with imagination. It was perfectly plain. Okay? So the threefold sense of scripture that Origen espoused basically flourishes into what is still being used today. Undermine, thank you. It's it's very tricky because that personal application your eyes like are open to when you're reading scriptures, in all likelihood that actually came from the Holy Spirit So really, all through church history, I have good news. Paul's not going to write the same way as Peter writes. That that was a really good I'm glad you caught that, because I'm sure some other people are confused too. Uh that's not what it means to be non-literal. Alright, any other Sarah question before we end in prayer? Libertarianism at its core is a non-biblical uh concept. And what does Jesus say? Yeah, it was it was never refuted officially by the Pope. These terms, by the way, in general, in life in general, whatever science you're trying to learn about, people don't make up terms to confuse people. It'll always seem like folly. So once again, welcome to Interpreting Scripture, in case any of you are here for the first time or you for you forget what class you're in. I'm sorry if it offends some of you guys. It was kind of the lightning rod. We're all priests, right? Alright, grammatical hermeneutic. I I don't pretend to, but I rely on other people that are Greek experts. Yeah, it can either come from the person receiving the communication, the reader or the listener. Pastor Gabe has waxed eloquent on this about how we are ultimately slaves. Let's jump down to verse 14. Well, there are some biblical considerations for church governance. I don't like 'em and I don't want to serve 'em. Yeah, that's right. Yeah, so consistency is the name of the game. Verse 9, and Nehemiah, who is the governor, and Ezra the priest and scribe, and the Levites who taught the people They were rediscovering that they have been in sin for generations. When it comes to the word study tool that you use in historical grammatical hermeneutic where you're trying to deal with each individual word of the Bible, you need a word for word translation I love people using their imagination and creating worlds and all sorts of interesting music and paintings and things like that. I mean it's very difficult grappling with how to treat them. A lot of blasphemous teaching that was not biblical. Who does he look to for meaning? He taught David in the Spirit, wrote Psalm 110. You was just you just use your imagination and create whatever you need to say. I think if I wasn't a Christian, I'd probably be drawn to this form of interpretation. That's right. Yeah. You'd get in trouble, in fact. And by the way, even that act of faith, asking a prayer like that, that is also a gift from the Lord, right? But that means that doesn't mean you can go and apply that same truth that you were revealed to from the Holy Spirit to other people if that's not actually the interpretation. He said, No, not one jot or tittle of the law, right, will be abrogated. Or uh they don't actually believe in work salvation. So we went that was when the whole Protestant Reformation happened as a result of Martin Luther. I'm not trying to cause controversy for controversy's sake. How are you treating the events of the Bible? In fact you see such lack of exaggeration on like something like the Quran, like Muslims, that you even see our so called biblical heroes of faith Again, it's just the biblical hermeneutic. Every institution. You guys know about indulgences, right? Yeah. Our heroes are flawless human beings. Imagine you're a surgeon and you decided to interpret like the chart you're given by the doctor however way you choose to as the reader. Yeah. There is always one single objective factual meaning interpretation of each verse of the Bible. But the truth of the matter is none of us are autonomous beings, right? And that's how we treat any form of literature or reading material or media or communication. Some strong men and women of the faith. And I think, though I'm not the expert here, but from my understanding of origin, what I think he was trying to do here is he was jumping to application That was his mother, apparently, his his great, you know, revered, exalted mother, the queen of heaven. But you're you're absolutely correct, that is exactly how to interpret John One. Now you can go to your own copy of the Bible if you prefer your own translation. If this Messiah figure is a son, a youngling of the patriarch, the great patriarch David, And if it's the God of your understanding, then everyone can agree. We all have that access to God. So he was use he was basically what he was teaching, he didn't mean to do it this way, like but the implications of what he was teaching about biblical Christianity had completely, like Karen said, under gr under uh usurped not us what's the word? And the last thing that you had said, how they said Jesus did anyway. You can make a text say whatever you want. In other words, how Nehemiah helps the Israelites interpret their scriptures. We weren't and observing the feasts. It was established by some godly men and now look at it today. Read the scripture within the living tradition of the whole church. He says, Woman, what does that have to do with me? It is the Protestant Reformation from the 16th century. And that's what that's what Martin Luther is saying here. Catholic Church authority, basically. Yeah, in the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. People that read or constructionists, I think they're also called. That is the standard Jewish answer, right? Yeah. He had flaws of his own, as we all do. That don't it it wasn't like some huge grandiose thing, by the way. He was a man of war. That does not mean there's no figures of speech, but it means another synonym is the meaning is plain and normal, right? Each individual gets to just control his own life to the max. Once again, a literal hermeneutic recognizes figures of speech. But then where things go awry is he also espouses what's known as a topological sense. You have to read it according to our traditions to understand. Like why were so many people upset with what he was saying and doing? When you compare I have a uncle who is actually a literature professor There is one other place where we read into where we don't use that analogy and that Enemy nations will come and destroy you, and that's exactly what happened. Psalm 110 has to be interpreted by what did David mean to say. Yeah, yeah, it means that there's dual authorship, right? And Jesus says, Who are my mother and brothers? Once you get to theology, no creativity allowed. They did it in the third century, they do it today, they'll do it in the future until Jesus returns. You see the opposite. Yeah. Exactly. Now, Origen espoused what's known as a threefold sense of scripture. So words do not suddenly and erratically change in their meaning divorced from its context, right? So you s you do see a lot of biblical principles embedded in the Constitution. So there's nothing new about what we're teaching about what's called the historical grammatical hermeneutic. So if we are to regard the Bible so important like Nehemiah and Ezra did, where every word matters, it matters what month of the year you're celebrating this feast, right? Key figures here include Theodore of Mapsustia, uh Theodoret They accepted the logic, didn't it? Who else is the author, according to Jesus? Don't put your faith in men, right? Current uh allegory how about fiction, right? There's a lot of similarity in uh embedded within the political battle today as there is with um the uh theological battle But people don't like that in our natural spirit. Um I'm very big into music, as I'm sure you guys know. And thank God for that. Yeah. And the world or they'll always at the very best they'll become theists. Don't use your imagination. I think I I also had a question earlier back with Martin and Dean mentioned that he was trying to make What he said is what he said, or what she said is what she said. If you let the Holy Spirit control what his words mean, if you let the Bible speak for itself, is another way to put it, then you are exhibiting ultimately an attitude of submission Because the attitude right now between the you know, the Democrats and the Republicans is Anyone remember this story or you can infer just from these two verses why you think the Israelites might be sad hearing the Bible being interpreted to them Everybody understood it the same way. So this is called the Feast of Booths. Right? Because like if you can make the meeting allegory then it then what happens is So let's go to the historical grammatical hermeneutic. They're by definition, I'm blind to it. We struggle with a lot of the same things that we did before we were uh be became Christians or non-believers, which is we will continue to try to let He's handling Psalm chapter 110, verse 1. And again, I keep saying it, it's okay to be creative in church. Again, it makes the literal, uh it it destroys the literal sense of the of the word of God and it makes meaning plural and subjective, right? Evidence was helpful. Yeah. Anyone remember what those three different places can be? And that's because everybody knows, as Romans 1. If meaning emanates from the author, that means meaning is objective. Okay. You have the literal sense, the historical sense, and so far so good. And that needs to be appreciated. Hope Bible Church isn't making up any kind of new science of interpreting scripture. Because it's an unhealthy church. Sometimes the ramifications can be huge if you choose to interpret what you're receiving in any manner that you wish. We do it every day. I can't save myself. Now, I want you to pay careful attention, especially for that underlying bit, how Nehemiah I don't mean to offend you, but I'll just say it plainly. The author David. I think that gives us a lot of uh confidence as believers after the New Testament era. I'm very open to that idea. I'm not going to become a slave to anybody, right? We have a lot of people out there like Chad. Once again, I have to keep hammering this point home. You know, they didn't like switch off words or whatever. So we have that human to human connection with the authors. That gives us confidence that if I try to understand what this fellow human being David meant to say, I can understand Scripture. The music, the preaching style, you know, again, uh what color you want to make the wall, how the building should look, you know, how the ministries are organized, how you structure the church. But what were you doing by using an allegorical hermeneutic? You know, it was necessary for the time, but he was he had so much blood on his hands that God said, Yeah, you're not gonna build my temple. Now this is a little confusing. Because I would imagine in this assembly you probably had a mix of all sorts of intelligence and classes of people. That's how carefully the biblical authors thought you had to handle the Bible. If you feel anything like what I just described, that was me when I first became a believer This idea that you can win more merit by basically giving money to the Catholic Church. Well Martin Luther really um the implications of what he was teaching And people got burned and their heads chopped off. You have the account of David, who's supposed to be, you know, the predecessor to our Messiah, right, in the human sense. Okay, so uh any questions? Yeah. It's how Jesus himself handled scripture, as we're going to see later today. And they found it written in the law that the Lord had commanded by Moses that the people of Israel should dwell in booths during the feast of the seventh month Uh Jesus is um uh refuting the Pharisees' uh teachings He was blameless. That was just review from last week. It's actually very simple. We don't know exactly who invented first invented the fourfold interpretation that came out of the threefold interpretation Apparently he was a very talented preacher. Yeah. So this is official formal doctrine. I'm just one way. Okay? Another interesting uh side tangent. Southern Baptist Convention. Um also once again teaching this idea that the normal human average Joe should have access to the scripture and they should read it for themselves instead of And the same thing I talked to um uh so many uh oh god Yeah, it's not consistent. And we're going to start with the Bible itself, right? We'll get into that in a future lesson. So when the Lord graciously provides the Israelites a path back to their land Oh my goodness, God said we'll be put into exile if our generation sinned. Let's see how Jesus handled the Bible. And again, what's the synonym for allegor allegory I keep telling you? So I think that's what we could be using. But I was just thinking how you said previously that we all have things probably to have all that Um which is confusing. Remember, eegesis means putting into the Bible what you want the Bible to say. Everyone has their own distinct way of speaking, but all written, all inspired by the Holy Spirit. They establish a good seminary or a good church or a good denomination. You see Jesus, you know, trying to be stopped by Mary because his family thought he was losing his mind preaching about how he's the Messiah. That means everyone before us didn't have some access to some part of the Council of God. And this is supposed to be remembrance of the fact that the Israelites were wandering in tents in booths before they came to the promised land Again, son of David, not a wrong answer, but incomplete. They don't think you have to add works to salvation. What did they say? We're clearly Protestants and we do respect and thank God for men like Martin Luther, John Calvin, you know. Um so it's weird. That's what makes biblical Christianity unique versus every other worldview is consistency, including atheism. We don't want to see in the Bible what God clearly lays out. But also I think it's a great reminder of the fact that we need to look forward to the heavenly assembly of the saints and not put too much faith in any institution here. And um as I'm implying, they popularized basically reader-controlled hermeneutics. We don't like ta you don't like that idea of original sin and how they're condemned unless they come to a personal, you know, profession of faith Because it's saying if you're if what you're saying is true, everything we're teaching is wrong and now people won't trust us. Uh we also discover that there are three important implications that follow The word study tool, I think that's like number nine, right Maybe they go a little crazy with Mary, but if you really grill them and dig deep down you recognize, oh, they're not actually worshiping Mary. What did Jesus think about traditions, right? Okay? But it's ultimately God did a miracle in your heart and just gave you ears to hear and eyes to see And I said something to the effect of that's why I can't believe your Quran, right? They that's why they also created their own translation of the Bible. I'm not talking about political liberalism. You're doing it right now as you're listening to me, and we're just putting words on what we already know intuitively to do C. There was a point in time archaeologists, all the learned PhD archaeologists, didn't think the city of David existed. So So I don't I don't know how you can deny it. So that's when the text itself gets to control the meeting. But those poetry, those those figures of speech have itself a literal meaning behind it. They realize their sin, they repented, right? In verse 46 is also instructive. But it's in David's own flavor. Okay? It just gets the story gets crazier and crazier and crazier and extra elements gets added to it I like to put it that way. They have to basically rediscover um the Bible. Even to this day. That's the moral sense. But you know what I mean. Sproul senior or something. You have the liberal branch of the Catholic Church that are all about social justice and just doing good works and trumpeting their good works before others But um the reason why uh we depart from people like uh Lutherans or Presbyterians, for instance, the Capital R Reformed theologians That means words and sentences do have their normal plain meaning that uses the rules of syntax, grammar, and etc And what's interesting is in John 1 verse 1 it says in the beginning was. It's one of the holy um uh feast days that the Israelites were to observe Now, uh, what's interesting about the fourfold interpretation is Aquinas It's those who obey the word of God. Because he specifically wanted to reform the Catholic Church. That's right. And once again, meaning does not mean application. The author David. Now that word woman is not like woman, you know, like how we use it. I was saved from a very unhealthy church. This idea that there's this privileged class of priests, for instance, he was saying that's not biblical because Peter says in his epistle that He was a nice guy. Good maybe even a Methodist church. Please give me a new heart. Because at least the Pharisees are operating on the same hermeneutical plane of existence You have like LGBTQ plus ABCD FGE flags flying everywhere I mean you could swear this was written by John Gresham Machin against liberal Christianity today. If you go to the Bible itself and let meaning singularly, factually, objectively be interpreted, you won't get Catholic teaching. Normal use of language, not a mystical art. That's not controversial. And of course, if the reader gets to control the meaning, what do you get out of interpretation? Maximum individual liberty is found nowhere in the Bible. There's very difficult parts of it, you know, it's I don't y it means something to you, means something to who knows what it means Whereas you have other translations like the English Standard Version, the NASB, the KGV as well Put your faith in God. If you go straight to Scripture itself, you will never see Mary being called the Queen of Heaven I I still think it's possible that there's enough of the gospel embedded in some Catholic churches that people can be saved in spite of their Catholicism. Right? Not a trick question, by the way. But historical hermeneutic means it's the Bible's real, right? They read the Constitution according to what the author intended to mean. It's actually very easy breaking down the history of the different schools of interpretation. Do not mourn or weep, for all the people wept as they heard the words of the law. In other words, meaning was singular. Alright, let's think on this exchange very carefully and see what it tells us about biblical hermeneutics. I don't know what that says about my Phariseaism, right? 100% both though. But the fourfold interpretation in its most sophisticated sense becomes um Did God really say? Even the apostles, who were inspired authors of scripture, by the way, they had personal flaws, like Peter He wrote it specifically from elite to elite, saying, let's have this conversation between us And the theological liberals twist that, close that door, condemn men and women to hell with their teaching Yeah, I misspoke there. Yeah. But apparently everybody was able to understand scripture in a singular, unified fashion. You know what's shocking about this passage? But that's exactly what happened after the apostles, and by the mid second century you get what's known as the School of Alexandria. Uh uh Martin Luther was the same way. , it helps you uncover meaning, right? No one comes to the Father except through me. Yeah. Just use your imagination to make the Bible mean whatever you want it to mean. And I think uh a good passage to see that It may be very hard. Well let's see what they talk about handling the Word of God Read scripture normally. But they couldn't quite let go of some other very traditions that apparently they held very dear, like baptizing their infants. And that day the Catholic Church was very powerful politically. That's our stream of faith, starting with the apostles, basically just letting scripture speak for itself. Under fiction or nonfiction? And then the evidence also helps. You have depictions of real places and historical figures. So I take back what I said earlier That's why I need to keep growing in my theological understanding, and you guys do as well. Uh Nehemiah had to, and Ezra had to help remind the Israelites Okay? So there might be genuinely safe Catholics out there. Yeah. And then he goes, Nay, would I say, um, you know, those are blessed who free will God do it. The other thing is uh I was stating how the Jehovah's Witnesses in their translation of the Bible, I forget the version name He's just he's someone that comes from the lineage of David. There's so much flavor and diversity Oh, this person believes this about baptism, you shouldn't baptize babies, this person says you do. Well the school of Antioch was that uh voice of the wilderness in that time period when Alexandrian way of thinking was dominating It was coined by Carl A. So again, it speaks to the fact that the word Jesus was with God the entire time, is God, really. So in every other form of communication, we always let the author I can do whatever I want. Even the Pharisees understood, yep, meaning's controlled by the author. That was once a stalwart of the faith. Doges is you know, people think that was like an antiquated, old, corrupt version of the Catholic Church. We condemn ourselves because we do we do historical grammatical hermeneutics every day, every moment. Like what do we regard them as? Let it stay as it is and you work with that to interpret, okay? And non-Christians, we discovered last week, can intellectually understand the meaning of the Bible We don't want to submit. And the nailing of the feces on the door of uh Wittenberg, I think. It actually happens, right? So that's why uh politically, um, even though I have a lot of superficial overlaps with what's known as And uh the Pharisees tried to trick Jesus. You know, this is Corban, I can't give you my money When and that's a very easy trap to fall into even today, even knowing the word of God and trying to apply historical, grammatical, herman We don't like having a lord over us Now, there's something very relevant to our class interpreting scripture about this reaction. Now while the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them a question, saying, What do you think about the Christ? And it arose, notice, not immediately after the Apostles. There's so much Christian liberty, in other words. If you have a bunch of Catholics that think like the current Pope is a false Pope Uh when it's offered again, I highly commend you guys take it. That's the attitude. He was an adulterer. And any earnest religionist They just even though the Bible says that somehow we just Also the Holy Spirit. It's not singular. The more imaginative, the better. Somebody's preaching the truth. Let's define it. We're gonna use things like setting and author and purpose. Yeah. You know, like not blessed is the people will be blessed if she believes I'll be reading again from the English Standard Version, which is my preference. Do you notice that? If I show you what David meant to say in Psalm 110. Okay, and that leads us to where things started going wrong. You see that continuity throughout uh world history. But the truth of the matter is, if you go to their formal documents, okay So you see that wedge Yeah. And wasn't that the whole Protestant Reformation? Yeah. They use a lot of the same labels. And of course we have to start with the biblical authors themselves. Yep. Doctrine. Reader-controlled hermeneutics continues under the Roman Catholic Church. The Catholic Church has to do that because they have so many unbiblical doctrines that they espouse that can only make sense If you understand the cultural background. That's not something unique to our Protestant, you know, church, Hope Bible church. Like you don't have access to someone's mind. So if you let the author, if you let the And then you have this crazy allegorical sense. This isn't some super, you know, Ivy League, Ivory Tower kind of conclusion But we know that's not the case. That is impossible because that is a matter of salvation. But the ESV in Nehemiah chapter 8, well, let's first establish the context Oh no. He said to them, How is it then But it's a hundred percent written by the Holy Spirit. Did God actually say this or did he actually mean that, Eve? And you have Martin Luther here But he was citing as one of his examples for why Islam is true, saying, Look at your Bible. It has to be conscious because if you try to tr say, you try to do a bait and switch and say, oh yeah, I agree with you. It's an attitude of pride. So the Israelites in exile apparently And Jesus was trying to get to the point that it's actually Moore, this son of David that fulfills this Davidic covenant in 2 Samuel seven. And let me state this. And this is what Jesus says about traditions. That's all I have for today. 18-21 shows us, we know God's real, we know his revelation, his law is written in our hearts, we know how we ought to live. And a lot of people conflate the two, um, but they are technically separate. There's something inside of me that always desires to reject you. There's poetry in the Bible, there's metaphors, there's illustrations Make sense? Countless students of scripture have played tricks with the plain sense of the Bible and want to rob it of any meaning it contains But you say, If a man tells his father or his mother, Whatever you would have gained from me is Corban, that is Those are all basically just stolen from the Bible. Of course the Constitution itself is not scripture. That should always be our guiding principle, right? It means uh the Bible's written both by the human author, but then there's also inspiration from the Holy Spirit, God Himself. I mean they just burned at the state for speaking truth. They'll say, Okay, there's a personal God out there. What's interesting about what the Israelites did? The church is always this invisible universal force of every true believer, no matter the denomination or the seminary You might have to mine through a lot of coal to find that diamond So the truth is somewhere. And I love this next quote by Theodore of Mapsusia because you could That's what it all revolves around. I don't know. It's a matter of fact, it's not a matter of subjectivity or each individual person's opinion That is one of our fundamental identities as Christians. And that's how we should regard our scripture. It's not a 50-50 thing. Yeah. And that leads us to the antithesis. That's the best you'll get to, right? And that lacks the element of mythology. That's a good catch. But um I think what we believe is the word then we could go to that scripture first John What are the three sources of meaning in other words? You see? These are not attributes that are given merely to a man Saying, the Lord said to my Lord, Right? Uh what I mean by that is people that like to be creative, right? It's not by all these works and what you referred to earlier, if you pay alms and so forth. Ha ha ha ha. Okay? It says it right there, yeah. Or you have authoritarianism or, you know, cont You cannot go to Put it that way, you know? All of our most And we're right now in a generation where people forgot our moorings, even the conservatives, they completely forgot what it means to be conservative, what they're trying to conserve. They realize sin. They're crying. You know what I love about this passage? David's not going to write the way Nehemiah writes I'm a musician and You know, they actually believe that salvation is only by God's grace alone. Your individual Catholic friend who you swear is a believer, I'll just take your word for it. We must everywhere stick to the simple I don't go I don't come from a Methodist background. For your life though, personally. Alright, so that's Nehemiah. And this is in Matthew 22, once again setting up the context. God made us creative. It's nothing new So again that goes back to that fancy term we used in the second lesson, I think, called divine concursus. You do not have anything to add to God's word. It helps cement that faith. Yeah. Anyone have any idea Uh look at verse 43. So something went wrong in his assumptions. He was in the beginning with God. However And it states as follows, starting with verse 8. He wanted to reform it. Okay We've been sinning this whole time. And that is the fact that Nehemiah and Ezra apparently And no one was able to answer him a word. Okay? It happened before with You were destroying the sense of scripture and you were keeping from people the keys to heaven, the keys to life You see Mary trying to impose upon her son at the wedding in Cana That's that's already a huge radical departure. Yeah. G. You see how highly Nehemiah and Ezra, the biblical authors, in other words, regarded the Bible So Read it like you would normally read anything else So what do you think it means? He tried to cover up his adultery by killing the husband of the wife he slept with. That is why Martin Luther says that Christians can be thought of simultaneously saints and sinners So it's all about salvation by grace, not works I'm king to fulfill every letter, every the jot and tittle was like the smallest little vowel point basically in the Hebrew alphabet. Thomas, right? It's it doesn't disappear, right? And I'll be the first to admit there are stuff that I inconsistently use a historical grammatical hermeneutic on. We've got five minutes if you have comments or questions. Because meaning is objective And uh I think this is important because But an attitude of submission says, I'm not in charge, I'm not the king of my life, I don't get to own my life, I didn't create myself. So but the Jews, the Pharisees give the standard answer, son of David, not wrong, just incomplete. This comes up a lot every time I get to this lesson, whenever I teach this class. Did you guys know indulgences are still active? Again, not a trick question. And that becomes subjective. And then we're going to define this uh very technical sounding term It's an attitude of saying, I am the ultimate. You know what's really interesting? So, you know, they would think like a human would. Very courageous. You know, we're their parents. Keel. I knew it as I was saying that sentence, I was like, I misspoke. In some mystical format, the text itself can become kind of a living document or something. Remember how we said the first step is you want to pray. It does. The whole world is drowning. Well I was talking to them, um I I'm interested, like they come to my door and I just kinda had a conversation Okay, let's continue. This is a very old hermeneutic, a very old way of interpreting the Bible. You have to obey the Lord God, and if you violate this constitution I've given you, this covenant And I think from a secular non-believing standpoint, it's kind of attractive how creative and That's So, uh in closing, let me just emphasize something I said in the first week again. All things were made through him. Are they happy or sad? And we can all be one happy family and everyone gets to go to heaven, right? The literal sense of a text is It's making up in the fables, calling them allegories. So you you're only half wrong if that's what you guessed. So the Catholics are one scripture that Once you find out what a text means, how it's interpreted I concede that point. Just read it as you would read anything else. And it all starts with an assumption that the Bible is real. Yeah, she said we go by the King James too, but she did have her own little Bible. But we're going to define what this jargon means. Did you have like 25% of the population crying But Jesus thought that meaning had to come from what the author meant to say. So every time you encounter some verse in the Bible, Origen taught that you should look for three different types of meaning. This is nothing other than what the author intended to say, what actually historically happened That's the aspect of meaning that reveals why the passage was written Okay. How does Jesus handle the Bible? According to a saying of the fathers, sacred scripture is written principally He was not there to like And uh where does true meaning come from of those three sources? God wants all believers in all times to do what he says Does that make sense Yeah. God made us all different and we all have different senses and preferences. I think it's possible. God used him mightily flaw imperfect like everybody Again, archaeology, generation after generation, just keeps And the intention of the author It just means like lady is another way to say it. He says, Mary, lady, what does that have to do with me? Martin Luther was saying, no, you should have direct access to the Bible itself. It was a polygamist. I asked that leading question earlier. That was his original vision We just don't always apply it the same way. Exactly right. I think this is a very hopeful, you know, text that shows us what a great people we were It can't just be a descendant, a mere human descendant of David, right And just naturally over time it just starts becoming more and more corrupt. Men and women could. And if you actually go back and look at the committee, they weren't Greek experts, they weren't Hebrew experts And I said, Well if you go by the King James Version, live up the scripture right here that We all have a master. It was objective. So the key figure here in the stick photo is origin. Christianity, you know, people think non-believers think it's all about these restricting rules That was like a big big uh Non fiction. You know, makes you uh very confident And uh I think I stated this in the t uh class already, but in a sense, I think personalities like myself But evidence itself does not turn someone into a Christian. Right. All things were made through him. Every word, every letter matters He tried to ask him a tricky question, right? Uh okay, let's continue So if you read the Bible with a historical mindset I believe the Bible because they read just like me That is our natural disposition. You can read it however you want. There are something called phrase-for-phrase or thought-for-thought translations You should be as creative as you'd like to be What's the opposite of history? We're not God. That's why we're here, right? That's how we know that the Bible has no mistakes in it. There is plenty of archaeological evidence for the Bible's veracity I know there's a lot of bad ones too But that doesn't mean that that's the apple It's just the biblical hermeneutic. You know what I love about verse 46? In a less funny example, they'll take something like John fourteen six There's no eternal church here on this earth. So you might think of a family member or a coworker They have to come to church with us That's gonna be for your son, right? That word was in the Greek means N, and apparently grammatically it means continually in existence. They're sad, right? I'm not speaking to them. What is a historical hermeneutic? But that's where it comes from. Here is the one life raft By definition means he transcends all creatures, all creation. But um yeah, that's a good point. That's allegorical. This is always a sad uh state of church history. They didn't need to have it interpreted so that they would follow the laws of Catholicism This is real stuff. He's he's real I I think I shared this already, but I had a Muslim friend who uh Salvation is a gift. This idea of self recovering salvation by faith alone And we're gonna do it confidently, knowing it's gonna help us understand meaning because the Bible is real history. That's a very serious accusation to make So you don't see mythology in the Bible Because there's nothing new in Christianity. No one gets to control their own fate or destiny or life. I don't have anything to say to that So we know that And it's not allegorical, which means fanciful, mythological You get subjectivism, you get plurality of meaning, and you get allegorical. They are They try to come up with a term that's as descriptive and helpful as possible You do that in our day-to-day life and your conversation with your friends and family. So there's also a deeper moral teaching Jesus did, by the way, but we're not So they're doing the work of exegesis. If you go to Mark 7 You can put abortion in there, whatever, right? It's very confusing. Now let's go to Jesus They both seem like they're making a lot of sense I'm not speaking about your grandmother or whatever There's only two types of hermeneutics, and it is either Now why did I underline verse 9 here? You could get into a lot of trouble. How does Jesus interpret Yeah. We don't apply it consistently. Right. They completely lost what it means to obey Okay? Be consistent. Think of it that way. And I know the Holy Spirit also wrote it So that's that's where the subtlety lies. So we're going to show that through history. I am the one that gets to control my own life. So that's another thing that church history teaches us Hopefully that helps you. And then oops, we discovered all these artifacts. It's not like gobbledygook when they when they read scripture. God does not need your help. Why would it Martin with their It's not earned. David wrote Psalm 110 as a result of his theological training. It it's a gentle but it is an arm's length kind of declaration. There's a lot of unlearning you have to do when you go to scripture itself Yeah. Um so it's just It's never formally denounced. Yeah I think that is why we see a lot of that similar hermeneutical battle. You probably had some people that were very very educated, right You know, all your heroes have all these terrible, like terrible deeds. It looks kind of intimidating, but it isn't So for instance, John Calvin, the great John Calvin, I love John Calvin. And I get it from a personal perspective, right? He is doing battle, intellectual battle, with his opponents, the Pharisees. But he was mixing up I remember meeting a friend of mine who was a Hindu Okay? I think that's a great reminder of that Historical hermeneutic means the Bible is real, it happened to real people. Meaning was clearly objective, right? Pray for wisdom. That's right Um but they also believe I don't know them. The ramifications can be catastrophic, right? It's inerrant. Yeah. It's not about how smart you are, how high your IQ is. You guys want to take a guess? First and foremost How did the Pharisees respond? That's why some of us baptize our kids and some of us don't. It matters what kind of branches you're bringing. It's a nice thought. This person, this individual Catholic, they just Right? They're helping them interpret, right? Yeah. He does not need my help So that was also an affront to the Catholic Church. Every Bible believing Christian claims to use his Meaning is controlled by the author That could be true And you know what it is? But in any human institution Whoever we're talking to, whatever book we're reading. That's because We're not autonomous, in other words. I think that ends the argument right there. And I don't think that was King James We offer some good classes. It contains a uh meaning of its own. Whose son is he? Anyone remember what divine concursus means? And God will answer that prayer. So that is why they have to put that in their catechism. It's still within Catholic doctrine. Uh we we do uh I guess it existed, right? Yeah. Yeah. But uh So that's the goal here. Yeah. We all do.