At the end of every verse that you handle and interpret, there's a little more knowledge God has given you. Now we also know through Divine Concursus you have individual human authors that are different, so you've got to balance both perspectives. I mean if any of you guys study any of the false religions out there, one of the hallmarks of every false religious belief is contradictions abound everywhere. They they truly believe to the to their death what they saw. You're trying to understand the question you're trying to answer at the beginning of this exercise, your your exegesis exercise, is what did James say? Paul uses the word justified. He didn't literally know, you know, Jesus' time and birth. These are the hard passages that, oh, I understand you'll have trouble with this one. At the beginning you're going to say I'm going to go in with a bias. The world is progressively getting less deceived by Satan through the worldwide preaching of the gospel and the expansion of Christ's church. That's snuck in through the analogy of faith. I mean Kim Rod Rudelbarger he he's very closely aligned with us otherwise. What about China? So a lot of what are known as evangelical feminists who believe in a very strict uh what's known as egalitarianism, it sounds good That's the logical extreme of their thinking. It's the same thing with the Trinity, same thing with uh in the family. They m they write entire PhD papers and theses about how 1 Corinthians 11 was so confusing. I don't agree with everything Wing Grudham says. They are what are known as confessional or confession-driven denominations. So let me use that clear passage that touches on the family dynamic and use that to help me understand this passage that is unclear to me. You know, it's one cohesive whole. You're not you're not thinking of John MacArthur's church from way across the continent, you see? You should be thinking of your pastors, your Sunday school teachers, your deacons, your fellow small group members. And that often takes the form of books, seminaries, podcasts, other pastors and teachers, commentaries. And as it turns out, a lot of these institutions and people have their own personal list of commentaries that they like to turn to or they say you should prioritize buying first. In fact, John says, if we say we have fellowship with him, if you say you're a Christian, but then you persistently walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice. So don't get too hung up on the conclusions. So that's the first puzzle. In this immediate passage in verse 2, sons of God, the fact that that phrase is distinguished from daughters of man tells me these sons of God, these males, are not humans. You have daughters of man, distinguished from sons of God. Why why am I immediately saying that it can't be that? So it's like, what about these demonic human hybrids? But I think the Nephilim is just a historical point to show us around when this stuff was happening. Okay. Scripture harmonizes scripture, right? It's Pastor Gabe, Pastor Allen. The Holy Spirit is the one that gave you those desires and the energy that you need to do all those things, but you still also as a person have to seek to do it. Just put aside biases of what you think is too fantastic or too crazy to think about. Yeah. uh you know that that may have a set a different meaning in in those days to something like okay these these individuals were actually Hold on though guys. Is it a sidebar? the specifics are but you can look at the recording and the slides from last class. So that means all the passages that are related to whatever passage you're dealing with, they should harmonize. Just make sure you're not making a lot of the obvious mistakes that a lot of people make and we don't have time to go through uh what Scripture in fact always interpret scripture because once again who's the one divine author of all of Scripture? So the clear passages, it's helpful to keep in mind that we can use that to shed light on the unclear passages because again, all scripture should be harmonized. I'm sure you do that probably just all the time in your Christian life. To which you will do well to pay attention as to a lamp shining in a dark place until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts Transfiguration. In other words, I would say going back to uh the topic at hand, hermeneutics that we're dealing with, the fact that the analogy of faith works on this document Now, he says more fully confirmed. this holy bible, that in itself y you really have to consider it. But when you get to the verification part, when you get to the analogy of faith and you check with other passages, they contradict, something went wrong in your interpretation, because you don't get to impose your interpretation on the Bible. So you can use stuff like the analogy of faith. You don't have that in the Bible. you know, I'm not worthy to be crucified as a manner of my Lord. before you jump to other passages of scripture. uh scriptures. you you can't get interpretation that way. to do it after you first come up with an idea of I think this verse in this book means this. Skipping genres you might not even notice. He was actually a Christian. God will permanently put the Holy Spirit never to take it away as a seal of salvation in the future. And then the opposite's also true. Oh, I gotta use the analogy of faith here. Uh a millennialism is this belief uh that the millennium kingdom, this one thousand-year kingdom, uh in Revelation chapter twenty, it's not a literal one thousand But Kim Biddelbarger, our brother, genuine brother in the Lord, who I've learned a lot from, you know, I read a lot of his stuff, he states in a case for amillennialism you know, other biblical texts. damn those yeah you can tell the weather, you can tell this and that, but you can't tell the size of the times. It's al always also way too like American centric perspective. They're very comfortable in a particular tradition that they grew up in, their parents grew up in, you know. Yeah. I think Kim um uses this um analogy of faith because he's already coming from a bias of the symbolic. And the head of a wife is her husband. Does not mean the husband gets to like be the wife's slave master or the wife has to just be a doormat or the wife is somehow inferior. A lot of you guys probably are employees, not employees. Um, that's just to say that men made men to be men, women to be women, cheetahs are cheetahs, elephants are elephants, you know, like we're we're not different species, but you know what I'm saying. There is no Jew nor Greek. And in this case it it's the same author. Catechism, Westminster Confession of Faith, 1689, London Baptist Confession. Some passages are clear to you, some passages are unclear to others. And this is our primary earthly resource for spiritual help and instruction. First Corinthians twelve where Paul talks about we're one body, many members, and we need other members just like the organ needs the uh the stomach needs the liver, the eyes need the hands. So even traditions that I do appreciate. And maybe less uh uh of uh connection with our pastors on a regular basis because that commentates on the entire Bible. These these books in our libraries up next to us, our pastors probably down the street. the leadership, right? some theology that you believe just because your Sunday school teacher told it to you, right? According to my convictions, these are uh a list of uh institutions and people that I find myself aligning pretty well with Um I'm not I'm use I'm not using that term in a negative sense. Let's end the historical grammatical hermeneutic with prayerful application, because you just got a lot more knowledge now, like I said at the beginning of the class Now God is holding you to greater account. In fact, Romans says, while we were still enemies, God just chose to love us. the truth. The helper, the Holy Spirit, He will teach you all things, bring to your remembrance the things I have said to you. We've got several here if we had the original 13 weeks, but I think we're gonna have to pick and choose. The Judge Jephthah, who may or may not have burned his daughter alive as a burnt offering. Alright. Of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually, and the Lord regretted that he had made man on the earth. that was sticking out to me as uh the chapter before is talking about Adam's to Noah. the sons of God is why they're called sons of God, because this is like this godly, like believing line of Sethites. Something I said, remember when we were talking about context and um analogy effect those concentric circles again. Genealogy. the the whole unequally yoke. I'm disinclined to read the sons of God as anything other than, okay, this is some supernatural being from the heavenly, godly realm. You know, instead of giving careful thought to marriage and only marrying with other believers, right, not intermingling with not being unequally yoked, they were just It it may lend some clear you know, it may c lend some cle clarity to what what's trying to be said here. of a different spiritual realm as opposed to uh the carnal realm. You're you're thinking that's that's a future commandment. Yeah, Jesus does uh cite Genesis uh um uh one or two where it says Manshall the Yokim passage two, I think. the cheating a little bit of a previous class and when you taught we were going over the same thing. of God and you try to figure out okay who are the sons of God. But, you know, I do the exact same thing as you guys. Verses one to two, daughters of men are born to men. On the one hand, I think this passage, the sons of God are clearly human men, based on this evidence. They existed before and after the marriage between the sons of God and daughters of man. w we're gonna see in Jude there are some the demons that did this, they're imprisoned in uh the abyss. Are they just like what are these supernatural I think they're demons. We don't know the mechanisms of how these things happen. It's real, it happens all the time. So I think this is simultaneously a union with demons and with evil men. I would say it must be some quality of possession that we don't see today. Genetic splicing. So I I use very little context. All right, because of uh I just realized while kind of reviewing my notes yesterday we had that snow week, that snow day So we're going to try to go through as quickly as possible the last bit of our our double checking tools, verification is what we're on, step 10 or tool 10. the book level and you're now finally going to other books of the Bible to double check your work and make sure you didn't you know accidentally come up with any heresy. speaking about the same topic or the same doctrine and use the passage that we understand more clearly to shed light on the passage that we're struggling with that seems a little less clear. It's pretty simple concept, right? gave this away a moment ago again because the Bible is not only one hundred percent written by the human authors also written by God. You would think that would be a pretty confirming moment of your faith and think, I'm never going to doubt God's existence again. Yet Peter says more amazing and more confirming of your faith is your Bible. uh Jesus did. And now he's going to explain the qualities of this prophetic word, the Bible that you're holding. Contradictions are part of our faith. Theoretically, if we're perfect. But again, I think uh y y I keep using the analogy of like a lot of people just look for the same word repeated and it's always the English word repeated throughout scripture and they play like a connect the dot kind of exegesis game. So absolute concordances are useful. They should be teaching the same doctrine at the end of the day. the same way between the two authors. The analogy of faith should not be used until you're doing a double check. And the question you guys should have been immediately asking yourself is, where in the Bible does it say these are the clear passages and these are the difficult passages? Just deal with the passage in its context and then use the other books of the Bible as a double check. I think this passage aligns with what I want to believe, what I want to see. reign of Jesus sitting on the throne of David on earth. so far. Excuse me. But Kim Riddlebarger and a lot of uh folks in his theological camp, they immediately reach for the analogy of faith at the beginning of their interpretive process. Before even handling Jeremiah by itself or Revelation by itself, they immediately say, before I even try to deal with John in Revelation, I'm going to bring in what I already know about these other passages. And that's where biases sneak in. Texts that speak of last things must therefore be interpreted by other biblical passages. That's that's another hallmark of a lot of cults is they purposely write riddles. Does that make sense? It's Jesus reigning, you know, as the superpower nation in Israel. But do you remember our default? And uh there's a lot of principles in there that, you know, nobody disagrees with. just physically clear looking at men and women, but uh it it's the same when it comes to just roles and functions. Even in function and ex and what we do in the church and in the family, men can breastfeed apparently or whatever. of complementarianism. Just be you know, Christ and you know, the Son and the Father and the Holy Spirit, they have different functions, but they're all God, right? Now, I don't know about you. This passage isn't being used correctly. And now, using the analogy of faith, scripture harmonizes scripture. Um and they tried to say, well we gotta use clear scripture to to deal with these unclear passages. A lot of people they elevate their creeds and confessions of their denomination to the same level of authority as scripture, and they actually apply the analogy of faith These are good extra biblical resources by non-inspired brothers and sisters sometimes that can supplement. And uh when Paul and the apostles speak about the importance of the local church and this one body with many parts, you have to under keep in mind, he was primarily thinking of a local church. Uh Hebrews 13, again, you have passages that speak about obeying your leaders. prioritization correctly, there are theological specialists is the way I like to think of it. Here are some resources I recommend. Distinct theological conviction. life, like whose authority is actually over their head. Um, these are some I like MacArthur Bible commentaries, probably closest in terms of theological distinctions to our church. Commentaries. to do is for example, if we understand for example what the the document and what hope teaches, we could use that as a reference. We don't impose uniformity of opinion, right? But uh yeah, just just keep in mind that the these are the theological distinctions we're gonna teach. recognizing that these are pastors and you know if you have disagreements respectfully disagree but you know don't don't be takeheaded about it things like that. So I start with those lists. being gracious and choosing to love you for some reason. Now an application an application itself, just like our salvation, is still 100% the work of the Holy Spirit. Becoming more like Christ, that's all that word means. However, remember the the ultimate point of this is, oh what did I do here? Um and the rest of you guys. The recordings RD recordings are always they're on the files, aren't they? When the sons of God came into the daughters of man and they bore children to them. And it grieved him to his heart. Uh a lot of commentators note that very beginning, right after Cain kills his uh brother Abel, you start to see a very clear divergence. And uh, you know, things of that sort. your immediate book and go to other books to get help. is we like to stay in the circle as much as possible, but for the really hard ones, we kind of have to jump out immediately. Another part of the reason you guys might be struggling is you have preconceived ideas of what's too fantastic or too crazy to think about. Now that's one piece of the puzzle. So that's another hint to me, that's another piece of evidence that I would put into my initial interpretation that okay, these sons of God, they can't just be human men. the the concept of man and woman you know combining to make children is a common concept. I'm just looking at both sides of things and start off there. Whatever happens about this union, verse 3, the passage seems to be indicating that God is not happy with it. Like maybe demonic hybrid quality, you would focus on the first half of first due. The godly line assessed argument is, no, that's not the po that's not the problem. choosing whoever like looked hot or whatever, right? Man until acts. Yeah, that's there's a lot in this passage we can unpack. Um what about the demons? place. All right, uh we're running out of time. It's men that are punished as a result. So there's no s discussion of some demonic human hybrid or anything. I do not believe the Nephilim are the sons of God or the offspring of the sons of God. So I think this is a this is just a historical point. Right? Okay. Sons of God are defined as angels in Job. So there's a slew of evidence that show that the sons of God are just human men. uh basically demonic possession. Hebrew as to what the subject is. Okay, now let's finish off verification and applying what we just learned. passage by different human authors that might be spoken in their own particular way of thinking, in their own flavor. It says in 2 Peter 1 verses 19 to 21, Peter says, we have the prophetic word more fully confirmed. For no prophecy was ever produced by the will of man, but men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit. uh that Muslim scholars actually bake into their theology a doctrine called abrogation. No prophecy of scripture comes from someone's own interpretation. This is the greatest miracle, the greatest confirmation that God is real and our faith is real and we can trust in Jesus Christ. It just in my mind it verifies He believed it. Starting with comparisons to other passages of Scripture is where our biases can sneak in. I'm getting that uh you don't want to switch to other authors. The analogy of faith should be used last to double check. I I do that as well. Okay, does that make sense? So a lot of run-ins you can have in with analogy of faith, uh bringing that into early canonical location is often ignored. He purposely revealed books of the Bible one at a time. the list of clear passages to help me unstuck my unclear passages that I'm struggling with, right? drive and control, I would argue a lot of times mutate the meaning of these unclear passages. If you're a fleshly human being, all of us are all of us here, you have that particular pet sin you want to keep holding on to, this this pet sinful doctrine, right, that you want to believe, maybe because of your tradition, gives you comfort or whatever. proof texts that I think are on my team, you know, align with my interests. Right? So Kim Riddlebarger, our brother Kim Riddleger, is he is a guy, by the way. Literally bind Satan in the abyss. This refers to the importance of interpreting an unclear biblical text in light of clear passages. So that's that's the tricky part. I think we think John wrote Revelation in a clear manner, he meant to be understood. And he uh misuses the analogy of faith in this manner. We think that when John wrote Revelation, he meant revelation to be understood as revelation. uh like appearance of um you know virtue but the truth of the matter is every single book in the bible is written to be oops to be understood. Based on his erroneous presupposition, the thousand-year reign of Christ on earth, once again from Revelation 20, is an allegorical period in the present. is happening right now. Obviously he doesn't use the signs of the times. it it sure in my mind would would negate his belief that this is a progressively bound situation. So this idea that you have to immediately go in with assumptions that you're bringing in from what you think are your clear set of passages, that is where a lot of biases can sneak in. Through the vehicle of the analogy of faith, through its abuse I would say, you get these weird assumptions that I think I we have to be living in the millennium today, I don't know what to do about this sudden binding of Satan, so I'm gonna just sneak in this progressively there. Gotta gotta be it's not handling uh the signs of the times properly, yeah. Yeah, tradition doesn't cut it. But unlike feminism, our church teaches what is known as complementarianism, that even though women are the exact same when it comes to worth, dignity, you know, spiritual capacity, all that stuff, we're all fellow humans Well, evangelical feminists, uh, they don't believe that. Because there is a little wiggle room here to twist it to make it sound like, oh, egalitarianism. superimpose it on 1 Corinthians 11 and mutate it to say, oh, the head of a wife is her husband. You see what evangelical feminism d does? But I think both passages are perfectly clear. This passage I'm having a hard time with, but this passage maybe I was taught really well by Pastor Gabe or something. supplemental theological resources to me. to like the sixteen eighty nine London Baptist Confession or something. Um that is uh actually blasphemy. likely did not mean for their creeds and confessions to be used in that manner either. So even as uh good old Protestant evangelicals, a lot of these confessions we hold very highly. Before trains, planes, okay? Reformation Study Bible is good too. you know, before we go to the commentaries. Um yeah, and I think on in the slide deck uh you have the yeah, you have the URL though there if you want to see it. chooses to love you and hold on to you, and John 6 says those that the Father gave to the Son he'll never lose. About the sons of God coming into the daughters of man and the Nephilim or these half dem demonic hybrids. When man began to multiply on the face of the land, and daughters were born to them, okay, so far so good. histor uh historical grammatical hermeneitical tools. between this line of Cain that are just full of really wicked guys. So some people think maybe that's the context guiding Genesis six is there is this godly line. There is a temptation we almost sometimes feel like an inevitability where we have to immediately start jumping out of leap out of Genesis six a little sooner than you may be ought to. And I I don't I don't say demons yet, but I'm just saying this something supernatural happening here. wordplay it differently yeah than what we already know is nor normal mm-hmm unless there's a su there's a different meaning there too. Yeah. to speak to uh the virtue of marriage and um why you gotta be careful about who you marry. The Bible talks about how they've been bound in Revelation it's talking about they're not gonna be released. Ignore that part. Exactly. But this is how I would approach or how I approached this passage. Pretend that already took place. And it is in response to the sons of God marriage, God punishes human men. We get this idea that the sons of God are human men. And it is in response to the Sons of God marriage. But I am emphasizing more the sons of God, daughters of men were attractive and it is actually the um the the union, the marriage part However, I also think this passage teaches, like I said earlier, I showed this slide already, I think, the sons of God are also supernatural beings. Because the sons of God, once again, in the immediate section, they are distinct from daughters of men. Which produced mighty and famous men. Okay, we have to go through the rest of these really fast. I believe what we see happening in Genesis 6 is that very early in human history, human women were simultaneously in union with supernatural beings and evil men. Uh demon possession still happens. So you can simultaneously say this was some kind of demonic marriage with women, but at the same time they were still humans. And the analogy of faith is useful because if all scripture ought to harmonize, what we can do when we run into trouble, what we can do to double check our work, is we can take a passage, two passages that are kind of we think And I'm not saying egg uh hopefully let me just emphasize, I'm not saying ignore other passages of scripture. using my clear passages. You you go widely astray. This very subtle assumption that you use the analogy of faith at the beginning as an interpretation. with a presupposition and then everything's kind of based on that. Men are not women, right? And this is what Jesus thought about traditions. uh the strict chronological sequence of events. Like uh you know, there there's some folks out there that like uh you know, my pastor taught me so and so, but you know, John MacArthur said, you know, that's always like the rebuttal and you can kinda start t telling like who's more important in that person's Again, not inspired from scripture. you know, purposely from some theological perspective that I don't agree with in order to kinda expand my mind or whatever. Hopefully that leaves a gives you a good idea of maybe where to go because I know a lot of people wonder like what commentary to reach for. Yeah. Okay, so men are human humanity is starting to populate the earth. What's happening in this passage? Uh what what is the scripture you guys could help me out where it's where it says it talks about how they gave up their heavenly realm? I'm going to make an argument that if you just use the immediate context of verse 2 itself, I believe this passage on its initial first flesh. between these males and females. Based on the flow of this narrative, right, that's another thing to keep in mind. maybe we may have a tendency to the re to relate the Holy Spirit to that message. And uh we saw last week uh a list of some common fallacies. that Moses, when he only had a handful of, you know, Bible books that he was writing, right? The answer is there is no such distinction. And he imposes that whenever he handles passages like Revelation 20 that I think are very clear, that this has to be taken literally. But um you know but they uh I I think uh if I had to guess, a lot of folks like uh Kim Riddlebar, they they come from their denominational tradition Because, as 1 John says, genuine faith, if you're genuinely saved, you will automatically have a heart, a changed heart, that seeks to now apply and obey God's word. Right? And they took as their wives any they chose. Man and animals and creeping things and birds of the heavens, for I am sorry that I have made them. Who are the sons of God that take as wives the daughters of man? the people that are in the heavenly realm. word study. And that's what we're kind of relating to this. This is a supernatural union. Um going with the idea of if it was genealogy of that the aspect of you know here we're told not to be unequally clear, not to be unequally, you know That's the argument. Bringing bringing what you think is too ridiculous so you're it can't be that, right? There is no like uh discussion of I'm going to punish these human demon hybrids, right? Sons of God uniformly as well produce famous and powerful men. Um yeah, I hope I hope this is kinda helpful. Alright, let's move on to finally what is known as the analogy of faith. you know, leathery skinned guys and they just you know, they took it to their death. Oh gosh, I've never heard that term before. And that's should be obvious because different human authors use their words. Uh and books with different genres use different rules of interpretation, right? These were the mighty men who were of old, the men of renown. These are not actually flesh and blood per se. To get an initial interpretation of what we think the sons of God are, who who we believe the sons of God are. And uh therefore the question now is what is he not happy with? I mean it's not like they was they just went and got the wrong people. It was during the time of the Nephilim, right? But let me just note one thing though. And from where he came, you know. Interesting. What will you tend to do when it comes to defining clear and unclear passages? I make any passage that I don't like that speaks a little too close to home. Yeah. I sympathize with that. Alright, the next verification tool. Are they the godly line of Seth? Yeah, and it's it end of chapter four. The one caveat, the one asterisk I would add to my commendation to stay within the whole book as much as you can is when it comes to the really difficult passages of scripture For the females. is whatever this union is, let's put aside for a moment what what is being unioned, what kind of male and what kind of females we're working with. Yeah, so that's that's w that would be one of the interpretive schools of thought we might, you know come to, yeah. Analogy of faith applies to scripture. Even that desire to participate and go to church, say in the word, get accountability for your sins, confess your sins, all these kind of thing things, excuse me. Okay, let's go to Genesis six. procreation is normal. And I knew people would disagree, and that's why I said don't get hung up on the conclusion on just showing how to use research. Yeah, the transfiguration. No, it's okay. Some of the hardest passages of scripture. And there's also a name given to them. uh took as their wives any they chose. There there's a lot of features about this passage that makes it very good. In fact, in 2 Peter, just to prove this point with uh um more conviction, scripture itself says though, itself testifies That's what can happen when you bring the analogy of faith in too early. He's interpreting, right? But just keep in mind, like Alan Plumley is your pastor, it's it's not, you know, these commentators, William Hendrickson or whatever. Truth must be practiced. Okay. So are you saying that the supernatural beings are they um like godly believers or or So what is the benefit of a chain reference? Oh actually there is a big disagreement and it's the underlying, right? Thank you for that question. You know, if if somebody keeps saying the exact same author over and over again, that'll be the first thing I buy. The Nephilim, so who are these guys? Uh that's not what our church teaches. So but I I'm mostly here to add so the unfree go concept doesn't come until 2000. In fact the Apostle John when he wrote his gospel he said, if I try to write down everything that you know that Jesus did, the books can't contain in the entire world everything that Jesus did. And if these men who were supposed to be godly were then marrying anybody they wanted and then looked down you look down further and what is But on the other hand, they are clearly distinct from humans. Especially considering what a coward he was when he ran away as a tiger. I also find a lot of these non premillennial uh these non literal millennial reign of kingdom theologians Yeah, unless they were like bound but it doesn't disagree to the really that's what I go to. Let's deal with scripture itself, okay? You can actually call it that. What about Iran? We're not saying thou shalt believe all these distinctions. Okay, genealogy is an idea. What is scripture more fully confirming than some amazing event that Peter got to witness with respect to Jesus? Mm-hmm. related to in my mind it's it can't be unequally yoked. I have no problems understanding linguistically and intellectually what this passage is saying. You're not like in rivalry with different parts of your body. What are the sons of God? Here are the questions again. That's the right question to ask. I wanted to share this one of the things I learned from from that scripture passage. Yeah. Okay, I'm hearing Genesis six and then that's one. You don't have that in in Christianity. You know, I look for how that word is used in other passages and that wholesome reform. If it ca if a book Bible book came later, he might have information from the past he might be speaking to. What do you do as our default though when you're dealing with a figurative part of scripture? Well, ethnicities clearly exist. So Elias and the words that we focus on will guide our interpretation so that Yeah. We're not though. Except notice the underline. So let's see what he says here. Only Noah was pleasing the Lord. Yeah. I don't know if I convinced everybody, but uh that is uh where I'm coming from. So passages like 1 Corinthians 11, verse 3, but I want you to understand that the head of every man is Christ. I kind of go through, look at all these lists, and I start seeing some overlapping resources. You might be surprised where I go with this at the end. That's how Catholics get into a lot of problems we saw a couple weeks ago because you know they might not be trying to bring out the exact exact same aspect of justification or faith or whatever You have to let context dictate. Like I said, I came out of a Presbyterian background. It's like if you know that women, you know, men can't carry children to term and like breastfeed, then you already know men and women functionally there's something different about us. Um I like that. So you're thinking of canonical location. Okay? Let me give away what I'm thinking and how I'm using the historical grammatical hermeneutic. This is very nuanced. Uh Jesus Christ has progressively bound Satan. I don't agree with everything the Heidelberg Catechism says. Alright, let's start getting into our practice exeges now. Feel free to use the context tool and look beyond Genesis six if you'd like to as well. But my mind always goes to then why don't we see that today? So I'm gonna throw a wrench in the working out. Let's see, we also looked at the word study the uh last hermeneutical tool last week where you studied just like it sounds the specific words in your verse that you're struggling with. Well I think it's well again I think that's a good thing. Do you see that abuse of scripture? We should use the principle that, you know, use uh one passage that you understand clearly to try to help you with another passage, right? Yeah. This isn't just regular human males because for some reason all the children being born to them are the mighty men of old, men of renown. Yeah. You might be going from narrative to pr uh a prophetic section and you're gonna run into a lot of trouble if you just treat them in a very flat manner, like the exact same kind, that exact same uh flavor of scripture. Even some very time-honored traditions that we really love and feel a lot of affectionate feelings, emotions for, you gotta go with what scripture tells you to do. And the head of Christ is God. They they kind of teach all the different uh like denominational perspectives when it comes to a lot of the more controversial passages. That was a really good clarifying question. Okay? I use very little of the rest of the these tools actually for this particular passage. If so if you have two contradicting like verses in the Quran, they'll actually have in their doctrine of abrogation the newest one abrogates. Uh because once again meaning comes from the author, the human author as well, you gotta think about, not another author. He was saved by the future work of Christ. I gotta make my clear passages. Men and women have different roles and functions in society in the family. Okay. That's R. And and Moses if he wanted to make it normal, he would say, look, a man and a woman have together they have to do it. Like is it just okay now he's wiped out all of these cross breeds and the blood? It's not preserved in scripture. We see New Testament teaches that. But it can be very helpful as a supplemental, like when you're doing a word study and you're trying to look for, remember, what's known as like the semantic range, this word can be defined all these different ways depending on the context. Again, like these creeds and confessions. You can start with a whole Bible commentary with study notes. Do you mind if I record what he's saying? I hear ruffling of pages, which is great. Maybe it's a historical feature like, you know, in nineteen eighty two, you know, it's like the ne in the Nephilim days, this is when this union was happening. You widely miss the mark by starting with the analogy of faith. Yeah, it is that's a good point. But and that goes to show you there's no clear or unclear list. Let's talk about it anyway, because that's fun and I I invite it. Verse 7, so the Lord said, I will blot out man, whom I have created from the face of the land. I'll go back to the passage itself if it helps. Interesting. But there are a lot of lists out there that exist on the internet of different uh people that I've come to align with. But again, using just the immediate section, the immediately surrounding Genesis 6, 1-7. Notice that I will blot out man verse 7 that bold depart. So it's like more fully confirmed compared to what? But again, it kinda goes with what I'm saying. So I'm not giving showing my hand yet what I believe, but I'm just saying that that's the other way to take it. Now, theoretically speaking, if you're doing exegesis perfectly, then it doesn't you know technically, theoretically, even if you start with the analogy of faith, you should come to the same interpretation, right? I would argue Galatians 3 is actually, in my mind, a little trickier to understand than 1 Corinthians 11, because how can Paul say there is no male and female when clearly there are, right? Now salvation is by faith alone. Instead of thinking whoever were attractive. We'll do that in a second. And that's partly what Peter is speaking to, just having this miraculous document, this word And this is where biases can sneak in, is if you have in your mind, I think these other passages are clear, I'll show you some slides in a second how this can happen. This is a hard passage. North Korea? And then you have this other line of Seth, right? They are uniformly these famous mighty men. So I'm just trying to say that this may not necessarily be a good thing. You know, I'll come to a lot of passages and say, Well it can't obviously be this but you have to stop for that thought in that moment, think, Well, why can't it be that, right? Verification, this is uh actually you know what, let's save this for next week just because it's gonna take a little while and I don't want to rush it. I didn't write it there. C. That's very I love that. We have to take that very seriously and prayerfully apply what we just learned about God to our lives. So uh I'm kinda like with the Sons of God, I'm headed more towards the word. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. I think it's still a good verification tool. Matthew chapter seven, everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock. There is an active participation while knowing that it's the Holy Spirit that gets all the credit for you growing up. That's actually where the whole godly line of Seth argument comes from is um So that's the first thing I would conclude personally, just using immediate context. And quick question, and did you look at the the um di can we look at the uh definition of the He didn't know this concept of the church. We believe in what is known as premillennialism, which means we're living before the millennium era. This is very subtle. Does that mean your boss like is like a better human being than you? So that's kind of what I mean. However, there's still a participatory aspect to it, right? It's usually because of tradition. Are the Nephilim what comes out of the Son of God, Daughters of Man union? He won't uh have be able to deceive the nations anymore, and for a literal 1,000 calendar years, Jesus will be reigning from the throne of David in Israel. Sprohl Sr. But that's kind of difficult these days, isn't it? You were an unlovable person, I was an unlovable person. Rel very relevant uh passage, yeah. That's a future detail that doesn't come into play here. Let's continue. And do you see how the analogy of faith is abused as a vehicle to get to that conclusion? I fully concede that I may be off here on the conclusion, um, and that's fine to air your disagreements. Like he's already sent in Netflix. We don't see them today. Yeah. Okay, but you want to start by saying, What did Jane say? Uh our millennialism believes that it's it's basically a metaphorical kingdom and we're in the millennium uh right now. Interpretation should take place in the particular book itself with the particular author. I I I can't that's why I was a little bit quiet. That is one of the features of the minority hard, genuinely difficult, hard passages of scripture. What is he saying you should do with the analogy faith? And I commend their study to everybody. The sons of God saw that the daughters of man, it's another key phrase, that's kind of weird, were attractive. Anyone heard that interpretation? That is how I resolve this passage. Now imagine if you got to see the transfiguration of Jesus, right? Yeah, thank you. But that's just speaking to that God that life giving spirit is what I would argue. But I I just wanna I just wanna point out something that we're already immediately doing. So that's a key piece of evidence that helps us. And I'm I'm sure a lot of you guys probably already have done this and do this, whether or not you knew you were using what's known as the analogy of faith Page 51, quote, a third critical factor is the analogy of faith. So we went through our list of common fallacies. I'm just saying that's just how humans are, right? How about even more immediate? Yes. Of course the follow-up question is who are the Nephilim. Oh you think they're demons. No, yeah. How about like continents where the church has shrunk over time, like Europe? There are Jewish people and Greek people. But I would say we don't have to go there quite yet. I think there was I don't think that's the issue at all because there was no good. We'll do a couple more of these hopefully if we have time next week. Yeah. Or faith is kind of what I meant to say. The Greater Church, however, does come into play. We're gonna jump to the analogy of faith and look at Job, Jude, uh, and uh Second Peter, and it it's gonna give us a little bit more help here. Yeah, go ahead. A lot of people would miss this, but it's not an interpretation tool. That's snuck snuck in through the analogy of faith, which is a good thing to use. Um and I I can't. By the way, does that mean God the Father is superior to Christ? But for an evangelical feminist, suddenly this passage is very unclear Uh most of them aren't believers, I would say, uh, but that they they co-opt the term evangelical feminism. Uh it sounds obvious, but it's actually not. 's uh ministry, ligonier, the late R. Okay. Say I'm going to use this tool, and this is what I think here are my steps I would take to deal with this passage. Let let scripture guide it guide um itself for us Sons of God take as wives the human daughters of men. Now, that sounds uh contradictory, right? Pretty intuitive. So everything has to harmonize, in other words. It's a completely subjective individual thing. That is adding to the word of God. When you thought of your church, the first thing that popped into your mind is that local community of brothers and sisters you commune with weekly. You have to wrestle with scripture through the years to come to these convictions. So you're you're you're using canonical Jose's using canonical location. But a lot of it revolves around the fact that we're English speakers in a modern era, so don't impose your understanding of words to an ancient time of Greek and you know Hebrew speaking. Because we go in with the assumption this is the genuine God speaking, you know, truthfully and he never contradicts himself Yeah. Instead of letting scripture interpret scripture, you're trying to use scripture to contradict scripture so that it aligns with what you want to believe You know, he's he's firmly in the what's known as the conservative evangelical camp, whatever that word means anymore. I'm not gonna touch this commentary until I talk to my pastor first. That's what I like to hear. Okay, discuss. Alright. So I do take the decision that what uh God does not like is the union itself, not so much the taking as wives any they chose. Again, one of the marks of hard passages is you have to start immediately jumping out of the Bible to get s you're you're just kind of desperately looking for some more help I think the one rebuttal I would give quickly, because again I don't want to go into the disagreements with you know Okay? I'm going to jump over to Isaiah or whatever that I think I understand well, and by I think I understand well, it's more like Rather than taking the literal sense in isolation from the rest of Scripture. Yeah, I mean America might have experienced these revivals on occasion, but like Yeah. I'm I'm not saying sequentially like you have to strictly first send Alan an email before he start touching one of these It's another key word that has appeared. I think you brought up and this is cheating, but I'm just I'm gonna ask you, so could they be the fallen angels It's just a historical point, an historical artifact. I've read them. But I think if we just take the immediate context on its on its face Yeah. They they write like obscure things to sound more intelligent. Women are equal in dignity, intelligence, capability, and everything. Jesus said to the scribes and Pharisees, you have a fine way of rejecting the commandment of God in order to establish your tradition. Alright, let's start with this one then. They are, yeah. How it says like in in those days men began to call on the name of the Lord. Well first of all, have you never met Beyoncé? You know, he truly believed it so much that he was willing to die for it. I mean however if you look in the back of your Bible it has a chain of references that says, okay, that word is using all these different all these different uh Use it as like a verification, as a check if you're using it in the more analogy of faith kinda aspect. So when you look at our genre tool, you gotta think about that different genres, different rule sets you gotta keep in mind. But no disagreements with the idea that we should eventually try to help ourselves by using, you know, clear passages. Sounds good, right? The the what we ask for is your open-mindedness to learn under Real quick real quick though, we're we're over time. But somehow this progressively has to sneak in there because, again, Riddlebarger goes into revelation with this bias You must be dispensational or we're gonna like excommunicate you from the church or something like that, right? We're dealing with something supernatural, I would argue, when it comes to the males here. It's usually because of some prejudice you're bringing. I think, and that is because, again using immediate context in verse 4, it states that the Nephilim existed before and also afterward. That's how you can say it's both. So I just for what it's worth that. Once again, this is a verification tool. But all the same, in David's time, he didn't understand that one day It's a little more objective. None of these biblical authors were writing riddles. Yeah, I don't know. That's a really wise practical step, I think. Um because this wasn't allowed to happen again, like you said. Chain reference? So let these set of clear, divinely divinely mandated, clear passages You know, I have to transform really, you see what I'm doing, the passages that make me uncomfortable Don't get that mixed up. Yeah, to Seth also a son was born, he called his name Enoch, and at that time people began to call on the name of the Lord. It changed the man so so greatly, you know, the word of God, the transfiguration, all those things that he was willing to go to his death. I think it's helpful when you're doing a word study as well. Don't let anyone tell you otherwise. You know? This is the very beginning in human history, okay? It's the sons of God with the daughters of man part that's the problem He didn't know this idea of a permanently indwelling Holy Spirit. This is your leaders in the local church. Like he has this one descendant that like murders somebody. Yeah. So let's back up a second. We are dealing with a historical genre, narrative genre, so we would expect ordinary language, which is another reason why Yeah. It is an amazing supernatural work of God and it is very confirming that this is the genuine faith. So there's extra information later, you know, when you get to that 65th, 64th book of the Bible And this is, I think, the strongest argument. You know the the parable or I think it was actually Christ who And we should think the same way about our church. Be open-minded to receiving it out of that heart attitude of Okay, that is the first thing I would say. These are human males. It it's men, it's human beings that are punished because of this union. Well the context of this passage is actually interesting. That's what he so I don't know where he got the progressively part. They f feel a lot of affection toward me because they were saved in that denomination. I love reading Calvin's Institutes. So in that sense, the local church should always be in your mind as the primary earthly resource for spiritual help I just want to let you. So I mean none of his siblings meet on the ark. To which you will do well to pay attention. Exactly. Of course that's eisegesis, right? So notice um uh whichever w uh phrase in verse two you want to emphasize. Now how do you resolve these things? Now the analogy of faith, if you guys remember that context diagram I showed you with those con the widening circles, concentric circles, the analogy of faith is now we're finally breaking out of I commend everyone pick up Wayne Grudom's systematic theology. In the greater church we should also lean on, after your local church Um the uh uh the scripture uh How about the passage itself? You know what I would do? Yeah. They say, I'm I came up with this initial interpretation. So analogy of faith applies to harmonization of scripture, not with the Westminster Confession. Rachel brings up a really good argument. Those are the really bad ones that have been locked up. They kind of speak their ideas differently. James is talking about the evidential aspect of faith in his book. This is where the subtle error comes in. So kids are coming out of this union between the sons of God and the daughters of man. What do you guys think? But that's that's where my bi my my belief is going towards is that um Yeah. So it was really a dramatic ship, you know. Okay, evangelical feminism. But these are worth studying as a supplemental exercise in your theological development. And as a result, sad sa as sad as it as it is to say, and of course they wouldn't say it this way, it's just functionally what's true Um the Holy Spirit wasn't imparted to Context is king. Okay, this Greek word, it has this range of, you know, semantics, the range of definitions that I need to pick from So you can't anachronistically, as it's called, import information that the rid the biblical author that you're dealing with did not yet have Because you know, we have all these books in our libraries and How to find good commentaries. Yeah. But anyway, we're getting a little derailed. And that's not how we y when you do exegesis, you gotta stay in the passage first and let the passage guide our thinking I don't know what the term is. See analogy of faith is not an interpretation uh tool, it is a verification tool. So I would actually find this harder to understand. Paul contradicts Paul really, ultimately. I love those confessions. Okay? I think these were demonically possessed men. They shouldn't contradict each other. Okay, now let me check other Bible passages. He states in a case for a millennialism. That is a very dangerous thing to do. The Nicene Creed, Apostles Creed, right? The ultimate point of this exercise is I'm just trying to show you how to use these tools, okay? Why? This is weird. But uh hopefully you're seeing where uh millennialism comes from in part. So then I like to go to maybe like a second one. This new son that uh was born to Adam and Eve after um Abel died. It was very early, in other words. If if this gentleman would just look at the way society is going, then he would actually it would I don't I don't know his uh mind state, but uh But again, I'm just teaching you how to try to put these stuff into action. Let's take the first question. And I think the way you can say it's both, it it's supernatural possession of some some kind. That's a little more responsibility the Holy Spirit has given you. Tradition says he was crucified upside down too pretty painful. It's amazing. That's not what it sounds like. That's how our salvation was started. Right? Yeah. And what is verse four? We weren't like these cute puppy dogs that God came down and took pity on. That's another question we won't go down right now I'm I call that arbitrarily, these are the clear passages Because otherwise we're going to do this at the very beginning. Go for the literal. And that's not a sexist thing. I'm trying to find the the the various scriptures where the same word is used to describe the heavenly Now one thing I'll warn is we are immediately using the analogy of faith, right? Okay? That that's another tricky part that yeah. Yeah, yeah. No, it's just a functional thing. Okay? Analogy of faith is a subjective individual exercise. I'm not saying ignore other Christians. C. Then the Lord said, My spirit shall not abide in man forever, for he is flesh. It's human men doing this wicked union and then therefore God vents his anger and wrath and justice on humans. Now if the Bible is authored by several different human men, how can the analogy of faith work? You know what I have done? It was such an unclear passage. Now, once again, I want to preface this by saying I am purposely taking the hardest Um unless now I'm just gonna try and thought Is he not happy with the union itself because it's some of some weird like My spirit shall not abide in man forever. and then say, Okay, now let me check with Paul or Moses or Jeremiah or whatever and just make sure that I'm not coming up with some new heretical, you know, Christian teaching. You have to stop them right there and say, wait a minute, wait a minute, but there's no such thing as a clear set of scripture. Justified by faith apart from works of the law. Alright, Genesis six. The problem was they took any if they chose The the fact of the spirit. But this is my initial interpretation for now. And then we're immediately going to jump into the analogy of faith and look at some other passages to get some help here. My unclear passage. Each person is God. Let's just completely flatten male-female distinctions. Those are the people you should be thinking of as your primary, first help that you reach for when you need help with tackling scripture. I think that's a good first resource to get after you kind of read through the Bible itself, just by itself, a few times Sproul Sr. That's another indicator to me just using context of this Any of their attractive and they took as a wise. Everyone kind of speaks and communicates differently. You give you give your heart a little more of a fighting chance to come to an objective conclusion when you ignore the other books of the Bible first. Kim has in mind a set of clear passages that align with a non uh literal millennial reign of Christ, so he thinks. But I say walk by the Spirit. Are they the Nephilim, right? And so if you focus on the sons of um Verse 5, the wickedness of man So you have all these passages. I'll show it actually, I'll give away the answer a little bit here. And these this is one of these jumpy passages where you tend to want to Another thing that comes to my mind is that this is a common one. Because here is man it you know God say I'm not gonna buy with the hands for We can't ignore the word usage there. Something strange is happening about this union. Yeah, if we continue. Uh but evangelical feminism just completely flattens those distinctions. We went through using the analogy of faith comparing with other passages of Scripture. I like to go for at least a second commentary though, because each commentary will have its own particular set of biases and prejudices However, that's not the full story. Yeah. But at the end of the day, what each So in other words, uh I'm So that's where uh that that's something you should look for when it comes to if you have any of these debates with your brothers and sisters in the Lord or just a professing Christian. Do you guys want to look at the passage? That's fine. Now if you're anything like me, these are some of the sets of questions that come out of this passage. We so now we have to draw on um the way they spoke in those days. Like I said, I I expect some of you guys to have disagreements, happy to talk about this uh some more after class It's always the first tool that I reach for almost always after maybe outlining the book Because the daughters of man are born to man, human women. Commentaries. We have to let scripture scripture speak for itself, okay? I'm just kidding. So it's something else Don't use it in your initial interpretation stage. And they actually weren't split up into books, but we do that. That's the opposite of what we're trying to do. But you see how the analogy of faith can be misused They are very useful Like this should be fun. Let's just look at verse 2. Right, right, right. It's the same mind, ultimately, the divine mind. So and God does not contradict himself. And yet, according to Apostle Peter who witnessed these things and many other miracles that Of course you have to start harmonizing with other passages of scripture. It's not a verification, right? I remember he taught a sermon on that last Sunday, so it's now clear to me How about this? I think I think that something weird like that happens. Verse 20, knowing this first of all, that no prophecy of Scripture c comes from someone's own interpretation. Let the scripture speak for itself. You know, that's that's that's the they wouldn't argue that, you know. Get a good handle on what our church teaches first. So that's kind of what I like to do. The Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every intention Are they a demon human hybrid? This this isn't talking about like giving of the Holy Spirit to indwell in believers forever. But notice, he says It's a great witness. Yeah, yeah. The Bible does not say You know, we gotta no male and female. You know, it's great. So that's probably like my first purchase. The Nephilim were on the earth in those days and also afterward. And try specifically, try your best. How about that? Yeah, I think I would I think I would uh leave lean toward uh I like the way you're thinking though, Jose, thinking about like what information came first, but um I th I saw a hand back there. You saw Jesus basically a bit of his divinity shine through. You know what I probably do now and I don't even realize it We do not think John wrote Revelation thinking that you have to immediately reach for another passage of scripture first. Let's use this passage And uh I'm going to read verses one to seven from the English Standard Version. So the other school of thought, this godly line of Seth interpretation of this passage, Rachel is focusing on the Another piece of evidence based on context, we're using context again. Like is verse four a result of verse two? This is what I've come up with. They literally throw in the white the the towel, the white flag and say, you know what Okay, caution. Uh a lot of people treat a lot of these so-called creeds and confessions, which I love. He gets all the credit for us becoming more Christ-like. That's what I'm kind of associating those two Because at the end of this process, you know a little bit more about God, right? The Holy Spirit God, right? Remember, the analogy of faith is all about, in layman's terms, I want to use Okay? Okay, so Riddlebarger concludes I really like the ESV study bible too though, and I often read both of them because the ESV Study Bible does try n tries not to take more of a Yeah. Peter is actually speaking to the miracle of witnessing anyone know what Peter was speaking about just a few verses ago? No disagreements. It should be a verification, a validation tool, just just to double check that you didn't go astray somewhere It's just it's just a role thing Again, this is not RC Sproul, uh it it's not, you know, uh Carl Truman or whatever. This is where commentaries come in as well. We need these other body parts in this room right now. Alright, finally. This is uh how I like to do it. It's it's not just, you know, you know, Jesus take the wheel as people to say, you know, just completely The sons of God Yeah, you have to assume the literal, right? So the Nephilim are not the sons of God, they're not the offspring of the sons of God And tradition says he was a fisherman, you know. So there's a lot of uses for concordances and things like that. So in the same way, just because the husband is ahead of a wife D does that kind of make sense? So it's not like they were picking up Let me pray for us real quick. So don't do the connect the dot thing. That's the really subtle error here. This is another uh bad fruit theology that comes from a misuse of the analogy of faith That's not a demeaning of women. No And uh these confessions increase authors This Guthrie commentary is also good for a whole Bible commentary. Which which of these spicy controversial has been a good thing? Let's take it into pieces. Okay. That is always a good first step after you come up with your initial interpretation He says that. And uh this is the big one that we didn't talk about yet. You don't see that in Revelation 20, verses 2 to 3. Go for the ordinary and literal first. It's just the role. That's how it will be ended. These must be supernatural beings of some sort So why would Moses all of a sudden kind of twist uh uh Right? Yeah. Yeah I okay actually things are intensifying. The goal of hermeneutics We're we're already immediately W whatever happens about this marriage, maybe it's the taking wives anything shows or just the taking wives part Can we use immediate context? But this union, putting aside who they are, God is not happy with it, right? Is it h a historical point about let me let me ground your thinking of when this took place? Whatever this union was, it was something greater than what we see today and it was not allowed again because Okay? Now what tends to happen as human beings, think with me And that is where myself and our church's teachers strongly disagree This is what Colossians call peace. So I I do find, yeah, I I think uh you're right on the mark But evangelical feminists like this passage Yeah. But keep in mind it's not Holy Spirit inspired. Yeah but I I love that. I have a question for you guys. I'm gonna start reading from verse one. Uh the next piece of evidence, verse 4 And therefore we better go to passages like this, Galatians chapter 3. That's what I like to do. Sir are you arguing are you arguing these are human men? And I think I I think you're you're saying the concept though that believers should not marry with non believers We're still looking for a a time when Jesus will come back You know two things aren't exactly the same and it it should be Uh we're running out of time, so I won't go through them in detail. But If um if I'm feeling, you know, playful, I'll go to a third and fourth commentary from uh I go to the fact that now But I think the way we resolved that is the fact that what was happening here is Something happened with the giving of the Holy Spirit, yeah. I'm not speaking chronologically, I'm speaking more in your in your heart attitude, I think Does that make sense? Um saying yeah, yeah, yeah. Uh You also have some other weird stuff happening where you have the children being born He says, my spirit shall not abide in man forever So it's the fact that they chose any they chose. You know I was just gonna say I d according to verse five, it's I don't think that there were any good people for them to choose Okay. I re I I look back to what Peter's demise was You're not asking, what did Paul say, right? It's not a double check. You know, he's starting kind of there. We make our children recite it. Someone that maybe gave themselves invited demons, gave themselves over demons David, that's why he was speaking in the Psalms, God, don't take your Holy Spirit away from me. Just treat them like a book by James White, Charles Spurgeon, or whatever Just because salvation is by faith alone, it doesn't mean your works have nothing to do with your Christian walk. But what does that have to do with the source of the passage, right? So you want to deal with the passage first. Remember God did not give all sixty-six books of the Bible at once I don't understand what this means, you know? Oh, let me make sure that I came up to the right interpretation. So on the one hand The early all the early apostles, you know, I think at least eleven out of twelve were traditionally martyred. They're the same level of authority, right? You've got to apply it. Remember when you're dealing with prophecy, you will find figurative speech a lot Exactly. I'm just saying put them Who are the sons of God? And the analogy faith has a simple way to say it is scripture interprets scripture We said this uh for the last two weeks, but I I just want to hammer it home one more time. We touched on this a little bit, but for those of you who don't know The binding of Satan Jude. Yeah, yeah. Uh nobody No, no, in Paul. That's what I'm thinking. Yeah. They should all teach the same thing though. Scripture interprets scripture. But I totally understand a lot of those things, but Happy to take uh questions uh after service after pick up my family, but It is the Holy Spirit that that is the engine of what is known as our sanctification In fact it's so bad in Islam, you know There is no divinely inspired list of clear and unclear passages, okay? God just Sec secondly, secondly, ig ignore ignore extra biblical evidence. Paul is speaking more to that root faith, you know They're exactly the same in every manner, even functionally You know, there is no role distinctions in the family Um but uh yeah, that's just a You do to double-check your thinking That's a really good wise uh application What would you rather start with? So far so easy, right? When it comes to our salvation, your works, your deeds have nothing to do with it. Oh, I'm not, that's good And then you have the humans Perhaps the the issue is the quality of the union, so these would be fallen angels. Any questions so far? So if you're interpreting James What is he doing? It's Uh again, this is something that all of us you you guys have to do personally. They still produced humans. I believe in the analogy of faith And they make unclear arbitrarily any passage that makes them uncomfortable and that hints. Before you jump to, I know some of you guys already have opinions on this passage. Who ha who's heard that interpretation before, by the way? A daughter of man. Um on the one hand That's the confusing part. I think I'm speaking more to um not necessarily like We were these vile enemies of God, haters of God, and God for some reason Um You've got to obey it A lot of these people have this Unless you have to go to the figurative, yeah. Oh it is? Jude. So don't get too hung up on if you disagree with my take here You know, James uses the word justify And by the way, uh for those of you who took our membership class He's like uh tr tradition also says that he spent that Um, Moses had a lot of information he didn't have access to yet Do you wanna uh do you wanna start with that one or do you wanna start with Guy regretting something. It's an inner circle Yeah. Does that kinda help? I'm just talking about the sequence And then it says in uh Genesis chapter Yeah. Revelation could be understood on its own. But a lot of denominations I guess uh what what we would probably You know, in Genesis or what about earlier Genesis where he said So that you can simultaneously say you have evil and evil They believe in uh what's known as egalitarianism. That's a straw man, but Yeah, yeah. That's how amazing he was Sometimes we start Um Hopefully I sound like a broken record now because So you might be But like Romans 12 But what prevents them from It is an immediate, sudden thing. You know, we're all all these parts of our body are different, but Uh I don't know if any of you grew up in a church where you like the Apostles' Creed as part of the service. It's a very purposeful phrase. Who are the daughters of man And We're just looking at the surrounding passages They should all teach the same doctrine You might come up with a nice interpretation using all of these tools There's something that makes men men and women women So that's what my mind will go to So whole Bible commentary is just one volume No I'm saying that This is not a book of riddles, right? Yeah You want to deal with that book first, that author first Why I think Right? They need you Yeah, where they gave up their heavenly position. This is the genuine religion. Now we go to the local church, right? There's you you should expect to see mistakes in it, right? And that and I think I just You hear the Father's voice booming in heaven, This is my son. That that's all I can say Yeah, was it? Let me compare it to this creator confession, right? Is the other question you you have to answer for me. Okay? Yeah. Well other biblical texts to compare with Again It's new updated revision by Allah, the old one. Okay? Job was written likely before Genesis Okay? Let's make this a fun, you know, push and pull kind of thing Okay So the sons of God saw the daughters of man were attractive. Ignore that for now It's subjective There is no male and female. And then I'll make the other Yeah, this is more speaking to This is before the internet Yeah. I think so. Okay? Kinda common, right? Satan's here one day, he's gone the next. His days shall be one hundred and twenty years. David was a believer Acts. Okay You can't do this with any other document. Men and women are exactly the same. I find the Heidelberg Heidelberg. I mean I think if Yeah. Wondering if you Mm-hmm. Okay. You you can't just have It's only God just No, not at all. Try to reference one of these. Okay? So it can't be Yeah. You know. Now Yeah. Okay? So it it it Listen to him, right? Okay?