Good morning everyone. Let's review last week. So recall that I keep using the analogy that Hermeneutics is like a box of different tools and just like physical tools, hammer, wrenches, screwdrivers and stuff. You pick certain tools for certain tasks, right? And this is our historical grammatical hermeneutical toolbox. So historical because we treat the Bible as history. It has all the markings of history. Evidence keeps showing us, archaeological and the like keeps showing us that it is indeed history. But of course, first and foremost, when God uh makes you a believer, that miraculous work of conversion, you are able to hear the Lord's voice, your shepherd's voice, and we know its history. So that's the historical part of our historical grammatical hermeneutic. In grammatical, it's uh Latin word grammatico, and that means we read the Bible normally, right? So I've been repeating this over and over again, but you already do historical grammatical hermeneutics on the day-to-day at your work, with your family members, your spouses, your children. that we just the way we understand and comprehend language, you do it intuitively in a historical grammatical fashion. That is to say, when we look for meaning, like how am I understanding what my wife or husband or child is saying We're always intuitively asking the question, what did this person mean to say? What what are they actually saying? I want to understand what they mean, right So we just want to do the same plain kind of exegesis when it comes to the Bible. But of course, uh we can uh be helped by studying historical grammatical hermeneutics that we do intuitively in a more systematic fashion and the word of God does have some difficult parts in it, right? And that's why it's helpful to understand the your historical grammatical tools systematically and a little bit more detail, which is the point of this class, which hopefully I think is the reason you're taking this course. So we talked about the first two tools. You want to start with prayer. Like the book of James says, if any of you lack wisdom, go to God. He'll give it to you, and he won't give it grudgingly, like James teaches. God is also our uh our heavenly father, right? He can be described many ways, but he is our dad, and he's Just like any of you that are parents, you want to give gifts to people you love freely, your children especially. Last week we started discussing uh tools number three to six And we discovered how understanding the author can be very helpful to understand the meaning of a text. And uh we also debunked um the what's known as as a documentary hypothesis. specifically when it comes to the first five books of the Bible, Genesis to Deuteronomy. But skeptics always try to cast doubt on the Bible self-attested authorship. There's all sorts of books in the Bible that tell us this book was written by so and so. And uh just like every aspect of the Bible, skeptics, unbelievers want you to doubt what the Bible says about which book was written by who, because it undermines God's authority. If you can cast doubt on one aspect Then when it comes to all the other stuff, these fun things that we like to do, maybe God didn't actually speak to these things, right Uh but the truth of the matter is the Bible oftentimes explicitly tells us uh certain books was written by so-and-so. For instance, we know Moses did write uh you know, Genesis to Deuteronomy, the first five books. And then sometimes we just have no idea. The Holy Spirit in his wisdom did not think we had to know who the author of Hebrews was We have no evidence internal or external, so we just have no clue. And then other books of the Bible we can know with very high confidence, even though the book might be formally anonymous and the Gospel of John is what we looked at uh last week. And we know with very high confidence that was written by the Apostle John, but out of his humility he wanted to be formally anonymous. And a couple examples of how knowing the author can help you in your work of interpreting the Bible. Well, uh if your uh author some text that you're struggling with, the author of that text wrote other books of the Bible, then you can look at his other books to get a greater understanding of what he means when he uses a certain key phrase or word or doctrine. So justification, for instance, Paul talks about justification. He uses that word uh multiple times through many epistles in the New Testament So if you want a broader, more detailed understanding of what that word justification means, well look for the other Pauline usages of the word justification. Right? And also the author's background, if you can identify who the author is and you know like what he went through, how he was brought up, his education. what kind of culture he was immersed in. That could give you more confidence that yes, this is the authoritative source for this information. So Moses was the example I used last week where Moses was educated in the royal court of the Egyptians Moses knew the Egyptian landscape, the ancient Near East landscape very well, s especially because for forty years he was in wandering in the Midianite land So that journey through uh the wilderness to the promised land and when Moses describes certain locations, um, you know, certain historical artifacts of the time you know with high confidence, yeah, this must have been actually what happened because Moses would be the perfect guy to describe this stuff accurately. Okay, so that was author, and then we looked at setting. And setting I'm describing as time and location. So time and location the author is writing, time and location of the audience that the author is writing to And that can also be helpful in exegesis. So for instance, last week we looked at how being able to date when Revelation, the letter Revelation, was written can help you narrow down in Revelation eleven which temple John is probably talking about. So if you believe it's a late date, as it's called by scholars, AD ninety-five-ish, then we would know that the Revel Revelation Eleven temple cannot be the 80-70 Herod's temple. It must be a future one that hasn't been built yet. And then we discussed how the purpose statement is the most important out of all this. So remember I'm calling tools three to six This is everything that I'm calling historical context. So if you learn hermeneutics from a different book or a different teacher, everybody defines historical context a little differently. Some people think it's just the setting part, you know But I'm saying all of this is historical context, as I understand the term generally. But of these four tools The purpose statement is by far the most important out of those four. In purpose statements, just like the author, sometimes it's explicit So John tells us uh at the end of his gospel, I wrote this specifically to show you Jesus is the Christ and by believing in him. you may be saved, right? And purpose statements are so important because they ground our understanding of the whole book, right, that you're trying to read and interpret. So if you ever come up with an interpretation within the Gospel of John that says Jesus isn't the Christ, that he isn't divine, he isn't the Son of God, something went wrong with your interpretation, obviously, because we know the purpose statement in John is to show that Jesus is the Christ and the Son of God. But sometimes purpose statements or most of the times are implied. Okay? So you have to pick up certain clues to try to help you figure out what the purpose is. So last week we went into more detail with stuff like looking at the beginning, at the end of the book What are the events that have been editorially selected if you're looking at a narrative genre, which we're going to talk about today? We're going to start talking about genres, starting with narrative genres. So things like that are ways to figure out the implied purpose statement. But rest assured, by the way, every book of the Bible has a purpose for it being read. Okay. Nobody just wrote a book of the Bible willy-nilly. There was always some purpose behind it, just like every piece of written communication you guys make, right? There's always a purpose behind an email you're sending to a colleague or whatever So in the same sense, every the book every book of the Bible has a purpose, and if you can narrow it down, figure out what it is, that will be your guiding star whenever you're trying to interpret any verse within that book. Hopefully that makes sense. Canonical location, how thick is the author's Bible? What books of the Bible have already been written? that he may be referring to, that may be informing what he's writing, what theological details, okay, what theological details have not been revealed to the author of the book yet. Which means that cannot be the interpretation of what he's saying. Okay? So details. Um and of course doctrine never contradicts throughout the Bible, because remember Divine Concursus says the Bible is written by the human author, but who's the second author? God, Holy Spirit, right? God is one, He's unified He's he's not going to contradict himself. All books of the Bible have unified doctrine. That's the amazing part of what makes the Bible so unique of all ancient books. It's written by dozens of different authors across hundreds of years. And yet the exact same message throughout. It's incredible. That's amazing. That's not man-made. But that being said, there's some future information like the doctrine of the church that, you know, the Bible says explicitly this is a mystery that God purposely hid. until Pentecost and Acts. So anytime you see the word congregation in Leviticus, we've looked at Leviticus chapter eight, the Canton Church Because that that's a mystery. That's information that Moses in Leviticus, when he was writing Leviticus, did not have access to yet. Alright, let's go to genre. Oh, any questions before we go into today's lesson? Comments? Yeah. I was gonna say what what verse? Uh Matthew eighteen. Yeah. Uh, you know, it's been a while since I looked I looked at that passage. So I'm probably gonna give the wise answer here and say I don't know. Yeah. I don't remember. I do know though, um the tricky part of the gospels is you are in that transition period. Uh Yeah, I'm really tempted to just give you like my educated guest flash. I don't think I should do that. I don't know. Sorry. Anyone else have a clue how to answer that It's applicable to the church, that's for sure. Yeah. Ask the pastors. Ask Pastor Gabe. I'm sure he'll have a ready answer. Yeah. Yeah, I don't know. Sorry, sir. It's applicable. I think that's the best answer I can give. But is it you're saying interpretation is the meaning of yeah. You know actually I I do know uh pertinent verse where Jesus specifically do you remember that uh Gentile woman, that Samaritan woman, that was like crying out for help and then Jesus said it's not right for me to give to you know the dogs what And he was testing the woman, of course, and then she gave a very wise, faith-based answer that was revealed by the Holy Spirit, which is yes, but even dogs, you know, they're expecting the crumbs that fall from the table, and Jesus said you answered Very well, you know, very faithful woman. So in that sense, Jesus' ministry was formally to Israel first. I think that probably implies the answer to your question. But of course Jesus being God, he had in mind the church afterwards, right? And that was the extension of Jesus' ministry carried on by the apostles. Yeah. But more than that I don't know. That's a great question though. Okay, so let's talk about genre. This is gonna be multiple weeks because there's a lot of information to cover here But first let me give you the text that uh the next few weeks are going to be largely based on. Once again, I'm not giving you any new information here. Uh it's very dangerous when people go around saying that I have new theology or new information because First and foremost, that's very arrogant, right? Christianity is always a corporate experience. It's not just your individual relationship with Jesus. It is, of course, that as well, but it's more than that It's also Jesus uh revealing to the collective Christians all around the wor world, right? Capital C church. And that's the entire point of First Corinthians twelve when it talks about the body. We're just body parts. You need all the other parts with you, right? So uh for anyone to say I have new like theology now, that that's very arrogant because uh that means that God somehow hid from the rest of the body parts some piece of So in that vein, um just reassuring you that this is gonna be from uh my spiritual betters here. These are the books that I'm leaning on very heavily for what I'll just be. conveying today. And these people didn't make these up themselves either. This it all traces back to Jesus and the apostles, right? That was our I think our second lesson where we talked about what's the historical strain we came from Protestant Reformation back to the hermeneutical school of Antioch, back to the apostles, back to Jesus, right? And the and the prophets. So these are some books I like. I kind of picked and choose from Beast 4 in particular when it comes to genre, but I commend all of these resources. But let's start with the narrative genre. So the narrative genre is the most common genre of the Bible So 40% of the Old Testament, 60% of the New Testament, you can average it out to around half of the whole Bible are just narrative accounts It's just a historical record of this person did this and then he went here and then he did that, right? Just kind of like a almost like a news report, right? You guys know what I mean when I say narrative And narrative genre, as such, it is characterized mostly by ordinary language instead of figurative. So what you read is typically what you think it means. Okay? So again, think of it uh it's it's not an exact uh parallel, but like a news report, something you're reading in a newspaper, something you're reading in a history textbook today. And you would expect ordinary language. It would not uh be fitting of a journalist, a news journalist, to use too much figurative language, right? That would confuse the audience. That's not the purpose of why they're uh writing their news report. So in the same way Narrative genre, you will expect ordinary language most of the times of books like Genesis, narrative sections of numbers, uh, narrative sections of the gospel accounts, for instance. These are all narrative books Right? They tell you historical events. This thing happened here. It happened for instance, some authors like Luke will get very specific. Luke was a medical doctor. So I think he was kind of wired that way. And he'll say specifically in the time of this king in this region this thing happened. So he got the details down to the letter, which is very helpful for us, right? So that's the narrative genre, mostly ordinary language. So how to interpret, well, since we expect ordinary language, because that's the purpose of the narrative genre The plain common sense of the word will more often than not just be the meaning. So you don't have to read into the words too much. Just however you see, you have to remember the authors of the Bible, they were never trying to write riddles. They're not writing to trick you guys. They're writing to be understood. Okay? Unlike maybe a lot of, you know, heretical religious text out there. The biblical authors thought it was very important that they were understood plainly and clearly, right? So they're not writing riddles. So the plain common sense of the word is the meaning. Another important consideration when it comes to the narrative genre is tool number five, the purpose statement of the book, is as especially important. It's important for all the books of the Bible, but for the narrative genre it's a particular driver. And that is because narrative genre, narrative books in the Bible can often be very long, very winding. It can have a lot of historical events that are being talked about. And it's very easy to get lost in the weeds. Okay? Because there's just so much information in like the book of Matthew or Luke or Genesis or whatever. All these different places, all these different people, important historical people. All these different events happen and it gets ver it gets very easy to get lost in the weeds, lost in the trees, and forget what the main idea is Remember, there's an overarching purpose behind why the author of a narrative book wrote that account, right? There's some theological purpose, some spiritual lesson he's trying to drill into the heads of his uh listeners, his readers So because of the fact that historical genre books can get very long and it can talk a lot about a lot of information, you always want to keep the purpose in mind. Why am I reading this? Why am I reading this now? What is the the uh goal here what am i supposed to understand at the end of all of this okay does that make sense yeah will Yeah, yeah, that would be a blend. So you often have uh so you Yo you're jumping ahead, which is great. So this is a good time to address it. Yeah, just because uh like the book of Genesis is formally considered a narrative genre book, you're gonna have poetic and prophetic sections within it as well. Now we'll treat poetry and the pr uh prophetic genre separately. Uh I think next week I want to say, or maybe in two weeks. But yeah, you you can have a blend of different genres The narrative would be Ezekiel received this vision at such and such place at this time. That's the narrative section, right? Because that's like a plain report, you know Uh but then within that narrative, sort of suddenly you get into a prophetic section. That would be a prophetic genre. Yeah. Yeah, and that'd be prophecy at that point. That'd be prophetic genre. But the narrative part would be this such and such prophet received this vision at this time at this place. Yeah, and then you go into a different genre. That's a great question. Yep. Yep. Okay. But uh yes. Uh going back to the narrative genre though, if you are just the narrative section where it's a report of such and such happening to so and so You always want to keep in mind the purpose. What's the overarching picture? What's the forest? Don't just get lost in the trees of specific happenings. Okay? And once again, remember sometimes the purpose is explicit. That makes it easy. Sometimes you have to do a little more work and think, why are what do these events have in common? You know, why does Matthew keep talking about these events? And that could be another good way to implicitly get the purpose statement. Or what's at the beginning? What's the intro section say? What does the conclusion section say? What's being repeated over is there some important phrase that's being repeated over and over again? These are all ways to tease out what the implicit purpose statement is And once again go back to last week's recording and slide deck if you want more information there. Uh okay, let's continue here. Ah, okay, this is super, super important. When it comes to narratives, we need to very carefully distinguish. This is where a lot of people go astray when it comes to reading Genesis or Exodus or Luke or whatever Descriptions are not the same thing as prescriptions. Just because something is being described in a narrative does not mean God is endorsing that behavior. Okay? They're different. Things are described in the Bible because they just actually happened. There's a lot of sin that's described in the Bible. That doesn't mean you're supposed to sin, right? God doesn't say thou shalt so and so or whatever, right? Or if there aren't any strong implications about something that's supposed to be normative, something that's supposed to be something that we should be doing, a command, regularly done A description does not necessarily mean God is saying you should do it. It's not necessarily a prescription. Okay? Pretty obvious, right? It's pretty obvious on its face when I say it that way, but a lot of people get mixed up here Uh for instance, um I think one in particular that trips up a lot of people is the issue of polygamy, right? You have several characters in the Bible, and they are, according to God, considered faithful men that nevertheless have multiple wives. What are we to think about? What do we to think about David and his uh uh you know, multiple wives and concubines. Well I found this very helpful article. It's by Andrew Wilson and he states the following. And I think this is going to be helpful for this whole description versus prescription distinction as a whole. But he says, quote, a large number of people maybe as a result of ineffectual communication by Christians Christian teachers think the Bible and especially the Old Testament is just a list of moral commandments along with some stories to give us examples of how to be good. They find quite a few stories where the lead character is a polygamist. Furthermore, they don't find any explicit commands that say, thou shalt not commit polygamy. That's true, actually, by the way. So since they are assuming that the Old Testament is just a book of moral commandments and morality tales that support those commandments, they conclude that the Bible says polygamy is okay. Now first and foremost, how would you guys answer someone? that had this mindset. A lot of people do Yeah, that's a very power a lot of so this is we're going off on a tangent, but a lot of the so-called gay Christianity movement, I'm not sure if you heard of it, it's kind of trending since like five years ago. But they'll often say things like, Well Jesus never, you know, condemned homosexuality. And uh what you find is actually if you read the gospels close enough, you find passages like Jesus addressing divorce And he clearly says at the beginning, um, God made male and female. What God put together let man not separate. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Singular, yeah, mainly a female. Yep, that's good. Yeah, so we can point to Jesus' teaching. That's a great way to tackle that. Yeah. Yeah. And Jesus came from a line of this polygamous union too. That's something to think about, right? Yeah, you guys are hitting the nail on the head. And something I would further point out that you guys are not doing is you're not making the wrong assumption here that the Old Testament is just the legal genre. We're going to talk about the legal genre in a second. It's not just a bunch of listed bullet point commands and then some stories that just back up those commands. The narrative genre just talks about stuff that happened, right? It's not just a book of commands, it's bigger than that, it's broader than that, and as such, you can't just take every historical event that happened and say, oh, this is an example. of how to follow these commands. That's the wrong assumption about how to read the Bible, right? So you have to think a little more deeply than every historical event, every narrative section I read in the Bible, that's an example of how I should model my life Sometimes it's the opposite reason. It's to show you what not to do, right? So there's something deeper behind these historical events. So let's continue. These are all great answers and let's see uh what Andrew Wilson has to say. It's going to be pretty similar to what you guys are saying The problem, of course, is that the Bible, even the Old Testament, is not really a book of commandments and morality tales. The Bible does, of course, contain commandments and lots of narratives, but hardly any of the narratives are about morally upright heroes who keep God's commandments. Most of the narratives are about God's actions and plans to save immoral human beings. Most of the human characters and Bible stories, even some of the most faithful ones, are morally dubious at best. That's kind of like what Rachel was saying earlier, right? In fact, many of their activities are downright sordid. You're not supposed to read these stories as direct examples for your own life. You're meant to read them to understand God's action in the midst of of tragic human history. It's how look how great God is, like Rachel's saying, that he uses evil and supernaturally turns it into good. That's the point. God is the hero of the Old Testament, not the people, right? Sure, the narrators never pause to say, oh, by the way, please don't be a polygamist. But why should they? The stories make the point all by themselves As Peter Jensen pointed out, stories about polygamy in the Bible, time after time, result in disaster Off the top of my head, here are some of the stories about polygamy in the Bible. The first polygamist, Lamick, calls a family conference so he can boast about his inordinate, vengeful violence. He's clearly not a nice man. Jacob has two wives and two concubines, a situation which creates family heartbreak, envy, and ultimately attempted murder. Right? Esau tries to kill his uh brother. Gideon has many wives and many sons. This uh I'm sorry, not not Jacob and Esau. Jacob um down his line has Joseph, right? His uh son Joseph who is a temple Murdered by his brothers, Jacob's brothers, Esau. Gideon has many wives and many sons. This results in civil war and wholesale slaughter in Israel. David has a seemingly insatiable appetite for women. He has many wives, and in the end steals another man's wife. That's Bathsheba. and murders him, the resulting big family was not a happy one. They ended up committing ancestrus rape and rebellion, which almost destroyed David's kingdom. Solomon, the famous Solomon, had seven hundred wives and three hundred concubines. They led his heart away from the Lord and led to the breakup of Solomon. his kingdom under his foolish descendant Rhabom, right? The stories tell the story all by themselves, don't they? Polygamy, according to the Bible, is a disaster See? So you gotta think deeply about the narratives, about the historical events in the Bible than just it's in the Bible. This is automatically how I should live my life No, there's usually deeper meaning behind it. And more often than not, as Andrew Wilson's saying, it's actually the opposite. He's like, this is an example of what not to do, because men we're all sinners at heart, right? Okay, some other examples of descriptions that should not be prescriptions. Can you guys think of any? What else does the Bible talk about that is not supposed to be just, you know, a a blank check for how we're supposed to be living? Anyone think of any? Don't do that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, that's right. You know that that verse, I think Judges seven is one of the first times that refrain is used in those days. There's no king in Israel, every man didn't what was right in his own eyes. It's funny because there's a political philosophy out there that models itself entirely on that premise. It's called libertarianism. And no king, everyone does whatever is right in their own eyes. And And uh people think that'll bring paradise, but in Israel that brought a very, very tragic end. Yeah, some of the hardest passages in scripture toward the end of Judges. And uh that is the result of every man doing what is right in their own eyes. God made government for a reason. Any other descriptions that should not be automatically prescriptions I thought it won't happen with this one. This is the obvious one that most people point to. Slavery. Is there ever a command in the Bible where God instituted and invented slavery? No, right? It's just the reality of the ancient Near East. And it's not one that where he tears it down either. Yeah, that's true. That's true. God works with the reality of his case. But you see in Exodus twenty-one amazingly God's uh conception of, okay, slavery is here in Israel, this is how it should be instituted, very different from how surrounding pagan nations are. Did it. Very different. Slaves were considered fully human. In fact, if you harmed a slave, you had to pay penalty of how you harmed them, right? And you had to let them go free Uh slaves were um uh in Israel it was presupposed that some slaves they were treated so humanely they would want to stay as slaves, right? The whole drilling the earlobe with awl And uh some slaves they realized, you know what, this is better than the alternative, which in those days was slav uh starving to death. And that's when Egypt during that seven year famine, do you guys remember that? Uh you had that bountiful harvest And God used Joseph to uh interpret Pharaoh's dream and said, You're gonna have uh seven years of plenty, so store up a lot of grain now, because there's gonna be a very hard seven years after. And during those hard seven years, the people in the land, they eventually said, Can you please enslave us, Pharaoh? Because the alternative is starving to death. And they were actually thankful in uh the Bible. So very different from we think of slavery in modern times But yeah, God did not invent slavery though. Okay? This is not a prescription saying we should have slaves today. It's a gracious gift of God that we don't today. Uh anything else that we can think of? Oh this one, this is a famous one. You guys remember Gideon, the judge Gideon, his fleece test? You ever done a fleece test? I did when I was a young Christian. Testing the Lord, asking the Lord for a sign before you do what you know is his command. That is nowhere described as a prescription. In fact, the opposite. You're not supposed to test God Well God did for Gideon. So for those of you don't know, Gideon was one of what's known as a judge in the book of judges. Judges are not what we think of like um someone with a black robe that sits in a court of law. Judges are broader. They were they were kind of the uh um one part military commander one part arbiter of legal disputes as well, but they were really the the pre-monarchial period kings. They were the champion of Israel that God would raise up on occasion to help Israel when they were being attacked by some foreign force because they felt a sin. Well, there was a famous judge named Gideon, and uh he was called to be the next judge to save Israel. But he was a little bit of a cowardly guy, I would say, a little doubtful. So he says, Uh God, just to make sure, just to make sure I'm supposed to be a judge and you're gonna give me victory against Israel's enemies Can I can you just do this one test for me so I know? Uh I'm gonna put out this piece of wool on the ground and in the morning if uh it's getting mix up the order. But I think the first test was if the entire ground around the fleece is like dewy and wet, but the fleece is dry miraculously, then I know that it was it the opposite. So if the fleece is uh wet, I guess And then the ground is dry, I know that, you know, you called me and you're for real. So God does the miracle graciously, might I add, not because this was a good test for getting to do And then Gideon says, Okay, don't get me on, let me just do one more thing, God. Can you do the opposite now? 'Cause maybe that was some freak natural f I'm putting words in if not like fat natural phenomenon or whatever, can you do the opposite now in the morning? So that sense a lot of people have developed entire theologies and Christian books up there about doing these fleece tests, right But that's not an act of faith. Jesus said just the opposite to Thomas. He said, Do you believe because now you see this miraculous thing? I resurrected from the dead? Blessed are those who believe yet do not see. So Gideon was exhibiting, this was a narrative section of the book of Judges, exhibiting, sometimes God is gracious to people with very weak faith. This is a description. Nowhere in the Bible says this is to be Probably just the opposite. Here's another one. Ruth requested marriage. Um and Ruth, uh their uh Naoiz Naomi's husband dies, and back then that could really be your death knell. Um If you don't have a means to be provided for, especially by um a man, like Naomi was probably an older woman by then, uh and if you don't really have a steady means to you know make food and income and stuff, uh you could really starve to death. So that's why God provided this thing called leverade marriage, where because it was so um dangerous for widows Uh if you have a close family member, they're supposed they have the duty to uh remarry you, right? So Roof had a close family member named Boa, that was supposed to be his her uh redeemer, as the word is called, Leverite Redeemer And Naomi gives her this seemingly odd uh counsel that uh when Boaz, this righteous man, falls asleep later that night, go to him, uncover his feet. And um that was basically um uh Ruth's request for marriage. But this is not prescriptive for us today, young ladies, right? If you're single you're not supposed to go around uncovering people's feet asking for marriage. This is a description of something that happened in that time and there is a lot of cultural uh connotations behind what Ruth is doing that we don't fully understand immediately today. Uh I think I saw him. Yeah, was it? Yeah, so there was another guy before Boaz. Yeah. And Boaz had to work. uh operation maneuver to yeah to work him out of you want this land? Yeah. Comes with a girl. No. Yeah, that's good. All right Fourth bullet, uh Abraham's servant, this is probably Eliezer, his senior servant. Uh he was told by Abraham to find a wife, right, for Isaac This is again description. This is not a prescription of how young men should go around trying to find wives. Don't look for women that will give you water and then water your camels also Um this is again description that should not be a prescription. Okay. Here's another description. Remember Abraham twice pretending like Uh his beautiful wife Sarah was a sister misleading um Abimelech and also I think the people of Egypt that he was a sister to protect his life. This is again description. This is not a good model So narratives. They will often have descriptions of sinful people doing sinful, doubting, weak things. It's just the opposite of that wrong assumption that Peter Wilson was talking about, which is some people think the Bible is just a bunch of commands And some specific uh demonstrative narratives that back up how you should carry out that command. That's not true. It's just the opposite. The main character of the Bible you always have to remember is God. God is the main character. character and God is so powerful he can work with sinners to do great things. Okay, any questions before we go to our next genre? The legal genre, laws? Yeah. That's a great example. Right, yeah. There's there's an awesome passage that addresses that and if we go to Hebrews chapter eleven I wanna say This is what's often known as the Hall of Fame or the Hall of Faith, and it lists all these faithful people throughout scripture that are example of exhibiting great righteous faith and Rahab is listed in here. However, what should be noted is uh the faith that Rahab is commended for was not the lying part, it was keeping alive the spies. And I can't find passage specifically 39. Oh, thirty-one. Thank you. So Hebrews eleven thirty-one states by faith Rahab the prostitute did not perish with those who were disobedient because she had given a friendly welcome to the spies. So it's not the lying part. Rahab Rahab lied. You know, that's that's that's on Rahab. That's what she did. Nowhere commended in Scripture. The good part was the fact that she protected That's a great example. Ray Had Bly is not commending this as how we should get out of pickles There's always there's always a wiser, righteous way to get around things. However, I'll say uh my seminary professor that uh gave the It was the Old Testament overview class I took. He made a really good applicational point, which was but before you go around condemning Rahab saying what a foolish thing she did. Remember in our weak flesh, if you're in a situation like that, you know, don't think too highly of yourself. It's going to be a very difficult situation for us to navigate sticky life threatening situations and walk away completely, perfectly handsome best situation. That's why Jesus is so amazing, by the way. Jesus was put on the spot, you know, opponents were just trying to calculate how to trap 'em And uh he always navigated every situation sinlessly. Never lied, by the way, never deceived. Withheld truth sometimes, which is not lying. He didn't have to give all the information. Jesus never lied Good. Any other thoughts or questions? Yeah, that was a great one, Willie. Thank you for sharing that one. Alright, let's go to the legal genre. Laws. So this would include things like an Exodus, giving of the mosaic law. An Exodus has a lot of narratives, by the way. So again, returning to a point we made earlier in the class, you have a lot of these genres often mix up together. But uh when it comes to laws or two types, they are there are what's known as apodictic laws, and these are direct declarative commands. You can kind of think of them as like the easier law to handle because it's pretty plain and dry and they often generalize something like do not murder. Exodus twenty, right? Pretty easy to understand. It's saying generally speaking, do not murder people. And then you have a second type of law, very common through scripture, known as casuistic or case laws, specific cases. So Exodus chapter 22, verse 7 is an example where it says, if a man gives to his neighbor money or goods to keep safe, And it is stolen from the man's house. So you see the setup. It's a very specific scenario. In this very specific case, what are you to do? Then if the thief is found, he shall pay double. Alright? So whereas in the first, the aphidictic example, you shall not murder, that's not a specific case, that's not a specific circ circumstance or setting. You guys are seeing the difference, right? And the second is a specific scenario where such and such happens. Now, how do you handle case laws? Well, first and foremost, you have to keep in mind God in his wisdom never intended his laws to be exhaustive. This is where the Jews really went haywire, the Pharisees. The Pharisees tried to take the Word of God, added all these extra biblical commands, and they wanted to make it exhaustive. They did not like the fact that the law of God was clearly not meant to cover in specific detail every single circumstance you'll ever go through in all of human history. Right? And a lot of people, we in our natural states, this and I'm not just sticking on the Jews and the Pharisees, all of us, we tend to like following the rules specific And that's because in many respects it's easier. That's an easier way to have a relationship with God. I just have to checklist I get to go to heaven, right? Whereas God, uh, when it comes to Christian living, it's actually much deeper and harder. It's about the heart. It's about loving God and everything that entails. I mean imagine for those of you who are married or have a boyfriend or girlfriend or even like your friend or whatever. Would you be expressing love to that person in your life if you treated them like a checklist? I did this, I did this, pick up the trash, did this. That's all it means to be a good husband or a wife or a boyfriend or a girlfriend, right? That's not all it means, right? Maybe it is for some of you guys anyway. But it's deeper than that. It's a relationship, right? And relationships are tougher because the love has to come from the heart. It's not just a checklist that you go through like A B C D E So in the same sense, uh God did not lay down laws just to show you a checklist of how to get to heaven. He was pointing to the fact that you have a heart problem because you're not able to fulfill any of these things And then even after he saves you, where you are able to fulfill these laws to glorify God, not so that you get more righteousness and get to be in a higher place in heaven But when you are able to fulfill these laws for God's glory by his gracious effort in your life, again, they're not meant to be exhaustive. It's not meant to be Christianity is all about just checklists But men in our natural state we don't like the fact that the laws of God are not exhaustive, so we add a bunch of stuff to it. But that was never the intent of the law. This is not a checklist of how to get to heaven, how to Please God. Rather, what laws do, the point of the legal genre is to lay down principles, is to lay down larger ideas, concepts of what it means to be uh a fearer of the Lord. Now, this is uh the way that um I like to conceptualize it that I think is helpful. So when it comes to uh the laws of the Bible, when it comes to the legal genre, commands, these are all synonyms How to interpret it is you want to look for the principle behind the law. So even when it comes to those apodictic commands where it seems pretty general already. There's always some wider principle about what God's character is like that you want to find underneath it So you want to find the principle, and the principle behind the law, whether it's a specific case law, and I'll give you an example of how to handle case law in a second, because that's the more important um trickier one to handle When it comes to apedictic law or casuistic law, when it comes to all the uh law, all the legal material in the Bible, you want to find that principle, and that principle is always binding on every Christian, the corporate people of God, every believer for all time. It's universal. Okay? Out of that principle, we get what are known as implications. Implications are things that necessarily, logically, have to follow from a principle. So if that principle is sound that we find in the Word of God There are certain implications that has to come out of it. They're logically connected. It is necessary. Okay? So this is not applications, by the way. We'll get there in a second. But there are implications that typically come out of the principle. And like the principle, because they are logically necessarily connected, they have to be binding on every single believer for all time. And again, I know this is very theoretical right now. We're going to go into an example of this. But principle, okay, underneath, it's the law, and then what are the implications that have to be followed out of that And then lastly, this is where you get to the personal applications. Once you know the principle and the implications, each individual believer will find some specific way that pertains to their personal circumstances. how they want to apply that law. So we used the example several weeks ago about how Ephesians says honor your father and mother, right? This is First command with a blessing. And the application could be, it's snowing today or this past week, I should go shovel my elderly parents' driveway. Right? But that's not a command. There's nothing that says thou shalt always shovel your elderly parents' driveway. Right? You can't impose that on other believers and put them under church discipline if they're not following it That's an application that's specific to you. Some of you you should uh you know call your parents more often or some of you if your young children still in the home you just need to obey, right? The Bible says directly just obey your parents So applications are binding on individuals according to your conscience, according to a conviction that the Holy Spirit gave you. Okay, that's a matter of conscience. Principle and implication, everyone in Hope Bible Church has to do it. Application, individual members of Hope Bible Church, you come up with your own personal way between you and the Holy Spirit that you want to carry out the principle and Are you guys following me so far? I know this is theoretical. An example's gonna help in a sec, but does this make sense so far? Okay. If anytime I'm saying doesn't make sense, it's not clear, don't uh feel foolish to uh chime in and ask for clarification. But in in all likelihood there's somebody else in the room that's also a little confused, okay Alright, let's get to an example. So this is a law in Deuteronomy chapter 25, verse 4, that states, you shall not muzzle an ox. Now first and foremost, is this apodictic? Is this the first type of law or it's a general statement or is this a case law? case right that's a specific circumstance when you when you're working with an oxetred out grain very specific in fact don't muzzle it don't don't don't muzzle the mouth right Now the interpretation uh initially is pretty simple. This this sounds trivial. It's don't don't put a muzzle on a hox when spreading out grain. It's not hard, right? This is very easy to interpret But interpretation when it comes to the legal genre, remember you've got to go a little further and you've got to try to figure out what's the principle underneath the initial interpretation. Interpretation goes further here And the principle here is the worker should enjoy some of the fruit of his labor. Now you might be able to see that immediately by yourself, but thankfully in this example, we actually have help from the Holy Spirit from Himself who gives that interpretation through the Apostle Paul in 1 Corinthians chapter 9. But Paul exhibits through how he handles Deuteronomy 25 the fact And when it comes to laws of God, you should always be looking for a principle underneath it. That is the work of interpretation when it comes to the legal genre. That's what Paul assumes Right. In fact, let's just read 1 Corinthians 9 here in a second, and you can hear from his language he's saying this is obviously how you're supposed to handle case laws and apodictic law, the legal genre in general So starting with verse 6, this is Paul speaking to the Corinthian Christians. Is it only Barnabas and I? Barnabas was his man. ministry partner he traveled with on his missionary journeys. Is it only Barnabas and I who have no right to refrain from working for a living? So Paul at this point in his ministry in Corinth, as he's establishing the Corinthian church He was not taking any salary, you can call it, from the Corinthians. He was not taking any tithes or whatever offerings. He was working as a tent maker, that was his uh his uh secular trade, and he was supporting himself and him and Barnabas Do I say these things on human authority? Does not the law, he's going to refer to Deuteronomy 25 here, say the same. For it is written in the law of Moses, you shall not muzzle an ox when it comes when it treads out the grain. Is it for Achthen that God is concerned? Does he not certainly speak for our sake? It was written for our sake. Because the plowman should plow in hope, and the thresher thresh in hope of sharing in the crop. Now I think it's very instructive in verses nine and ten. Look at Paul's language. He's he thinks it's obvious. So obviously to his audience it should have been obvious to them. Apparently this is how the Jews, uh the early Christians of uh um Paul's day handled the legal genre, he's saying obviously this isn't just about oxen, right? When it comes to the law, and like we all know this isn't just about animals. There's a deeper principle that God is trying to teach behind Deuteronomy 25. 4. It's not literally just the specific case, don't muzzle your oxen. It's more than that. He says in verse 10, it says for our sake. It was written for our sake because a plowman should plow in hope. Verse 12, nevertheless we have not made use of this right But we endure anything rather than put an obstacle in the way of the gospel of Christ. So at this point in his ministry, somehow Paul discerned among the Corinthians it would be very stumbling to them If Paul went in preaching the gospel and ministering and said, Hey, by the way, so that I can do this full time, you know, you guys owe me some money. I'm giving you spiritual treasure, give me a little bit of your material treasure to support me Somehow Paul uh was able to discern that uh among the Corinthians, that would be an unwise thing to do. Some people speculate that the Corinthians uh was probably uh I I think it was a very metropolitan center, a lot of cross currents of different cultures and different teachers, different false teachers as a result. And a lot of them probably uh went in among the Corinthians and were just fleecing the flock basically just uh you know ripping them off, saying, you know, if you give me money I'll give you this blessing from God and blah blah. So maybe that was the context that Paul was speaking to where he thought, you know, if I ask them for money, it's gonna be a bad look at this point in time. They're not mature enough to handle it. But Paul points out, technically, in Deuteronomy 25, the principle behind this law about not muzzling an ox, that means I should be owed some material support, but I'm purposely not going to use that right because I don't want to stumble you guys. Okay? But you see how Paul is handling Deuteronomy twenty five? And that is an example for us. And he said that's that's how everyone obviously is handling the legal genre. There's a principle, a worker should enjoy some of the fruit. of his label, the labor. And the implication, remember an implication necessarily has to come out of the principle. If it's not necessary, if if the connection isn't like it has to be connected together then it's not an implication, it's probably an application. But an implication, if the worker should enjoy some of the fruit of his labor Logically, that should also apply to spiritual workers, right? And this is why we support full-time ministers of the word at this church, like Pastor Gabe, for instance. He's the only one at the moment But a full-time minister should be paid by the church. Do you guys see how this is an implication? So that means an implication principle since it's binding on all Christians, Christians that aren't doing one of these two They're they're likely in sin, right? A a church that refuses to pay someone that is working full time for the gospel saying you don't deserve a salary, you know how hard is your job you're only ministering to the souls and dealing with handling matters of eternity, you know. Um, you know, any Christian that has that kind of attitude, you're in sin because an implication is logically connected to the principle, it's binding in all believers for all time. Does that make sense Okay, but let's think of some applications. Right? None of this are sin issues necessarily unless you are violating your personal conscience. Maybe you look at Deuteronomy 25, 4, this law, and you think to themselves, I need to start giving more money to the offering. Like I understand now to a greater extent why we ought to give some money to church It's because these are ministers that work full-time for the gospel and they need my support. This is how they make a living. I need to give more Or maybe you're uh an employer, you're a business owner, and you realize, you know what, my employees are working super hard, I've been skimping on their bonuses and their salary, I haven't been you know, raising their pay with inflation, I need to pay my employees more. Maybe that's your personal application of this law. Or You know, my sister's a programmer. She helped me put up this great website, and I'm being stingy and I didn't like, you know, compensate her at all. I took advantage of the fact that she's a family member. I should at least treat her to a nice dinner something like that. I don't know if she was doing me a favor, but she worked hard. Workers should enjoy some of the fruits of their labor. You see how none of these individually you can force another believer to do. You might be feeling that in your heart. That's how you apply don't muzzle an ox when treading grain. But you can't put someone under church discipline because they're not doing the exact same application you are. So hopefully you're seeing how it all flows. Interpreting a law, you find the principle, then there are implications that have to come out of that But then you want to distinguish the implication from the applications. Okay? Applications are personal, subjective, it's it's each individual personal person's circumstance and it's according to your conscience All clear? So here's another analogy to help you. I think finding the principle when it comes to interpreting the legal genre, it's a lot like mining for like raw raw material, like a raw diamond So the raw diamond, the raw principle you find when interpreting Deuteronomy 25, verse 4, is the worker should enjoy some of the fruit of his labor. But just like a raw material can be formed into all sorts of different shapes, the application that comes out of that principle can look very different. They're all made of that diamond, right? They all stem from that same idea, that same base root diamond, that idea. But John's application might look more like a necklace. I should give more money to church. Jane's application is, you know, I forget what my second example was. I need to pay my employees more Joe's application might look more like a tiara. I should treat my sister to dinner for helping me with my website. But this is hopefully a picture, uh illustrative way to explain the process of interpreting laws Alright, uh here's John MacArthur's thoughts. Uh we're all fans of John MacArthur, myself as well. So he's not God, he's not inspired, but In all likelihood you're on the right track if he agrees with you. And he states this in one of his Q<unk>A sessions. When you deal with the text in Ephesians 6 on the armor of God, all I can do is explain it There aren't any applications in that text. It doesn't say, and here's how to do this if you're 32 years old and you live in North Hollywood. Here's how to do this the next time you go to a mall. Here's how to do this when you go in your car and you're driving in a traffic jam. It doesn't tell you that. And if I made my message Mostly a whole lot of those little illustrations or applications, another synonym, I would be missing 90% of you who don't live in that experience. You see the wisdom of God? That's how he wrote the Bible as well God didn't try to be exhaustive because he's speaking to billions and billions of people throughout history, right? It's not for me to do that. Application belongs to the Spirit of God who works with you Each individual believer. All I'm interested in is explanation and its implications. You can also put interpretation and its implications. It is the Spirit's work to drive those implications into direct and personal application. There you have it. Let's go to the epistles. Two types of epistles. You have what are known as expository epistles, and the main purpose, remember how important purpose is. The main purpose behind an expository genre is to explain doctrine. So Romans is a great example of that. And uh by the way, Romans, to give you some historical context, uh the reason why it's uh more of an expository genre rather than the second type we're going to talk about in a second is uh likely because Paul never visited the Romans yet. He says in the letter, he says, you know, I it's not like I haven't have just been ignoring you guys. I haven't been able to get to you yet So uh Romans is mainly about doctrine because he doesn't personally know anybody yet. So he's there to just give lay out his theology before he visits it's like an introductory letter about this is my theology, this is who I am before I come meet. you guys. So an expository epistle is mainly focused on just doctrinal theological matters. And then you have the second type of epistle or letter, same thing as a letter by the way. It's like from dear John, from so-and-so, sincerely Paul or whatever. You have these oratory epistles, which is an exhortation to action. So the purpose behind the second type of letter is something happened. Something important happened. And the letter writer is writing off hurriedly in order to address that something. So anyone remember what's happening among the Galatians when that necessitated Paul writing this letter? We talked about it last week, I think Yeah. You're saying you have to be a Jew to be Christian, right? Circumcision, all their stuff, beasts and And stuff like that. Yeah. So false teaching was spreading among the Galatians. So Paul writes this hortatory letter saying, Guy, stop. I'm surprised you're so quickly turning to another gospel. We know there's no such thing as another gospel. Right? And you have like the Corinthian letters, the two Corinthian letters. They were having all these church squabbles. Unfortunately, probably sounds very familiar. So no trial to go through by the way in the New Testament era is unique. We go through it time and time again. It's all cycles. But there's some church drama. People were thinking this and this person was thinking that and they were making themselves into factions like I follow this teacher, no I follow this teacher. So Paul had to hurriedly write off the Corinthian letters to address these sinful divisions that were occurring among the Corinthians. That's another example of a order toy letter. Epistles, like I said, they're letters, so they're typically addressed to individuals, but you know, they apply to all believers. There's scripture, right? And even the authors knew they were writing scripture, by the way. So it's application, uh you use it for all bo it's relevant to all Christians, but it was formally typically addressed to a specific person And it's also similar to the legal genre because, especially when it comes to that second type, that ordery epistle, if you're exhorting to action, you're giving commands. You're giving laws, in other words, right? All synonyms So just like with the legal genre, when you see a command, when you see an exhortation, a law in an epistle like Galatians, you also want to be mindful of what's the underlying principle underneath it, what are the logical implications that have to come out of that law. And then finally how do I apply it in my life? So it's not just theory, head knowledge, but heart knowledge. Uh let's End the class by talking about a very controversial topic of when is a command, especially ones you find in the epistles, but also the legal genre When is a command cultural or when is it universal for all time? Anyone know how to answer that question? So for instance you have stuff like, do pastors always have to be male or is that just an artifact of You know, the ancient Near East was full of very sexist people. Um so that's why they required male pastors. Sexism is sexism is real. There are all sorts of takes out there. But is that just an artifact of the fact that, you know, Paul was a little sexist or Or he knew his audience was too sexist to handle female pastors. Or how about the holy kiss? Romans 16, 16. That's the command. Greet one another with a holy kiss. Should we go around kissing everybody? Hope Bible Church. Right Yeah. Spread COVID everywhere. But how do you answer that question? What would you guys say? I'm this probably isn't new, right? This concept of something that's just culturally bound versus universal Universal. I'm sure you guys have probably heard about these kind of arguments. How would you answer it though? Are there ways to tell if one is one or the other? Yeah, that's another one. Head coverings, yeah. How do we even begin? Where do you start? Okay, so maybe if the command is explicit spelled out literally. I'll just say to that the Romans 1616 is pretty simple So this was between the same genders by the way, so I don't know how many of you men have been kissing other men at Hope Bible Church. You've been violating Romans sixteen sixteen. Let's go to uh I believe it's First Timothy chapter three. Or no two. Let's go to 1 Timothy chapter 2. And someone, can you please read verses 12 to fourteen. First Timothy chapter two verses twelve to fourteen. I think that addresses a very important point Willie made. Whoever gets there first, go ahead nice and loud. So like Willie was saying, it's really important to understand when the rationale is given, what's the reason behind command. That gives a lot of insight into whether something is just culturally bound or actually normative and universal. What's Paul what is Paul appealing to here in First Timothy two, specifically verses thirteen and fourteen? Yeah. Yeah. What does that imply? What's the necessary implication there If he's appealing to the very beginning of the creation of hum humanity, is this normative and universal or is this cultural in Paul's mind? Yeah. It applies to all humanity, right? And it's not speaking to women being inferior or being dumber or less capable. You know? There are lots of uh very brilliant women. I mean it's it's all the same. You know, people are people. It's not anything to do with intelligence or worth or dignity. It's all just about hierarchical order. It's just the order of things, right? We all have authority figures in our life. Um, you know, even if you're you're an employee, you have a boss If you're a citizen you have, you know, a king or a president or whatever, right? We all have just certain orders in life we all fall into. And according to Paul, first Timothy two, it's the same thing when it comes to a household, right? And that does not mean men get to just tell women what to do. They're just robotic slaves or anything like that. Right? But um yeah. So another thing that comes to mind and and this kind of gives emphasis to uh training in biblical studies, uh, is that the Greek language has uh has imperatives and and other things that we lose in translation that when said, when spoken in the Greek, identify to the Greek speaker as, okay, this is a this is an imperative as a opposed to this is a um this is a a recommendation. Yeah. Yeah, there are some at some specific passages, you're right, where you really gotta get down to the word study level and figure out the Greek and Hebrew Hebrew. There are minority passages, but you're right, Jose. There there are definitely some passages where um you should either deal with the original language or find someone that can. Yeah. Okay, so here, just in the interest of time, I'll just give you my list here. I think this is a really good list to keep in mind when it comes to how to answer this question, culture-bound or normative and universal. Number one, if it's a universal command, you're gonna see repetition. Okay, especially between the testaments, because you're really jumping between two very different cultures actually when it comes to Old Testament and New Testament. We think, oh, they're all Israelites, but there's actually a lot changed culturally. But if you see a command that's repeated, so thou shalt not murder. It's in Exodus twenty, in the sixth ten sixth of the Ten Commandments, but then it's also repeated in First John chapter three fifteen. That is an indicator that you're dealing with something that's universal. Number two, you'll often have universal qualifiers. So there's some specific word that's added to the command that tells you things like all, every, all time, everywhere. So in 1 Timothy chapter 2, if you go back a few verses to verse 8, Paul says, I desire that in every, so every is the important qualifier here, the universal qualifier, in every place the men should pray. Lifting holy hands without anger or quarreling. Don't fight with each other and you should pray. That is a universal command. You see that everything there that um uh indicates to you as such Third, if you have any appeal to the created order, again that tells you you're not dealing with a command that's for just some specific time or epoch or age or place. So we use the example earlier, 1 Timothy chapter 2, verses 12 to 13, Paul is re appealing to creation to say that in church a man uh woman should not uh have authority over or teach. However, when it comes to cultural commandments, an indicator you want to look for is is this exhortation being given to just one person in one specific unrepeatable situation? situation, one unique scenario. That is an indicator that you're dealing with a cultural command. So for instance, Genesis chapter 22, verse 2 God said to Abraham, take your son, this is a commandment, right? Take your son, your only son, Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah and offer him there as a burnt offering. That's a very specific place, specific people, specific subject. This is a, you could call it a cultural command for this specific person. Or if the meaning changes. So you remember how you're trying to find the principle underneath the laws? Well, if any aspect of the explicit, the plain interpretation of the law itself, if the meaning has changed then that's another indicator that you're dealing with a cultural command. So returning to Romans 16, how do we answer this exhortation, this command, greet one another with holy kiss? Well, in modern day America today, a kiss does not mean the same thing it did in Paul's day, right? This is something that was done between men And in some places in Europe still to this day, right? But here in America, modern day America, we don't have men kissing each other and that's just a uh casual informal greeting. So Romans 16 means to greet one another in an affectionate, physically affectionate way. A handshake or a hug would probably be the better way to um fulfill this command. Does that make sense? Because that's what we that's the equivalent, cultural equivalent to the Holy King. So anyway, hopefully this list helps. We're out of time here. If you have any questions, I'll be happy to stick around a little bit after class. Well, let's go before the Lord in prayer so we can go to service.