Okay, good morning. Let's review last week really quickly. And what we uh recognized from two weeks ago is we learned That whenever you're trying to understand meaning behind anything, right, it's not just the Bible, but of course we're talking about getting meaning from the Bible, which is what interpreting Scripture is. But even if you're reading something at work or even just like talking to your friend casually, your parents, whatever, if you're trying to understand what somebody is saying, the meaning has to come from what that person is meaning to say, right? Otherwise it's known as miscommunication or misinterpreting or even slander, libel. There can be some legal ramifications for not letting a person's intended meaning Be the meaning. So the author of any form of media, any form of communication gets to control meaning And you see that throughout history with the different schools of thought on how the Bible ought to be interpreted. And it really just boils down to two schools of thought, as we learned last week You have schools of thought that believes the author gets to control meaning, or you have schools of thought that believe the reader gets to control the meaning. So if the reader gets to control the meaning, you get into all sorts of issues, first and foremost, the meaning of whatever piece of you know, communication, information that you're trying to interpret becomes completely subjective. It just becomes based on opinion. As many readers as there are, that's how many different interpretations you can get, and it just becomes chaos And of course, as I continually say, like a broken record, week after week, we do not do reader-controlled hermeneutics in any other aspect of life When we talk to our friend or coworker or a boss or whatever, we always let the author, the person speaking or the person writing control their own meaning. And the purpose of interpretation is you're just trying to understand what did this person mean to say But when it comes to the Bible, because of our sin nature, because we reject God, we don't want to listen to God's word, because it often says a lot of stuff that contradicts what we like to do. We love to do sin in our natural state and because uh we don't want to have God as our master, I'm a slave of nobody, you know, I get to control my own destiny. Only when it comes to the Bible we're inconsistent and a lot of people believe we get to control the meaning of what the Bible says, which is eisegesis. meaning you put you force into the Bible what you want to see instead of exegesis letting the meaning of God's word come out of the text and then you have to conform to what the Bible itself is saying So these schools of thought were formalized first and foremost starting with the biblical authors. They obviously believed that the author of Scripture gets to control the meaning. And the author is two different authors, right? You have both the human author, but also the Holy Spirit. 100% both. It's a divine mystery, but that's what scripture teaches. That's what Jesus thought For instance, when he was uh using the Psalms, he said both David and the Holy Spirit, you know, carried along by the Holy Spirit were the author of the Psalms, or m a lot of the Psalms, not all David. But the biblical authors, including our Lord Jesus, the God man, they understood that to do hermeneutics properly, you have to get to the question, what did the author intend to say? What did he consciously mean to say? And that's ultimately the end of the story. That's why we do historical grammatical hermeneutics. That's why we let meaning be controlled by the author, because that's what Jesus and the apostles thought and the prophets of the Old Testament. But then of course you always have weeds sown among the wheat, tares among the wheat. And uh it was formalized first by what is known as the School of Alexandria. So you can think of that as like one of the first Theological seminaries. And sadly, just like today, most seminaries are just a complete, you know, pile of hot garbage. And uh you actually probably end up destroying your faith in God by going to a lot of these seminaries like Princeton Theological and their ilk But the School of Alexandria was one such seminary and they taught an allegorical hermeneutic in the mid-second century, which basically means just use your imagination and your fantasy Whenever you interpret scripture. Whatever you imaginatively are seeing in the text, it can go. And then you have a response, uh, will by the grace of God, the school of Antioch. in the early third century. So you have famous figures like John Chrysostom, John Goldenmouth, who taught just a plain, normal way of interpreting. You know, consistently apply what you already do when you talk to your friend applied to scripture, let the author control what the meaning is. Reader-controlled hermeneutics perpetuates in the Roman Catholic Church, as I stated last week I'm not making a judgment statement on each individual Catholic. I am not God. I don't know the spiritual state of every individual Catholic. I am open to the possibility that there are people that call themselves Catholics and are genuinely saved. And again, like I said last week, they are saved in spite of what formal official Roman Catholic Church theology teaches which is a reader-controlled hermeneutic. You have to read Scripture through the lens of our Catholic Church tradition. And then author-controlled hermeneutics is again championed by the Protestant Reformation, which is a response to the abuses in the Roman Catholic Church The early reformers, the early Protestant reformers, they wanted to reform the Catholic Church. They didn't just want to be rabble rousers creating a heartbreak. That was not the original intent And you can really see that Christian spirit of charity inside what their original agenda was, which was we don't want to give up on the Catholic Church. We still want to be part of it, but there needs to be some repentance here Of course, unfortunately official Catholic officials uh did not want to tolerate uh Protestant thinking, Reform thinking And they were jettisoned out of the church and that's why reluctantly they had to create a separate movement. But that's where we stem from, the Protestant Reformation. Um And uh once again, this is our spiritual stream of uh genealogy. And it all goes back to the biblical authors who knew that to interpret scripture, handle scripture properly, you have to let the author control the reading. Last week we ended by defining what we mean by historical grammatical hermeneutic, which sounds very fancy and esoteric. It's not historical just means The Bible is a God-inspired record of real events. This is not fiction. This book is real history and we should treat it that way. And because it's real history It matters that you understand the historical context, the setting, who the actual historical authors were. They were living, breathing, actual people, who they were writing to, which were living, breathing, actual people What did the author mean to say? You know, what were his uh circumstances? What do the surrounding verses, what what is this flow of logic, what do all these things mean? It matters, right? You can use these tools that are listed on the whiteboard because this is a historical document. It's a real book. It's not fake. And then the opposite of historical is of course it's not mythology. And grammatical just means it should be read in its literal plane sense. So it actually comes from the Latin grammatico, which just means literal or plane. So that part's a little bit confusing, but if the Bible should be read in its literal or plain normal sense, right, then you should be using also the rules of grammar and syntax and the like So that's all when we're we're meaning when we say in this class we're teaching the historical grammatical way of interpreting, which is what hermeneutic means. We are just teaching Treat the Bible like a real book that has to be read in a normal way. Okay, this isn't uh a fictional book. This is in Lord of the Rings or something, right? This is a real book talking about real things that actually happen. So you use grammar, use syntax, use normal senses of how we handle sentences, things like that. Things we intuitively do. Things you're doing right now as you listen to me. Alright, so just reviewing, these are our 11 tools of the historical grammatical hermeneutic. Once again, not necessarily strictly chronological, roughly chronological. And today we're going to talk in more depth about the first two tools, which is you want to start, before you even crack open the book and start getting into actually trying to do the interpretation and everything, you want to start with prayer You want to ask God for wisdom. Remember what we're doing here, on the one sense even non-believers can just linguistically, intellectually know what they're reading. Obviously, and that's why they have enough knowledge revealed by God sufficient for their judgment, because any non-believer, any atheist can read this and understand what the text is saying And they know what God's standards are, and that's why they deserve their damnation, we all as we all do in our natural state. Um but at the same time, we're also undertaking a spiritual task We want to walk away from knowing more about this book and not let that knowledge just sit in our minds and our heart and just become fancy intellectual knowledge we can use to show off and show how much smarter than we are than other people. This is knowledge that's supposed to shape our lives and and frankly, if we're doing the work of hermeneutics, if we're doing the work of interpreting the Bible correctly It should be in in some times a painful task because you don't like what you're reading. You recognize like I cannot get away from the interpretation of this text and I'm not living the way I ought to be fully in my life Of course that ought to lead to repentance for the genuine believer. So you start with prayer because you are undertaking a spiritual task and you want to be prepared rightly and that spiritual wisdom that causes you to not only intellectually know you know, what the Bible is saying, the meaning, but then accept it as true and good and beautiful, that is something that has to be, you know, continuously refreshed by the Holy Spirit that lives in our hearts So we start with prayer and then we're going to cover the first nitty-gritty work we do in the process of hermeneutics, make a map, which I'm going to call outlining. Make a map of where this entire book that you're working with is going where it came from. That's going to really give you a lay of the land so you don't get lost and you don't get myopically you know tunnel vision into this one verse and then you read it completely out of context. So those are the two things we're going to talk about. But before we do that, there's a lot of primers, right? A word on translations. What English translation of the Bible should you use? And my recommendation, I didn't make this up, it came from other, you know, spiritual betters before me that discipled me If you cannot read the original languages, which I suspect is is most or maybe all of us in this room, exegesis requires you use at the very least what is known as a word-for-word or formal equivalence Bible translation. Okay? Use what is known as a word-for-word Bible translation. So the opposite of a Bible, uh a word-for-word or formal equivalence translation is what is known as a thought-for-thought translation or a dynamic equivalence. So the distinction betwe between the two is is revealed in the label. When you have a word-for-word translation, you're trying to take each of the words in the original Hebrew or Greek, sometimes Aramaic. uh text in the original Hebrew, Old Testament, Greek, New Testament, and you try to translate that over directly into an equivalent English word, formal equivalence word for word So what do you guys think a thought-for-thought translation would be in contrast to that? What is a translator doing instead of taking each word and translating translating it over? Religious taking in portion of scripture rather than a word. And like in precepts we have it, whether it's the Old or New Testament We go through the Hebrew or the Greek, we look for the translation, then we look for sometimes the word is different depending upon how it's used in the sentence, even the definition. can differ. That's the word for word, but the thought for thought is not as reliable um because it's taking someone's interpretation of a line of scripture and applying their own thought to it. Yeah, pretty much. Yeah, yeah. And Karen nailed uh nailed it on the head when you said someone's interpretation. Exactly. So thought for thought, just like uh Karen stated so uh well, is you take entire sections of scripture and you translate that instead of each individual word. Now anyone know what you think might be the motivation for doing a thought for thought translation instead of word for word? What would be a benefit? Yeah, that's the most pessimistic interpretation. I mean there could be there is some truth to that. Some translations that there's some truth to that. Lauren, were you gonna offer another thought? I think it's just today if we're talking about using paradigm. Um it's probably easier to just do that than to put it Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, definitely. Yeah, you guys are um um definitely touching on the most negative aspect of a thought for thought translation, and just like you guys said The problem is when you go from entire thought to thought, you are actually no longer doing pure translation. You're doing interpretation And remember, interpretation shouldn't be the job of the translator. Your job as a translator is you're you're just communicating back and forth. Imagine someone at the UN, you know, France The ambassador of France is saying something and the translator decides to interpret it and add his own color commentary. And then, oops, now Germany's angry. That's not what the French ambassador meant to say. Translator, you're just trying to get each word each work to to the other language. But when you do a thought-for-thought translation, you are inevitably adding uh a healthy dose of interpretation. Now I think the The gracious way to take thought-for-thought translations is a translator is trying to make the English translation more readable and understandable and comprehensible. to an English audience. Because when you do a lot of formal equivalence, a lot of times just the structure of the Greek or Hebrew Like for any of you that know or study the second foreign language, uh you'll know that sometimes sentence structure itself is kind of rearranged in other languages. Sometimes you go instead of like subject, uh verb, uh uh noun or whatever. You'll do like verb, noun, subject or whatever. And uh idioms for instance get kind of lost to an English audience if it's an idiom that's specific to the foreign language So a lot of these thought-for-thought translations, these dynamic equivalent translators, they're trying to help along the reader, English reader, by making the text flow more naturally to their English. speaking ears. So I think that's the charitable way to interpret it. The negative part is of course, just like you guys are um hitting on You have to do interpretation as a result, which really ought to be left to the reader. The translator again, you should just be translating. You shouldn't be interpreting The other insidious part of a thought-for-thought translation, when you're trying to do very serious exegesis, you know, and when you're trying to do very serious, careful, microscopic interpretation of the Bible is exegesis ac actually becomes impossible at the word level because you're not going to actually be confident when you're reading a dynamic uh translation, a thought for thought translation, if the word you're seeing in that dynamic translation actually even existed ever Right? That might have been added by the NIV publisher, the translator, but that word that you're so fixated on, especially at the word level, you know, that that word study, where you're trying to figure out this entire passage hinges on this one word being understood properly Well, you might not even know, you might not even be able to be confident that that word even exists. It might not even exist in the Greek and the Hebrew. So a lot of these tools of exegesis actually become uh not available to you So, that being said, word-for-word translations that I would commend to you all, that I recommend, are some of these that are on this slide No real order, I prefer the English standard version, which is obviously the one I've been using continuously throughout the class A lot of our church, uh Pastor Leek um used the NASB, for instance, also a great translation, N R S V the Holman Christian standard, you also have this like internet based version, the New English translation. I think these are all fine translations for exegesis and you can be confident that when you encounter a word in these translations More likely than not, that'll be an actual word that was inside the Greek and Hebrew manuscripts. Now, thought for thought Once again, also known as dynamic equivalence translations, that I actually still commend, but I commend for supplemental reading. I think it's fine to read these Bible translations. They include the NIV the very famous NIV. I was saved reading the NIV, okay? So these are not demonic translations, but they are thought for thought. The translator is trying to help you along. The NLT, the Good News Bible. I think these are fine to read supplement as as a supplemental reading. And I still do actually when I teach like some uh uh a growing disciples class on a specific book of the Bible, for instance, often I'll prepare myself by starting most of my exegesis with a word-for-word translation because I don't speak Greek or Hebrew But then I do like to read the same passage in some of these supplemental translations, and I kind of treat it almost like a study Bible or a commentary. Right? Like what did the NIV translators think this passage meant? It'll sometimes or a lot of times be wrong, but uh I shouldn't say a lot, sometimes wrong. But uh it's very good for supplemental reading. Even among the word-for-word translations, I think it's a great exercise to read a variety of them if you're really trying to dig in deep into some passage that you're trying to interpret that you're struggling with Uh and that is because of the next section I want to discuss. Inevitably when we talk about translations, I get the question, what about the King James Version of the Bible? I should have made the font bigger, I'm sorry. Um I'll try to read it out for us. Uh I forgot how small the TV is here. Okay, let's talk about the King James Version of the Bible and let's talk about Bible translations as a whole. So oftentimes, um or sometimes when I have people push back on this lesson of interpreting scripture and they say, you know, I think you sh really ought to use the King James Version of the Bible I don't assume they come from an era known as the King James Only movement or King James Onlyism, but What I find inevitably is that the arguments that I'm receiving as a pushback overlap with the same arguments used by what is known as King James Onliness Now King James onlyists, just like they sound, are people that believe that you should only use the King James Version of the Bible. It's the only one authorized by the Holy Spirit for English speakers. And it begins with the argument that any thought-for-thought translation of the Bible is necessarily heresy Okay, that's how s extreme the argument gets. I don't assume this is where you're coming from if you just really like the King James only uh King James version of the Bible and you really think it should be the really the only one being used for serious Bible study. I don't assume that's what you're saying But again, a lot of the arguments kind of overlap with the King James only's error, which in the most extreme form does any thought-for-thought translation of the Bible is necessarily heresy. Now I appreciate in the most gracious interpretation possible where this heart attitude is coming from, because King James only is often the ones that have a very, very high view of Scripture And they don't want to add or take away from the Word of God. We should all have that same attitude. But there's problems with making the KJV the hill you die on when it comes to defending the veracity and integrity of the Word of God. And that's because the King James Only Bible is not a literal, pure word-for-word translation of the original, what are known as autographs, which is the very first edition of the Word of God. So when the literal papyrus or whatever medium that Paul was using to write out Romans, that was the autograph. And technically speaking, I don't know if this shocks anyone in this room. We have a full growing disciples class we offer on occasion about how we got the Bible that talks about this. Technically speaking, when we as Christians uphold the doctrine of inerrancy that we believe the Bible, the Word of God, is without any error or blemish and 100% pure, we're actually referring to technically to the autographs. We're talking about the literal first edition of each book of the Bible that was penned by that literal author. That first piece of whatever that Moses wrote down in Genesis That is what we're actually saying is completely 100% inerrant technically. Technically. And News Flash, we do not have those autographs today. We have a transmission of those autographs over the ages But we believe as biblical inerrantists, people that believe the Bible is inerrant, that because God exists And his will is obviously for what he wants humanity to understand about him and how we live to be preserved through all all the ages. Even though we technically do not have the 100% inerrant autographs We uphold the fact that because God is all powerful, He moves His or and He's sovereign, He has given to us a sufficiently accurate witness of the autographs in the Bible you're holding today Does that make sense? But technically speaking, inerrancy refers to the autographs which none of us have. We have things that are sufficiently accurate representations of the autographs. So, the King James Version is not a literally pure word-for-word translation of the original autographs, because first of all, it is not the autographs. But secondly, by nature, any translation, and I'll elaborate on this in in just a moment, any translation from the biblical languages to another language necessarily cannot be a literal 100% pure word-for-word translation. When we commend using a word-for-word translation in quotes, air quotes like the ESV, my personal favorite Technically speaking, linguistically speaking, logically speaking, it is not a pure actual word for word from each Greek and Hebrew, and no translation can be by very definition of the act of translating. Okay? So this is what I mean. Let's continue here. So first and foremost, this rebuttal that I offer, we know is true. From biblical witness, because the Holy Spirit himself, God Himself apparently thought it was okay That the inspired prophets, the New Testament authors, often quoted a non-purely word-for-word translation of the Bible. You see, the New Testament authors often, when they were quoting from their scripture, their Hebrew scriptures, the Old Testament as we call it, of course they were in the middle of writing the New Testament, so they didn't have a New Testament in their time When the New Testament authors were quoting their Bible, the Hebrew Bible, they were often quoting from what is known as the Septuagint. The Septuagint was a Greek translation of the Hebrew. They were actually not working with the original Hebrew themselves, even though they undoubtedly spoke Hebrew. They were often Jews. Which ness by necessity, as a translation again did not and could not always produce a 100% pure literal word-for-word translation of the original Hebrew scriptures. So you see the most stunning version of this phenomenon in Hebrews chapter 10 verse 5. Which states in your Bible, you can open there if you'd like, you can see for it yourself. Whatever edition of the Bible you have, it states something to this effect. And by the way I am purposely using the King James Version of Hebrews 10 here. Okay? So the King James Version itself, if you're King James only Your precious KJV translation, and I love the KJV by the way, I'm not disparaging it, but the precious KJV translation itself says this in Hebrews 10. 5. Wherefore When he cometh into the world, he saith, Sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not, but a body hast thou prepared me. Alright. So this is obviously referring to Jesus who will be um true sacrifice. But the bolder part is the important bit. In Hebrews 10, 5 The author of Hebrews, who's 100% accurate, inspired by the Holy Spirit, okay, he's not wrong in stating this He is quoting from Psalm 40, verse 6, which actually states in the Septuagint, okay, I'm using what the author of Hebrews was quoting from. A Greek translation of the Old Testament. That's what LXX means. It's an abbreviation for the Septuagint. The Septuagint states in Psalm 40, verse 6 Sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not, but a body hast thou prepared me. So that is clearly what he is referring to. That's the translation of the Bible that he's referring to when he wrote the inspired text of Hebrews chapter 10, verse 5. Now here's the supposed problem, quote unquote. I almost feel bad, you know, I I feel a little I wish there was a better word to use, but a supposed problem by an opponent of the Bible would say this A more literal rendering of the actual original Hebrew of Psalm 46 actually means not a body hast thou prepared me It actually literally means you have dug out ears for me. It's a poetic idea that God prepared, not the body itself, but like you've you've given me hearing. You've dug out ears for me. You see? But in handling this difficult trans difficult to translate Hebrew verse in Hebrew in Psalm verses 40, Psalm, oh my goodness I'm getting mixed up between the fact that Psalms is in Hebrew and the book of Hebrews. So in handling this difficult to translate verse Apparently, the Septuagint translators, along with the translators of so-called word-for-word translations like the KJV, ESV, and the NASB made the connection that to dig out ears is a reference to God's creation of our bodies and hence generalized the making of our ears to the making of our whole bodies. And the amazing thing is the Holy Spirit apparently As far as we can tell, because the meaning of this figure of speech of digging out ears was made intact by the author of Hebrews The Holy Spirit okayed this act. The Holy Spirit authorized the Septuagint's handling of Psalm 40, verse 6, by permanently inscribing it into Hebrews chapter 10, verse 5. You see that? So all what I mean so here's a conclusion. All word for word, so called word for word translations, which I do commend, so don't Mishear me, I'm not saying use a thought-for-thought translation. We should use what are known as word-for-word translations. But technically speaking, all word-for-word translations in truth require some degree of creative input by the translators necessitated by the fact that no two languages are identical. There is no literally pure translation as every edition of the English Bible requires some degree of interpretation by the translators. Now here's the caution. I see your hand. We'll get there in just a second. Try not to forget, sorry. Here's the caution. We are not the Holy Spirit, right? The Holy Spirit checked off on the author of Hebrews use of the Septuagint, which is a translation of the original Hebrew, but we are not God We cannot know definitively what kind of translation is right and which one's wrong and to which degree. We make good educated guesses and we trust that the Holy Spirit will give us wisdom especially as a consensus of believing Christians throughout the globe, uh throughout the English speaking globe rather. But we're not the Holy Spirit. So we must always seek to do our best to represent and translate scripture as literally and faithfully as possible. possible as possible is the key. We try to minimize the key word, minimize creative input or interpretation, which is what a word-for-word or formal equivalence translation seems to be Okay? So all this to say, when a KJV onlyist says, oh, these lane these other translations of the Bible like the NIV are demonic because they're thought for thought My rebuttal graciously is, yeah, but so is technically the KJV to a certain extent. And that's not necessarily always heresy, because authors of the Bible used thought for thought translations on occasion, which is a subtuition in any translation. Does that make sense? So if the Holy Spirit said yes, the Septuagint's okay to use in this instance, obviously a thought-for-thought translation cannot always be necessarily heresy. And you see the good fruit of the NIV. Again, I'm standing before you good fruit of the NIV translators. I thank God for them. I understood the gospel through it. Every time you give the gospel to people, I bet you're not always just speaking the Greek and Hebrew. You're probably giving your thought-for-thought translation of scripture, right? People get saved from your evangelism. Yeah, Karen. So are you saying to make sure I understand the point that you're making? So when I look at Psalm forty, um the the forty first six in my translation, which I think I've got um the Nasby? Yeah, Nassi I've So it's the point you're making, so in Psalm forty verse six, if we sacrifice a meal offering thou has not desired My ears thou hast opened. Yep. Burnt offering and sin offering thou hast not required. So that's okay, so that's Old Testament Psalm 4 And that's a good formal equivalent translation of the Hebrew which referred to the ear. And I see the same verse that you, uh, Hebrews 10, 5, sacrifice an offering thou hast not desired, but a body thou hast prepared for me. And then of course in the notes it's got here Psalm forty verse six as as a reference. So are you it's the point you're making that um The scripture from Psalm forty verse six is being interpreted uh correctly in It is. Yeah, based on what you just talked about, the septuagent and all that sort of stuff. So even though we see it word for word, um we know that it's accurate Because the Holy Spirit sort of authorized it to be sure that I can explain if somebody comes up to me and one other point and I'm not trying to be uh a uh one of those classmates that brings up things that are you know you debate all day long. No, no, no. This is great. No, no, not at all. Ask away. Please. So I'm just fascinated by the fact that When we talk about interpreting scripture, you know, like an unbeliever, you said they're accountable because it it it you can read it for yourself and you can understand it. You can't pretend that it's not You're not able to understand it. But we we know based on uh the Holy Spirit that without the Holy Spirit that's that's sort of the it that's what makes it come alive. Correct, yeah. That's what makes it It's believable and not logical. Exactly right. And so, well, and again, this is something I don't think you're going to be able to answer because nobody has ever answered it. So I don't know. But how do we deal with this? So, you know If if we're seeking and we don't have the Holy Spirit, we can read the words, but they're not going to transform our heart the way it does when the Holy Spirit Yeah. Um yet yet we're without excuse and I just want to compliment you on your um your sermon uh Christmas Eve was so clear, it was a heart attitude. Uh Zacchaeus or Zachariah, um, you know, was like, Tell me, make this clear to me, you know, I make it so that you prove it to me, Lord. Whereas Mary was like, how can this be? You know, the heart attitude made all the difference. And we also find that an unbeliever has that heart attitude Yeah, if it's true, explain it. You know, where the believer is like, oh Lord, oh how can it be? So I just wonder, you know, we have this scripture, but without the Holy Spirit you know, even how do we how do we say that an unbeliever is accountable? Because we know that you're right, they could there's they can understand it but They're not transformed by it without the Holy Spirit. I just didn't know if you had any thoughts. Yeah. I'll I'll try to give uh I'll try to make it visual. So let's use the board actually. So let's say so the way I think about it and uh Again, I I think it's support like Romans one. Right, the without excuse me. Yeah, exactly. Romans one eighteen to twenty-one is all I'm trying to illustrate here. Yep. And We use like a bar graph, okay? This is how much revelation, so this is describing the revelation from God, how much God has to reveal This is how much revelation God has to give us to actually be saved. Yes. Okay. God only gives this much revelation by a great Yes, it's not earned, it's not just for smart people or morally good people, no such thing. God just chooses to be merciful to some and Does it to others. He has the prerogative. He's God, isn't he? Frankly, the fact that he gave salvation to anyone is what's amazing. But God has to give this much salvation, uh this much revelation. Right. Here's the thing though. God gives every human being this much salvation. Right. And this is enough just for condemnation. So God reveals to everybody enough information that you know God is real. You know He has moral standard. Romans 2 says it's written. on hearts, you know what's right or wrong. That's why a lot of non believers walk around with just a sense of guilt. And they usually point to things like, oh that's because of my Catholic And like made me feel guilty about everything, you know, like you know, premarital sex and stuff. That comes from my cat it's all the Catholic salt, you know, whatever. But it's not because of your religious background or your Conservative. Another thing they usually say, oh, it's because my parents were so conservative. I grew up in a conservative household. That gives me all these hang ups about these stuff I like to do. You know, it's not because of that. It's because you were born written on your heart enough information to condemn you. So people walk around with just guilt. They have a emotional understanding of their guilt. More than that, they know intellectually legal guilt. Like even so-called psychopaths, people say, what are you doing with psychopaths? You don't have a conscience or whatever Well, they scarred their conscience to the point where they don't feel they suppress the truth. They suppress the truth. But even these psychopaths that like they might no longer feel the weight of guilt, but they intellectually know what they're doing is wrong. Like you see some of these uh interesting documentaries where they're like, Yeah, I know like I just have this feeling I want to kill my wife or whatever. I know it's not right. But they might not feel it. Yeah because they probably scarred their conscience so much from disobeying, you know, the Lord's Enough revelation of the legal standard, but do you think that as we're given uh I think there I forget what the term is, but there's like natural revelation the supernatural revolution. That's exactly what that book is we're talking about there. So Is it your opinion, um, or is there anything to substantiate the truth that if you with with what revelation you've been given, if you if you seek it, and I guess even seeking it is really comes on too. I mean the more that what you've given if you act on that, the more you see it, the more you will be given, or does that not really apply I think that uh so have to be careful here. Yeah. Because that can often that notion that just seek the little light you have can often be misconstrued. Construe to me works. Exactly. That's one wrong pathway can go down, which is you have to put in the work to find God and then He'll reveal himself. Not like that at all. It's all God condescending down to our level. He has to meet us 100% of the way. It's not a 50-50 thing. You do some of the work to find him and he'll meet you halfway. It's not like that at all. And the second misconception is this idea that uh you just follow the little light you have in whatever religion you are, just be the best Hindu you can be. Be the best Muslim you can be. You know? And we love our Hindu and Muslim friends Right? We don't hate them. We don't want to see them perish. That's why we evangelize. But this idea that you can just be an earnest Hindu or earnest Muslim and that's you trying to find God is completely backwards. The truth of the matter is there is always just one religion at the beginning, and Hinduism and Islam, all these religions are an outgrowth of men again trying to, Romans 118, suppress what they know is true and creating an alternative religion. Uh but that being said, um uh this idea from our human perspective that you have this little bit of natural revelation about God's law, that that Pra well I was gonna say practically that is how a lot of times God does meet the individual one hundred percent of the way. Is like for instance, I think of Martin Luther is a great example of that. He was a Catholic priest And he tried to live a life of righteousness and he was literally driving himself crazy 'cause and he he actually came to say in his writings I hated God. 'Cause I was like I'm trying so hard. I'm annoying my priests by confessing all the time. And I just can't get righteous. I hate God. Like it's impossible to be righteous But God used him, you know, I think through the act of the Holy Spirit trying to insanely pursue his own righteousness to humble him And then show 'em look, you can't do it, Mark. Exactly. Open your eyes to Romans. Justification comes from God. So it really is all I mean, it just so goes against our humanity in our flesh, because it really is all God. Repentance, the desire to repent. That's right. That's the gift from God. That's right. So and that's amazing because I used to fight against that. Like I I'm really back at the free will versus the you know uh God choosing. And finally in Psalm whatever it was it says I I rest at my mother's breast for you, like I don't try to figure out things too complicated. Yeah, yeah, yeah anymore. Yeah, that's David writing that. Yep. That that is the mark of a believer just resting in God. Grace and comfort. Yeah. No great questions, Karen. You shouldn't any nobody should feel bashful about asking questions because in all likelihood somebody else has the same question. So thank you. Yeah, you're very welcome. Thank you for the questions. Okay, so that's the first argument uh by the King James only error Is that any thought-for-thought translation of the Bible is necessarily heresy, and that's a very dangerous argument because even in Scripture the New Testament authors used thought-for-thought quote-unquote translations. Okay The second argument is usually the KJV, this is the heart of the matter, is the only English translation authorized by God. Now First and foremost, I think the best rebuttal, it should be clear, is there's no evidence in scripture for this claim. Okay? There's none This is the claim that appeals to extra-biblical, which read that as man-made church tradition and frankly personal preference. Now, the truth of the matter is I think um maybe in a a church like ours, which is formally non-denominational, we're a little bit less beholden to different traditions. But I say this as coming from one of these tradition driven to an extent denominations. I've I've shared with you before, I came from a Presbyterian background. Don't discount the allure and the emotional baggage that traditions you grew up with and you're familiar with and comfort you has on someone's heart that you're trying to reach out to. They're often genuinely a brother or sister in the Lord, but there are certain things you grow up and you associate very strongly your emotions with infant baptism. For for instance, I keep thinking on that one just because again that's my background Um or in this case the fact that I always want to hear the English reading of the Bible done in a KJV only fashion. If that sounds more high and lofty and exalted to me, I like the V's and the VAWs and stuff But all that to say, let's be gentle with KJV only brothers that are genuinely brothers and sisters. that fall into this error because to them the KJV only has a certain flavor that it's very precious to them emotionally and uh it can be difficult sometimes uh getting rid of these extra biblical church traditions and recognizing that it's just a personal preference thing. That's why Paul, for instance, in Romans 14, led by the Holy Spirit, was careful to say that as long as you're not dealing with matters of you know blanket heresy, so as long as you're not actually making this claim A KJV is the only English authorized translation authorized by God. That's pretty problematic. But if you like me encounter brothers and sisters in the Lord, that's just say I have a very strong preference for the KJV You know, I'd rather not read the ESV or NASV. We should be gentle with them and in the Romans fourteen fashion, uh endure with one another, with different levels of conscience, right? Different levels of understanding or Christian liberty But yes, this is ultimately a claim that appeals to extra biblical tradition and preference. It's not in the Bible. This is also I think this is another pretty strong rebuttal. This is a misleading argument because believe it or not there are multiple versions of the KJV and no one actually reads the so-called inspired by God, KJV the 1611. No KJV Onlyus actually uses the 1611. You know why? Because KJV Onlyus typically does not think the Apocrypha is part of the Bible and yet the 1611 includes it There are multiple versions of the KJV uh version because the KJV translators, typically faithful men of God Understood they were just translating. They were not writing inspired scripture. And then they'd find they'd catch little mistakes and go, oops, let's update it. Okay? So the KJV that you have today is not the original KJV. So this argument falls flat on the space. And lastly, the implication of KJV onlyest presupposition states modern translations as such pervert the gospel and biblical theology by relying on what are known as the corrupted Alexandrian manuscripts rather than relying on the m what are known as the majority texts, the Byzantine texts. So Uh when it comes to the work of translation, translators often try to find as many old versions of the Old Testament and New Testament as they can, manuscripts and stuff papyri, um things like that nature. And they oftentimes group these texts according to like geographically where they're found or whatever. And uh the KJV translators were relying on what are known as the Byzantine texts, the majority texts. I suppose, I I don't know off the top of my head, I just take this with a grain of salt. I think it probably refers to the time period these texts were found. And the time period was, the majority texts, as they're called, are newer 11th and 12th century manuscripts Now, we're often tempted to think newer is always better, but you it's backwards when it comes to translation. You want to use older, right? Because think about it, the closer you are to the autographs, the older the texts are going to be So the best the KJV translators have to do, we don't fault them for this. They use the best old it. By the way, they were looking for the oldest manuscripts they could find That was a hard attitude of the KJV translators. The oldest text they had access to, though, only went as far back as the 11th and 12th centuries. But by the grace of God, we have discovered much older texts than the 11th and 12th centuries, much older texts than these so-called majority texts, and that includes texts like the Alexandrian manuscripts that again were closer to the autographs And it turns out these older texts testify that the majority texts suffer from very slight, okay, this does not translate Christianity or any doctrine Very slight but nonetheless uh textual corruptions. It's kinda like the game of telephone. That's not at all how the Bible was transmitted, by the way. Okay, so that's a bad analogy, but If you have to think of something to kind of explain what I'm stating here about textual corruptions, you know things get a little bit lost, messages get a little garbled along the way. Not at all like the game of telephone. The reason why the game of telephone, the end message, gets so messed up by just like five people, is because it's a strictly linear transmission from one person to the other person to one other person The Bible was transmitted as an explosion of text. As soon as uh Paul wrote that first Romans autograph His readers, they understood this was the word of God that gives life. You had an explosion of copies. Imagine if you were the first one receiving the word of God from Romans, what would you do? as a believer. You'd take all your money, make as many copies of you can and give it to all your friends and family, right? And that's exactly what the uh early biblical readers did And because you have this explosion of copies, it's actually very difficult for text to get corrupted over time. And as a result, over centuries, that's what we find. The Bible is unlike any other ancient artifact The Bible, the textual corruptions we get are so minor, so slight. Just like one little word or flipped and You can even see based on the old like Alexandrian manuscripts how a lot of these errors happen. Like you you'll be copying one line, one type of error you'll copy one line And then you go from the original to your copy and your eye accidentally skips one line, you know? So like one word gets swapped because it looks so similar. Or some like vowels or letters look very similar in the Greek, so they'll switch those around, but very minor Which again shows God's will is for his uh word to be preserved, right? But anyway, older is better, and uh that is what these newer word-for-word translations use Things like the ESV and NES we have access to much older text than the majority text. Again, older means you're closer to the autographs I think this is the definitive work, James White's King James Only Controversy book, if you want more details. As always, whenever, just make it a habit, whenever I or anybody in this church, or really any Christian references some book. We're not endorsing literally every aspect of this person's theology or his life. I don't know who James White is. Uh we have some disagreements with uh some of the things James White teaches, but otherwise this is a very good text for dealing with this particular issue. Here's the conclusion. The KJV, don't get me wrong, I'm not beating up on the KJV. I love the KJV. It is a good word-for-word translation, but not the best. Reading any Bible is better than no Bible. If my brother or sister just has us hang up with the KJV, that's the only Bible they'll read. Okay, that's better than no Bible. You know, I'm glad you're a Christian that upholds the Word of God God's will for every generation of Christians to know him means for English-speaking believers of the past that only had access to the KJV the KJV was nonetheless sufficient. I stand by that statement. I'm not beating up on the KJV. Once again, that was at one point the only good English translation you had, and it was perfectly fine. You understood the full counsel of the Word of God. The science of what's known as textual transmission, that's what I just talked about. You know, it's not really the game of telephone, but it's this idea of one message passing to the other The science of textual transmission reveals that we can simultaneously hold three truths at the same time. They're not mutually exclusive. One We can hold to the conviction that God sufficiently preserves His Word through the ages, such that biblical theology never changes, which is what we see in the English-speaking world among true believers. Number two, we do not need the autographs to comprehensively know God's revealed will. We do not have the original copy of Hebrews or Psalms or whatever, and we don't need it. And three, we can make minor, minor improvements, non-theology altering improvements to translations as we discover older texts. closer to the autographs. Okay? And more often than not, showing the wisdom of God every time we discover some old text like the Dead Sea Scrolls was the uh the latest like major breakthrough What we discover is amazingly, oh wow, the Bible doesn't change. Like you get one little word flipped from here to there, but the Bible never changes. This is clearly the hand of God preserving this document, unlike any other ancient manuscript. It's amazing. Any questions before we continue? You can also talk to me in private after this offended you. I don't mean to offend anyone that's a KJV only, you know, lover. I love the KJV itself, also. Okay Alright, let's go to the first tool, finally, prayer. We covered this a little bit, I think the first lesson that we did, but God uses, as a reminder, ordinary means for us to understand his word. Pastors, Bible teachers, Sunday school classes, commentaries, books. So that means understanding scripture, bad news, it requires hard work. Okay? So when we pray to God as we're trying to understand his word, don't pray for God to zap you suddenly with insights. Be nice, you think, for that to work, right? I think that would also cause us to not appreciate the word of God. Just part of our human nature, unfortunately. Because uh this this past day or two Um I was really hungry for the word and I had to finish up my uh precepts three, which I wasn't so good at doing, speaking I was for precept four. And as you dig into that word and you see things yourself. It's even better than being that. Yeah. But it just goes so deep. It's such a gift to work for it. Because when you're lazy you just kinda do and you're not doing it to check off a list, but you're not doing your No, no. You know, but when you do a dig for it, it he he rewards you well. He does. He does. You don't appreciate things that come to you for free. You gotta put in that sweat equity, you know. Yeah and then it's very precious to you. And you don't really know how to defend things that you just get no, a version of being zapped is you believe some doctrine just because your your pastor told you so. I mean that's Let's not discount the spiritual authority of our pastors, but it needs to go further than that. You need to know why that's true. And like the Bereans, everything Pastor Alan or Gabe teaches us, you got to go into the scripture for yourself as he's preaching. and say, is that truly so? Same thing I'm doing with you right now. And uh you don't really come to really know how to defend what you believe unless you put in that work of private exegetical time, uh private Bible study time. Being zapped, because your Bible study teacher told you your small group leader told you so, you know that's not going to cut it when it really comes to people uh attacking your belief So rather, how do we pray? Why do we pray? We pray for God to help you get the right ordinary resources, understand those resources rightly, and ultimately let biblical understanding shape your life. To be doers, like I prayed at the beginning, not just be hearers. So the model of prayer, I would first point to the apostles. Now consider for a second with me who the apostles were, right First and foremost, the apostles were powerful miracle-working men. So I have to ask everyone in the room rhetorically. How many of you did a miracle recently? How many of you were able to speak in a foreign language you never learned just instantaneously, right? How many of you uh you know healed people instantaneously from some disease I suspect not many of you. How many of you were preaching so long that one of your Bible study students got sleepy, fell out of his house and died, and then raised him back to life? I'm talking about Paul, right? Paul must have been a very uh uh Long t-shirt, I'll say. Right? So these are powerful miracle working men. But even more relevant to what we're talking about, what what else were the apostles? They were men that gave perfect theology. Think about it. They wrote perfect theology. Not all the time, but when they were penning scripture, it was utterly perfect. So if you think Pastor Gabe gives a good sermon, he didn't give a good sermon like the ones that are enscripturated by the apostles, right? But nevertheless, even though they were miracle, powerful miracle working men That they were men that got to write scripture. Yet their lives and ministries were surrounded by prayer. So in Acts chapter 6, verse 6, the apostles had to pray for the seven first deacons that they were going to appoint, right? In Acts chapter 9, verse 40, Peter prayed to God before raising Tabbit. Right? Peter did not just perform miracles on his own strength. He asked God for help. In Acts chapter ten, verse nine, it states that Peter was in his regular habit of prayer when God revealed that vision of the sheets that says, Don't regard Gentiles as you know, outside of the fellowship, right? Same with Paul, Acts chapter 16, verse 25. When Paul and Silas were in prison, they were praying to God. Acts chapter 20 verse 36, before departing from the Ephesian believers. Paul prayed. Second Thessalonians chapter 3 verse 1. Paul asks for prayers from the Thessalonian believers. Why do you need prayers, Paul? You're a miracle-working scripture-speaking You know, man of God. Apparently he thought my ministry only works if people are continuously praying for me. So on and on again. You know, so so forth. The apostles, as privileged and as powerful as they were spiritually, still needed prayer. How much more do we non-miracle working, non-scripture speaking, normal believers? need to pray before we handle the Word of God. Apparently they thought that the Word of God required a lot of prayer. And that's what Ephesians chapter 6 verses 17 to 18 teaches us. that wielding the word of God, right? The Bible, the word of God is accompanied by praying at all times in the Spirit in verse 18. Okay, but even more than that, because you might say, wait a minute, but these are just men. We don't worship the apostles, right? They're just men saved by grace. Well I give to you exhibit B The greatest exhibit. How about Jesus? How about God Himself? Jesus Christ, who was he? The perfect God man, and yet prayer absolutely saturated his life. Luke chapter 3 verse 21 at Jesus' ordination for ministry, when his ministry was being initiated, kicked off, authorized by the Father, he was, what was he doing? He was praying. In Matthew chapter 14, verse 23, Jesus devoted himself to prayer in solitude up on the mountain. Apparently that was his habit, to rise early. Mark chapter 1, verse 35, to find desolate places to pray. That's uh Luke chapter 5 verse 6 says he would be actively going to these places. It was habitual. And uh that being said You know, it goes without saying, just like before. If Jesus needed to pray, if Jesus considered praying an important part of how he handled and preached the Word of God, how much more do we have to You know, it's an arrogant statement to think I don't have to pray, or we say this statement with our life by not praying, because trust me, we are not more spiritually mature and equipped than Jesus himself. Well I guess I have just one I know I've talked to one day, but if I'm talking to you must just tell me to shut up. No no no no, it's okay. So sometimes my guilty pleasure is listening to um Jimmy Swagger. I do it because I love the way they preach the cross and the blood of Christ and nothing else. So they're really a one word. with that. But they also preach other things that we don't hold to like tongues and praying in the spirit. And that kind of interests me, but scares me is that same time because we've been taught that that gifts cease in the book of Acts. Yeah. And yet um so if you're in Ephesians you just have to mention it and how we pray, you know, we're supposed to pray at all times and in Ephesians Ephesians chapter six, verse eighteen. It says, with all prayer and petition, pray at all times in the Spirit Um, and that's what they talk about in there's two types of um you know, being filled with the holy they used to believe that in order to be saved you have to speak in tongues as an evidence of being filled with the Holy Spirit. And now they don't hold to that as an evidence that they say that yes you can in fact be uh have the Holy Spirit, but how much better it would be if you could uh pray in the spirit y with the gift of tongues because they they claim it's a language that Yeah, like an angelic language. Yeah, I'm familiar with the argument. Yeah. So how would you think it like to I so sometimes I think maybe I should try it. But it scares me because I don't really want to pray anything that I can't really understand. And plus just but it sounds very attractive. Yeah. But I know it's probably not true. Yeah. So no, it's okay. Uh we we can talk more after if you want more detail. But I'll just give the quick answer. Yeah, yeah. And uh first of all again I'll commend we have classes at church that are devoted to just talking about the gifts of the spirit and things like that. Right. So that'd be worth taking I think if you have curiosity and want more detail. But I'll just state that yes The Bible in the New Testament is clear to say that these are signs. And the purpose of a sign is to point to some kind of reality. And once that reality is done, you don't need the sign anymore. Once you reach the destination And the sign in scripture clearly points to uh who the genuine authors of the New Testament were. And once that was established, the signs disappeared because that was the purpose. And even in Jesus's no one did more miracles than Jesus Christ, right? But even in Jesus' ministry he was always pointing to the content of his message more than the signs. In fact people would be demanding signs from him and he would just straight up refuse, saying you're seeking the wrong thing Look at my life. Look at my message. You know, that should be sufficient. So that's the quick answer, I would say. But there's other serious issues with that argument that maybe you can talk if we have time. Yeah. But uh prayer should be a conscious thing you do. You should know what you're trying to pray for. Again, that was the model of all the apostles, even when genuine tongues, foreign languages were being spoken Uh the Bible's clear that you need a translator because the content matters. Otherwise you're just benefiting yourself. There's no benefit to anybody else Um, but Jesus Christ prayed, and he prayed all the time, and he prayed in association with his word-driven ministry, so we ought to do the same when we're approaching the Word of God And this is a great prayer to model off of. Right? Nothing wrong. This this is great in fact to model your prayer life off of God's own words I remember Pastor Tom, he had a message on this that really cracked me up and his joke is like, God is not very interested in what you have to say. So just pray his words back to him. And in James chapter one it says, If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God who gives generously to all without reproach, and it will be given to him. So you can ask in that manner, saying, God, I believe James one You say, uh, if I feel like I lack wisdom, which I know I do, I can ask you. You'll give it to me, you won't make fun of me or make me feel dumb. Give me that wisdom before I go into this Bible study time I'm about to do Alright, here's the second tool, which is the process of outlining. I am borrowing very heavily from these two resources, Walter Kaiser, chapter 8, Duval and Hayes, Chapter 3. Very good resources. Once again, whenever I point out a resource, I'm not necessarily saying I endorse every aspect of these people's lives or theology. But these two chapters were particularly helpful to me when it came to the idea of outlining. An outlining is nothing fancy. It's just read the whole book that contains the verse you're struggling with, and then divide that book the best you can into sections by identifying where like the different scenes are, where where different logical chunks change into different uh moods or different uh clues into what the author's thinking And these themes can include uh conjunctions, whenever you see a therefore, then, but, you know, one thought is flowing into another thought and another distinct thought. If we see the literary form change, like you start with a greeting at the beginning of Apostle, and then it turns into a prayer, you know, that could be a good place to put a seam and say I'm going to make these two separate sections in my outline. When you see the topic or theme change, the time, location, or setting change if you're dealing with a narrative like Genesis or Acts. If the grammar changes, different subject is now being discussed. for pronoun. We all have to go back to English, you know, grade school to understand what these things are. I know we all forget. But uh yeah, verb, pronoun, tenses, that could tell you that that's a scene that you might want to note in your outline. And these are not exhaustive, by the way. There are different ways that you may want to outline your Bible. And that's because ultimately this outline ought to serve you, okay? Outlining is not a Holy Spirit-inspired exercise. This is just a tool you're making for yourself to serve you. So however you want to outline is fine. It's just a way to remember the entire book, like the general flow. Okay? But I also recommend, again just a recommendation. It's helpful if your outline isn't overly verbose, not too long. Kind of defeats the purpose because this is supposed to be like a quick map for you to just quickly look and see. Oh okay, this is what the author just talked about, this is what he's about to talk about, so when I'm interpreting this verse, it must mean something along these lines, you know, connecting those two thoughts. But it's helpful to summarize the main idea in each section in around less than 12 words, I find is a good rule of thumb. So an analogy I would use is pretend like you're an illustrator and you're about to create your masterpiece, right? You want to first start by sketching out just very broad lines of the subject. Like if you're doing a portrait of a person Just make the circle for the face and rough lines for where the shoulders. That's what you're doing with an outline. Before you really get to the painting each little shadow and stuff, just make broad guidelines, a rough outline to get started. This is an exercise we can do um but in the interest of time I'll just breeze through it. But uh for instance Uh you can do this yourself in your private if you if you'd like and compare it to how I did it, not saying one is right or wrong, but just to give you an idea of what I'm envisioning an outline looks like. Let's take something like uh 3rd John verses 1 to 8 And you can look at this verse and think to yourself, okay, how would I break up logically this section? Like where are the scenes, in other words? How would I make these into like little logical chunks? And uh I would suggest just giving a couple examples, uh verses one and two in between there, I would put a scene, because at the beginning you have a greeting the elder to the beloved Gaius, whom I love in truth. And then you get to a different idea, a different topic in verse two, where it says, Beloved, I pray that all may go well with you, etcetera. So the first verse is a greeting, second verse and onward becomes a uh blessing of Gaius, the reader. So I put a scene there. So in sum my outline looks something like this This is what I would do. This is it makes sense to me. This is pretty nice and short. 3rd John is already pretty short as it is, but you can do this with longer books of the Bible as well. And now let's say I have uh issue with verse 9. I'm getting really stuck trying to understand verse 9. Well hopefully you're seeing immediately how helpful it would be to have this map that I made with my thoughts in front of me as I'm dealing with verse nine, then uh, oh okay. Verse nine to ten, this is John rebuking this di divisive guy diastrophes. So whatever verse nine means, it has to s do something to do with that, right? Now translations of the Bible make their own outlines and they are called those headings, those bolded headings, typically at the beginning of each little section or chapter. Those headings are not in the original Bible, okay? The Bible did not uh have paragraphs and headings and chapter numbers and verse numbers should be obvious for m most people, but some people don't know that. And as such, translations offer their own outlines effectively So if you go by where those headings are put in these different translations of the Bible, this is how they these translators would outline Third John, and you'll notice they're a little bit different, expa especially the net Bible there. Uh they put some stuff together and some other people put stuff separately. But um uh I would say it's more helpful for you to do this on your own. I think it really helps you understand the general picture of scripture better if you make your own outline rather than relying on these artificial headings in your scripture. And I'll say it again. The practice I always commend to a new believer. I say the first thing you should do is just read the entire Bible all the way through. Don't ever stop. You're going to be tempted because you're going to be tired some days. You're going to get confused because you're a baby believer. I say just get through it. Doesn't matter if your eyes are just lazed over the page, just get through it. Because you will absorb more than you think And you'll be too discouraged if you keep getting stuck on Leviticus with all these strange like you know temple prescriptions and stuff. Just read it. Just literally go through it, okay? Don't worry too much about deep meditation now And then the second thing you should do immediately after that is I think you should open a Microsoft Word document and summarize each chapter of the Bible in your own words. I have a very big word document that I made uh very early on in my Christian faith and I still use it to this day. It is so helpful. That is my outline of the entire book of the Bible What I'm commending is obviously a little bit more microscopic. It's an outline of a specific book that contains the verse that you're struggling with, but that's another outline. Outline the whole Bible. Summarize each chapter of the Bible in your own words, it's gonna be wrong because you're a baby Christian. You're gonna get some weird, you know, wrong theology in there. It's gonna sneak in. So you iterate. You make it better as you grow in faith But that'll be a great way to understand just a lay of the land of all of Scripture and this story of redemptive history. So that's what I recommend. I love outlining. It's been helpful for me, hopefully for you as well. Uh okay. Next week we're going to start going into how knowing who the author of a verse is can oftentimes reveal a lot of information about the meaning. But that's all I have in the next couple minutes any other pressing questions or comments? Let's try