All right, lesson five. So we started reviewing the first couple tools in our historical grammatical hermeneutic toolkit So y I kinda use the analogy that you have a box of tools here. Some you have some hammers and wrenches and screwdrivers depending on what you know, problem you're trying to solve. You can think of different passages requiring different tools in your toolkit, and that's kind of what we have over here. And we took a look at number one, which is prayer And we saw that uh kind of like I was praying at the opening, uh we have models of Christian living in the apostles, prophets But the Lord Jesus Christ Himself. And we saw that these models of spiritual faith uh really valued And saw the importance in praying, right? Just as a reminder, the apostles were the one that had perfect theology. They wrote down perfect theology. They didn't always live it perfectly. They were sinners saved by grace like us But they wrote when it came to handling the New Testament, I mean they wrote the New Testament and it was perfect. And then Jesus, of course, I mean he know he needs no introduction. He was the son of God himself, the perfect God man And yet they still prayed a lot. So all the same, when we handle the Word of God, just like the Apostles and Jesus did, we need to be saturating our minds with prayer, intercession, asking the Lord to grant us the wisdom that we need to um see scripture rightly, right? Because you're always battling against that flesh. That's that other force that we're trying to oppose. when it comes to the art and work of interpretation. And then number two, step two, the second tool that we have is outlining the entire book in which uh you have that verse that you're wrestling with. So I start by just reading the whole book and then as you go through it trying to identify what the logical sections of the book are So chances are in whatever English translation of the Bible that you're using, uh these scenes were provided by the publisher, by the translator, the ESV or KJV translator or whatever. But Those headings, those subheadings don't actually exist in the original manuscripts, the original autographs. They were put in there by other people to be a helpful aid But I commend the practice of identifying those scenes yourself, you know, dividing up the sections of each book of the Bible. your own way because that'll help you understand and help you really remember what you're reading. And this provides a map where you're going when you're doing the work of interpretation. So what are these things? They include things like conjunctions, so you could hear these like connecting words. That probably hints to you that you might want to put a section there because you're probably logically going from one thought to another thought If the literary forum changes in any way, if the topic or the theme changes, you see suddenly you're in a different time or place. And if you see the grammar changing, right? Subject, object, pronoun, etc. So for more details, you can go listen to the recording from last week And then in each section, summarize the main idea in maybe roughly 12 words or less. And this just provides you a really nice mental map, once again. that uh helps you understand when you're dealing with a particular chapter and verse that you're having trouble and you're trying to do exegesis on, if you're trying to interpret. It gives you a map to know uh what the author just talked about, what he's going to talk about And you want to make sure they're all connected, right? Uh the authors of scripture don't just jump around erratically from thought to thought. There there's a logical theme, there's a logical flow, just like in any kind of written communication we make in our day-to-day. So this outline is a great way to help you understand where you're going. And uh yeah, you don't want to do the thing where you just kind of randomly flip open the Bible and find your life verse for the day or whatever Right. Every verse of the Bible exists in a context. It came from somewhere, it's going somewhere else. You want to know where that somewhere is. Oop, the arrow's not working. Come on. Okay. So today we are going to talk about Steps three to six tools. I shouldn't say steps because again this is just rough it's not uh strictly chronological, roughly chronological. But let's talk about how to uh help us understand the interpretation of Scripture by knowing who the author what the setting is, the purpose statement of the author, and the canonical location of the verse. So tools 3 to 6 is what we're going to be discussing today. And I'm going to group this all into a bucket called historical context. Now you should know when it comes to the particulars of any kind of um text that tries to explain the historical, grammatical, or hermeneutic None of this is inspired in terms of its details, right? We know the historical grammatical hermeneutic is the way God endorsed us to understand the Bible because that's how the authors handled scripture treat the Bible like history and read the Bible normally, comes from the Latin grammatico, which includes the rules of grammar, right? Uh but when it comes to how you convey the details of the historical grammatical hermeneutic, depending on which b uh hermeneutics book you pick up, everyone's gonna define things a little bit differently And unfortunately, that's the same with the term historical context. So some people take a very narrow definition for historical context and they say specifically It's talking about the setting or the cultural background or whatever or um the origination of where the text, the source, you know, uh origination where it came from But um I think it's more helpful to just broaden it. And historical context means anything about the historical circumstances that gave arise to the text at hand. So who wrote it Who is he writing to? Where was he writing it? At what time? What time and location are are the audience uh in? What was the purpose behind why he decided to write that letter or epistle or whatever And uh canonical location, we discussed that in the first week, but we'll explain it uh in more detail today, which refers to What kind of uh revelation did the author have access to? And what revelation, what divinely inspired information did he not have access to yet? All right, author. Now, uh let's first discuss um a very popular error, a very popular um wrong teaching, false teaching when it comes to the issue of authorship. And that is the fact that skeptics, liberal theologians, once again that doesn't refer to political liberals That refers to theologians who don't take the Word of God um seriously and don't think that it's inerrant. But skeptics and liberal theologians often try to cast doubt on the Bibles self-attested authorship. So within the Bible you'll often have passages that tell us this book was written by so and so. So that's actually in scripture itself. That's part of our religion. That's part of what we believe But uh you have liberal theologians frequently trying to cast out on who actually wrote the Bible. Now, does anyone have any insight on why you think non-believers We can broaden that to Satan, right? These are children of the devil, not an exaggeration. That's what the Bible calls them. But why does the devil and why do skeptics want to cast out on what the Bible says about who wrote the Bible? Yeah, Larry. Well for one reason if the book itself clearly identifies an author, they'll want to cast doubt on it because if they can cast enough doubt on it, then that means a whole Oh Jell. Right on. Right on. Yeah, I hope everyone heard what Larry was saying. But you know, if you can win on this ground, right, and say uh, you know, the Bible was wrong about who wrote Genesis, it wasn't Moses, it was so and so. But just like Larry said, that casts a lot of doubt on do we have to follow or believe any of the Bible, right? And let's ask an even broader question, a more fundamental question. Why do people want to doubt the Bible? I mean you don't see this kind of energy used to try to debunk the epic of Gilgamesh or really any other historical document, right? It's always the Bible. It's always the scriptures. Why is that, do you think? Yeah, Carl? Well God makes demands on our lives, so if you think it's uh it's both written by men, well why should I follow it? Yeah so Well also like the god of this world in the skin is systems or against anything but the sense that systems and are also those views of the truth. Yep. God of the Bible is the only real God We all know that. Every human being knows it. We talked about Romans one, eighteen to twenty-one a little bit more uh in depth last week, you guys remember? Like we know who God is. We know what his demands are. We know his moral law. It's written on our heart. Men know that they suppress that truth. And uh they know that when they read the Bible they're actually reading God's words and we don't like to hear it because the the question is always, is God God or are you God? Right? Who gets to be God? Who gets to determine mastery over your own life, how we live, what we think, what we do. And the lie of the devil is always, starting with the garden, you know, in front of Eve, the deception is God's laws are too restrictive. They're not good for you. He's holding back some piece of happiness or whatever, right? Like you weren't designed to glorify God. You were designed to live for yourself And of course that ignores the absurdity that God gave literally the entire garden to enjoy and eat from. Just that one tree, that one fruit. It's not restrictive, right? But of course we failed to test and that's why we're in sin today in a sinful world. But yeah, if you can win On this one area about casting doubt on the Bible's self-attested authorship, then you can start to cast doubt on is any of the Bible true? And that's uh Represented best by what is known as the documentary hypothesis is specifically when it comes to what's known as the Pentateuch or the Torah, if you come from a Jewish background, the first five books of the Bible, Genesis to Deuteronomy This is also known as a J-E-D-P hypothesis. So if you pick up a more theologically technical work like a commentary or something, you'll often see the commentator interacting with what's known as the JEDP theory or the documentary hypothesis. And uh in its most mature form, uh this was really born from the thoughts of A couple heretics named Carl Heinrich Graf and Julius Vellhausen in the late nineteenth century. And this is the idea that the Torah is actually written by four independent anonymous authors, the Yahweh author, the Eloist author, or E, the Deuteronomist or the Priestly author. And um the reason why this is such a uh dangerous idea is because once again the Bible tells us who wrote the Torah, the first five books of the Bible, and it is Moses. We're gonna see some scripture here in a second that tells us. Uh so. And Jesus thought so as well, by the way, even more so. But um let's uh get a l uh a little more insight from a quotation by Bodhi Hodge and Dr. Terry Mortensen from Answers in Genesis And this is what they have to say about the documentary hypothesis. Quote, to date, no manuscript evidence of the J document, E document, P document, D document or any of the other supposed fragments have ever been discovered. And there are no ancient Jewish commentaries that mention any of these imaginary documents or their alleged unnamed authors. All the manuscript evidence we have is for the first five books of the Bible, just as we have them today This is confirmed by the singular Jewish testimony until the last few centuries that these books are the writings of Moses. And what's amazing is uh one of the most exciting recent archaeological discoveries when it came to the transmission of the Bible was of course the Dead Sea the finding of the Dead Sea Scrolls, right? And uh what we discovered, and these are like our oldest extant manuscripts now we have of the Old Testament, what we discovered to liberals' amazement, was these super old, centuries old manuscripts, these Dead Sea Scrolls, they were something like uh ninety-nine percent similar to the Old Testament that we have today. You had like little transmission errors. We talked about that last week. That's nothing to panic about In fact, uh there's a great book uh by Dr. James White again um called Scripture Alone, I believe. He discusses transmission of the Bible. Um by God's wisdom, you actually need those little transmission uh errors to actually give you confidence of what the original autograph said. That's a little beyond the scope of what we're talking about today. But basically the elevator pitch version is when you have little variations between different bodies of text, that actually helps you trace back to know what the original was That's actually the problem with the the Muslim's holy book, the Quran, is they actually in their tradition they just destroy uh other manuscript traditions that were a little bit different from what uh whatever central authority said. Okay, this will be the official transmission translation from now on. and then they destroy all the variants. Well when that happens, you actually have no clue what the original actually said because you have nothing to compare and contrast to. You can't trace where the mistakes happened But anyway, these Dead Sea Scrolls, these are like the oldest Old Testament books we have. It was amazing. Like the transmission was just so clean. It was so like perfect. And of course that's because we believe in a sovereign God that controls history, and his will is for all believers for every generation to know what his word says, right? But that's amazing. Uh documentary hypothesis. Uh make no mistake, this is a majority opinion among so called theologians in the world today. Just like the majority of churches are frankly um false churches that don't teach the gospel. Again, that's nothing to be unsettled by. The Bible itself says that uh in Matthew 7 The path to destruction is wide, right? You always have a minority opinion that upholds the true word of God. But it's just amazing that this is the majority opinion of so-called scholars with PhDs, and there's literally no manuscript evidence for these J E P D authors. So let me just explain to you as bluntly as possible how stupid the documentary hypothesis is. You know how they came up with these J E P D authors Every time you see the name of God, Yahweh, Jehovah mentioned in Scripture, they just fantastically say this is the Jay author is writing. Anytime you see God of Israel referred to as Elohim, this is the E author. Anytime you have anything about the Levitical Code, you know, being discussed, the sacrificial system, that's the P author. That is Literally, I'm not exaggerating. That is the extent of their rationale for coming up with a documentary hypothesis. That's it. Speculative. And it's it's just insane that uh in academia, if you're going into uh theology, um this is mainstream opinion, documentary hypothesis. It's very, very shaky, it's complete speculation, there's no foundation for it at all Other than the fact that uh foundationally, here's the foundation is I don't like what the Word of God says and I'm gonna do everything in my power. I'm gonna dedicate my entire document you know, doctoral thesis to trying to debunking what God tells me to do because I don't have a master other than myself, right? That is the natural state we were all in before we were believers. So that's documentary hypothesis for you But that being said, the Bible does tell us the Torah was definitively written by Moses. That is what the Bible attests. In Exodus 17, then the Lord said to Moses, Write this, referring to this entire body of work. First five books of the Bible, write this as a memorial in a book, and recite it in the ears of Joshua, your successor, that I will utterly blot out the memory of Amalek from under heaven. And once again, um this is what Jesus himself, our Lord, the perfect God man, said about uh the writings of Moses, offer the gift that Moses commanded, he was referring to the scriptures of his time. And he ascribed it to Moses. Okay? Alright. Now, so that debunks uh the documentary hypothesis that you're inevitably gonna run into um when we get to one of the last tools of verification after we come up with our initial interpretation. If you read Phil's commentary commentary and you see what this JEDP hypothesis now you hopefully have an idea of what that is. But let's get into how the idea of authorship helps us with the work of exegesis. So how is knowing the author going to be helpful for interpreting scripture? Let me first open that up as a question to class. Do you guys have any guesses here how knowing who authored the Book of the Bible might help with interpretation? Yeah. Yeah, because the uh uh the way the author thinks, the way the author uh Yeah. Especially if the author wrote other books of the Bible. If he wrote multiple books of the Bible, you know it came from the same brain. You can kind of compare. Yep, yep, right on, right on. Any other thoughts? How else could authorship help you with interpretation uh time time frame maybe perhaps mm-hmm. You know, for instance Moses during that time period, what people thought, uh how people behaved. Yep. Hebrews, how they Yeah. Yeah, we're gonna see an example here specifically that shows how time is super helpful. uh give you context so you kinda know what what was going on in the historical setting. Like Eil was an exile, so writing to exile Yeah, yeah. You actually stole I think one of my examples here. But yeah, exactly. Yeah, identifying the author is a helpful first tool in establishing historical context of the passage. Now the author is sometimes named explicitly by Scripture, just like the example we saw in Genesis. But you have to also recognize that sometimes the author is unknown and cannot Sometimes God did not think we needed to know who the author was, and that's for the book of Hebrews, by the way. We have no clue who wrote Hebrews. Anyone that tells you they know is uh at best they're just guessing. Okay. Um some people try to say it was written by Paul, but then Greek experts will say, you know, the the way this Greek is written in Hebrews doesn't sound like the way Paul uh writes his Greek in other books that he did write. So we don't know who wrote the book of Hebrews. This is the Holy Spirit, that's the best we can say. But then there are also other books that are kind of in between. They can be guessed with very high confidence because there are a lot of what's known as internal, so that's evidence that's within the book itself. Or external evidence, so that's outside the Bible, like maybe uh some church tradition said such and such book was written by so-and-so. or archaeological evidence or something like that. But the um the epistle um not epistles, the Gospel of John, for instance, right, the fourth book in the New Testament, that is a book that we know with very high confidence was written by uh the Apostle John And John, apparently, uh very humble man, didn't want to explicitly credit the book to himself. He probably thought, you know, this isn't like my material, I'm just this is revealed by the Holy Spirit. I'm just trying to convey my eyewitness account But basically you have several um verses within John where John says, like such and such we were at this place with Jesus And you can basically uh just use like a deduction or a process of elimination and you recognize, well it can't be them, it can't be them, oh it's gotta be John. Okay. So Yeah, that's what he referred to himself in this gospel, the apost uh exactly. Yep, yep. Very very humble guy. And that doesn't mean oh Jesus loved me so much. He was he was making himself anonymous thing. All my identity is just someone that Jesus loved. That's that's all who outran Peter. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So you just look up the BMI of the apostles and that'll tell you who them Just kidding. But yes, so you have some internal and external evidence that sometimes for these books that are formally anonymous we can guess with very high confidence. And the Gospel of John is exactly an example of that. But uh sometimes God doesn't think it's um uh knowable. Now again, the concept of divine concursus, we kept using that term throughout the class, but uh just as a reminder, divine concursus means that Every book of the Bible was written both by a human author and the Holy Spirit and it's not like fifty-fifty, it's a hundred percent both. It's kind of a mystery, like the whole predestination and man's freedom, man's will kinda idea. But uh for example um the book of Genesis was both written one hundred percent by Moses and one hundred percent by the Holy Spirit. So it was a perfect book because it was written by the Holy Spirit entirely But it is also a book written by a fellow human being who thinks like a human being as Moses was. And uh that concept becomes relevant here when it comes to authorship because even if we do not know the human author God 100% wrote the Bible, you have to remember, so the text can stand on its own merit. Hebrews as an example. We don't know who wrote Hebrews, but it's not a problem that we don't know the human author, because God still 100% wrote the Bible. The text can stand on its own merit as God-breathed, inerrant, infallible words. So we can move on to other tools, if we don't know the author, to help us in our exegesis, our exegetical quest. But uh I thought of a couple different ways the identity of uh the biblical author can help you, kind of just reiterating what some of the answers you guys gave. Uh and number one, this is probably the most useful If you know the author of a particular book of the Bible and you know he wrote other books of the Bible, you can compare certain words that he likes to use or some doctrine, a teaching on some doctrine. You can compare between all those different books written by the same author to help you understand with greater certainty what he meant by using that word. For instance, the word justified is a great example of that. This is very controversial because some other sects of Christianity, like Catholicism. which is not Christianity, but um, you know, they they call themselves part of Christian tradition. But how the Catholics formally define justification, the the doctrine of justification, based on how Paul uses the word justification is very, very different from what we mean as Protestants by the word justification. So Paul wrote the book of Titus And uh if we wanted to gain more insight on the word justified, we can just kind of look through all the writings of Paul where he uses that word, compare and contrast, and we start to form a very clear picture of what justification means. So for the Catholic, justification is not a one-time once-and-for all thing. Okay? It's a thing that has to sometimes be repeatedly done. But is that what the Bible teaches? Well, in Titus chapter three, Paul writes the following God saved us not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit whom he poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior. And here's the important bit. So that being justified, how? By works? No, we specifically just said in verse 5, it's contrary to works, so that being justified by his grace we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life. So just reading Titus chapter 3 in a way is sufficient to understand justification. We see just in this book that justification is by God's grace. However, if we wanted a more warm and fuzzy feeling when maybe talking with our Roman Catholic friend at work that we're trying to share the gospel with Maybe we want to get even more evidence that when Paul uses the word justify, justification, he means something that's not by works but by God's grace. Well let's look at the other uh books written by Paul. Romans. That's a good one. Paul also what wrote Romans. And this is what he says about justification. Romans chapter five, verse nine, since therefore we have now been justified by his blood Much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. So this elaborates on the idea of justification by grace. Specifically, how is that grace mediated? It's by the blood, the death, burial, resurrection of Jesus Christ. Not by works. Once again, it's simply by Jesus dying on and living on our behalf. And then here's another passage by Paul where he uses that same word justified. Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, so now we have an equivocation. Grace mediated through the blood of Jesus, these are all speaking to the same concept that our justification, our being legally made righteous before God, is not by our good deeds. We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. So you see that it all begins with knowing who wrote Romans and Titus, but when you're armed with that information that I know who the author of this Bible verse is Now, specifically, if you know that that author wrote other books of the Bible, do you see how useful it can be to compare and contrast these different books written by the same author? So that's how authorship can help you A second way authorship can help you is if you know who the author is, and further we know their background, the life story, where they came from. That can provide a lot of confidence in the trustworthiness of the Bible. And I think the best example of that is, again, the first five books of the Bible written by Moses Well, once we identify the author as Moses, we can also understand Moses' background, which is again attested by the Bible. He was a man uniquely and specially competently prepared by God to write these first five books of the Bible. You see the the Pentateuch depicts Israel going through the ancient Near Eastern region and you have specific locations and times, you have customs, you have specific people groups, the Amalekites, the Amorites, the Edomites being discussed by Moses, right? And it's all being depicted in great detail. Well, when we realize the author Moses was a man that was brought up in Egyptian schooling He was very highly educated, he was literate, and because he grew up in the region, he had intimate knowledge of the Egyptian customs and the Egyptian geography, the Red Sea Not only that, but Moses was also particularly prepared because do you guys remember what happened after he turned 40? Gung ho Moses He killed an Egyptian, right, trying to save his fellow Israelites, a little hot headed apparently. And then where did he end up going to? Where did he have to flee to? The wilderness, right? The Midianite wilderness So when the Israelites are journeying through the wilderness, think about this. And uh they're thinking of specific locations, specific routes. Moses was perfectly equipped for this task because he was not only literate He was not only informed about you know the Egyptian ways and cultures and things like that, he also knew the wilderness in large part because he lived there for forty years forty more years, right? So when we know the author's background, which starts with identifying the author, we have high confidence that, yes, what is being depicted in Genesis and Exodus and Numbers in Deuteronomy, this is real history. These are real places, and I can trust the author's account of these locations and times and settings because he is the perfect person equipped to depict the setting You see that? So that's also how authorship can help us. It can really like buoy our faith and make us feel even more confident that what we're reading is true history. Right, let's move on to the fourth tool, setting. I guess maybe let me pause there for a second. Any questions or comments? Always welcome by the way. Don't feel bashful. Okay. Don't be shy if you guys want to chime in. My personal teaching style, I I enjoy interruptions. Because chances are if you have a thought or question, somebody else has that thought or question, you help we help one another here. So I know I'm the teacher, but um you know we can dialogue as well. Alright, let's move on to the fourth tool here, setting And uh setting I'm defining as the time and location the passage originated from, and also uh the audience, the audience's time and location. And that can also be a very helpful tool in the work of interpreting Scripture. And a good example of that I'd like to point to Revelation chapter 11. You may want to turn there, actually, if you want to just kind of Keep it in your peripheral vision, um that might be helpful. And uh can somebody actually read uh maybe the first three verses of Revelation chapter 11 for us out loud? Whatever version you're using. Then there was given to me a measuring rod like a staff, and someone said, Get up and measure the temple of God and the altar. And those who were Leave out the courtyards which is outside the temple and do not measure them, because it is given to the nation. And they will trample the holy city for forty-two months, and I will grant authority to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy for twelve hundred and sixty days, closed in the Okay, perfect. So for the sake of time, I'll just give a very quick version of what's happening in Revelation eleven. But Revelation entirely is a vision, a prophetic vision given to the Apostle John. Um and uh he's being given a vision of things that happen uh that will happen both in in the present, the imminent present, imminent future, and also the far future. And uh what's being described in Revelation 11 is a vision of a temple, right? You guys all saw that in verse one. So here's my question. Which temple is described in Revelation 11 because if you know anything about Jewish history, there were several temples, right? There was the original temple that was envisioned by David, but David was a man of war, and God wanted his son as a result of Solomon to build the first temple And that one got destroyed, and then there was another temple, right? So there are several temples. Which temple is being described in Revelation 11? Anyone have any ideas? So that is one of the main schools of thought that this is a future temple that has not been built yet. Yeah. The Herodian temple for us, because that was familiar with. It could be. It could be the Herodian temple that existed during the Jesus and the disciples' time that got destroyed in AD seventy. Yeah That's another school of thought. Now, when tackling this question, I think this is a passage, this exegetical question of which temple is being described in Revelation 11, 1, how do we interpret that word temple? I think the setting is a great tool to use to understand this passage. And that is because when you study the book of Revelation Again, a little bit beyond the scope of what we're talking about today to walk through all the pieces of evidence. If you're really curious, it's easy to uh look up on the internet or I can also point you to some resources, some commentaries you can buy if you want more detail. But basically there are only two real uh potentially convincing alternatives to understanding uh what date Revelation was written by John. And it's either what's known as an early date, which would be around A. D. sixty-eight. Now, if this was written A. D. sixty-eight This temple could have two choices. This could be the Herodian temple, as was stated earlier, right? Again, destroyed in AD 70. You see that? So this is a revelation. This is a prophecy about what is just about to happen. It's it's referring to a temple that was existing but will be destroyed in a couple years. Or it could be a future temple, maybe a temple after AD 70. You see how logically you could have both of these options work if you believe John was w writing this in an early date? You see that However, if the alternative is true, Revelation was actually written according to a late date, which would be around A. D. 95, suddenly you are downselected to just one option. Revelation eleven, one can't refer to the Herodian temple, right? Why? It doesn't exist, right? So if we can nail down the setting, we can potentially narrow down how to interpret the temple in Revelation 11. 1. Now I'll just give a spoiler alert. I find very convincing personally that this was Probably the late date. Revelation was almost certainly, I would say, if you look at the body of evidence written in a late time period. So John is the last surviving apostle. He's at the tail end of his life And if it's written in the AD ninety five, that means the Herodian temple is long gone. John cannot be referring referring to the temple of Herod, right? It's some new temple that has to be rebuilt Because Revelation was written in a late date. But this is an example, this is a perfect example where setting time and location can be a great help to you. Yeah, question. So correct me if I'm wrong, Bill. Uh John lives in Ephesus after writing the Revelation, right? I'm not sure, actually. I can't remember. Yeah, is is that the case? Is that what you saw in your studies? That's what I suspect. And and he actually the that's why I leaned it more for the earlier league. Gotcha. Put him at a time beyond his ages. Um like I said, I wasn't sure if we're at some Yeah, you could be right. I mean at the end of the day if it's not written in scripture, we can't hold it with one hundred percent certainty. But um I'd have to go back home and look at my notes on the on the dating of Revelation to uh remember why I hold to the late date Yeah. Yeah, that's a good question though. But once again, if you hold to the early date, then suddenly you got a couple of different options. If you hold to the late date, then it helps you directly with exegesis So hopefully in principle at least, maybe you disagree with my conclusion, but your understanding how time and location can be helpful to you when it comes to circumstitution. Sorry, it wasn't after revelations. He was it was after he was released from patents. Gotcha. That's what I got then. Gotcha, gotcha. Okay. Yeah, I can't speak to that authoritatively at the moment, yeah. If you can send me something that you saw that actually that'd be helpful. Sure, I have to take it out. Yeah. No pressure, but if you find it. Yeah, that'd be great. Alright, uh how about location? Location is the second part of setting, right? Well location is helpful when it comes to something like the book of Ezekiel. So I think Carlos actually mentioned this example, right? So Ezekiel chapter 1, verses 2 to 3 states the following. On the fifth day of the month, it was the fifth year of the exile of King Jehoichin, the word of the Lord came to Ezekiel the priest the son of Buzi, in the land of the Chaldeans by the Kabar can uh uh canal, and the hand of the Lord was upon him there. Now, where is Ezekiel and the Israelites in this setting? Babylon. And another very leading question is where are they not? Not in Jerusalem, not in Israel, right? Why? What is going on? What are the Hebrews not doing in their land? Not worshiping captive. Exile. What do you think happened here? What did God promise would happen to the Israelites if they disobeyed? They'd be punished and they'd be carried off by their enemies, right? Location in this example here, the setting, carries a lot of theological significance, right? Even even before we start digging into uh Ezekiel the rest of the book If you just start with the opening verses and you go, wait a minute, why is this setting in the land of Babylon? Why aren't they in their holy land? And that's because the Abrahamic covenant earlier in Genesis promised that Israelites would be in the land of Israel as long as they obeyed. It was conditional. So something went wrong. And that setting, that important setting in Ezekiel, and that's and the theological significance of why they're in this specific setting of Babylon That'll guide your thinking throughout all of Ezekiel, right? You see how the theme develops from that setting. Ezekiel is writing to a bunch of rebel Israelites that need to repent. And that will be a theme throughout Ezekiel. That God will be faithful to his covenant, but he's a God that, you know, he promised them, you know, your stay in this land is going to be conditional. And now we're led to look forward to what will God reveal in Ezekiel about how he will uphold his Abrahamic covenant promise and solve Israel's sin problem. So location. Location is very important. And even before you start handling the words and the sentences and phrases when it comes to exegesis Just orienting yourself, time and location and author, all these things, uh, it's underrated. It can be very helpful in helping you with the work of interpretation. Any questions about that or comments? Yeah. Alright. Now let's go to the fifth tool which is purpose. This is When it comes to historical context, the most important piece of information. So among the historical context tools, as I'm calling it, you know, author, setting and uh uh purpose. I think purpose is by far the most important one out of the bunch. Now purpose statements, um just like when it comes to authorship, sometimes It is ex explicit. God just makes it explicit. The Holy Spirit, the author, saw fit to just tell us this is exactly why I'm writing this book. That's very helpful. But um the majority of the times, unfortunately, the purpose statement is a little more buried. It's implicit. You have to kind of tease out why you think the author wrote that book or that letter based on some clues. And we're going to talk about those clues in a second. But first let's look at an example of an explicit purpose statement. And uh going back to the Gospel of John, the Apostle John At the very end, chapter 20, he gives us a nice, helpful, plain and simple, explicitly written purpose statement. And he says, starting in verse 30 Now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book, but these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ or the Messiah, the Son of God and that by believing you may have life in his name. That's super, super helpful. Because now you know when I'm reading, I'm trying to interpret the book of John, it's always going to revolve around this purpose statement. That's why purpose statements are so important by the way. Because that's like your grounding. Like if you come up with an interpretation that contradicts what we know the purpose of the author writing that book is Your interpretation is wrong. It's clearly wrong. It has to align with what the author is trying to convey as his main theme or main idea throughout the entire letter or book. So everything you read, everything you try to interpret and drop and the Gospel of John, it has to revolve around the idea that Jesus is the Messiah and he is the Son of God. He is divine And you see that uh very well organized in John, because if any of you have spent any time studying John or read a commentary or sermon or anything on it, you know John is organized according to these several I am statements which is how uh Yahweh God revealed himself to the Israelites in the Exodus experience when Moses was like, Oh, don't send me, you know, he was making all these excuses 'cause he didn't want to go and be, you know, uh the one leading Israelites to the promised land. And then one of his excuses was, but you know, they're gonna ask what your name is. What kinda what's your name? You know, what should I tell them? And he revealed himself as I am. So that I am is a very significant idea of God's uh uh preeminent existence, he's the uncreated one. And Jesus repeats these I am statements throughout the book of John. And that serves John's explicit purpose statement. That's why I wrote this book to show you he is the Son of God, he is a Messiah, and you need to believe in him if you want eternal life. But other times, as I stated before, the purpose statement is implicit. And some helpful rules of thumbs you should keep in mind to help you uncover this a little bit more hidden purpose statement is uh look at the beginning and the end of the book. Just like any piece of writing that we write today in the modern era, you typically want to start with your thesis for the rest of your paper and then you have a conclusion paragraph, right? That sums everything up. It was very similar back in uh the biblical author's time. So look at the beginning. That's often well they'll where they'll uh introduce their big main ideas that they'll be expanding on throughout the body of the book, and then look at the end. They'll probably have some kind of concluding statement that sums everything up You also want to once again look up the background. What does the text say is happening in the author's life? You know when you pick up the book of Galatians Paul right at the beginning, he's writing to a bunch of Galatian Christians that are strained from the true gospel. That'll give you a purpose statement The purpose statement in Galatians, if I can just say it off the cuff, is I'm trying to steer you back to the true gospel, right? I'm trying to steer you away from false teaching. There is no other gospel, right? Uh how about the commands, especially when it comes to the genres of the Bible that tend to give commands. So these are like the legal genre or the epistles, the exhortative epistles We'll talk about genres in more detail in a few weeks. But particularly when it comes to books of the Bible that have commands and laws, what are the laws? Is there some theme that the laws kind of pattern themselves after? Some is there some main idea that's trying to be conveyed? That gives you an idea of purpose statement. And then for the more narrative sections of the Bible where it's just describing historical happenings, which events are being depicted Especially when it comes to like those four gospels. It's amazing, you know, uh God gave four different gospels. It's such a treasure of information because you have this the stereoscopic view of Jesus' life and ministry. You have different angles, different perspectives. But uh each of those four gospel writers, they were editors at heart. You know, they didn't literally depict every minute of Jesus' life and ministry. Think about it. They they editorially picked specific events that they thought was most important to fit their unique purpose statement And each of those four gospel writers they had a specific angle, specific theme that they were trying to uh uh address, like uh Uh Matthew was trying to address how Jesus was the King of the Jews, for instance. Luke was writing to a more Gentile audience. Things like that. And John we just talked about. He's the son of God. So which events did the author editorially pick to be depicted? There there's a significance there. You know, there's a reason he didn't just he didn't just say, Jesus had this for breakfast one day, because that would have been wouldn't have been useful information. That would have been minor But they pick certain events to depict and write about because there's some theme, there's some purpose that they're trying to get to. And that's where we discover their implicit purpose statement. It right at the beginning. Yeah. Yeah. Yes, right. Yes, that is correct. Yep, exactly. And that's right at the beginning again. So that's a combination of both number one and uh number four, right? So that was that was eclipse code that Matthew was more directed towards the Jew, and the Luke was more directed towards Jewish. Exactly. Yeah. Matthew is trying to hammer home the fact this is the king of the Jews. This is your Davidic king. He has the right lineage for it. He's he's uh you know, he's qualified to be the son of David. Exactly. Yep. But all the lists. Yep, yep. And then uh number five, what are the central themes or ideas? What are some some concepts that keep getting uh advanced over and over and over again. That gives you an idea of the purpose statement. And finally, uh related to number five, what are the concepts that are being Repeat it. Okay? So these are just some helpful hints on trying to discover why was this book written at this time? And there's always a reason. Okay? Just just like any modern writer, there's always a a purpose behind why you write something at that time. Alright, uh let's use purpose statement to help us understand Galatians chapter 5, verse 12, which states, Paul's stating to the enemies of the gospel I wish those who unsettle you, these false teachers, would emasculate themselves. Right? Now here's the question. When you're handling Galatians 5. 12, is this the Apostle Paul, the Apostle of Jesus Christ, wishing violence upon his opponents? What do you guys think? I wish somebody would go and just violently, you know, hurt these people. We don't have to get more detail than that, right? What do you think Paul's saying here? Is that what he's saying? Maybe that's Christianity. Maybe Christianity, we should wish physical harm on people once in a while. Yeah? What do you think? Sorry, remind me your name. Jose. Thank you, Jose. Sorry. I knew your name and blinking out. I didn't want to keep saying you, yes. Sorry, Jose. Um So if if I remember correctly, their Judaizers were trying to tell everybody that they needed to to follow a certain set of rituals, Judaic rituals to be come and and Paul would say, well, you know, I wish they would just do it themselves, basically. And if you open up at the middle of the book and you read that, you're like, oh my gosh, right? Yep. Yep. But Jose's Jose's using context and we discover Historical context, which is these opponents of God are Judaizers, saying you have to follow Jewish prescriptions. Yeah, exactly. What specific Jewish prescription were these Judaizers stating? You can look in Galatians five if you want more information. that you drive users were setting that gene powers become super size. But but I'm seeing power saying, well that's just mutual relations of the on the of the flat And so Paul is just saying, well I think these mutualized should should do should just mutate their own prize. Yeah. So we have circumcision that's specifically being discussed here. The doctrine of circumcision, how much of the old covenant needs to still carry over to the new covenant That was probably the question that the Judaizers are trying to address by saying you still have to become physically Jewish, right? Any other thoughts I just I just wanted to say that if you if you're asked by somebody who, you know, is questioning Christianity and this comes up you have to really go back to the beginning of the book and even to incorporate some of the other writings because you know what what can how can you explain that by itself to somebody who doesn't know, doesn't have the background, doesn't have the information or the education and all that. It this is where it becomes really difficult to just go, oh that's talking about circumcision and be like, really? Yeah. Well can you explain how? Yeah, yeah. You gotta look at the surrounding verses. Yeah. There's all these gotcha verses that some non some, you know, frankly obnoxious nonbelievers I've been in my own life too. You know, they like suggest, oh, you're a Christian and they just kinda want to harass you with these gotcha. By the way, in those moments, remember Like we're not hit here to win intellectual arguments. That's that's not our purpose. There's nothing wrong with just telling them, well I need uh let me go back and do some research and I'll get back to you You know, we we don't have to best them in verbal combat, intellectual combat. That's not the purpose of evangelism and discipleship. And frankly if people are just doing that to you They may be the swine you don't want to just keep throwing pearls in front of, right? Some people are just not ready for a real conversation. You just pray for them. That's the best we can do But yeah, you need context. So the context here, we have Judaizers, they're preaching circumcision. So let's start pulling all these clues together based on the historical context that Paul is writing to the Galatians. They were departing from the gospel. His purpose was to bring them back to the true gospel, right? It says you don't have to be circumcised to be a believer. Salvation is by faith. So answer this first question that I have. Is Paul wishing violence on his enemies? Is is that what's happening? No, what do you say now, Raymond? Um the B the V are James, so they're already certain size. So he's saying that I wish that was a man That's a good point though. That's a good point, right? So this is uh what I would conclude, bringing it all together. I think far from Paul wishing violence upon his enemies Paul is clearly employing a very biting, sarcastic, hyperbolic rhetoric. He's purposely exaggerating in his language. And he's doing that intentionally, not just to be snarky for snarky's sake, right? He's not just being sarcastic just to be sarcastic, right? He's employing sarcasm and hyperbole to reveal the absurdity of the logical conclusion of the Judaizer's teaching. Right? So let me state it this way. So Paul is basically saying, so these false teachers think Cutting off just a part of their flesh gives gives them some extra merit before God. What he's saying here is then why stop there? If cutting off a little bit of your body makes you more righteous Just go all the way. Cut the whole thing off. You're gonna be super holy, right? You see what he's doing there? He's being sarcastic and he's showing he's not just saying, I wish you would die He's actually showing the logical absurdity of their way of thinking. It's not violence for violence sake, even though sure the imagery is kind of violent. But that's not the point. He's actually making a logical argument He's saying, you think just doing a little bit of violence, just cutting off a little bit, right? That will make you more holy. Then why don't you just go all the way by your logic? Cutting more flesh must be even better. You'll get to like a higher part of heaven or whatever You see? So the bite of Paul's rhetorical logic comes out with greater clarity when we employ the setting tool or the purpose statement tool when we discover his purpose is to combat these Judaizers. That's his purpose. And we can also use a setting tool, by the way, and we discover that in the Galatian region at this time period, this time and location Uh there were priests of the goddess Sibylle, apparently, that were self-made eunuchs. You had to you have to emasculate yourself. in order to be considered uh one of the priests of this goddess Sibylle. So Paul was also in all likelihood, based on knowing the setting, he was probably also kind of referencing in his mind Like, why don't you be like one of these pagan priests, right? They must be even more holy, right? They just cut the whole thing off. Why don't you do that instead? So uh that is what uh Paul is referring to Does that help you? Does that help? Do you see how purpose statement can be a powerful way to ground how we read Galatians 5? Yeah, Carlos? I think even the author tool is very helpful because he spends the first two chapters saying, I didn't get the gospel. Great point. So he's just making the argument here that this is not how you're saved. Yeah. Great point. Great point. I didn't even write that in the notes, so that's that's good Yeah, knowing the author, knowing how he received his gospel. Yeah, exactly. Because Paul was a Jew of Jews, right? That was his credentials. He's a Jew of Jews, and he's saying that is not the way uh we are actually saved. Okay. Oh, whoops, I forgot to go through here. Yep. Here we go. Alright, let's go to the next tool in our toolkit, which is canonical location. We discussed this in the first week, but the Bible is what's known as progressive revelation. And to understand that term, just break it down into its parts. It's God reveals information in a progressive, gradual, step by step manner, right? So maybe you're new in the faith and you didn't know this, but God didn't give all sixty six books of the Bible at once He first started with just a few and then he added another prophecy, another book of the Bible, another one, another one. And that's why we're so privileged, by the way, as Christians in twenty twenty two now. We have all sixty six. There were Christians in the past. By the way, I I use that term purposefully because you might think that's anachronistic. How can Moses be a Christian? He was. Every single person was saved by Jesus Christ. It's either they were saved by the future work of Jesus So even if they didn't know specifically the name Jesus that they were going to be saved by, they called him the seed of the offspring. You're either saved by the future work of Jesus on the cross or you look backwards at the past work of Jesus Christ on the cross. But every Christian um uh we're not given the same amount of revelation. And that's why we're so privileged today. But anyway, so if you can identify Where in the canon, where in the process of the revealing of all 66 books of the Bible, that passage you're grappling with is located, that can actually reveal very important aspects of meaning So this is what I mean. If future information, if future canonical information, if the book of Ephesians did not exist yet in the author's passage that he's writing then you cannot pull information that is unique, specific to that future book, and make that the meaning of the passage in question. So let me state that again. If you're grappling with a text in Isaiah, okay, and you're trying to understand what the meaning of Isaiah's words, what the interpretation of this verse in Isaiah is You can't pull from information that only exists hundreds of years later in the book of Matthew and force that, shoehorn that into Isaiah and say that's what Isaiah meant to write. He can't have. Isaiah does not have access to that information Remember, Divine Concursus. The Bible was not only written by the Holy Spirit, it was also one hundred percent written by men. And these men were not doing automatic writing where their hands were just being guided by the Holy Spirit. They're like, whoa, what did I just write These are theological books written from the training and the mind and the meditations upon God and Scripture of people like us. You know? And that's also by the way a very uh instructive to the fact that if you want to be useful for ministry in your own life, you have to study You have to study the Word of God. You know, Isaiah, uh, Peter, Apostle Paul, Ezekiel, you know, these uh Ezra, these men were men of the Word. They were very seriously devout students of the Bible And God used them accordingly. You see, Moses meditated on the Word of God. David meditated on the Word of God. So these books that he wrote were outputs of those meditations. Yeah, is there? So I just want to make sure I understanding correctly. So let's look at Isaiah. Um forgive me this scripture verse you know the moment where he prophesied about Christ unto us a child he was born. Yeah. Um how does that Twenty-three, is it? Here features information. Yeah, that's great. That's a great question. So once again, um I think the operative word is unique So Isaiah cannot be pulling from information that's unique to future books of the Bible. But things like the concept that, you know, a a child will be born that's fulfillment of the prophecy in Genesis three fifteen, the seed of the woman. That's not unique. And in fact he had access to that information because it was a book of the Bible he he knew. Genesis Yeah, but when it comes to what you can't do with that passage in Isaiah until the child is born, you can't say Isaiah is saying here the meaning of this is the bo a boy named Jesus born in Nazareth, you know, to a woman named Mary and a father named Joseph. That is what Isaiah meant to write. Because he doesn't know any of those names. the details of, you know, the name Jesus and the details of his lineage, you know, what what la what his grandparents' name was, that was not he didn't have access to that yet But he knew that there would be a Messiah that is going to be born and fulfilled Genesis three fifteen. Does that help? Sir. Yeah. It's all about it Yeah, it's all about details. There are details in the future that uh and we'll go we'll there's and a couple slides forward we'll prove this in scripture that God himself says that there are certain doctrine doctrines, there are certain facts that I've purposely hidden until it is revealed at a certain time. They are called mysteries. That's a technical term that's actually used in the New Testament. So if something is if God specifically says this is a mystery that I'm not gonna reveal until New Testament times, you can't force an Old Testament author to be saying that. Yeah. He saw Christ. Yes, but he didn't know that this was, you know, specific he didn't know the the you know face shape of Jesus and he didn't know, you know specifically his ministry was gonna be in in this town and then he's gonna go to this town. You know what I mean? There when it came to a lot of details about Jesus' life. He didn't have access to that yet. But he for sure looked forward, like the author of Hebrews, you're thinking of Hebrews I think, chapter twelve or something, I want to say. You know, the Hall of Fame passage where he was welcoming and greeting the day of that Messiah. Yeah. So the Messiah concept uh is something that all the Old Testament authors had had access to. That was one of the first Yeah, one of the first doctrines that they understood. That one was not unique, but when it comes to the identity specifically of, you know, his parentage and what he did for a living, that he was a carpenter's son, blah blah blah, they didn't have access to that stuff yet. Um if I'm studying Proverbs, can I pull from the Gospels help understand what I'm reading in Proverbs? Yeah, that's that's a really I want to answer that question quickly, but it's gonna leave with some misconceptions. Um I I would I I hate doing that because I hate not answering questions, but that is when we're gonna talk about verification. You absolutely need to be using other books of scripture to help you interpret and handle the Word of God correctly. Okay? I'll just say that. That's known as a tool known as the analogy of faith. But when you use the analogy of faith, when you start expanding your horizons to other books of the Bible, you have to be very careful when you do that process Okay? So that's this that's that's subtle. A lot of people think what's the harm? You know scripture is all scripture, it's all written by the Holy Spirit. But if you jump too quickly out of like Isaiah, if you're trying to wrestle with Isaiah You want to as long as possible stay in Isaiah to get the meaning. Because remember, uh you might not have been there, but um lecture two was interpretation, what we're trying to do when we're getting meaning, we're trying to understand what the author consciously will to say. Isaiah is interpreting interpreted by trying to understand what Isaiah meant to say, what he's writing And Isaiah is not Peter. Isaiah is not the Apostle Paul. That fact matters. The fact that these are two human beings, again, divine concurses, that matters. Because they're not going to use the same words and the same way of speaking exactly the same way Now they are also both written by the Holy Spirit, so they absolutely should be compared, but that comparison should be a verification. It should be a validation thing. It shouldn't be an interpretation thing. And I know that sounds controversial to some of you, because we have some Christians, genuine brothers and sisters of the Lord, that immediately jump to other books of the Bible I think we're talking about this actually in a second. Yeah. Let me explain in a second. Uh let me elaborate on that answer a little more, Carlos. Does that help so far, though? Does that kind of answer? Yeah Okay, uh so future information cannot exist in the passage in question. All right, future information. So for instance Uh I think I gave this example as a preview already a few weeks ago. But let's say you're reading the Old Testament, like Leviticus chapter 8, verses 1 to 4, and you're trying to interpret that word congregation that keeps popping up So for instance, uh Leviticus eight, starting with verse one, the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Take Aaron and his sons with him and the garments and the anointing oil and the bowl of the sin offering and the two rams and the basket of unleavened bread, and assemble all the congregation. at the entrance of the tent of meeting. And Moses did as the Lord commanded him, and the congregation was assembled at the entrance of the tent of meeting. Now a lot of people y you probably don't even realize that there's a lot of controversy over the small word congregation. You don't know why we're making such a big deal about this. But there are some genuine brothers and sisters of the Lord. We love very much. You know, they're genuine siblings. But nevertheless, when they see this word congregation, they put a lot of unnatural meaning into it, and they conclude every time you see the word congregation in Leviticus, it means the church They put the doctrine of the church into this passage. Now the reason why it cannot mean church, but it just it just needs a congregation. It just needs a gathering of people. Just read it normally is because Colossians chapter 1, starting with verse 24, says specifically, now, I no, Colossians if you don't know, came hundreds of years after. So Moses, the author of Leviticus, did not have access to the book of Colossians. It didn't exist yet. In Colossians chapter 1, starting verse 24, Now I rejoice in my sufferings for your sake, and in my flesh I am filling up what is lacking in Christ's afflictions for the sake of his body, that is, the church. This is the main subject here in this entire passage. The church of which I became a minister, according to the stewardship from God that was given to me for you, to make the Word of God fully known, the mystery hidden for ages and generations, but now revealed to his saints. So the idea of the church, the doctrine of the church, is specifically called a mystery in Colossians chapter 1. Nobody understood what the church was in Moses' time. So you cannot make the word congregation here and shoehorn in church. Now, why do they do that? Because there are some genuine brothers and sisters that are known as covenant theologians that want to say that the church is the fulfillment, it's the new Israel, that we are all Jews, who are spiritual Jews. That's not what Paul teaches, that's not what the Bible teaches at all. Again, that's beyond the scope of the class. Alright Another example, Acts chapter 2, verse 38 to 39, this is often handled this way. Peter said to them, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins. and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. For the promise is for you and for your children and for all who are far off Everyone whom the Lord our God calls Himself. Just because we're running out of time, I'll just go through this real quick. But the idea of uh identifying the all who are far off, the highlighted, it usually falls into a couple different camps It's either talking about Gentile, Gentile Christians, right? This promises for you and your children and then also these future Gentiles that are going to become grafted in most of us in this room, for those of you who are non non-Jews. Right? Or it means the diaspora, the ec the Jews that are scattered around still because of the exile. Remember we talked in uh Ezekiel that a lot of Jews got exiled because of their sin? A lot of them didn't end up coming back to Israel. So it either refers to the Gentiles or the scattered Jews that are yet to return back to the land. And the reason we know it's the latter that refers to the diaspora is because the mystery of the fact that Gentiles are going to be grafted into the same Jewish covenants of salvation by grace That was not understood to Peter specifically until several chapters later in Acts chapter ten with the revealing of the sheep with the unclean animals, remember? Peter said, Oh, you know, got to kill and eat. He says, No, I never did I can't I can't eat an unclean animal. And then what did God say? He says, Don't coun call unclean what I made clean. And he was referring to the fact that look, Gentiles are part of this covenant. That was let me explain something to you. That was the point of the Abrahamic covenant. You're supposed to be a blessing to all nations. You don't just hoard the gospel to yourself But Peter didn't understand that until several chapters later in Acts 10. So he cannot be refer this is Peter talking. He cannot be referring to all who are far off. You see that When he's preaching here, that is not what he meant to say. And remember, Divine Concursus says that scripture is not just 100% written by the Holy Spirit. It has to also be what the human author meant to say We're not going back into the human author subconscious. Peter spoke better than he knew, for instance, right? And that concept of speaking better than you knew, you do that you do have that in scripture. It's only ever applied to the enemies of God You see the enemies of God sometimes spoke better than they knew, like for instance the high priest, uh I think it was Caiaphas or Annas, I think. And then he said, You know, don't you realize it's better for one man to die than all the nation to be destroyed That was an enemy of God. Enemies of God are always blinded from being able to think and express themselves correctly. You see? And sometimes God will use the evil of an enemy of God and twist it into something good. Like Pharaoh as well. That's what uh God did with Annas. But when it comes to believers, they never speak better than you don't you don't ever see that concept in scripture. They're always seeking what is a natural output of their theological meditations, biblical meditations So Peter cannot be referring to Gentiles in this passage because he didn't have access to that information yet. Think about the canonical location. Acts ten didn't happen yet. Does that make sense? Okay, yeah, Carlos. Okay, uh sorry. No, no, it's okay. We have time. I just want to get through that for the new thirty questions. This is specific to this phrase who are for in obedience to also point us. Oh is that right? So I didn't know that up. Yeah, I don't wanna I gotta say take it with a grain of salt because uh This is a question you're catching me off guard here. Uh what verse specifically in Ephesians two? Ephesians two Yeah well we can still say that. Oh, verse twelve. Yeah, yeah I I'm I mean we can still say that when Peter posed this in Acts seven two, he was referring to Jews. Um the way Paul mentioned it some time later. Paul probably understood all you think Yep. I understand that. I guess my question is can we take that meaning and apply it here? No, we can't. Because remember, just like we do every day, we all kind of use the same words and phrases, but It really depends on what that author meant to say. So an example we'll use when we do the word study tool is pick the English word spring, right? Is that a source of water? Is it a metal coil? Is it the season? It depends on what the author meant to say. You've got to look at the context. So this concept of those who are far off, I would suggest is not so much this mysterious theological technical term. It's just those who are far off. Well what do you mean by that? You have to look at the surrounding verses to know is he referring to uh I guess in Ephesians 2. 12, I'll take your word for it that this refers to Gentiles. I think you're right, just glancing at it real quick uh versus what Peter meant here, which is the diaspora. Does that does that help? And and I would also say that's a great question by the way. I would also caution. This is also one of the primary characteristics of a lot of cults. You're not doing that at all, I'm saying. But a lot a lot of cults, uh a lot of cults, a lot of religious false teachers They'll play this game of connect the dots where they'll take one word or one phrase that's kind of innocuous and they'll make it all say the same thing throughout scripture that are written by entirely different authors, entirely different places, sometimes entirely different languages And they'll make it all connect together to come up with some crazy theology. But again, Christianity is what did the author need to say? Yeah, was that so did you go over time? I think you said something about time. One thing here is that Peter was at the beginning of the church during chapter ten. Ephesians is much later. Exactly. So this might have been A doctrine that was already well pronounced within the body of Christ. Paul writing that maybe he was already aware of this you know. One hundred percent right. Correct. Because Ephesians came later than Acts ten already happened. Yep, Ephesians. So Paul had access to Acts ten. Or we can say that what X chapter 2 when when when Peter says far off, he means it in a geographic skin. Not so much in in a sense about being near or or far from from salvation Yeah. Yeah. Again, you have to kind of look at what the surrounding verses say. Okay, we're one minute over time. The last verses uh slides here are just resources that were suggested by my professor Brad Claussen when I learned hermeneutics. And uh just take a look at that when it's posted uh by our brother Jeff. It's it's all good stuff if you want to fill out your library. And um I'll just pray for us real quick.