They drove Jephthah out and said to him, You shall not have an inheritance in our father's house, for you are the son of another woman. Did you notice in verse 11? Uh I'd say if y if you want to go with percentages and we're we're gonna vote for it. Well I uh you know when you you typically when you want to learn this this these rules, these um exegesis, you want to practice it, you you take uh passages that are controversial and this is one of them. uh those are the facts of what you look at. His daughter said, My father, in verse 36, Since you've given your word to the Lord, do to me as you have said, since the Lord has avenged you over your enemies at Sons of Amooth So that couple verses. Or. And it says uh and he did to her as he had vowed, and she was a virgin. And then they went through the wilderness and around the land of Edom and the land of Moab, and came to the east side of the land of Moab. Uh but they did not enter the territory of Moab for the uh uh trying to get my vision here. Right? For the sons of them and it shall be the Lord's, and I will offer it up as a burnt offering. It's like eighteen win for losing is he we're one way or another he's got no air. Uh I find the hard thing is to pull everything out, all the facts out of this first. Can't you have any relations with uh any relations with a man if you're not alive? To put her to death offer as a offer. And the vow, that word and, right, in verse thirty one. uh translates it and. With something that was healed. It does say that. Uh I'm not sure which one it is either. Uh again, if somebody's going to to go with that line of reasoning, then they need to support. If you were advocating that point of view, reading literally and using our hermeneutics and so forth, where are we coming up with the idea that we may not have sacrificed disorder? Do that you're you're talking about. The humanity points to her virginity over her death. Yeah. in scriptures from good godly men. Well see e and that that's that's one of the things where you expand yourself and it helps you. Uh I wanna glean from you w what y'all get and I and I wanna uh this is one of those I grew up in a thing over and over and over again and they got it wrong every time. The as very small part of the story focuses on the real problem son. Do you remember what a liar has probably told you about a parable? uh are are we supposed to get truth out of every little detail? But he's lost too, isn't he? In the same way I tell you there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner who repents. And your father has killed the fatted cat because he has received him back safe and sound. So we can't just come up with any interpretation, granted. uh look for to test it, you know, am I way off uh or or other people uh so let us end in prayer. to a far country. And Gilead was his father, was the father of Jephthah. The elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, For this reason we have returned to you, that you may go with us and fight with the sons of Ammon. Then Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and chief over them. From the Arnon as far as the Jabbot and the Jordan before uh therefore. Then Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, Please let us pass through your your land. uh would not listen. While Israel lived at Heshbon in the villages of uh Ao a uh Aurora, that's a hard one for me had sent to him. You know, you can spend time in this. When he's going back and forth with the elders, he's going, why do you want me to come back? It's gotta be two th they're both he wants to be both. But, you know, as soon as you're done with the victory, you know, we've seen that in history before, right? We'll put you in charge. Right? Uh uh right, they're they're worshiping demons really. There is a power behind that. What what are some of the things that jumped out at you in this passage? I mean. He's repeating something there, right? I want him to tell me. according to the vow which he had made. That the daughters of Israel went away yearly to commemorate the daughter of Jephthah, the Gilead, four days in the year. If somebody comes up with another point of view, they had better address that. Yeah, I don't know I don't know a lot of well I we we're going outside but I don't know a lot of people who who groups of people who lament over the virginity of a person, the fact that they don't have kids, you know there's that's just not uh something that I mean while in our day there is a certain level of there there's not as much Leviticus twenty seven twenty-eight. So it doesn't change any and you see and this is the difficulty, yeah, and and I'm not really, to be honest with you The facts, the facts in here. They went up to the mountain, they lamented her virgin her vir her virginity. Um, obviously, I mean this is not really connected, but it just kinda made me think. his sacrifice his daughter. Peripheral things that we've kind of discussed about the vows and everything. And this is, you can see how difficult it is to stay in the text. Kai is and. Now have a word for everything. Two sons. represented baptism and uh the Lord's Supper. Uh I like the Ezekiel passage. And he said, There was a man who had two sons, and the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the share of property that is coming to me. Yeah. Uh uh so first thing I want to do is uh the the controversy comes later in in Jepsa's vow he makes Come, be our chief, that we may fight against the sons of Ammon. Did you not hate me and drive me away from my father's house? It came about that while the sons of Ammon fought against Israel, when the sons of Ammon fought against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to get Jephthah from the land of Tob. and become head over all the inhabitants of Gilead. For when they came up from Egypt, and Israel went through the wilderness to the Red Sea and came to Kadesh But Jephthah sent messages again to the king of the sons of Ammon, and they said to him, Thus says Jephthah, Israel did not take away the land of Moab, nor the land of the sons of Ammon. to our place. Since now the Lord, the God of Israel, drove out the Amorites uh from before his people, Israel, are you then to possess it? Do you not possess what Camash your God gives you to possess? Now are you better than Balak, the son of Zippor, king of the mo of Moab? Right? What I'm going to have you do is we're going to go through the the the the controversial part. But while the war was going on he was effective general, right? We're gonna I'm gonna give you five minutes. uh right let's continue on with the fact before we start um going outside of the text though I just say that to say, okay, so what are what did God tell us? uh conclusion to this is that he either sacrificed his daughter or she uh he dedicated her to the Lord. Okay, so um now we can continue on with the with the line of thought like you you were talking about. Do you see the problem? And when the girl and when the women went away with her, what did they lament of her? It's w it's an older language. Put that passage out. Anything which a man sets apart to the Lord out of all that he has of a man or, same conjunction, animal, or of the fields It it's what one of the main ways that Israel saw year after year, time after time, that God was either with them or against them was to give them up in battle. taking on the customs of the people that were that he grew up with. Where the other point of view so basically this I it sounds like you're saying some people are debating whether he killed Most of the time uh i it it comes with y the interpretation is in the translation. My goal was, especially with limited time, if we just start fleshing out this, then we can move to the outer parts. could be to or of. You had even less vocabulary. 'Cause the translation at the end of the day is somewhat of an interpretation, is it not? D do you have any insight on in verse thirty-nine when it says, well, my translation is or uh is and she was a virgin? the Hebrew word or the Greek word and take an English word and put it in its place. So you know this everybody's familiar with prodigal son story, right? Why did why did Jesus this is number one, this is what? I want to read it all, but you know, I just you know, I can't. Mm-hmm. The difficult one's the second guy. Uh one of the examples I use real quick is uh our there was a commentator who said uh um remember the parable about the um So so he he's he's got these uh these two sons. It it's interesting. Right? God's not willing for any to perish, right? He wakes up, uh, he says, Man, uh he comes to the end of his rope. so that I might celebrate with my friends. uh joy I hear, that singing and dancing in in the house. He becomes angry and he was not willing to go in, and his father came and began pleading with him. Look here, see this is the way it's gonna be, see you know. Okay, so where is the younger son? You know, so I don't want to you don't want to carry it too far, but the father could be representing you know what I mean, the house could be w one of my professors kept saying, don't read the commentators, read the passage first, read the passage first. Will I become your head? The king of the sons of Ammon said to the messengers of Jethah, because Israel took away the land when they came up from Egypt the inhabitants of that country. What were some of the things that came out? It was an illegitimate son. He's a mighty warrior? uh they're they're saved, they they believe in God, you know what I mean? To be honest with you. Right? She she went away not necessarily to reflect on the end of her life. you know, no heirs and over no children. uh of his own property shall not be sold or redeemed. And it it it it all kind of crazy things happen, but it it it it's not acceptable to God just because it's in scripture. I have a a a one uh tip is that it talks about it's the Ammonites and just 'cause I've been Christian a long time I know that means Molech, right? Yeah. Right? Uh uh there's also uh one other quick thing. We d NIV is not literal. Yeah. Ten minutes left. In the same way that there's more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous persons. You know, remember we forget it w God is is a God of heart, is of compassion. And he he is kind of accusing his father of being unloving towards him and unfair towards him. It's amazing the detail God has in here and we miss it a lot of times. So Jephthah fled from his brothers and lived in the land of Tob. So Israel remained at Kadesh. The Lord the God of Israel gave Sion and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they defeated them. I only point that out because you're s we're going through a hermeneutic thing. 'Cause he's a valiant warrior. And also, uh twenty-one just jumps out at me. put out everything else, um, the facts of twenty-nine through forty. Okay. A and a logic works oftentimes, but it's not necessarily right, is it? deal with that i i in a minute, but I wanna stay within this text. to um be sacrificed and to be honorable to his vows that he made the Lord. She said, give me some time and to go weep in the mountains because of my virginity. So she and she went away for two months with her companions and they wept in the mountains because of her virginity. the facts of this, why there are two opinions. Uh there are a couple things that I didn't burden you with or uh there there is uh a questi there is somewhat of a question, some of them answer it Um acceptable to God to make that promise that that God accepted it and that it was right, but only said it only states that it happened. Like uh uh a almost as his his way of of letting Israel know the population, I'm not with you right now because look what happened in battle Well yeah. So that just kinda leaks Yeah, they talked him out of it. Here here's the two parts of the uh and I probably shouldn't have pointed this out. Talking about the he right? that word was. Words have especially older languages, we d we have uh uh words f for each one, but but theirs uh they didn't, especially in in older Hebrew You know, she carried off the rest of her life. They figure out the meaning of the verse and then they put uh New King James, NASBY, New American Standard, uh ESV, okay. And even if he did um uh uh if it is that he he uh sacrificed his daughter, you still want to deal with those facts Very unsaved church. We're really out of time. And he tells them two parables. uh often time yeah the the the um because these asked why did you speak to them in parable and uh his answer was uh to hide uh a a truth that he was true And what does he say in each of those parables? Right? It will bias your opinions, you you'll miss things. But I want to read the context because it tells something about the person. Now Jephthah sent messages to the king of the sons of Ammon, saying, What is between you and me that you have come to fight against my land? And Israel sent messengers to Sihon, king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon, and Israel said to him, Please let us pass through your land. May the Lord the judge judge today between the sons of Israel and the sons of Ammon. We gotta find out what head in chief means. He's using his head, isn't he? We have we have to assume the literal. Um okay so that is a vow, right? That's my criteria. She's a virgin and she had no relations with a man, which is another way of saying she's a virgin. So why would so why they'll remember this is God's inspired word, right? They were dead here. lexicon and now it's a grammar thing. That's and and that's another thing. Well, w was a break with the Ann, the c the uh conjunction there, right? Verse 40, that the daughters of uh Israel went up yearly uh to commemorate uh the daughter it could be too is there's a Lama there, and that's again another conjunction Uh NIV is um I can't I I yeah, these little things talk to us Lost sheep, lost corn, lost sun. Uh Good Samaritan, right? Yeah, he keeps he keeps hearing it. Hm. And the villages and all the cities uh that were in the banks of the Arnon three hundred years, why did you ever recover uh why did you not recover them in that time? But think about this. And uh so so what's his motivation, right? So uh l let's look at the evidence and see which opinion w we we we go with. It's trying to be it's not very I d I don't read it very uh allegorical. I don't know. And and even though we can't come down a high uh there are some passages that are just I mean let's face it, you got PhDs and godly men, uh th they're intelligent commentators or whatever is telling us is he better line up with he the he better be dealing with the facts of the text. vow is that I will offer it up as a burnt offering. Uh right? True. So what's that let's let's let's to work chill on that back for a minute. Okay, so what facts do we get from that section that we just went over? uh put on having children and having heirs over that day. And it's a common conjunction. And it it could because there's a lot of things in scripture that is definitely not acceptable to God, that is evil in its face. Uh yeah, I agree. So that tells me that God is in control of the battle. We don't just read uh uh again, what does a text, what what are the facts, what does it draw out to you? You can't just override 'em. So you can see how long it takes just to work through a passage. Uh Luke fifteen. Why did Jesus tell this parable? And the coin, the coin was what? Mm-hmm. Right? Uh buh buh buh buh buh. What did he say about his this son of yours? Now, when you look, I I could give you, I could have gone up here and I've done this before, I could have given you some of the technical things and you know what the scholar said. dead conclusion from the facts of the text. How will we find out, right? He was stressing the point about recalling uh Now all the tax gatherers and the sinners were coming near to him, near him to listen to him. But he answered and said to his the his father, Look, for so many years I have been serving you and I have never neglected a commandment of yours, and yet you have never given me a young goat. Not my brother. So again, just as you're reading, slow down. Where is the older brother? He recognizes God's sovereignty. Is that evil? Let me pick it up. But it happens. And he was twenty-nine is still there, the the the spirit of the Lord, and that's all cast, but that's Yahweh and verse thirty-one it's Yahweh and verse thirty-two it's Yahweh. Right? And right, they're religious and all that. A lost sheep, a lost coin, and a lost son. Right. So he's telling 'em. Some of you want to read that verse eleven and thirteen? Just an interesting fact. So what's going on in his life? If nothing else we gotta say, man, she's just a faithful woman. And and that's the controversy, I agree. But um there are some who do who don't think he did. Be fact finders, that's all. Yeah, our Han our uh Hannah, right? You got the sinners and you got the Pharisees. Yeah. Absolutely. So let's let's uh focus on on the uh guy who thinks he's okay. So how does it how do we convert uh w what is the evidence against this this uh older brother who stayed home and was obedient I mean that that's akin to saying, Now look here right? He's worried about his wealth, isn't he? What what kind of facts do you see out of here? No. Okay. I'm I'm looking for the facts. Well, and it's a grammar thing really, because it's it's just a simple conjunction. And it doesn't say verse 40 doesn't say that they they uh mourn over her. I mean but but I think the the simple fact is this is a this is a narrative. Right. Spirit of the Lord came upon Jesus. What is he wh what is what is he telling you in those three passages? Right. Everybody knows i we all like the prodigal because yeah, we yeah, that guy was sinner, right? The details in there, don't get me wrong, but you have to be careful about making it detail mean everything Right? He's jealous and he's bitter. uh interpretations of this. So did he devote this to to destruction? What does he do? Okay, what I'm going to have you do is clear your minds. Well we're what we're trying to teach is it's it's it's you're learning the hermeneutics, if they have two different opinions, we have to make a decision, right? Um that's a question you could raise. But he he's he's got no air. We're like Jehovah Witnesses. Yeah what and what did it yeah w yeah what what what did what did she lament? Uh Merrill Ungar, I think is the first one to turn me on to this and some others. Look at uh chapter fifteen. So we we kinda know the the story behind the uh the the the prodigal, right? But Sihon said, but Sihon did not trust Israel to pass through his territory. She had no relations with a man. I c yes. And then thirty-nine consecutive. What brought that up? That's a new thing that I just learned this morning. Why would you talk about somebody's virginity? It's and even also namely. So smarter men than us are still debating this. Okay, well go ahead and wrestle with these things. And for those who got the parable, what's the what's the gist blame the truth uh, it does and and Jephthah the Gileadite was a valiant warrior, but uh but he was a son of a harlot. Before that the Lord gave the victory. You have a break there. Uh Nazarite dedication. Now don't get me wrong, I'm not I'm not making too much of this, but I never noticed it. The son is outside of the ho or the the elder son is outside of the house. I therefore have not sinned against you, but you are doing me wrong by making war against me. There's the controversy. He's angry, right? We're we're we're fly we're gonna have to fly through it obviously. I you know, is that is there any uh do you have any knowledge on that word as to whether it was like an immediate was or So do you see any correlation here with what what he talked about with these parables and what we just read? We always go over that. And they also sent to the king of Moab, but uh he wo um but he would not consent Yes. I want God's Word to tell me what He wants me to know. Isn't that an odd statement to say when you're gonna put somebody to death? I mean so why does God why does he why is he saying that? Now other people were saying, No, we didn't sacrifice his daughter and here's what we see in the text to show that. We didn't know that 'til the sun told us, right? I don't know. And it shall be that whatever comes out of the doors of my house to meet me when I return in peace from the sons of Ammon, it shall be to the Lord's Then Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and chief over them. Okay. When we're exegeting, we we tend to move out of the text first. I'm not getting it. Cardi, I use this example all the time. But does he actually know that he he he uh wasted money on prostitutes? And Gary Gary Plenty devil's advocate, which I hate doing, but right. I'm not advocating again, uh a good part of the uh tradition, a good The problem is, do you see where we're going now? I haven't found anybody who does it. And it happens in the lives of even in the lives of the the the what it was called the man up to God's own heart. Not my brother. So go ahead, take I'll give you uh five minutes. No, she was she was his one and only child. He's got making a point. I gotta leave uh uh on time, but I I still want to do this. Um one thing I never noticed before, and don't get me wrong, you can read way too much into a parable And what did he say he devoured what? He's gonna negotiating, isn't he? Uh let's see. What what what does he say? Not talking about the now we we've moved out of the the human heart, but it could mean heart, right? And and what? You know, I never noticed it before. He talks about the sons, you know, and who's responsible for the sin, the father, the sons. Look at the evil that he did and yet you killed the fat and cat for him. But we're not talking the human level art. Um we g I got uh came to Christ in in the midst of this and they love these kind of passages. Yeah. The elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, The Lord is witness between us. What was the first thing we saw right at the beginning of the chapter? He could re you w m w the two um uh opinions or the the the the two uh Yeah, no, but most of the story is is is told about the the the one, the other one Did you see anything in the passive that he's complaining that he's he's like it's not fair. Uh uh there there's uh uh another difficulty. My phone will go off sometimes and they'll go because I got this okay Google and uh and uh and sometimes it'll just answer us. Right. Yeah, it's narrative, right? Is that immoral? It's like, you know, Greek does the same thing. He says your God has given you what you have now. See some of you guys really taking some really uh uh it's nice to kind of dig into it, isn't it? And and that's what I want you to do. Deal with the facts. What's the idea of a parable? So they possessed all the territory of the Amorites from the Arnon as far as Jabbak and from the wilderness as far as the Jordan Well see and that's that's the thing. So what else are facts do we have here? I'm sorry. And trust me, this is not the only passage. So he's got this conflict going on. No, I just kinda made me think of the vowel, I think of what Saul had, you know, with uh I'm not gonna eat or whoever you can and his son ate Right. You just we just kind of learned some of the character of this person. The vow. Alright. And you had more range of meaning and you have uh it it gets complicated, trust me. You know the interesting thing is that the joy is not the angels, the joy is amongst the angels. Who got the money? Uh there's a there's a detail in there before that. Yeah, you got it. He hits them hard with it, right? Is th you don't have to interpret it. That God kept them separate from those people and like he destroyed those people and was always against those people. And then you have a conjunction. Then they went through uh through the land of uh excuse me Yeah, that yeah. Uh it's uh the same conjunction and uh it's or Okay? Also back and look at um the figure of Deborah, who's which I guess it's kind of hard until she was officially dedicated to God, but It was in her house, wasn't it? Jet Doddhouse. Son of a harlot. We like God everywhere. Prodigal son. Well the the commentator said that the uh the inn was the church and the two coins But when this son of yours came, who has devoured your wealth with prostitutes and k you have killed the fatty calf for him Mm-hmm. Also, what else was was right there in that first section? I will say if you look at the common uh uh translations, everybody uh You're right. Because it's repetitively says he comes up. They could be in fact talking to the daughter of Jepza. We shouldn't call it the powerful son. We know that they are, but it it's not who he is Sends a message. Uh again, I only th uh point this out is Exactly. I don't know again, I won't make too much of this. I read that passage to give you uh uh a context for that. Uh but he wants to be head, he wants that recognition. If you're not dealing with the facts, I got a problem with this. Verse forty. Yeah, to vowel. They're in there. Eleven and thirteen, let's just read this. Also, the the the other quick thing, we're not going to spend a whole lot of time fleshing this out, but what does he do as soon as he he says, okay, we W let's um look at that just real quick. Why would you go and lament? And and this is why we need to slow down when we read. Do you notice the two parables, right? Um blah bla bla bla b so he comes back, right, he says, What's all that uh It says that he that he put her to death, that he that he carried out his bound. You all been taught this. Anybody remember what's in Luke fifteen? We'll finish with this. Carrie, it seems if you read it literally, it's to me it's clear that he sacrificed his daughter and I don't even know where people get the idea that he didn't. I didn't know that you could take a word like and conjunction or and and it could possibly be or. Thank you. Pointing out all the the things he'd done that he has done, devoured the property of the prostitutes, he killed um so I guess that was just devoured your property of the prostitutes. Right? I don't know. Good question. So Jephah said to the elders of Gilead, If you take me back to fight against the sons of Ammon, and the Lord gives them up to me He he he says he's both. Go through and read on your own. He either sacrifices his daughter or he dedicates her to God. He's actually the lost one. Right. Nevertheless, this is uh Leviticus twenty seven, twenty-eight. Here's the separation. I I can see that word was being an immediate termination or kind of a well see and and and see that's the thing, and that's why you look at different translation. It's it's um voter. Chit Dinas. Gilead's wife bore him sons, and when his wife's sons grew up, They don't know that, but you know, all false gods really. I don't have time. He's already, yeah. Oh, we want you to be cheap. He he's he's not just rash, he's not a Samson. He's telling the people, he goes, Look, God gave these you into our hands. So let let's talk o let's so what are the next facts? But again, all these have have these all these things you could look at, all these things have flaws. Okay. Mm-hmm. So you think about that going forward. Yeah. It's so it's part of the element. That's the point. It has a range of meaning. We're you know and that's the whole that's the thing of the parable. Yeah. I want to keep I want to keep pouring you back into the text because God is telling us some concrete things in here. Allah, my daughter, you have bought me very low. Yeah. He says she lamented her virginity. Even though thirty-nine doesn't say virginity, it just says and she had no relations with a man. So these are the this is the what I'm trying to do is we w think not what does it mean? Well that that's a fact. Why would you lament someone if they were not dead? Um all I'm saying is is w what do the facts bear out and to consider this because at the end of the day He didn't kill his son. I'm gonna tell you. Um it's not exactly clear. The can you know, um these these And that would again support the literal interpretation. I see, yeah. So we got two groups, right? Do you remember I'm going over that? Then Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, Did um Telling a story. So he's gonna be upset either way. Yes. The fact is that uh Jepha's not gonna have any air. I mean these are unsame people, you know what I mean? What do we have in the parable itself? The one thing I never noticed before, you you notice, right, the the lost sheep and the lost coin. Now theologically I worked out okay, but is that what he's talking about and that do you see what I'm saying? Repent, right? Both of them. Let let the word speak to you and it's amazing. So why have you come to me now when you are in trouble? Yeah. Um would God be pleased? Uh does God have anything in his word? I didn't write it. Context. Right? Yeah. What about verse thirty-nine and it came about at the end of the two months of Hebrew. Exact and that's a controversy, yeah. Exactly. Um uh even uh this this last section where they went up um Heart, mind, soul, will. It could be or. Wealth. And worthless fellows gathered themselves about Jephthah and they went out with him. Yeah. We can have all the criteria, and yet you can have people on both sides of this. Yeah. So you got three verses, and three times he's talking about But I just wanted to point out to you, um When he came back he's he did his vow and she never knew a man There are plenty of passages y that you can look at and and there's good people on both sides. But I I uh my again my stress was if this is the hermeneutics, this is for us Okay, so we don't uh why the here's the qu first question. We're going outside of the text. Her belonging. Let's let's look somebody read me um first two verses. We've already misled ourselves to begin with. I just thought it was interesting, right? And don't get me wrong, on a on a human level we could certainly understand this. But look at what he says um and this is just a a thing to point out. Take your time. The prodigal son is what? You know? And where in scripture does it point to that? And. What what stage do you move outside of this particular chapter and look at throughout the book and maybe other figures? Well wa and and again, facts, facts, facts, facts, facts. Yeah, and I definitely see these two guys right there in this statement, right? You know this, right? Verse twenty nine, that that look there? You you see what I'm saying? So it seems that that is a very good thing. They don't have a a word for everything. Here's the two parts to the vowel. Yes. And and because of that, his family rejected him. And and she had no relations with the man. And I again I understand this is controversial. It's to hide a truth. The lost sheep what what happens to a sheep when you get lost? Let's pick it up in uh verse twenty seven. He's recognized and illegitimate. Patton, as soon as World War Two was done, they got rid of guys nuts So what why does he tell this this parable? Um I I'll just end with this. Um just again, it's it's kinda it's the heart of it. What do we have to do with something like that, right? Um anything. And we could and I'm sure we could go outside of this text and and answer that question, right? Right. Now obviously that's that's some gymnastics there because there's different languages, but that's the that's their goal. Hello. I never really thought about it before. Mm-hmm. Uh eleven and twelve, I'm sorry. What what um and it doesn't have to be in order. Besides her. Anything devoted to destruction is most holy to God. Right. That's and we read the first part, what's his problem? She went away because she wasn't gonna get married. Uh when I return in peace from the sons of Ammon, it shall be the Lord's There are a lot of things that help you. I I'm making you think. And then thirty-one isn't the promise. Right. Yeah, and in in that that's why they think that But you have to make sure you get all the facts from the immediate text. Both of them. Your wealth. Um and I'll I'll uh He said, So he's done some dumb things in the past. You gotta remember these languages are old. Uh we we may not come up with the answer, but what are the facts of the text? Um so she's willing She has no error, because if they make it clear she has had no relations, uh his family name would not be 31. That's how I was reading up because I think I can't He is. Mm-hmm. And it see, th that's seeing I th And and again, uh uh, Okay. It's a command. But he's not happy with that And it's I don't want to know what does it mean. So the next thing that happens is I is that the right interpretation? It doesn't say that it was a And and my point is is is um uh just to The real problem son was the son of Steve The lost sheep, right? What's the fact before that he makes that statement? He tore his clothes, he's upset It's really hard to stay it's hard to stay on task Right? So let's not talk, let's not read so much. Clear your mind so just And we can talk about that, but let's talk about what did g we don't have God's comment here, but that's what I'm looking for Mm-hmm. During this this parable, where where is he this he's in the house. And whatever the Lord our God has driven out before us, we will possess it. And and if you notice uh uh a hermeneidic thing and it There's there's no real s As a conclusion to each of the two parables, the lost sheep and the lost uh coin. It's logical, but Right. Um I so say yeah there's there's some stuff in here it's like we we just raised up. Oh oh, to begin with, um, l let's read the uh somebody read the first eleven. Do we assume from that that the Lord was pleased with his vow? Uh as a matter of fact, if you look at um Um, but he made a vow. It is. The majority of people think that he was he sacrificed his daughter And I will offer it up as a burnt offering. Dedicated her son to God. What what type Yeah. Yeah. We're setting the scene, right? Yeah. Um but yeah. So we start in chapter eleven and verse one. So Sihon gathered all his people and camped at Jehaz and fought with Israel She was his one and only child. Some people or some scholars have said though that this can be translated or God wrote it. Right. She didn't r lament her death. What's the parable about? Right And what what else does he say? He was driven away from his homeland. Because again, we have to go out and assume. But I don't know and I don't see in scripture where there is a lot of this lamenting over You know, there's all now we can go outside of it. This passage that I want to get into now is over familiar to us It's so simple, yeah. I thought, yeah, yeah. He goes, Look, do I take any pleasure in punishing the wicked That's not good y you almost got the idea the sun knew what was well. Yeah, that's right. But the king of the sons of Ammon disregarded the message of Jephthah and Well well he even says that, right? So we're gonna ha I'm gonna rush through this. Let's look at the lost son one. Right? Sometimes we have too much information, we become too too familiar with passages. You know. So he he recognizes the sovereignty and the control of God That's just in the back of my mind. I mean you you have all the you have a lot of questions, right? What what do we have here? And when she came back he carried out his vow and what's comment on that So it it's spot on. And it's funny. Uh seeing it says the same thing in in in uh verse ten. No eleven and twelve. Um the Lord the God of Israel gave Sion Uh it doesn't necessarily mean we're right, but uh Let's take air like But his vow was We got the legalists. We c we kinda got the the pr uh the prodigal down pretty well, don't we? He was a son of uh And here is the controversy, right? What do you think? Right. So we can see his reaction again could be both ways And it came about at the end of the two months that she returned to her father who did to her I mean we do have the spirit and and uh uh Return them peaceably now But the king of Edom Did he ever strive with Israel or did he ever fight against them I mean d w that's one of the things you would have to address about sacrifice? In in Greek, Kai Right? Surely we will do as you have said. And Jephthah spoke all these words before the Lord at Mizma This is from verse 29 to 40. And that that's where the controversy is too, right? And so then the way he reacts as soon as he sees her, mm-hmm, saying So does that mean she's pure? Right. And and and what did he say? Um Huh? The parable has one main point Yeah. I can use all kinds of logic. Um thirty one then shall be that whatever comes out of the doors of my house should meet me when I return the east It just says that they year to commemorate. They they take the verse So what's he do? And he's legalistic. What does he say? Yeah I don't say anything about her death in there, do you? They the conjunctions could be and, even, or word say They're they're trying to take He's commanded his father. The only thing it says in verse thirteen is that it says loose living. But so the first thing that jumps out at me is that Why are you reasoning in your hearts? You you know the answer you're just not. The servant said to him uh and he said to him, Your brother has come I'm gonna go kill him, you know what I mean? And you are among those who trouble me, for I have given my word to the Lord, and I cannot take it back. Right. I and my companions. Even the the pastors or the ministers. And the lost coin. Just from the reading it sounds like cheap just means okay, we'll we'll put you in charge of military. You have to that's why we talk about concepts so much. Yeah. He was cast out. It's the parable of two sons. The the prodigal he went off. She went to go cry for two months. Well d you know, like he's sacrificed his daughter because here's here's the So and that's why I say context is so important 37. Yeah, okay. And he divided his property in between them. For the Arnob was on the border of Moab We're doing the background. Now what it tells us in the New Testament, right? I want I want to wanna be able to support whatever we think. Oh m for my for my criteria It's true. Yeah, it is a parable. And both the Pharisees and the scribes began to grumble, saying, This man receives the sinners and eats with them. Those three verses. Uh uh What do the facts of the text say? It's funny. This is really one of them. She went up every year. Well, I thought he divined the property Right. You know, but you know th look, we forget this and we get lazy sometimes. Yeah. Yeah. So his father comes out, right Look look at what he says. W well how does he condemn himself in thirty And they camped beyond uh Arnon So Israel possessed all the land of the Amorites Yeah, but there was something else. Yeah, okay. Uh nevertheless And and we do, we need to support No, at least he says he did he says he like he knows He tore his clothes. This is what this is what these passages are. They you heard this I don't know, but I know this. So now we're in another genre, aren't we? He's looking for that. Uh let's just get them out there and bullet point or whatever. Mm-hmm. Besides her, he had no son or daughter. He's disrespecting his father, isn't he? I mean it So um What does this passage mean? He's been kicked out, he's finally reinstated, you know Mm-hmm. Yeah. Mm-hmm. Okay. He goes, why you hang out with sinners We remember that. Because a lot said about this Was it what it was we They could be lamenting with her. He I'll tell you up front. You see some things you you tend to go over. It became a custom in Israel And of course, again And I'm like what is It ca it Yeah Look at verse eleven Yeah Uh I'm not we're not gonna spend the whole time. And then he says, Look, even their gods which really isn't a God, but uh Jeff said, go What what's that parable about? And you can go and and and so you have to stay with the main point. And and and interesting, we read this Right. That's what he's saying. He's not coming back. That means child sacrifice. And we can bring all that in And why does God say that We don't have time to read all thro all this. Um That that changes the whole Uh yet he is a value warrior, so he has this in his arsenal. Right? Right. Uh we we can You know, uh where evilness exists. Hmm, there's another fact there Well how how will we find out the answer to this? He's unloving There was a positive about his character What look what are the clues? They're they they're The beauty of the the writer of this, right? Um And if if if one of these And that he would use that The vow, right? So where are what are we looking at to support the other Um there there is uh uh Okay He said he does does he know? Uh But if you did it, can you show me And sometimes there's as many as three or four different points of view. What I want you to do is read Anyhow What in the world is this? Thirty-eight. The other guy's in the house Yeah. Why do you want me He makes a vow, there are two sp They're literal translations, but they try and take This son of yours. What else has he done in here I'm not here on that expression. So was he uh Right. This is nothing about prostitutes. God says in several places is is I I'm a detective. What are the facts in this text? Yeah. And they said to Jephthah, Um Yeah he does, doesn't he? Okay? I don't know So where This son of yours. I mean he did did he did go Uh I'm gonna try and just uh I got so much to read sometimes, it's like Well then all these Well they think about um We're uh only got about That's There's no mistakes. What am I looking for? But Um No.