All right, lesson one, interpreting scripture. So I guess uh I want to start by asking everybody, now that we got everyone's names, anyone want to offer your particular reasons for why you want to take this course? what your goals are, what are you hoping to get out of it? Yeah, you guys can't top that answer, so it's just anything else though? No right or wrong. Hannah? So I wonder if you're purposely quoting from Acts, right, the Bereans, the noble Bereans who, when they were taught scripture. You guys probably I see a lot of you nodding your heads, what do they do? They went back to their scripture and made sure everything that they were being taught is accordance with what was already revealed. Interpreting scripture is very important and I think Sorry. Yeah, and I think what you described, Hannah, unfortunately, is true for a lot of places that call themselves churches, unfortunately. You know. You have to rightly handle the word of God. That's good. How about one more person? Anyone else have a reason why they're in this course, what you're hoping to take out of it? Yeah. Very, very noble reason. All right. That's great. That's great. So that roughly aligns with why I'm passionate about the practice of hermeneutics. In case you don't know what that word is, we'll define it in a second. But just as a preview, it's basically the interpretation of Scripture. But um I also personally put six other reasons why we need to understand Scripture rightly, why you would want to take a course like this This isn't material coming from me, by the way. This is not, you know, anything I'm making up. So you're not getting my opinion on how scripture should be interpreted, you're really getting God's opinion. You actually see principles for how hermeneutics should be practiced within scripture itself, how it should be rightly understood. And I think there are six reasons I'd like to list for why it's important to understand God's Word rightly, why it's important to know how to interpret Scripture rightly. And number one, because it is God's revealed will for our lives I think especially with a lot of young people, young believers, we often go through life thinking all the time, what's God's will for my life? And we think of very specific things like who am I going to marry, what college, or what job should I get, or we go through some crisis later in life and think, what is God's will for me? Why what decision should I be making? And uh God certainly does have a will for our lives. Uh a lot of these decisions that we think about and agonize over, though, it's not revealed re it's not revealed, it's a secret will, and God wants you to use wisdom in order to make wise decisions based on scriptural principles. But there's a whole other set of God's will that's just revealed. God tells us specifically what we are to do day to day. For instance, do not neglect to meet together. That's something that I feel very passionate about, that a lot of, again, so-called churches have just completely dropped the ball when it came to COVID. We're so afraid of our health and dying that just completely neglected. Hebrews 10, where we're supposed to meet together. You know? Uh things like uh being in the Word daily, meditate on your Word day and night. That's what David talks about, the psalmist, right? Um things like praying before the Lord, interceding for other people. The apostles are constantly asking for intercessory prayer. So we shouldn't Uh downgrade how important God's revealed will is and overly exaggerate and elevate a lot of the secret will of God, like what job you're supposed to take or whatever. Those are important decisions too. I'm not minimizing it But there's all these other things that God tells us what you are to do right now today, and that is revealed in Scripture, and of course we have to know how to read Scripture rightly in order to understand God's will. Number two, scripture reveals what God loves. I think one of the fundamental uh heart changes God works in us when we become converted, and I'm sure you guys can confess to this is you love God, right? That's something that Jonathan Edwards points out to non-believers that they can claim, even demons, that they know God exists And they know he's powerful. But what's the difference between a demon or even an unbeliever that knows God but suppresses it, as Romans 1 said, and a believer? The believer loves God. The believer finds Jesus beautiful and adores him. And when you love somebody, you want to know what they love. And you want to do it because we please them. God's law is not a burdensome thing, as Jesus taught. It's his yoke is light It's burdened light. It's it's a pleasurable thing to do. We enjoy doing things that God loves because we love him, right? And if you want to know what God loves and how we can please him and how we can worship him rightly, we have to go to the Word of God And when we go to the Word of God, we have to know how to read the Word of God. And then take the opposite. As believers, as followers of the Lord Jesus You probably want to know what God doesn't like, what he hates. And it is true that we worship a God that hates a lot of things. Hate In and of itself is not an evil thing, right? There should be things that we rightly hate as non-believers. I think first and foremost our own sin that we commit probably more often than uh we'd like to admit. And there are s lots of things that God hates, lots of things that God calls sins And again, it's revealed in Scripture. These things are objectively listed, things that God loves and things that God does not love. Number four, on a practical personal level, because Christianity, though first and foremost, it's a religion where we worship God, we live for God. It's like uh, you know, Ford Motor Company, they build a car. It's supposed to run on gasoline. God, the creator, built humans We're supposed to run on worshiping the Lord. That is what it means to be human. But on a practical level, there's also great uh benefits to us personally. That's not the core of Christianity, but God is so gracious there's great practical benefits to knowing the Lord and doing what he says. And that is you know how to live with joy and peace. Again, I go back to the coronavirus. I mean, 2020, 2021, what a great revelation of how most of the world lives They live in fear. They live in anxiety. They live in despondency, depression, loneliness And I think uh this has been it's an unfortunate thing. You know, I don't wish suffering upon the world for suffering's sake, but what a great revelation of what it looks like to be a genuine church and genuine followers of the Lord Jesus Christ, to live in peace and enjoy even in the midst of a once-in-a-century pandemic, right? What a witness. And Scripture tells us, it informs us how to live with that joy and peace That stay steady no matter what uh trials of life uh we encounter. And number five, the opposite. The Bible also gives very practical warnings. Don't do these certain things because you will destroy your life. You will destroy your joy and your peace and your happiness. And number six, the sixth reason I came up with for why we need to understand Scripture rightly is it chur it shows us the gospel. How it is that we have our sins forgiven and we're safe from God's wrath. Is it You just become, you know, as genuine of a person as possible and follow whatever light that you have in front of you, you know, whether that's Buddhism or Hinduism or Islam. Can I share with you uh Um maybe a shocking thing for you. You know who said that? You know who said that you will be part of the body of Christ in eternity if you just follow whatever light you have available. That was Billy Graham. Did you guys know that? Toward the end of his ministry, he became something of a universalist Or is it uh you just live a good of a life as you can, you know, stack up as many good credits, good merit as possible? Is that how we have our sins forgiven? Do we have sins that need to be forgiven in the first place? Do we get to make that up all on our own, or do we go somewhere to have this objectively revealed to us? Well You guys are in this class, you know the answer. It's in scripture. But again, even though it's in scripture, how do you read it rightly? There's all sorts of ways you can can twist scripture in order to fit whatever we would like to see. And by the way, that's a dynamic we're going to talk about a lot. We have to be humble to recognize, myself included, I'm preaching to myself here. All of us have something inside of us called the flesh that still remains even after You convert. That's not who you truly are. That's not your true identity. So go to Romans chapter seven if you want to see that in more detail But that still exists. That's why he still commits sin. Anyone that says he does not commit sin is a liar, right? That's what John the Apostle taught. And because of that flesh, that affects how we read the Bible too. It's not just the way you treat your spouse or you getting angry at people or lusting or you know being greedy. It's not just the acts you know external to you. It's also internal in your mind Sin has this degrading effect in our mental capacity, and we have to be humble to recognize we're still influenced by that degrading capacity. And what that looks like practically is when we read scripture, there's always this dual force. One, the true Spirit of God dwelling in us, revealing in our, you know, with our eyes uh truly what Jesus says, and there's another force, that's sinful flesh, that causes us to want to read scripture what we want to see in there. I think if we're all if you can't identify it, I mean you're you're deluding yourself. It's there. We all have blind spots. And but the thing is, if you at least understand how to interpret scripture rightly, that's at least half the battle You'll always want to disobey these principles and still read what you want to read because we all have some pet sin that we love to go back to But if you at least know objectively the techniques, you got half the battle at least solved. Okay? So that's what I'm hoping to accomplish in the class. But let's be humble and recognize we'll all want to see in scripture what we want to see But these are just six reasons I came up with for why it's so important to understand scripture rightly. Okay, let's also continue laying down some let's level set a little more. First and foremost, is scripture difficult to understand? How would you guys answer that question? Would you say yes or no? Oh, okay. Sorry, can you tell me your name? Tyran? Yes. Nice to meet you. Hi Caitlin. Nice to meet you guys. Do you mind elaborating that a little, Tarant? What do you mean by depends on what you're reading? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. There's a lot of meat to impact there. That is the problem, right? A lot of people have different interpretations. Yeah. And there's a lot of there's some truth to what you're saying. I mean that is why Paul says repeatedly in the New Testament that the New Testament era is when the mysteries of the Old Testament word. There's a lot of extra details about who exactly is the seed of the woman that's going to crush the serpent's head. The church itself is a mystery that gets revealed. So yeah, I can agree with that. Okay. Any other brave soul would venture a guess? Is scripture difficult to understand? Imagine your non-believing friend asked you this question. How would you answer? So Willie just mentioned a very important word we're going to talk about a lot in this class, which is context. Context is key. Context will solve 90% of your interpretive difficulties. Let's turn in your in your copy of the Word of God. Let's go to 2 Peter. Turn to chapter three, Second Peter chapter three And whoever gets there first, you can read in your particular translation, 2 Peter 3, verses 14 to 16, please. And we're going to get the answer to this question I have up here on the slide. Yeah, please go ahead. Okay, so verse 16 right at the end. Did you guys see that? That was the relevant bit to this question. How does Peter answer this question? Is scripture difficult to understand? I have in my translation ESV. We just read there are many I have in the ESV. There are some things in them that are hard to understand. So the answer is yes, right? Some of it. The minority of it. Some of the Bible is genuinely difficult. That's probably why you're in this class, right? You're not just stupid, right? Some of the Bible is difficult, but we should not exaggerate and say most of it is. I I met so many, you know, nominal believers, non-believers that I reach out to and I often get the case, I don't read the Bible, it's too difficult. Oh, it's like full of genealogies and blah blah blah. And then that always tips off to me that okay you haven't really opened the Bible because there aren't that many genealogies. You're numbering like a few chapters in Scripture. But the majority of Scripture is simple. In fact, how do we know that it's so simple? So that's uh that's what we just read. We know it's so simple because even children are stated to be able to understand the majority of Scripture. So we don't have to turn there, but Deuteronomy chapter 6, verses 6 to 7. In the Mosaic Law, God commanded the Israelites, you must teach Scripture to your kids. I can't think of a class of people more uninformed. Less intelligent, I'm sorry to say, than little children, right? Anyone that's a parent in the room, you know But the truth of the matter is, even kids are called to be taught the Word of God. How can that be true if Scripture, the majority, is so hard and difficult to understand you need a PhD to get it. It can't be true, right? It's true on its face. How about 2 Timothy 3 verses 14 to 15, where Paul says to Timothy, You were taught these things by your grandmother Lois when you were a little kid So, if a little child, if you are marginally more intelligent than a child, and I think everybody in this room is, then we have no excuse to say scripture is too difficult to understand. It is comprehensible in its majority, but There is a minority that is legitimately difficult. We shouldn't go to one extreme or the other. Okay? Now, the majority of the Bible is Understandable. Oh I have slides for this, I should have turned to it. Sorry. Westminster Confession of Faith, not scripture, right? The confessions and the creeds are useful helpful uh amalgamations of what scripture teaches into a man made document. Um they have errors in it or they potentially have errors in it as a result. I emphasize it this way because we have some brothers, genuine brothers and sisters in the Lord throughout the church in certain denominations who I would argue effectively, functionally elevate decrees and confessions to the level of authority of scripture. The reason how I would prove that, by the way, is the question I like to ask a lot of my Presbyterian brothers and sisters Which is I ask them, so you confess the Westminster Confession is not at the same level of scripture. They say yes. I say, Can you show me uh Like an example or situation where it might be wrong or where and usually the answer what you see a lot of people that hold very fast to the Creasing Confessions is they'll read scripture through the lens of the Creacing Confessions if somebody's violating the Creed Confessions Reads and confessions, that's how they know they're outside or inside orthodoxy. But that being said, again, let's not exaggerate, they are very useful tools. Pretend like this is a systematic theology written by Wayne Grudum or a book by John MacArthur Not written by the Holy Spirit, but probably worth your while getting around to reading it, right? It's a good way to organize your thinking about what the Bible teaches. Well, the Westminster Confession of Faith, I love this. They state the following on this topic. All things in Scripture are not alike plain in themselves, nor alike clear unto all. Yet, for those things that are necessary to be known, believed, and observed for salvation are so clearly propounded and opened in some place of Scripture or another that not only the learned, but the unlearned. So think about kids, think of very simple folks, uneducated folks, and a due use of the ordinary means may attain unto a sufficient understanding of them So, uh in plainer language, what this is saying is just what we just concluded. The Westminster Divines agree with us that not everything in Scripture is the same level of easiness or difficulty But things that are necessary for salvation, and I would add here, the majority of Scripture, if we're honest with ourselves, are easily understood And you just have to use the ordinary means. By the way, if I want to explain to you in one word what the this fancy word called the historical grammatical hermeneutic that we'll be teaching in this class. That's again for those of you who don't know, hermeneutic is just a word for the science of interpreting, right? In this case, interpreting scripture. The historical grammatical hermeneutic is what we're teaching. Another synonym for that is reading the Bible in an ordinary, plain way. That's all it is. Okay? So I don't know if you came in here expecting some very esoteric, you know, mystical science for how to get into scripture. We're going to uncover the secrets of the Bible that you've never seen before It's just the opposite. If you want to understand scripture rightly, just read it how it says normally. Read it in a normal, ordinary Non-weird way, right? I say it that way. Because again, you trace through church history after the apostles Very quickly, just a couple centuries after you get the school we're going to talk about, Colpius. Alexandrian's school of hermeneutics by this Terrible guy named Origen. He's the worst. And he just introduces all these crazy ways to read scripture. There's always a secret hidden meaning, you know? Illuminati and everything, something like that, you know And uh I'm just kidding. He didn't say that. But uh that is the wrong way to read scripture. You just read it the normal, plain way. Okay? Alright. Now why is Bible interpretation sometimes difficult? I heard some of you guys say this, so we'll just breeze through this real quick. A lot of these are pretty intuitive. Well, number one, there's a big time gap. There's a chronological difficulty with the Bible, and that is to say it's an old book, right? It was written hundreds and hundreds of years ago, and uh we live in 2022 almost. And a lot of things change in that time. So a lot of events in the Bible just took place thousands of years, generations before our time, and that's one of the reasons. interpreting the Bible, the minority sections, can sometimes be difficult. By the way, uh we'll have these slides posted if you'd rather just listen. Um I do think note taking, I commend it. I do it all the time for sermons because not because I'm ever going to go back and Read the notes frankly, but writing it out helps me retain, do whatever works for you, but you will have access to these slides as well. There's also a space gap, geographical. The Bible often speaks of locations that we are unfamiliar with. places that we've never been to, places whose town names we have no clue where it is, what it's about. Uh unfortunately, again, sometimes A knowledge of these geographical locations is the key to unlocking the meaning of a text. Not most of the time, but sometimes. The location name is like the critical piece of information you have to understand to make sense of what's going on. So that's another problem we have, right? There's a geographical issue There's a cultural issue of course. So Jesus specifically, what ethnicity was he? He's Jewish, right? He's fully man and in his fully humanity, right? Fully God, fully man. In his humanity he was Jewish. He was culturally different from us. I had the privilege of uh Traveling to Israel with some Hope Hope Bible Church members. Um it's a trip that we used to do before COVID regularly and uh if you guys are blessed with the means I highly encourage it. But I remember one of the takeaways when I visited you know the land of the Bible, Israel, was a deeper appreciation and understanding of what Paul talks about in Romans, which is our adoption 'cause I'm not Jewish if you couldn't tell. And I realized seeing these Jewish people in Israel, they were just so different from me. And I had no right to be part of the family of God. But the fact that he grafted me in and, you know, he getting emotional here, but you know, adoption means you didn't belong, so different, and uh that's who our Lord was, and that cultural gap is something that we have to Overcome. There's a lot of uh cultural artifacts that Jesus often alludes to. I'm not sure if you know this, but a lot of the future state, it's basically just uh copy and paste of Jewish wedding customs This whole idea of I'm going to go and prepare a house for you, that's what the Jews did, right, after marriage. That's a marriage custom. But we wouldn't understand that, right? Because as Americans, most of us, we have a very different custom that we follow for weddings. So understanding the culture or not being able to understand the culture, that's often a gap that makes it difficult for us to understand scripture rightly. Obviously there's a language gap. Uh maybe for new believers in the room you didn't know this, but scripture was not written in English. It was written in Hebrew or Aramaic sometimes and Greek. These are all languages that if you don't know it then uh sometimes you know there's going to be some translation issues that you have to work through. And we're going to talk about that in a future class as well. What are some good translations we can rely upon? Why what makes them good? We'll talk about the King James Version that often draws a lot of controversy every time I teach this class. It's a fine translation, not the best. That is the simple version of my stance We can talk more after class if that makes you angry. All right. Number five, there is a writing gap. There is a literary gap we have to bridge. There are styles genres, forms of the biblical books that are different from our books. You know, we have different genres when you read a piece of poetry You just instinctively know, intuitively know as a native English speaker speaker, most of us, you shouldn't read it like your medical textbook, right? You you instinctively just put on a different like set of rules reading poetry when you read a medical textbook. And the Bible has different kind of genres like that. Some genres are very similar to the ones we're familiar with. The Bible also has genres and styles that are very different from anything we ever encounter as English speakers. So that's another gap you have to uh bridge and they have their own set of rules that you have to be familiar with. And lastly, you have a spiritual gap. The Bible is the unique Word of God. It speaks ultimately of divine truths, and that is difficult, if not impossible, for human minds to fully grasped, especially unregenerate minds. Now, don't get me wrong, this is not saying that unbelievers cannot Mentally understand what the Bible is saying. That is why judgment of God on those that do not bow the knee to Jesus Christ is just. Because everybody understand what God's will is, they just suppress it by their sin. That was our state before we became believers, if you're honest with yourselves. However, when it comes to grasping the true heights of God's divine nature as it's being revealed through human language. There is a certain degree where it becomes impossible. It becomes transcendent. God is at the same time, how the theologians like to put it, imminent. He's so close. He provides so much intimacy. Jesus came as a little baby, right? We're in the Christmas season. He spoke to us, right? Verbally, with words. He's so easy to relate to. That's why he calls us his friends. He calls us His brothers, his family. But there's another simultaneous aspect of God's nature where explain to me predestination. I can logically like say it, but understand the mechanisms behind election before the foundation of the world. There's a certain degree of things that the Word of God speaks about that's just impossible for the human mind to grasp. And sometimes you run into those ceilings when you read the Word of God. So there's a spiritual gap. There's a fact that we're human, God is spirit. Well we have spirit as well, but you know what I mean. God is God and we're human, right? That's a better way to put it And then what exacerbates the issue is we're not just human beings that are not God. We're fallen human beings. We're fallen creatures. And once again, as we said at the beginning of the class, we tend to, as fallen creatures, tend to read into the Bible the things we want to see. And that makes the Bible harder to understand than it needs to be. Okay. However, once again, these gaps can be overcome if we approach Scripture with the right method of interpreting. That's half the battle. That's what I'm hoping to equip you guys this quarter. Half of the battle is just having the right technique, having the right methodology in order to catch yourself, hopefully Distorting the Word of God. So that's the goal. These are some helpful references that this class is largely based upon. I pulled a little bit of everybody into these notes. So again, none of this material is uh from my own mind or it's new. You should head for the hills if you're ever taught anything in this church that's just made up by the teacher that's new. There's nothing new in Christianity, guys It's been God's will from the beginning for his people to always understand the full counsel of the Word of God. Nothing new is invented in Christianity. So if you're ever reading like an academic theological paper and it says a new understanding of Paul or a new interpretation, you know, you can almost always just toss it into the garbage. God gave us creativity. Uh my ministry philosophy is we should strive to use creativity and newness in almost every aspect of church. Makes the wall color something creative, you know, the murals. How beautiful are those decorations at the Decoration Community? put together, right? I love creativity. I'm a creative person myself. I'm very passionate about music, for instance, except when it comes to the Word of God. That is the one place you leave your human creativity aside. You don't add anything to the Word of God. It does not need your help. Just let it say what it says. Okay, but if you want to dive in a little more, I use a lot of these resources in rough order of emphasis. So I use the Roy Zook book the most But I found something helpful in all of these texts, so this is well worth your time. Alright, let's start with some definitions. Once again, hermeneutic is just a philosophy or method of interpreting the Bible. Technically, if you use the plural version, you're not talking about the science or the methodology at the top level. Hermeneutics are the specific tools within these specific tools within the hermeneutic of the historical grammatical method. I see it used interchangeably a lot, it's fine The historical grammatical hermeneutic is the correct method of interpretation used by the biblical authors. That's why we use what's known as a historical grammatical hermeneutic. You will not find a verse in the Bible that says, Thou shalt use the historical grammatical hermeneutic. That term is man-made by sound, you know, trustworthy brethren theologians who decided to just slap a label onto uh what the right way of interpreting the Bible is. A lot of people get hung up on you know, so called red letter Christians. They only want to see what Jesus says and abide by that. And some people get very uh you know, they get a creepy feeling whenever they encounter in church some new terminology or theological jargon or label. And there's part of me that's very sympathetic to that. Actually that was my background growing up. I came from kind of uh I was overreacting to a liberal church by going into like kind of an extreme fundamentalism and I was also very suspicious of like theological words and stuff systematic theologies and the Westminster Confession and things like that. So I'm sympathetic, if that's where you are, I get it. But if you go back into church history, the reason why a lot of theological jargon was created was specifically to combat heretics. So what the children of the devil that you know they're like tares that are in the in the wheat field, what they love to do, they love to go into churches and start working with the ambiguities, confusing things, and they sound like they're speaking sound teaching and sound faith, but then there's always something a little bit off And uh the discerning, you know, brothers and sisters in the church that God provides the church as a resource, what they do is they put a label on the weird Subtle distortions that these heretics put onto the Word of God. That's where these labels come from. That's why we have words like Calvinism and the Trinity and things like that. It's not in it's not found in scripture, but these labels were necessitated because people came in heretics and they twisted the Word of God and it was very hard to pin them down on this is heresy, this isn't And creating these labels is how we are able to identify what's true and false. So quick little Christianity 101 history lesson. That's where we get a lot of these labels come from. They were born out of necessity to combat error, okay? But the historical grammatical hermeneutic is really nothing more than this is how the biblical authors read their Bibles. By the way, the Bible grew over time. That's another thing we're going to talk about You didn't get all sixty-six books at once. There was no New Testament. You started with probably Job. You know, the first believers probably just had that book. And then you had the first five books, Genesis to Deuteronomy. The Bible was small back then All you needed at the time, right? God revealed the perfect amount of information in each epoch, in each era, but uh we now have sixty-six, so what a great resource we have. And greater judgment, by the way, if you don't obey, because we have more light Okay, uh exegesis is another fancy term which means, so you see ex, like exit, that prefix, means drawing the meaning out of the text. That's the goal. The goal of interpreting scripture, you want to do exegesis. Just let God says what he says is another way to put it that you often hear. That means you're doing exegesis. You're exeguting the text when you just let the meaning come out of the text. And you don't want to do the opposite with just eisegesis, which is forcing your interpretation into a text. So the Bible should be always something coming out, right? And then your mind gets shaped by what the Bible is saying. You don't want to push into the Bible. You don't want to do eisegesis what you want to see And once again, I keep repeating myself, but I can't repeat it enough. Don't think just after you took this class and you understand the techniques. Oh that's good. I'll always understand the Bible correctly from here on. You gotta watch out for the flesh. I do it too. I don't know where I do it, frankly, but I know I do it because I'm still sinning. Um we all tend to want to do eisegesis There's always that force that you have to be aware of, and if at least if you're aware of it, hopefully that minimizes you doing it So the class is basically just going to be a discussion of these 11 tools that you see posted on the whiteboard. This is the way I like to conceptualize how you do historical grammatical hermeneutic in rough chronological order, but you know not necessarily strictly speaking. But you want to start with prayer. Because once again, we talked about that spiritual gap, we talked about the flesh, we talked about the fact that we want to do egesis. It's always a good idea when you approach a text you're really struggling with or you need to understand suddenly really quick. Let's say you're you're you're doing mental battle with uh you know a Mormon or something at work. And he's twisting some scripture. You're like, that's always the great like motivator for studying scripture, right? It's like I gotta understand this text immediately because he's gonna talk about it at lunch tomorrow. You wanna start with prayer That's a great resource. The Bible says in James that if any of you would lack wisdom, ask God. What an amazing resource. God says, I'll help you. Just ask. So start with prayer. Ask God, please help me understand this text. And then you want to go into an outline. I highly commend any newish believers, let's say you're finally getting through reading the Bible all the way for the first time. The second exercise right after you read the entire Bible all the way through, and I say just get through it. Don't get too hung up. You want to see the big picture. So yeah, your eyes are starting to glaze over some parts of Leviticus or whatever. Just get through it is always what I say. Just get from the beginning to the end one time. That'll give you a great foundation. Now when you hear a sermon by Pastor Gabe or Allen, you'll be like, yeah, I vaguely remember that story. It was in so and so. Just get through it And then the second thing I personally, not the word of God, just my personal recommendation, outline the entire book of the Bible. And start with a very rough, high-level outline where every chapter, just summarize it in your own words the best you can. It'll probably be wrong if you're a baby believer, but just summarize the best of you can every chapter of the Bible. That's what I recommend. But this outlining process for specific verses that we're trying to exegete, we're trying to interpret using our hermeneutics. It means outlining a specific book that contains that verse you're having trouble with. So if you're today as an exercise, we're going to be exegeting a specific verse in the book of Revelation. And what I would recommend you do first is you outline, paragraph by paragraph, the entire book of Revelation. By the way, if you look in your versions of the Bible, you'll see little headings, right? Those are not in the original text of the Bible. Those are helpful little notes your Bible translator, your publisher put in there. And they're sometimes wrong, by the way. Sometimes they're not in the right place Uh something that uh I think it was R. C. Sproul Sr. that always like griped about is he hates where like uh the Bible translator will put up huge like new section heading where it says like therefore. It's like ah it's supposed to follow the thing before. And then you think it's like the separated wall of division. The every book of the Bible is there there's no divide between each heading It's all supposed to be one logical flow. They're written by a human author that meant for his idea to follow from the beginning to the end. And I recommend try your best. You can go to like Bible Gateway and get rid of those headings, look at the entire book, and create your own outline. Where would you put those logical subdivisions? Where would you put the headings So make an outline of the entire book and that acts as your map for where you're going to go. You know, that tells you what just happened before this verse I'm having trouble with, what happened after. Otherwise you're going to do what again I I don't mean to pick on baby Christians. Whenever I talk about new believers is everything I used to do, by the way. But a lot of baby Christians, what do they do? They take one of those daily bread devotionals or whatever open their Bible during quiet time. Bah. This is my verse for the day. Jesus wept, you know. And then but these verses of the Bible, they're in a context. Something just happened before and something happened after. So I appreciate people with life verses. That's a fine thing to have, you know. But uh in a sense, there's no life verse. That these verses exist in a broader context, right? So in the same way, making an outline, and we're going to show in more detail in future weeks how to do this, how I recommend you do it, making an outline is your map of where you just came from and where you're going to go next. You should also be mindful of who wrote it, who wrote this verse that you're having trouble with. That oftentimes you can just end there, and that'll oftentimes help you understand this verse rightly. And hopefully you're going to see this in a second in Revelation 3. The author matters a lot. And then uh where is the author writing in? What time is it? Uh of the what year is it? Um who is he writing to? What setting are they in? Who's the audience? What location are they in? The setting is important. And then the purpose is super, super important. Why did this author write this book that contains this verse that you're trying to execute What is this purpose? Oftentimes the purpose statement is super explicit, by the way. There'll be books of the Bible we're going to see. in the future, where the author just says straight up, I wrote this book for this reason. And that's really, really helpful because that means everything written in that book If there's a verse that you interpret is the opposite of his explicit purpose statement, it can't be the right interpretation. Something went wrong, right? If he tells you I wrote this book for this reason, and then you get something the opposite Something happened in your hermeneutical process that you need to review. Canonical location. So what do I mean that by that? So a canon is like a body of official work, right? So if you're like a I don't know Star Wars fan, there are certain things in the Star Wars canon and then there are certain like spin-off series And then all the Star Wars fans get upset saying, Ah, this is ruining the universe. Let's make this non-canonical. It's not part of the Star Wars canon, right? Well, the canon of our faith is the sixty-six bo I don't know why I'm pointing there, it's not there. The sixty-six books of the Bible is our canon. That's canonical Christianity. You have non-canonical books, by the way. Anyone know books some people claim as part of Christianity, but would be considered outside the canon? The ones in the Catholics from Bible. Perfect. Yep, yep. Yep What are they called? It's escaping my mind. Oh I don't know. Apocrypha, thank you. Apocryphal books. Yes. Apocryphal books is an example. By the way, you know how the Apocrypha, another good Christianity history lesson, you know how that mix up probably happened? Was when the codices were invented, books with like spine and binding The Apocrypha was historically seen again like the Westminster Confession of Faith. It's just a useful, non-inspired book that has varying degrees of usefulness. Some are just garbage. But you know, the historical Christianity and Christians they thought they knew this was just written by believers outside of the apostles, and uh some of them are just useful to read and meditate upon. Well, uh back then, you know, before the printing press and stuff, it's very expensive making a book. So a lot of uh you know early publishers, they would just say, hey, there's a useful book, the Apocrypha, here's the Bible, let's just save some money and put it together Right? And over time people have started to think that, oh, this is part of the Bible. So that's probably where that um confusion came from. But the apocryphal books, that's a great one, right? Maccabees, you know, the study of the the Jewish uh Maccabean revolt and stuff like that. Um non-canonical. Um Um you know, some of these heretical gospels like the Gospel of Thomas and things like that that the Gnostics came up with that completely contradict the other sixty-six books of the Bible. So we have a canon. There are 66 of them. There's very good historical evidence. If you want more information outside the scope of the course, but I can I'd be happy to point you to some resources that explain very uh confidently why we know that these 66 books are the only 66 inspired words of God. But uh whenever you read a verse that you're trying to interpret, you have to once again consider the fact the Bible grew over time. It's a process theologians like to call progressive revelation. God progressively revealed more and more revelation as time passed. He didn't give all sixty-six. He started with one, then five more, etc. Well, that's actually a really, really helpful thing to keep in mind whenever you're interpreting scripture Because think about it. If you're dealing with a book in Isaiah, for instance, okay, if you're dealing with a verse in Isaiah, And you're having trouble reading some verse in Isaiah, well, if you know that the New Testament didn't arrive yet, That means whatever your interpretation of that verse in Isaiah is, it cannot be information that is exclusively, uniquely revealed later. Right? Doesn't that make sense? Think about it. So I'll give you a concrete example. I hate picking on, you know, our Presbyterian brothers and sisters. Genuine believers. I come from a Presbyterian background, that's why. My grandfather was a pastor in the Presbyterian church, so no love lost, seriously. I have a lot of a lot of family in that but that's why I know well that's why I pick on that. So Presbyterians, for instance They'll take that Hebrew word assembly in the Old Testament. And you know what they do? Because Presbyterians, covenantal theologians, as they're called They believe Israel is the church, right? Church Israel turned into the church. They'll take that word assembly in the old covenant and they'll isogenically insert As their interpretation, ah, every time you see the assembly of Israel, that means the church. And my contention is it can't be the church because Paul specifically says Hundreds of years later, the church was a mystery. This w there is no concept called the church. It was specifically hidden from believers in the old covenant age. The church the church's birthday anyone know when the church was invented? When was the church's birthday? Pentecost and Acts, remember the giving of the Holy Spirit to the apostles and they were speaking in this uh some people say the miracle was the hearers could hear in different languages. I think it was probably they were actually speaking different languages. The church was not invented. The birth the church was not revealed until Pentecost after the uh Jesus' uh death, Daryl and Resurrection. So, whenever you're reading something in the books of Moses, whenever you see that word assembly, it cannot mean church. It can't Because that information canonically in terms of its location it comes way before that information about the church is revealed. Does that make sense? The opposite is also very useful. Again, if you're reading something in Isaiah, if you know that Isaiah and his audience has access to these other Old Covenant books You know that that might inform some of the words and phrases that he's using in Isaiah. You see? So you know based on canonical location where the chronological revelation is located what information is informing the interpretation and what information cannot be inside the interpretation. So a lot of people don't think about this, but just where in the book of the Bible that you're reading That's actually a really, really important indicator of how to interpret that text. By the way, your Bible is not arranged chronologically, not perfectly. Roughly chronologically. Revelation is the end, but again, Job probably came before Genesis. Uh so that's something to keep in mind. It's not as easy as just flipped back to the left or the right, if only. Okay. Genre. We talked about how the Bible, one of the gaps is the literary gap. There are different genres Each genre has its own rule. When I read a medical textbook, I'm going to be reading it pretty literally. It says saw off the left leg, not the right leg. I'm not going to saw the wrong leg off. You can tell I'm not a medical doctor, I have no clue. There's a reason you would want to do that. And you read poetry, it says, My my love of my life is a flower. I'm not gonna read that like a medical textbook and think, whoa This person is into flowers. You know, it's not like that at all. It's it's a poetic thing. It's it's symbolic. Well the Bible is the same way. You have distinct literary styles that have their own distinct set of rules, so you gotta know what genre you're dealing with Context. Like we said, context is king. If there's one tool that you use, if there's one tool you remember in the historical grammatical hermeneutic, it's this one. I say it again, this will probably solve 90% of the interpretive errors that you're facing. And what is context? Not rocket science. Just read the surrounding verses. That's all context means. What was written before it, what was written after. That's all context is. And the closer the verses surrounding it, you give more weight. And then if you read the immediately surrounding verses and that doesn't help you, you expand your context. Read a few paragraphs before and after. And then you can expand to the whole book. Read the entire book's context that the verse is contained within. So that's all contest is. Just what is surrounding that verse you're having trouble with? Word study. This is going to be the weakest part of my presentation, and that is because Context will solve 90% of your interpretive headaches, but there are, it's probably even more like 98%. There was a 2% of passages in the Bible That are particularly difficult because the correct interpretation hinges on just one word. And further complicating things, there's an even smaller subset of those two percent of verses where they're called hapex logominons. And I think it's Latin, I don't know. But what a hapex logomonon means, it's a word that's only used one time throughout all of the Bible. And those give uh translators a huge headache. Because one of the ways you resolve little words that you have difficulty with is how was that word used in other books of the Bible? By the way, that is not what you immediately jump to Okay, so bear in mind when I said context, you expand the context all the way to the book. I did that purposefully So if you're having trouble with something in Isaiah, just read all of Isaiah first when you're doing your initial interpretation. Don't immediately jump to like, you know, Genesis or something like that. There's a reason I said that, and we'll explain later. Don't worry about it right now. But some verses of the Bible, it really hinges on just like one word you have to understand correctly, and that's when ideally you actually know the original biblical languages, which I do not I took like one Hebrew course, a seminary level Hebrew course. Um one of the hardest things I ever had to do. I'm terrible with languages naturally So what you have to do, if you're like me and you don't know the original languages, you rely on other people that know the languages and you use their resources, but you understand the difficulty. You're one step removed from the actual text. So you've got to use lexicons, you gotta use dictionaries, you gotta use interlinear bibles. And I'm gonna show you one online resource that I find kinda helpful. I rarely ever, when I do my personal devotions, personal Bible study time, I er rarely ever get to the word study stage. And that's probably largely because, number one, I almost never have to. Context will just help me. And number two, I don't know the original languages very well, so I can't speak confidently to this. But I'll show you theoretically how it's supposed to be done. Okay And then after step nine, you should be drawing an initial interpretation. You should already get a sense at this point what you think the verse means. Now double check your work. There are all sorts of tools that you pull out of your tool bag that will help you verify if you got the right interpretation. And then lastly Uh what does First Corinthians say? That there's a knowledge that just puffs up, right? That's not what we want. The Bible is not theoretical. We put it into practice. If God reveals something to you, you're supposed to do something with it. I'll give you a very practical application in the church life. John MacArthur had a great sermon on this. This is where I got it from. He talks about how whenever someone comes up to him and says, Hey John, we gotta do this in the church. Someone needs to do that. And he'll respond with, Thank you. Tell me like give me an update when you get on that. There's something that you see in the church. If there's some problem that you see, you know, and it's a legitimate Bible-based issue, God revealed that issue to you. And you saw it because you there's a reason you saw it and someone else didn't. And that means you have a greater responsibility to do something about it. You don't wait for somebody else to do it. If God reveals something, it's not because we're smarter or more spiritual than our neighbors. It's because God gave you a specific duty, act on this information. Don't just leave it as knowledge. Don't just leave it as theory and just criticize saying, oh, what did they always do? This is stupid, right? You're supposed to do something with that information. Start a new ministry. Help in that area. Do this. Put up some of your own money if it if need be to get it done. In the same way, if you come across some great treasure in the Word of God and you're like, wow, I've never seen this before, this makes so much sense You're not supposed to just leave it in your head. You have to act on it. That's why Jesus says in his parable about the foolish and wise builder. Do you remember the analogy? There's a foolish man that builds his house on sand And the winds come and it falls down, and the wise man builds his house. Firm foundation. You know what Jesus says that uh wise builder is symbolic of? He says, those who hear, but not just hear my word, you know what he says after? Hear and obey. Hear and obey is the wise builder. It's not just the reading and interpreting and the hermeneutics and the exegesis. There's actually Again, uh there's a lot of really good theoretical theologians out there that are non-believers, believe it or not. There are some commentators, some commentaries I use in my library at home that are great commentaries And unfortunately the authors of the commentaries are probably going to go to hell, right? I know it's a shocking thing, but there are non-believers that can interpret scripture really well. And they're Some of them are like, you know, class A seminary type textbook material that I I was I was told to use, you know, at Master Seminary. But some of them uh they don't put it into practice. Again, that's the mark of a Christian. Even non-believers can interpret super well. Just use these tools, right? But you have to obey the wise builder Okay, we're going to do a lightning round here for the next 15 minutes. This is going to go way over your head. It's going to go way too fast. Don't worry. The point of this exercise is I just want to give you guys a preview of each of these 11 tools so that when we get into the details week by week, it won't be the first time you encounter it. Okay? So don't feel overwhelmed or discouraged if we go too fast. It's going to be fast purposely. But you can turn to Revelation chapter three And just as a demonstration of the historical grammatical hermeneutic, just to show you what it looks like put into practice, we're going to apply all of these 11 tools, okay? Alright. So Revelation 3. 14, according to the English Standard Version, which I personally like to use. There's also other good versions out there. We use the NASD a lot. Pastor Tom and Gabe, I think, uses the New American Standard. Again, KJV, fine translation, not the best. Okay? I stand by that statement. And I know some people get mad about that. But uh KJV is a good translation. Honestly the NIV. I got saved reading the NIV Not the best translation for doing serious exegesis, and we'll explain that later, but um those are some good translations. I would not use the message, don't ever use the message for translation Okay, alright. Revelation 314 says, And to the angel of the church in Laodicea, write the words of the Amen, the faithful and true witness. The beginning of God's creation. Okay, now what makes this verse sometimes tricky is because Jehovah's Witnesses love this passage. This is one of their clobber texts. And if you know anything about Jehovah's Witness theology, they do not believe Jesus is fully divine to the same essence of God the Father. Okay? They believe they are non-Trinitarians. And what they believe is Jesus is an elevated being. He's exalted, but he's like a lowercase G God is how they try to finally distinguish between the Father and Jesus the Son. And they would state using Revelation 3 14. A hi, you see? Jesus is the beginning of God's creation. He doesn't supersede. He doesn't transcend creation. I mean, he is exalted because he's the first of God's creation, but nevertheless he's still created. He's the beginning. He was the first thing, the first person that God made. What would you guys say to that before we blaze through using the systematic process of the historical grammatical hermeneutic? Anyone would know? How would you pretend like I'm the Jehovah's Witness? I just put this in front of you. Yeah, what would you say? Yeah. Yeah. John One. Yeah. Yeah. John one, yep, yep. And John one of course were uh actually you want to turn to John one and and find a specific verse that talks about uh Jesus' divinity Yeah, that's a good one. Now let me ask you a follow-up, a little trickier question. Can you use Revelation itself to debunk this misinterpretation of Revelation 3. 14? Is there anything in Revelation? Yeah, and that's referring to who specifically? Jesus. Jesus, right? Yeah, that's good. Okay, let's continue. Let's use the actual tools and apply it here. But yeah, hopefully you guys see immediately off the bat there's some problems. But you can hopefully also appreciate how this could be a powerful argument, right? Especially if you've never encountered it before. I know when I first encountered this, because I had a Jehovah's Witness friend, I didn't know how to answer, right? But uh if you're equipped with an understanding of how to interpret scripture methodically, um it doesn't become an insurmountable problem. All right, so does this mean The angel of the church in Low Day. See the words of the Amen. Does this mean Jesus is the beginning of God's creation? Okay. Well, yeah, this is what the Jehovah's Witness will say. First, once again, you want to start with prayer. James 1 says, if you lack wisdom, let's say you're confused here, ask God. We have a personal, communal relationship with the Lord. He's literally listening to you when you talk to Him. Um if you're not holding on to sins in particular, right? So you can say, God, you tell me in James chapter 1 5, if I lack wisdom I can come to you and ask for help. I am having a hard time with this passage that my Jehovah's Witness friend gave me By your providence, please guide me to the right teachers and books and the right understandings so that I can apply this verse correctly Also please give me the energy and the discipline. I need to study hard and not be lazy. Maybe that's something you guys struggle with, right, when it comes to your personal Bible study times. Alright, let's go to the second step. Now you want to outline. You don't want to go fly blind. You want to map You want to know where Revelation 3. 14 lives. So this is just a partial outline that I personally made, but I would do something like uh big Roman numeral one. I would call that entire section the prologue. There's a introduction to who's uh you know talking and who who wrote this letter, the Apostle John. You got a revelation from from uh Jesus, right? And then I would make a Roman Nomerule II from chapter one, verse nine on, and say the first vision that John receives is appears to be the church age. And you see the voice of Jesus, uh, verses 9 to 11, vision of Jesus. But you guys see, you guys all have made outlines before, I'm sure, in like high school or whatever. So just just take a text And just try to organize it, whatever way you seem fit, whatever way helps you keep track of where you just what you just read and what you're about to read. Okay? So this is a map. Hopefully you immediately see the usefulness and the power of it. Okay, but interestingly, after I made this outline, because we're dealing with what? Revelation chapter 3, right? I recognize that, okay, this passage I'm having trouble with, 314, it lives in an area where Jesus is writing, Jesus is the author He's speaking. He's writing seven letters to seven churches. So from this I know that okay, well, um when my Jehovah's Witness friend says that Revelation 314 is describing Jesus, okay, he's correct in that uh up to this point. This is describing Jesus because this is Jesus writing seven letters to seven churches. So any descriptions about the letter writer throughout, you know, 2A to 2C, it is describing the same person, Jesus. Alright, let's continue with the author. This touches on something I think one of you guys said. Well, we know the author from Revelation chapter 1, verse 1. It's John, John the Apostle. And we know John also wrote the Gospel of John. And I'm sorry, tell me your name again. Eddie. Andrew, Andrew. Just like Andrew said. Well, John also wrote John chapter one, right? In the beginning was was the Word, and the Word was God. So you could technically stop right here. This is one uh you know, this is one rebuttal you could give to your JW friend and said, well, the apostle also wrote John earlier. And in fact, the letter of John is one of those passages where we have an explicit purpose statement. John says at the end, I think in chapter 17 or so, where it says, I wrote this so you would believe Jesus is the Messiah and that you would believe and be saved. Yeah, Andrew. I don't know. Oh, okay. I I don't know. Brian says no, you might know more than I do. I know Mormons have extra scripture, uh and the Jehovah's Witness used the Watchtower Society, but I don't know. Yeah. Yeah. So translation matters, yeah. But we know the author wrote other books of the Bible and he specifically says in his other letter that I'm writing this specifically to show you that Jesus is God. Right? So Revelation 3 14 cannot mean Jesus is suddenly a created being. So that's one rebuttal you could use, just starting with the third tool, just looking at who authored Revelation. In my opinion, the setting doesn't help us too much in this particular example. I tried to find an example passage that uses all eleven, but I couldn't So I don't think the setting plays a specific role, but maybe you guys can think of a way to help us and email me after the class. So we go to purpose, however. And purpose statements tend to be found, good rule of thumb, at the beginning and at the end of books. And we see the purpose statement in Revelation chapter 1. It's Jesus Christ giving a prophecy of what will happen in the future. To encourage believers to continue in the faith, warn evildoers of their impending judgment. And that purpose statement in Revelation shows that the story of human history revolves around Jesus And Jesus is sovereign over all events and people. He knows the future. So this purpose already reveals to us there's an incongru inc incongrui there there's an Contradiction, I shouldn't have even attempted that word. There's a contradiction between Jesus being just a simple created being Versus Jesus, the writer of Revelation that tells you everything that's going to happen in the future and I control all things and I'm going to judge all humanity. You can't just be a created being by those descriptions. That becomes idolatry, right? So, okay, that's the purpose in it that I would use. That shows us again, hints to us. The JW interpretation of Revelation 3. 14. Something's wrong there. Canonical location. Anyone know where in the canon Revelation is? Beginning, middle, and not a trick question, by the way. I think Revelation is the last one. That's right. He John was John was likely the last sir he was the last surviving apostle. It was likely written in the 80s to 90s A. D. This is the last book of the Bible. And that tells us something. Again, from our current understanding of the other books that the Bible teaches, you know, the Bible teaches a Trinitarian theology. So John being an apostle of the Lord Jesus and he wrote a revelation is at the very end. That means he is being informed by all the other books of the Bible that came before him. All the other books of the Bible, including his own, the Gospel of John teaches Trinitarian theology. Jesus is God, not a created being. One God, three persons. different categories of person and God, by the way. So again, just the canonical location informs us that Revelation 3. 14 cannot mean that Jesus was created because every book that came before that that informs John's writing here says Jesus is God, not created. Genre. Revelation is a prophetic book. That means we are going to expect to see figurative imagery, okay, like poetry as well. But we must be careful to not rush to make something metaphorical if it can be interpreted literally and plainly. Okay? Exactly. That's exactly correct. Yes, that that's a perfect encapsulation of what I'm going to commend to you guys is Any suspected figurative section of scripture, it's always a safe bet. Default to interpreting it plainly, and then there's some indicators I'm going to show to you guys that tells you, okay, this can't be a literal interpretation. It must be figurative But you don't want to start with the figurative because that opens the door wide to subjectivism. Everything just becomes opinion at that point. Yeah. This is a prophetic book, so you should be mindful that you're going to see figurative imagery like you know the first and the last, Alpha and Omega, things like that you see in Revelation Okay, context. Again, this is the important bit. Well, let's start with the immediate context. Let's look at just the surrounding verses right around verse 14. Jesus is called the Amen. He's called the faithful and true witness. In verses 15 and 17, Jesus apparently has perfect knowledge of the spiritual state of Laodicea, right? And he has perfect power to judge the church of Laodicea for disobedience. The surrounding context immediately tells me Jesus is not a created being. He's a judge of all humankind and he knows everything. Who does that sound like? Sounds like God, right? Then you can uh also look at the fact in verse 18 he has the power miraculously to heal the church. He reproves and disciplines his people in verse 19. Again, not something that is in the purview of a created being Verse 21, he sits on a throne and has power to grant others to sit on the throne with him. And Jesus is speaking in verse 22. It is equivalent to the Spirit of God speaking. Okay? So all these features that you put together with these non-Trinitarians, you you put it in front of them and say, so you're saying Jesus is this. You're saying he's a judge of all humanity. You're saying he sits on a throne. You're saying that he knows all things. And they say, Yes. Yes. Yes. And you conclude he's still a created being? Yes. That doesn't make any sense. That is literally called idolatry. That is exactly what the Bible calls idolatry. You cannot give these aspects to a mere created, exalted being. Okay? Let's widen the context. Let's look at the entire section. Well, if you go one chapter before, in chapter two, verse seven, Jesus states, He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the one who conquers, I will grant to eat of the tree of life which is in the paradise of God. Once again, the authority to grant to eat of the tree of life Right? Is God's authority. This echoes, by the way, what's story very early in the Bible The Garden of Eden. Who was the one that said that made the tree of life and the tree of knowledge of the good and evil? Who said you can eat from what fruit from what tree? God. Right? So whoever says this, and it happens to be Jesus in this immediate context, must share the exact same authority as God in Genesis. Look at the entire book context. Let's look at the entire book of Revelation, 2219. If anyone takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God will take away his share in the tree of life. and in the holy city which are described in the book. Once again, access to the tree of life is controlled by God. In this context, it is Jesus speaking. Jesus is God. So let's gather the facts. We see all these aspects of Jesus. Leads us to the fact that Revelation 3. 14 cannot mean Jesus is a mere created being. We go to the word study aspect. I think we're going to have to skip it from here on because I'm out of time. But you can go to something like Biblehub. com, which gives you a range of what that word in the Greek beginning can mean. It can mean all these things, and you've got to use context to help you understand which one it is. And what we discover eventually is the beginning means Jesus is the originator. He's not the beginning himself. He is the beginner. Does that make sense? So he is the beginning as in the originator of God's creation. is the maker of all creation. Then you want to check your work, make sure you're not making any obvious mistakes. Use your local church to help you. This is where commentaries come in. And then you pray and apply what you just learned. Let me pray for us on that respect.