Well, when we think about the Reformation, what should come into our minds is that this was the period of time five hundred years ago When the true gospel of grace and the authority of the Word of God, alongside many other doctrines, were recovered. The Roman Catholic Church stood militantly against Martin Luther and the other Reformers, and in turn Martin Luther and the other Reformers stood against the errors of the Church. Martin Luther and the other reformers did not originally intend to break away from the Roman Catholic Church. That's why it's called the Reformation. Their goal was to reform the Church, to bring it back to its biblical foundation. And they pursued that goal until it became clear that the church had no interest in being reformed The gospel, the papacy, the sacraments were really front and center in their debates. There's one issue which was at the core of the controversy And that core issue is the authority of the Word of God. The authority of the Word of God. There were two clear positions. Both sides of the debate acknowledged that the Bible is the Word of God. But the Roman Catholic Church would assert that not only do you have the Word of God as an authority, but you have the magisterium that is the established tradition of the Roman Catholic Church, which is of equal authority alongside the Word of God. Whereas the other position, the reformers asserted that no, the Word of God stands as the sole authoritative Authority. The reformers understood what we always need to remember, and that is when you put anything right alongside the Word of God. and give it equal authority, it will always and in every case supersede the Scripture. The moment you put a person or a group of people or some kind of document alongside of the Word of God, you immediately, in that instant, Submit the Word of God under whatever else is a competing authority because that competing authority will always have the ability to Determine whether or not the Word of God should be recognized in any given situation, how it should be applied, how it should be interpreted. This has always been the case, and the Roman Catholic Church stands both then and now as a case in point. Again, Martin Luther and the other reformers preached and wrote what they understood the Word of God to be preaching, and as they declared the truth that they found in the Scripture. They argued what they understood from the scripture. They made, just to put it simply, biblical arguments. They crafted that based on what the Word of God says, this is what we are to understand. And they saw nothing in the scripture as it relates to papacy the papacy or purgatory or indulgences or the sacraments and so much much more that Is central to the Roman Catholic system. They saw that the forgiveness of sin is not earned based on your obedience, but it is received by faith in the finished work of Christ. And again, in asserting those things, they didn't just declare that they disagreed with the Roman Catholic Church. No, they argued that the authority of the Word of God does not allow us to embrace those concepts. Now in response, rather than trying to give their contrary interpretation of the Word of God as to why they affirm those things. The Roman Catholic Church simply dismissed them out of hand and declared them heretics, mocked them, and ultimately accused them of heresy worthy of death. This is seen in the Diet of Verms. You may have heard of that event. A diet in the 16th century was a gathering, a formal assembly of people. Verms was a city. And at this assembly, all of Martin Luther's works, his books and his tracts and and booklets, were assembled together on a table, and rather than discuss with Martin Luther what it is that he taught and why he taught it, They simply pointed at all of his works and asked one question, will you recant everything that you have written in these books? In response, one of the things that Martin Luther said is, well, I can't recant everything that I've written because a lot of what I've written is actually what the Roman Catholic Church teaches. So you wouldn't want me to recant everything. But more than that, he famously said, unless I am convinced by the testimony of the Holy Scriptures or by evident reason, for I believe that neither Pope nor councils alone As it is clear that they have error repeatedly and contradicted themselves, I consider myself convicted by the testimony of the Holy Scriptures, which is my basis. My conscience is captive to the Word of God. Thus I cannot and will not recant, because acting against one's conscience is neither sound nor safe. Here I stand, I can do no other. God help me. This is the conviction that drove the Reformation. And being captive to popes and councils is what drove opposition to the Reformation. Understand that the Roman Catholic Church does not really offer the world a differing interpretation of Scripture. It's not as though You have these two different groups of people who are looking at the same Bible and the same passages, and they simply come to different conclusions about what it means. That may happen in one place or another, but that's not what explains the divide. No, the Catholic Church has established its magisterium as an authority over the scriptures such that it is not bound by or to the scripture. So much of what it teaches, such as purgatory, is not it's not relevant to them that it's not in the scripture because it's in their magisterium. Who needs the scripture? At least for that. And that reality of a competing authority which supersedes the authority of the Word of God has not changed in the last 500 years. And so all that to say you won't understand the Reformation if you do not understand that it was rooted in the question of authority. In the same way, you will not understand the ministry of Jesus and the opposition to his ministry If you do not understand that it all came down to competing authority. The Jews and their leaders held to the authority of the tradition of the rabbis over and against Scripture. But Jesus taught and lived on the authority of the Word of God, even as he said in Matthew 5. 17 Do not think that I have come to abolish the law or the prophets. I have not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them. So again, the Jewish leaders, in contrast to Jesus, established The rabbinic tradition over and against Scripture. That's what we see here in John chapter 9. As the people and the Pharisees respond to this miracle that Jesus performed of healing the man who was born blind. Now this is a unique passage of Scripture because it is the longest section in the Gospel of John and maybe the rest. I only checked the Gospel of John now that I think about it, but It's the longest section where Jesus is not even on the scene. It's not just that he doesn't say anything. It's that he's not even in the scene. The sole focus of verses 8 to 34 is on the people and the Pharisees as they interact with this man who was born blind. And the focus of this section is the inability of the people and the Pharisees to see the truth of who Jesus is. The Pharisees are blinded by their authority, that is their tradition. And the people are blinded by their authority, which was the Pharisees. The rejection of Jesus on the basis basis of rabbinic tradition is not just something that happened to him during his ministry. It also happened to the apostles. The Jews rejected their preaching on the same for the same reasons that they rejected Jesus. And as you read through the The book of Acts, you see that the Gentiles too rejected the teaching of the apostles, not because of Jewish rabbinic tradition, but because they had their own competing authorities that they set over and against the proclamation of the gospel And so this pattern of rejection on the basis of competing authorities has happened in every generation of believers, from the time of Christ until the Reformation, and it didn't stop there Wherever the gospel is preached, when it is rejected, it is rejected on the basis of competing authorities which blind people to the truth. When you share the gospel with someone, as you might with a co-worker or a friend or a family member, when you share the gospel and they reject it, You need to understand that it's not really you that they are rejecting primarily. It's not really what you say or how you say it. That is the basis of their rejection. The truth is they are rejecting whatever you say and however you say it on the basis of their own authority that they have established for themselves To help us understand such responses that people have to the truth and the blindness that they experience, what What is taking place here in John chapter 9, verses 8 to 34, we see four common responses that people have when they have a competing authority that blinds people. To Jesus. Four responses rooted in a competing authority. They are, first, skepticism, second, antagonism Third, fear, and fourth, hostility. Skepticism, antagonism, fear, and hostility And so seeing these here as we walk through this section in John chapter 9 will help us understand the rejection even we experience when we share the gospel today. Now for the sake of time, I'm just going to read verses 1 through 8 of John 9, or rather 1 through 7, just to set the context, to remind us where we've been the last couple weeks, and then we'll dive into the first response starting in verse eight. So follow along here in John 9 as we read what the Lord has given us. The Word of God says, as he that is Jesus passed by, he saw a man blind from birth. And his disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind? Jesus answered, it was not that this man sinned or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him We must work the works of him who sent me while it is day. Night is coming when no one can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. Having said these things, he spit on the ground, and made mud with the saliva. Then he anointed the man's eyes with the mud, and said to him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam, which means scent. So he went and washed and came back seeing. So four common responses to the work of God. The first is skepticism. Skepticism. Look look at verses eight to thirteen. The neighbors and those who had seen him before Before as a beggar were saying, Is this not the man who used to sit and beg? Some said it is he. Others said, No, but he is like him He kept saying, I am the man. So they said to him, Then how were your eyes opened? He answered, The man called Jesus, made mud and anointed my eyes, and said to me, Go to the pool of Siloam and wash. So I went and washed and received my sight. They said to him, Where is he? He said, I do not know. They brought to the Pharisees the man who had been formerly blind. Skepticism is what we see here. Now John doesn't give us all the details of everything that transpired after this man came back from the Pool of Saloon seeing, but it's not hard to imagine what this man would have done in response to the fact that though he had been blind from birth Now he has the ability to see. You can imagine that as he's ma as he's making his way back to his uh neighborhood, in his community, if you will, that he's running around, he's excited, he's shouting, he's making making all of this this ecstatic Noise celebrating the fact that he can now see. So he's causing quite a stir. People are wondering what is going on here. And so finally he gets back to his neighborhood, and the people are stunned. They're used to sitting, this man sitting on the side of the road begging. They've only ever seen this man with a sullen demeanor They've only ever heard pitiful pleadings come out of his voice. His movements have only ever been slow and searching because he couldn't see. He might be wearing the same clothes he was that day, but his entire countenance is changed now, so much so that he looks like a completely different person. So they debite debated among themselves whether this is actually the man that they knew. And now the verbs there in verses eight and nine that describe the the conversation that happened among the people are imperfect verbs, which indicate that they are continually saying these things to each other. You can hear them saying to one another, is it him? I I I don't know. He sure looks like him, but uh it can't be him. That's not the same guy People would have naturally huddled together, whispering to each other, talking to each other, trying to figure out what is going on here. And then realizing what they're saying, the man is going around to the various groups of people, it's me, I'm the man. You can almost picture him going to one person after another, just grabbing them by the arms and looking them in the eye and saying, It's me, I am the man And then the question would come, well, what happened to you? How are you now seen? There'd be a cacophony of noise just rising in this street or square, whatever it was And so the man explains there in verse eleven, this man called Jesus made mud and anointed my eyes and said to me, Go to Siloam and wash. And so I went and washed and received my sight. It is as simple as that. There's nothing complicated about it. There's nothing more to explain or understand. There was no medical intervention. There was no medical procedure that was performed. He simply put mud on my face and told me to go wash it off, and so now I see. Well, naturally they want to talk to Jesus and understand what has happened here, but He says in verse 12 that he doesn't know where he is. The man doesn't even know what Jesus looked like, let alone know where he went after he went to wash the pool of Siloam. So the neighbors and the people here have standing in front of them a man who was formerly blind but can now see. And he testifies that Jesus is the one who gave him sight. And remember that this is about two years into Jesus' ministry, where he was known to give sight to the blind. And yet for some reason the people here are skeptical. They don't really believe what this man is telling them. How do I know that they are skeptical? Well, it's because instead of rejoicing in the miracle that was performed on this man, instead of wondering, as it's often said the crowds would do, instead of believing for sure, it says in verse 13, that they brought To the Pharisees the man who had formerly been blind. Now why would they do this? Why would they take this man and bring him before the Pharisees? Well, it's because the Pharisees were Something like a combination of the religious leaders of the day, the civic leaders of the day, and the lawyers of the day, kind of all packaged together. The people were skeptical, so they took this man to the authorities to see what they had to say about this situation. They couldn't accept the obvious truth that quite literally stared them in the face. So they hoped that the Pharisees would figure out what happened and tell them how they're supposed to respond. You know, one of the common responses, or rather arguments, uh, regarding the historical accounts that we read in the scriptures that you'll hear today is that the people of first century Israel were primitive They were non-scientific. Therefore, it is said, they will believe anything you tell them. If you tell them the miracle happened, they'll believe it without question. It is said that they were so easily deceived by the claims of the miraculous. Again, they didn't understand science, they didn't understand the laws of nature, so they accepted blindly the explanations of divine intervention. Well when you hear that argument, you can take that person to John chapter 9. There's a number of other places you could take them, but John chapter 9 is probably one of the clearest places where you see the people being skeptical at a miraculous explanation of something that truly was miraculous This section highlights that even in this pre-scientific age, people did not easily accept explanations of divine power. And if that was true then, then how much truer is it today? Science has become a competing authority over and against Scripture in our day, whether it's denying the miracle of a man born blind or denying that there could be such a thing as a resurrection, or denying the miracle of creation. Many people appeal to science and the normal working of the natural world as their authoritative reason for rejecting what the Bible presents as displays of divine power. And so it shouldn't surprise us when anyone to whom we explain the gospel is skeptical of the truths that we speak with regard to Christ. In such cases, if you find yourself in that position, identifying and discussing authority is where you can take that conversation. to understand what authority are they appealing to to reject the truth. But skepticism is the response that we see from the people here. It's a response that we commonly see today. When faced with the claims of Jesus, some aren't just skeptical. They go further to be antagonistic, like the Pharisees. We see that in verses 14 to 17. Look at that. It says, Now it was the Sabbath day when Jesus made the mud and opened his eyes. So the Pharisees again asked him how he had received his sight. And he said to them, He put mud on my eyes, and I washed and I see. Some of the Pharisees said, This man is not from God, for he does not keep the Sabbath But others said, how can a man who is a sinner do such signs? And there was a division among them. So they said again to the blind man, What do you say about him, since he has opened your eyes? And he said, He is a prophet. Now if you look back at verse 14, it begins, now it was a Sabbath day. Whenever you see a phrase like that in the Gospels, you can just Make the sound in your head, dun dun, dun. Something is about to happen. Trouble is coming What did Jesus do? He violated two Sabbath laws. John tells us what they are. First of all, he says, he made mud. On the Sabbath, it was forbidden to make mud. Mixing dirt is a form of plowing. And plowing, even if you're not going to plant any seed, is work. And so Jesus, when he spit on the ground and mixed it with the dirt to make mud, He committed the sin in their minds of ploughing and working on the Sabbath. Oh, but that is not all that he did. He also, it says, healed the man. He opened his eyes. Not only is it against the Sabbath law to work by ploughing and making mud, it's also against the Sabbath law to heal. According to the rabbis, it was permissible to bring some form of medical treatment to someone in a life-threatening situation But this man was born blind. He was absolutely not in a life-threatening situation. And so for Jesus to perform a healing on this man was to break their Sabbath law against healing. Now, obviously when the rabbis developed the law that you sh that you can't heal, that you can't provide medical treatment, they didn't have in mind miraculous healing. They had in mind a a doctor who was applying his craft to care for people's welfare. And even though Jesus didn't require any effort at all to heal a person, they applied that same law to Jesus. In fact, in Luke 13, 14, uh after Jesus healed a woman, it says, But the ruler of the synagogue, indignant because Jesus had healed on the Sabbath, said to the people, There are six days in which one ought to, in which work ought to be done. Come on those days and be healed, and not on the Sabbath day. Well, it's hard to imagine such a hard-hearted and stubborn position. But that is how strongly they were committed to their own law. Notice that I said their own law. The Old Testament has no commands and no prohibitions like that. Jesus did not violate the Old Testament law. In the centuries since the return to Jerusalem by the exiles, The Jewish leaders developed a system of laws around the Mosaic law to protect themselves and the people from violating the law of God, which was the primary reason that the Lord had sent them out of the land. And in fact, violating the Sabbath itself was one of the primary laws that God himself expressed was why he sent them into exile Obviously alongside idolatry and many other sins. Now tragically, in their effort to protect the law and help themselves and everyone else obey the law of God, they actually violated the most important laws Namely, to love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and to love your neighbor as yourself. And so as a result, they created all these laws, and they ended up with a religion that bore no resemblance to the worship required by God. And can I say that this is precisely what happened with the Roman Catholic Church? The formal structure of the Roman Catholic Church was developed in the 4th and 5th centuries. As Christianity became the state religion and they organized now that they were no longer persecuted And very quickly it departed from Scripture and developed into an entire system and structure of man-made rules and regulations. And when anybody spoke up and uh called them to return to their biblical moorings, they simply rejected them, labeled them as heretics, and very often put them to death. Well, what John tells us here in verse 14 is that the basis for the antagonism and later the hostility Is the fact that Jesus violated their rules. And that sent the Pharisees in opposition to Jesus. In verse 15, they launch their own investigation into the matter, ask the men the same question that his neighbors had asked him, and he gives them a summary explanation, or at least John records it as a summary explanation of the miracle. And instead of focusing on the fact that this miracle that has taken place is the kind that Isaiah said would happen at the time of the Messiah The Pharisees focus on their own offense taken at the violation of their law. Look again in verse 16. They say, This man, Jesus, is not from God, for he does not keep the Sabbath. When they should be celebrating the coming of the Messiah, they're debating whether Jesus can come from God if he violates their law. That is blind antagonism. They don't care what Jesus can do and what it means for the uh for what he can do. They only care that he has transgressed their law. Now at least some of them had enough sense to question the idea of how can a sinner, that is somebody who violates the law of God, how can a sinner Perform such a sign, and so that created a little debate between the Pharisees there Now it might be easy to conclude that if someone can perform miracles, that must mean that they are from God. But you know, that would actually be a wrong way to think. Well, it's true that the miracles, signs, and wonders that Jesus and the apostles performed validated him as the Messiah and them as his apostles It is not true that signs and wonders always validate that a person is from God. And this is critically important for us to remember. Deuteronomy 13 is a chapter where God is instructing his people, warning them against anyone who would move them away from the true worship of Yahweh. And so listen to how that chapter begins. The Lord says, if a prophet or a dreamer of dreams arises among you and gives you a sign or a wonder, And the sign or wonder that he tells you comes to pass. And if he says, Let us go after other gods which you have not known, and let us serve them. You shall not listen to the words of that prophet or that dreamer of dreams. For the Lord your God is testing you to know whether you love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. You see, just as the magicians in Egypt had the ability to replicate some of the miraculous things that Moses himself performed, like the turning of the of the rod into a serpent and whatnot. It's also true that Satan and his fallen angels, who were obviously involved in that situation, they are able to inject supernatural power into the physical world to perform what we perceive to be signs. And wonders. And in fact, if you read the book of Revelation, this is precisely how the Antichrist and his prophet will deceive the world. So, signs and wonders are not always indicative of a true prophet of God. There is much fakery out there, and of course with the technology as we have it today, people can fake things and spread their fakery and And scheming all over the world. But we must not be deceived into thinking that if we see something that looks like a miracle, then maybe there's something that we need to follow. Maybe there's a person we need to believe in. Now it should not always lend c lend credibility to the performer of wonders. Now this might also give you an insight as to why the Pharisees felt justified in Matthew twelve in accusing Jesus of casting out demons and performing miracles at the power of Satan or by the power of Satan. Where they got it wrong is that Jesus was in no way trying to move the people away from true worship Instead, he kept showing that he was the fulfillment of Yahweh's promises, and he always pointed back to the Scripture and to true worship. But that was a threat to first century Judaism, because the Jews themselves had moved away from the center of true worship, and so as Jesus is seeking to call the people back to true worship, the Jewish leaders Interpreted that as him moving them away from the church, if you will, from Judaism, from faithfulness to their laws. And so that's why they were antagonistic to Jesus. They were a false religion, and as Jesus was trying to move them back to biblical fidelity, they accused him of being false. Now, in this particular moment, the Pharisees are debating with one another as to whether or not Jesus can be truly from God because of the miracle that he performed, and yet the fact that he violated the Sabbath law. And so they're they're struggling to come up with consensus. And so out of their confusion they go back to the man. And they ask him once again, well, what do you say about him since he healed you? Perhaps they were hoping that the man had some more information to offer. Maybe Jesus said something that has now jogged in his memory that he can convey to them that would help them make a decision about who Jesus is and what kind of influence he was trying to have on this man that would settle their debate. But the man here does nothing more than offer an educated guess. Educated by the fact that he's been healed by Jesus. He guesses that Jesus is a prophet. Well, that's not what they wanted to hear. So committed they were to their law, and so antagonistic were they to Jesus that they came up with the following conclusion, as we see in the beginning of verse 18. It says the Jews did not believe that the man had been blind and received his sight. They came up with a conclusion, everyone is lying to us. This man, his neighbors, everybody is feeding us lies, and they are trying to deceive us. Instead of trying to understand the miracle, they concluded, you know what, there was no miracle. This man wasn't born blind, therefore he wasn't healed. Well, antagonism leads people to come up with all kinds of irrational solutions because they're unwilling to consider the alternative. And we see this all the time. Atheists are more re ready to accept the idea of the eternal material universe than to accept the possibility of God. Many people are more easily accepting of the idea of life coming from non-life rather than accepting that there is a creator who made life. People will reject the mountain of evidence for the resurrection of Jesus Christ, that he lived, he died, and he rose again, just so that they don't have to deal with that evidence. I recently watched a debate between John Lennox, a uh scientist and a Christian, as as he debated Peter Atkins, who also is a scientist but an atheist. And John Lennox was just giving um uh evidence after evidence for the resurrection of Jesus. And Peter Atkins just dismissed them out of hand, not because the evidences themselves were invalid, but simply because As a scientist, he knows resurrections don't happen, therefore they can't happen. That's the easy path. Well, in this case, the antagonism of the Pharisees led them to reject the idea that this man had been blind, despite the overwhelming evidence of not only the man himself, but all of his neighbors and witnesses, and so they refuse to deal with the facts. It's easier to change the narrative than it is without evidence to say that the man Or yeah, then to say that the man had been uh not blind at all. Well to prove this theory they call in the parents. Look at verses 18 to 23. The Jews did not believe that he had been blind and had received his sight until they called the parents of the man who had received his sight and asked them. Is this your son, who you say was born blind? How then does he now see? His parents answered, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind, but how he now sees, we do not know. Nor do we know who opened his eyes. Ask him, he is of age, he will speak for himself. His parents said these things because They feared the Jews, for the Jews had already agreed that if anyone should confess Jesus to be the Christ, he was to be put out of the synagogue. Therefore his parents said, He is of age. Ask him. Well, unfortunately for the Pharisees, calling the parents quickly overturned their theory. But before we get back to how the Pharisees responded, we see in the parents a common response to the work of God. And that is fear. Fear. Not fear of the work of God But fear of the consequences if you affirm and believe the work of God. The parents affirmed clearly, yes, this is our son And yes, he was born blind. And obviously we can all tell he now sees. But they dared not show any sign that they believed That Jesus had performed a miracle, lest they offend the Pharisees. As I noted last time, the fact that they called in the parents would indicate that this was a younger man, perhaps a teenager, maybe in his early twenties. In that day a boy became a man at thirteen. So while it would be odd odd for us to call a thirteen or fourteen-year-old a man, that was not odd for them. It is conjecture, but it seems to me that he's likely a l a little bit older based on how he speaks in such a confrontational way as we move forward in in the narrative. But whatever his age, the parents are not His parents are so fearful of the Pharisees that they are willing to throw their own son under the bus, if you will, and let him fend for himself. Note how there in verse 22 John explains the con that the consequence is what causes parents to fear. And that consequence is being put out of the synagogue. To be put out of the synagogue was a devastating consequence by the Pharisees. The synagogue was much more than a place of worship. It was really a community center. It was the social hub of any community. There would be schools that would be conducted in the synagogue throughout the week. Businesses would be conducted. Community activities and affairs were handled in the synagogue. This is why there were synagogues in Jerusalem, even though there was the temple where people would go to worship. In fact, it's very likely that this entire section is taking place inside the synagogue. That's where the Pharisees themselves would be gathered most of the time. And so to be put out of the synagogue was to be cut off from your community life and education and business connections. And that would lead to relationships being cut off. In short, being put out of the synagogue would make you an outcast. in your community, so much so that people would often move and leave and go somewhere else to start over. This is the consequence that the Jews, the Pharisees, had agreed would come to anyone who would affirm that Jesus is the Messiah. Again, that is no small consequence. It would be life-altering, c y economically devastating, and socially destructive. And fear is a powerful demotivator. Fear of consequences from family, from friends. From one's community is very often the reason that a person will hear the truth, know that it is true, and yet choose not to embrace it. Because they fear the consequences that will come upon them if they do. And of course, that's not just limited to ancient times and it's not just limited to people in Places around the world where persecution is overt. I know that some of you have faced ostracism. You've been cast out. You've been treated with hostility by friends or family members because of your choice to follow Christ. Whether it's here or abroad, people have to consider the cost that following Christ may include being cut off from their family. Being kicked out of the home, losing a job, being in prison or even put to death. Many consider the cost, and they choose not to pay it And to prove their loyalty, they will sometimes expose other believers. In fact, this fear of consequences has given rise to a missions movement called the Insider Movement. I don't know if you've heard of that. The insider movement tells people in uh persecution er places of persecution, you you can become a Christian in your heart. But maintain the appearance of being a Muslim or a Buddhist or whatever the religion is so that you don't get persecuted. You can go to the places of worship. You can pray just like everybody else and have the appearance of maintaining your false religion. But just in your own heart, just know that you're worshiping Jesus. Well, that movement is driven by compassion for people who would otherwise face severe consequences for their faith. But this movement is not only misguided, it is anti-Christian. It goes against the teaching and the examples of the apostles in the early church And the entire history of Christianity as it spread throughout the world. In fact, if if the insider movement had existed from those earliest days, Christianity would have died out with the apostles. Because one of the things that we see in the Scripture and since the Scripture is that it's the spread of people and their testimony of a changed life that is what caused people to hear the gospel and believe. And yet at the same time, again, fear is a powerful demotivator against embracing Christ and living for Christ. And so the only way to overcome such a fear is with the fear of the Lord. That's why Jesus said in Luke 12, 5, I will warn you whom to fear. Fear him who after he has killed has authority to cast into hell. Yes, I tell you, fear him. Don't fear the consequences that people can bring into your life. Even up to death. Fear God. And by that Jesus didn't necessarily mean I should take out the word necessarily. He didn't mean Be terrified of God, because immediately he goes on to say, are not five sparrows sold for two pennies? and not one of them is forgotten before God? Why, even the hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear not, you are of more value than mery many sparrows So when he says, don't fear those who can kill the body, instead fear him who can cast you into hell, what he's really saying is Serve and worship and submit yourself to Him who when you follow Him will care for you He knows what you need, and he will provide everything that you need, and he will protect you even as he brings you into his kingdom. We need to be driven by the fear of the Lord, knowing that He cares infinitely more for us than anyone else who might bring harm to us. Well that brings us to the final response that we see here, and that is hostility. The anti antagonism of the Pharisees in their first round of questioning This will just take a verse at a time. Look at verse twenty-four. It says, So for the second time they called the man who has been who had been blind and said to him Give glory to God. We know that this man is a sinner. Well, in saying give glory to God, they are not actually asking him to glorify God. This is simply their way of saying in a in a kind of religious spiritual sense Stop lying to us. Tell us the truth. So help you, God, if you will. They have already come to the settled conclusion that Jesus is a sinner because after all he violated the Sabbath So now it's just a matter of getting everyone else to tell the truth and fess up to their lies. If this man was healed, there must be some natural explanation. And though it's not what the Pharisees hope to hear, what the man does is responds by actually giving glory to God. Look at verse 25. He answered, Whether he is a sinner, I do not know. One thing I do know, that though I was blind, I now see This man here is not equivocating on his faith in Jesus because he doesn't have faith in Jesus. He doesn't even know who Jesus is. So he testifies to the only thing that he does know. I was blind, and now I see. And though this man is not yet uh a full a believer which he will become by the end of this chapter, we can still learn this simple lesson, and that is that we should not overthink what we need to say to share the gospel. A great starting point if you don't know what else to say is just to share your own testimony. What has Jesus done for you? How has he changed your life? How did you encounter him? Just giving the simple biography of how Jesus came into your life, how you came to know the gospel and what he's done for you. Can be a powerful way to share the gospel with an unbeliever. And from there you can talk about who Jesus is, the fact of his life and his death and resurrection. So if you don't know where else to start, just start with what he's done in your life. That's really the pattern of evangelism that we've seen throughout the gospel. Uh each of the gospels, whether it's the Samaritan woman in John chapter four who ran back to the village and was telling everybody w that Jesus had told her everything that she had done in her life Or whether it was like the man who was freed from demon possession in Luke chapter 8, who went throughout the cities telling the people of all that God had done for him? Jesus' fame spread, Scripture says, because people went out and they said, look at what Jesus has done for me. And so again, if you're not sure how to explain the gospel, just tell your own story and the Spirit will guide your conversation. Well, if people respond to skepticism or antagonism or fear or hostility when you proclaim the truth, that's okay. It wouldn't be the first time. Look at how the Pharisees respond to this man's simple testimony. They said to him, verse 26, What did he say to you? Or rather, what did he do to you? How did he open your eyes? Again, their hearts are so hard that they just refuse to accept that a miracle has taken place. So they keep pressing him, hoping he'll receive or reveal some detail that will validate their unbelief. Well now the man changes his approach. He's been on the defense. He's been answering questions. Now he goes on offense, and he boldly points out their hostility, and he goes further even to mock them. Look at verse 27. He answered them, I have told you already, and you would not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you want to become his disciples? This is dripping with sarcasm. He's done playing their game at this point. He he hits them with the truth of their unwillingness to deal with the facts, and he mockingly accuses them of wanting to be Jesus' disciples, which of course he knows is not true. Well, you can imagine they don't exactly take kindly to this suggestion, so they hit back. Verse 28, they reviled him. saying, you are his disciple, but we are disciples of Moses. We know that God has spoken to Moses, but as for this man, we do not know where he comes from. That's kind of comical for them, even though he did the same to them in a sarcastic way. They accuse him of being his disciples, uh Jesus' disciple, even though he doesn't know who Jesus is, but that's the way it goes With name calling, it never really makes sense. More than that, their self-defense is actually incriminating. They say we are disciples of Moses Maybe you remember from John chapter 5 when Jesus said to a different group of Pharisees, Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father. There is one who accuses you, Moses. on whom you have set your hope. If you believed Moses, you would believe me, for he wrote of me. But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe my words? Everything that Jesus has done throughout his ministry, all of his words and actions have proven that he is the prophet that Moses spoke of in Deuteronomy 18. In other words, you cannot be a true disciple of Moses without being a disciple of Jesus. Because Moses points to Jesus. Now add to this, why were they disciples of Moses? Why did anybody believe that Moses came from God? Well, simply because Moses performed the signs and wonders that proved that he was a divine messenger. And of course he spoke the word of God. If these Pharisees would have given a moment's thought, they would have realized that like Moses, Jesus is performing signs and wonders that no one else can perform, and he is speaking the word of God, affirming and always uh uh agreeing with and fulfilling the law and the prophets. So in defending themselves they showed themselves really just to be blind. Again, they say about Jesus, as for this man, we do not know where he comes from. Now if you track with the flow of the Gospel of John, it's almost comical how often this issue of Jesus' origin keeps coming up in different ways Here they clearly say, we don't know where these this guy is coming from, so how are we supposed to know if he's the Messiah? But back in chapter 7, verse 27, some of the people there say But we know where this man comes from, speaking of Jesus, when the Christ appears, no one will know where he comes from. So which is it? Are you supposed to know or are you not supposed to know? And the answer is Whatever makes it convenient to reject Jesus. The last thing their hostility will allow is for them to seek understanding as to Jesus' true origin. Now what happens next is remarkable. This man who up to this point has given fairly short answers to the questions they've that they've provided. He now launches into a bold and clear sermon and educates these religious leaders. Look at verses 30 to 33. The man answered, Why, this is an amazing thing. You do not know where he comes from, and yet he opened my eyes We know that God does not listen to sinners, but if anyone is a worshiper of God and does his will, God listens to him. Never since the world began has it been heard that anyone opened the eyes of a man born blind. If this man were not from God, he could do nothing. He can hardly believe that there is a man walking around Jerusalem and even Israel who has the ability to give sight to the blind, and somehow the Pharisees don't have a clue about him. How is that possible? Just think about if this were to happen today, if there were somebody who truly had the ability to heal, and they walked to into a hospital and healed everyone in that hospital? And then they walked to the next hospital and healed everyone in that hospital? And then they walked into another hospital and did the same? How long do you think it would take before that was that news was spread all around the world How long would it take before that individual received requests for interviews and reports and articles were written about that man who had ability to heal? Now, obviously, here in the first century they didn't have the mass communication means that we do today. But world travels fast in a small nation where everybody comes together multiple times a year for festivals. How could the Pharisees not know anything about Jesus? That's what this man wants to know. In other words, he's effectively accusing them of intentional ignorance. And then he goes on to remind them what every faithful Jew knows. from the Word of God, and that is that God hears the prayer and gives miraculous power only to his faithful servants. And furthermore, what Jesus has done is not a small demonstration of power that demons can replicate. No, what he's done has never been done before, and only divine power can explain it. As this man is giving these arguments, if you will, is making these statements, these are not high-minded, intellectually complex, theologically rich arguments. These are simple, basic truths that even one who has spent his life begging on the side of the road can understand. And that in and of itself reveals the hostility of the Pharisees. They have no interest in the truth. No interest in considering the facts. No interest in doing their due diligence. They simply reject Jesus out of hand, out of their hostility. And their response shows it. Look at verse 34 They answered him, You were born in utter sin, and would you teach us? And they cast him out. By saying you were born in utter sin, what they're effectively doing is accusing him of being born blind because of his own sin And they conclude that being a sinner, they he is in no position to teach them. Well, what this man experiences from them is what is written in Isaiah 24, verse 14. Where the Lord says, Behold, I will do again wonderful things with this people, and with wonder upon wonder. And the wisdom of their wise will perish, and the discernment of their discerning men shall be hidden. One of the ways that God judges a people is by causing the leaders of a nation To be fools and lack discernment. That has been the case for Israel's leaders for the last several thousand years. Not being able to interpret the sign of the mess of the Messiah led the Jewish leaders around that entire nation at that time to be hostile to Jesus, which is ultimately what led them to put Jesus to death. And that was only the beginning, again, as we see in the accounts of the early church. Well, the Pharisees not only scoffed at the truth that the man spoke, but they cast him out of the synagogue. But you know, that's okay. He was never really part of it anyway. Grew up living on the street. And as we'll see next time, having been cast out of the synagogue, Jesus welcomes him into the kingdom of God. So, skepticism, antagonism, fear, hostility, these are the common responses to Jesus and the gospel that rise out of blindness to the truth. Don't be surprised when you experience them with those that you seek to share the gospel with. Be like this man who spoke the truth. Be like Jesus who gave up everything to glorify the Father in the face of hostility. Be like the apostles and the multitude of believers throughout the ages. Be like the reformers and their wives and their children who five hundred years ago were rejected and imprisoned and tortured and killed for the sa the sake of the gospel and the word of God. Be like those who hold fast to the truth that you know because of what Jesus has done for you. And don't let competing authorities and influences and pressures move you away from or dissuade you from believing. In the words of Hebrews twelve, one and two, therefore, since we are so surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight and sin which clo Clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith. who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. We will face opposition in this world when we stand up and speak the truth. But we need not fear And friend, if you're here and you have not believed in Jesus Christ, maybe you've been skeptical, maybe you've been antagonistic, maybe you've been fearful, or even hostile. Turn to Christ. Recognize the authority of the Word of God to speak the truth and declare to you that Jesus lived and died to pay the penalty that sinners deserve. And then he rose again and proved that who he is as the Son of God, so that anyone who would turn from their sin and believe in him would have eternal life. Come to Christ today. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this brief word of exhortation. The example that we see here. In the life of this man who, though he suffered so much of his life, experienced the miracle of Christ giving him sight, and that emboldened him. To speak truth. May we who have received not only whatever blessings you have poured into our lives, but more than that, we've been given new life in Christ. And all the blessings of the heavenly places in Christ, may we be bold to proclaim the gospel to those who need it. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.