Well in nineteen ninety-four, David Wells wrote in his book God in the Wasteland, quote, The fundamental problem in the evangelical world today is that God rests too inconsequentially upon the church. His truth is too distant, his grace is too ordinary, his judgment is too benign, his gospel is too easy, and his Christ is too common. Unquote. If that was true then, it is even more true now. While they have the potential for great good, the advancement of technology, the proliferation of information and the social media culture more than anything has influenced all people, including those in the church, in a way that has inflated our view of ourselves and deflated our view of God. Recently Mark Zuckerberg announced that the new AI glasses that his company have developed can and when you're speaking to somebody who's speaking to you in a language you do not know, they can show you the the translation of what they're saying uh in those glasses. Now, one can imagine all kinds of benefits that come from that, uh even as it relates to evangelism and gospel ministry. But when I saw that announcement, what came to my mind is the Tower of Babel. And how when the people all had one language, they were able to combine themselves together with a project that was aimed at rebelling against God and making a name for themselves. And as God said, at that time when there were no communication barriers, this is the only beg this is only the beginning of what they will do, and nothing that they purpose to do will now be impossible for them. And so He confused their languages so that they would not further their rebellion. Well, it's hard to predict what this technology and other technologies will do as they advance, but we know because the scripture says so plainly that As society moves forward, as technology advances, mankind will do what it has always done. And that is unite together in rebellion against God. And while as the Church of Jesus Christ, we and all believers around the world may not stand with the world in their rebellion, it's nearly impossible for us to not be influenced by the corrupting i uh influence of the world's thinking One of the places we usually find evidence of such corruption in our own mind and heart. As we think about God is in our thoughts, in our questions, and in our conclusions in times of suffering. And this is because obscure or rather suffering has the effect, many times, of obscuring our view of reality. Just as a serious head injury can damage one's vision, so suffering can have the effect of obscuring our view of life The good news is that God, in his word, gives us the corrective lens that we need to see him and life rightly. And so what we want to do today as we continue our study of John chapter 9 is to both recognize wrong thinking and wrong questions, as well as deepen our understanding of why God does what he does. The theme of chapter 9, as we have said, is inverted sight. In verses 1 through 7, we see a blind man who sees. And verses 8 to 24, we see seeing people who are blind. And then in verses 35 to 41, we see that a blind heart is given sight. No, this morning we'll only look at and we'll conclude our study of the first seven verses. I want to read the entire account so we have it in our minds as we work through this wonderful miracle by our Lord. So let's read that together. You follow along as I read It says, as he passed by, he saw a man blind from birth, and his disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned? This man or his parents, that he was born blind? And Jesus answered, it was not that this man sinned or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him. We must work the works of Him who sent me while it is day. Night is coming when no one can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world Having said these things, he spit on the ground and made mud with it the saliva. Then he anointed the man's eyes with the mud, and said to him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam, which means scent So he went and washed and came back seeing. The neighbors and those who had seen him before as a beggar were saying, Is this not the man who used to sit and beg Some said it is he. Others said, no, but he is like him. He kept saying, I am the man. So they said to him, How then were your eyes opened? He answered, The man called Jesus made mud and anointed my eyes, and said to me, Go to Siloim and wash So I went and washed and received my sight. They said to him, Where is he? He said, I do not know They brought to the Pharisees the man who was born blind formerly, and now it was the Sabbath day when Jesus made the mud and opened his eyes So the Pharisees again asked him how he had received his sight, and he said to them, He put mud on my eyes, and I wash and I see Some of the Pharisees said, This man, Jesus, is not from God, for he does not keep the Sabbath. But others said, How can a man who is a sinner do such signs? And there was a division among them. So they said again to the man to the blind man, What do you say about him since he has opened your eyes? He said, He is a prophet. The Jews did not believe that he had been blind and had received his sight until they called the parents of the man who had received his sight and asked them, Is this your son, who you say was born blind? How then does he see? His parents answered, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind, but how he now sees we do not know, nor do we know who opened his eyes. Ask him. He is of age. He will speak for himself. His parents said these things because they feared the Jews, for the Jews had already agreed that if any one should confess Jesus to be the Christ, he was to be put out of the synagogue. Therefore his parents said he is of age, ask him. So for the second time they called the man who had been blind and said to him, Give glory to God, we know that this man, referring to Jesus, is a sinner. He answered Whether he is a sinner I do not know. But one thing I know, that though I was blind, now I see. They said to him, What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes? He answered them, I have told you already, and you would not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you also want to become his disciples? And they reviled him, saying, You are his disciple, but we are disciples of Moses. We know that God has spoken to Moses, but as for this man, we do not know where he comes from. The man answered, Why, this is an amazing thing. You do not know where he comes from, and yet he opened my eyes We know that God does not listen to sinners, but if anyone is a worshiper of God and does his will, God listens to him. Never since the world began has it been heard that any one opened the eyes of a man born blind. If this man were not from God, he could do nothing They answered him, You were born in utter sin, and would you teach us? And they cast them out Jesus heard that they had cast him out and found him. He said, Do you believe in the Son of Man? He answered, Who is he, sir, that I may believe in him? And Jesus said to him, You have seen him, and it is he who is speaking to you. He said, Lord, I believe. And he worshipped him. Jesus said, For judgment I came into this world, that those who do not see may see, and those who see may become blind. Some of the Pharisees near him heard these things and said to him, Are we also blind? Jesus said to them, if you were blind, you would have no guilt. But now that you say we see, your guilt remains. So much there that will continue to take us a few weeks to work through. But inverted sight is our theme. And as we work through the first seven verses, we will see that we're dividing this section as we began two weeks ago under the three headings, common confusion. Divine purpose and God's work. We'll do a little review and then we'll continue where we left off from last week The truth is, in this section, we have far more than just a miracle that took place 2,000 years ago. We actually find answers to some of the deepest and most difficult questions that mankind has ever asked. What are those questions? Well, let's look at the common confusion there in verses 1 and 2. Look at it again. It says, As he passed by, he saw a man blind from birth. And his disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind? The disciples suffered from a condition that you could call humanitis. They weren't just a product of their culture, they were a product of the human race. And so their hearts and minds were corrupted by wrong thinking and believing. And one of the common symptoms of this condition is the tendency tendency to believe that hardships and trials and difficulties, including every kind of physical malady, should only come to those who deserve it What we call the prosperity gospel is not a new message. This is the message that God has so arranged the world that if you do everything right. If you say the right things, if you express the right amount of faith, you will experience health and wealth and prosperity. Suffering is the result of your sin and your lack of faith, so it is said Eliphaz, the first of Job's friends to speak to him, put it out there right up front in Job chapter four, verse seven. Remember, who that was innocent ever perished? Or where were the upright cut off? As I have seen those who plough iniquity and sow trouble reap the same. He then goes on to urge Job to repent of whatever sin caused this calamity to come upon him so that God would prosper him again. This view really is satanic, and we see that in the reality by the fact that every religion in the world, apart from biblical Christianity, holds to this view in one shape or another. And this, even though there is a mountain of evidence that would show that everyone experiences suffering no matter how you live, and often prosperity comes to the least deserving. I find it it interesting that the concept of karma, even though formally taught by just a small number of Eastern religions has really become a a cultural worldview even in the West, so much so that the word is an idiom, it's a way of speaking, and we even have this phrase that we call instant karma Which of course means that when uh refers to when somebody experiences trouble right after they've done something wrong. This is a view that if you do something wrong, something wrong should happen to you. Therefore, if something wrong happens to you, that means you must have done something wrong. And at one level, many of us share that view as seen in how we respond and the questions that we ask when suffering comes Well, the disciples assume that this is how life works. Notice that they didn't ask if someone sinned, but who sinned that caused this man to be born blind? Well, Jesus corrects them with a divine purpose. Look again at verse 3. Jesus answered, It was not this man's sin, that this man sinned or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him. Jesus' answer here really addresses what is the most heart-wrenching question that anyone can ask. Why do bad things happen? And though his answer here specifically addresses why this particular man was born blind, what he says is consistent with what the scripture teaches on this issue that applies to all people. For this particular man, God caused him to be born blind so that When the Messiah came on to the earth and came to the feast of Booth in Jerusalem this particular year and walked out of the temple that he would walk by this man, he would See this man and he would go to this man and he would demonstrate the power of God by giving him sight And that's just the first of the works of God that will be done in and through this man, which we've already seen as we read through the chapter. Now, last time we saw from Scripture that God is the creator of all things, and as the creator, he has the sovereign right to do whatever he wills with his creation. And that's precisely what he does. He exercises his sovereign rule by decreeing all that takes place according to his will. He says In Isaiah forty-six, I am God, and there is none like me, declaring the end from the beginning and from ancient times, things not yet done, saying, My Counsel shall stand, and I will accomplish all my purpose. And what is his purpose? That his glory might be seen and known and praised. As it says in Romans 11:36, for from him and through him and to him are all things To him be the glory forever. Amen. All things exist to bring glory to God because of the excellency of his being and the perfections of his nature. Namely, everything that defines him as God is supremely worthy of being seen and known and praised. And in fact, because he alone is worthy of worship, the scripture says that God is jealous for his glory. Six times in the scripture, God Himself says that he is a jealous God. The first one is in the Ten Commandments in Exodus chapter 20. When God gives in the second commandment the prohibition to not make any other idols, nor to bow down to them, nor to serve them. And he says, For I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God. Now, he is not jealous in the sense that he envies what idols have, not at all. He is not jealous of idols, he is jealous for his glory. And it is right for him to be jealous. Jealousy in its purest form is when that which is owed and deserved Is given to someone else or something else. For example, a wife experiences righteous jealousy When her husband takes what she deserves, what is owed to her, that is his love and his devotion, and he gives it to someone else. That is a good, righteous jealousy. And so it is right for God to say in Isaiah 42, verse 8, I am the Lord, that is my name. I will not give my glory to another, nor my praise to carved idols. It is right for him to be jealous when those who he has made in his image to worship him take his glory and give it to something else. Especially chunks of wood and stone and metal. So God does what he does so that his glory is put on display. and praised. In the words of Isaiah 48, 11, for my own sake, for my own sake I do it. For how should my name be profaned? My glory I will not give to another But we can't leave this issue without addressing the common question that lingers in the heart. When you really understand the full implications that everything God does, He does for the sake of displaying His glory. And the question goes something like this. Okay, I understand that God is glorious beyond comprehension, that he deserves to be seen and known and praised. But these are real people we're talking about. And this suffering is intense How is it right for God to allow real human beings to suffer just so that he can have his glory Or maybe there's the more everlasting question. How can God make people that he knows will spend eternity in hell? Well, that's not a new question, and God has been kind to give us an answer. Turn over in your Bible with me to Romans chapter 9. In Romans 9, Paul speaks directly about God's work of election, both his election of his chosen people Israel, as well as those whom he chooses for. Redemption. And he reminds the reader about God's election of Isaac over Ishmael and Jacob over Esau as illustrations of how he chooses to save some and not others. Look at verses 9 to 13. It says that is as it is written, Jacob I loved, but Esau Esa or sorry that's verse thirteen. Let me start in verse nine. What is For this is what the promise said. About this time next year I will return, and Sarah shall have a son. And not only so, but also when Rebekah had conceived children by one man, our forefather Isaac, though they were not yet born and had done n uh nothing either good or bad, in order that God's purpose of election might continue, not because of works, but because of him who calls, she was told the older will serve the younger As it is written, Jacob I loved, Esau I hated. God chose Isaac and then Jacob to be the ones through whom his promises would be uh fulfilled. Ishmael and Esau were rejected, and they and their descendants did not receive the covenants or the law. In fact they ended up being, at various points, the enemies. of Israel. Now the fact that God would choose some to bless and some to reject raises deeply personal and vexing questions. of the heart. But inspired by the Spirit of God, Paul raises the questions and answers them directly. Look at verses 14 to 18. He says, What shall we say then? Is there injustice on God's part? By no means. For he says to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion. So then it depends not on human will or exertion, but on God who has mercy. For the Scripture says to Pharaoh, For this very purpose I have raised you up that I might show my power in you, and that my name might be proclaimed in all the earth. So then he has mercy on whom he wills, and he hardens whom he wills. Though many try to soften the problem by making God active in the extending of mercy and passive In judgment, verse 18 shows that it is God Himself who hardens people so that they will not believe. Yes, Pharaoh hardened his own heart. And yes, God hardened his heart. The rejection of Ishmael and Esau and Pharaoh stand as illustrations that from eternity past God purposed to create people through whom he would display his wrath and his justice. Both when Paul wrote this and today, perhaps even right now in this room This generates questions in the heart. Like, how in the world is this fair or just or right? And that question really is born out of our God-given sense of justice. But, beloved, remember that justice is not determined by what we think is right. But what but by what God says is right. Look at verses 19 to 24 You will say to me then, how does he, or why does he still find fault? For who can resist his will? But who are you, O man, to answer back to God? Will what is moulded say to its moulder, Why have you made me like this? Has the potter no right over the clay to make out of the same lump one vessel for honorable use and another for dishonorable use What if God, desiring to show his wrath and to make his power known, has endured with much patience vessels of wrath prepared for destruction in order to make known the riches of his glory? For vessels of mercy which he has prepared beforehand for his glory, even us whom he has called, not from the Jews only, but also from the Gentiles. Paul is saying precisely what Jesus says in John 9:3. It was not that this man sinned or his parents, but so that the works of God might be displayed in him. Beloved, you can ask why are you suffering the way you are? You can ask why is it that you're saved when your loved one is not? You can ask, why is it that there are people in this world who will never hear the gospel of Christ before they die and then they face judgment? All of these kinds of questions ultimately have the same answer, so that God can put His glory on display. Namely, the perfections of his nature, including his mercy and his grace, as well as his justice and his wrath And when we wonder how God can be right in doing that What's actually happening in our soul is we're thinking of God as less than He is, that He is not the potter who has right over the clay. And we're thinking of ourselves as more than we are, that our thoughts and our sense of justice and our wisdom is better than his. This was Job's problem. You remember that at the beginning of his trials, Job's first response was to accept his suffering. He said, Shall we not receive good from God and or shall we receive good from God and shall we not receive evil? But then as he debated with his friends and he was justifying himself to them that he had not in fact sinned to receive the trials that he experienced He cultivated this attitude that if he could just get before God, if he could get into the courtroom with God and ask God questions, he could prove his own innocence. But then when God brought him into his courtroom, rather than giving Job the opportunity to ask questions, God himself asked Job questions. And he bombarded him with these questions that highlighted the fact that he is the sovereign God who can do anything he pleases with his creation. In the end, Job could only respond by saying, I know that you can do all things, and that no purpose of yours can be thwarted. He goes on to say that when he had brought these questions to God, he was speaking like a fool. And so he concludes, Therefore I despise myself. And I repent in dust and ashes. Two things are true at the same time. First, because the mind and knowledge and wisdom of God are infinite We, and we are finite, we will never get to the place where we can fully comprehend and wrap our minds around why he does what he does. But at the same time, secondly, the more that we encounter God, and the more that we see what He has revealed in Scripture, and we see His glory on display, the more our questions will seem Foolish and irrelevant. Because the more that we see the glory of God displayed in all that He does, the more we will shrink down to our actual size. And he will appear greater and greater, closer to the infinite glory that he is, and we will give him the praise that he deserves. And this is why God does what he does, so that he would receive the glory. We'll turn back to John 9. Knowing that there is such a divine purpose, Jesus is determined to accomplish the Father's plan. Look again at verses four and five. Jesus goes on to say, We must work the works of Him who sent me while it is day. Night is coming when no one can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. If God had no purpose, if there was no divine plan, then it wouldn't matter what Jesus did, it wouldn't matter what Jesus said, but because God does have a plan and he does have a purpose behind all that he does, we must be faithful to do his will. That's what Jesus is saying here. Now, in his case, Jesus knew precisely what the Father wanted him to do. Remember, he said in chapter 5, verse 19, Truly, truly I say to you, the Son of Man can do nothing on his own accord, but only what he sees the Father doing. For whatever the Father does, that the Son does likewise. And Jesus will pray at the end of his earthly ministry in John 17:4: I glorified you on earth, having accomplished the work that you gave me to do. So the decree of God and all that takes place is manifested at glorifying uh the the God the Father, and so Jesus, when he came on this earth, it was both necessary and inevitable that that he would fulfill that very purpose, that divine plan, to glorify his father with every word he spoke and every action he took. Now notice there in verse 4 the phrase while it is day. He simply is using this as a reference to while he is physically present in this world. As long as he is alive, he's saying we must do the works that the Father has prepared for him to do. The light of his presence will not always be on the earth. Of course, we know that now, 2,000 years later, Jesus himself will say in John 12, verse 35, the light is among you for a little while longer Walk while you have the light, lest the darkness overtake you. So as long as he is on the earth, as long as He has life in his body. He is busy doing the Father's work. But the time will come. Night will come, as Jesus puts it, when his work will cease. But verse 5, as long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. Of course, this doesn't mean that he stopped being the light of the world when he ascended into glory after his resurrection. But it does mean that his physical presence to which so many were drawn would be removed from the earth And now, ever since his ascension, his light is in the world through his people in whom his spirit dwells Remember that Jesus said in Matthew 5, 14 to 16, You are the light of the world. A city on a hill cannot be hidden, nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a stand, and it gives light to all in the house. In the same way, let your light shine before men so they may so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father in heaven Now, with Christ in glory, God manifests his work primarily through the means of his people doing the works he has prepared for them. Remember Ephesians 2. 10, for we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them. And then in his letter to Titus, he repeatedly reminded Titus that God, or rather, that Christ redeemed a people to be his own possession who would be zealous. for good works. And so in chapter 3, verse 8, he said, This thing is trustworthy. I want you to insist on these things, so that those who have believed in God may be careful to devote themselves to good works. Now you and I may not have the divine insight that Jesus had as to what precisely we need to be doing, who we need to be ministering to, what words we need to be saying precisely. But we do have God's revealed will in the scripture. And as we grow in knowing the heart of God and what he has revealed, that will shape our values and our priorities and our desires such that in many situations we will have a fairly good idea of what we can be doing to do the works of God and bring Him glory. But consider this, beloved, when we think about doing good works, you and I often think about uh those acts of kindness, uh those uh acts of generosity, things of of service. And that's right, we we should think of those things, but that's not all we should think about. Consider that God works God's works that display his glory also include loving your enemies, praying for those who persecute you, blessing those who curse you Overcoming evil with good. It includes your attitude toward authorities. It includes your words on social media, your conversations with coworkers. As it relates to suffering, you can do the work of God and bring glory to Him by cultivating the character of Christ and the fruit of the Spirit By speaking of his goodness and mercy and kindness and faithfulness, by testifying to those you would otherwise never meet in any other context of the hope that you have in Christ. Because suffering often puts us in places and in front of people that we would otherwise never meet, so we can do the works of God. That is God's purpose. So when we get confused about our suffering or the suffering of others, we need to recall the divine purpose that God has, and that is to manifest his works and put his glory on display. And so, like our Lord here, our responsibility is to consider what can we do to manifest the glory of God Whether in ourselves as we are suffering, or in others as we minister to them in their suffering. Well, that brings us then to God's work in this particular man's life. God's work. Look at verses 6 and 7. Having said these things, he spit on the ground and made mud with the saliva. Then he anointed the man's eyes with the mud, and said to him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam, which means scent So he went and washed and came back seeing. Notice here that Jesus takes the initiative As far as we're told, this man didn't cry out to Jesus asking for healing, and that's probably because he didn't know that Jesus could heal We've seen other examples in scripture where there'd be a blind man and those around him would say, Hey, Jesus is coming, and the blind individual would cry out to Jesus for healing. But that didn't happen here It seems remarkable to us that at this point in Jesus' ministry, which is he's about six months from his death, that this blind man would not know anything about Jesus, but that seems to be the case. Remember that in verse eleven he testified to his friends, the man Jesus is the one who anointed my eyes. So he knew his name, but then later, as he interacts with the Pharisees And they ask him, What do you think about this man, Jesus? Who who do you say that he is? He he wasn't quite sure. So he's like, Well, he's got to be a prophet. He's not an ordinary man. But he certainly didn't seem to think that he was the Messiah. So all that to say that this man is not the explanation for the healing that Jesus performed. It was not because this man had faith In Jesus, it was simply because Jesus took the initiative to extend the power of God to him. And what Jesus does here is fascinating. If you were to combine all of the healing miracles that are recorded for us in the four gospels, we only have a small slice of all the miracles that Jesus performed throughout his three-year ministry. But from that small sample size, what we see is that Jesus did not have any consistent pattern or method for healing Some he would heal from a distance where he couldn't even see the individual. Some he would heal right up close, most in fact. Some he would heal by touching the person. Others he would heal simply by speaking to them. He didn't use any repeated words or formulas as we often see today among the charlatans. Sometimes he would simply command somebody to do what they otherwise could not do, like get up and pick up your bed and walk. Other times he would tell someone, as he does here, to take certain steps that would be required before they would receive their healing. The record we have reveals no consistency in how Jesus heals. And even when it comes to healing the blind, Jesus did it in different ways. Sometimes he would touch the eyes and the individual was healed Once we're told that Jesus spit on the man's eyes directly and then touched him and then the man was healed. And of course, here we see that Jesus spit on the ground, made a little mud, put that mud on the eyes of the man, and then told him to go wash it off in the pool of Siloam. Now, the reason it's important to know that Jesus had no particular method for healing is because otherwise it would be possible to go down the rabbit hole of trying to figure out why Jesus did it this way. Why did he heal this man in this way as if it was a departure from what he would normally do? Why would he make mud with his own saliva? Why would he put that on the man's eyes? When he could just speak and heal him. Why did Jesus make the man go to the pool of Siloam? The man would have had to have somebody else take him, because he was blind Well, there's all kinds of theories that one can read about in uh among the interpreters. Some of them can get rather creative. Most theories try to find some theological significance in the particular steps that Jesus took. You you might read about the fact that because God made Adam from the dust of the ground, Jesus used dust to bring healing and sight into this man's eyes to create in him the ability to see that wasn't there to pre before. You might read about the pool of Siloam that it was from that pool that the water drawing ceremony was was used for the uh feast of booze, as we talked about uh some months back And perhaps Jesus, because of the teaching that he is the water of the light of life, wanted to emphasize that fact But those ideas along with others are intriguing, but they lack any biblical evidence. So we can have no confidence The scripture simply doesn't say why Jesus did it this way. Which leads me to think that I know why he did it this way. Are you ready? It's because he wanted to. If he had some deeper intention, the Holy Spirit and the Apostle John did not think it was necessary to tell us. What the Holy Spirit does want us to know with confidence is that Jesus is the one who heals the blind. As John writes in chapter 20, verse 30, this work of God was written so that we might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing we might have life in his name. Now, as I mentioned, this is not the first blind man that Jesus ever healed. But for the purposes of John's gospel, this is the one that's brought to our attention so that we might believe. How does Jesus healing the blind man lead to the conclusion that he is the Messiah, the Son of God? Well, let's start with a man's own testimony. Look at verses 32 and 33, where this man says, as he's speaking to the Pharisees, Never since the world began has it been heard that any one open the eyes of a man born blind. If this man were not from God, he could do nothing Mark this in your mind. No one in history has ever given sight to the blind. It's one thing for injuries to be healed through medicine or therapy or the natural healing process of the body, but to create structures that don't exist. To connect nerves to the visual cortex to enable the brain to properly interpret the signals that it receives and to do all of that without any kind of surgery has never been done So automatically the fact that Jesus performed this miracle tells you that there's something unique about him He has a power unlike any other man. And as it turns out, there's only one being who has ever claimed to be able to give sight to the blind. In Exodus 4, verse eleven, the Lord says, Who made man's mouth, and who makes him mute or deaf, or seeing, or blind? Is it not I the Lord? Psalm 146, verse 8, the Lord says, The Lord opens the eyes of the blind. And though it's true that there's no record of the blind receiving sight in the Old Testament, Isaiah 35. 5 says that this is the kind of miracle that would be seen during the time of the Messiah. It says, Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf unstopped. More than that, this particular miracle is one of the tasks given to the Messiah in Isaiah 42. I will give you as a covenant for the people, a light for the nations, to open the eyes that are blind, to bring out the prisoners from the dungeon, from the prison, those who sit in darkness. So the ministry of the Messiah would include giving sight to the blind as a demonstration of divine power. And so it is that when Jesus began and launched his ministry in Nazareth in the synagogue in Luke chapter 4, he read from uh Isaiah 42 Saying, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because He has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim liberties, liberty to the captive and recovering of sight to the blind And to set at liberty those who are oppressed to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. Matthew, Mark, and Luke tell us that healing the blind was a feature of Jesus' healing ministry. Though again, no one else in history has ever given sight to the blind man, this was a common occurrence for Jesus. In fact, Matthew 15 tells us that As Jesus was walking along the Sea of Galilee, says great crowds came to him, bringing with them the lame, the blind, the crippled, the mute, and many others. And they put them at his feet. And you know, if you and I were walking down the Sea of Galilee and people did that to us, you know what we would say? You need to go to the doctor. Or, sorry, there's nothing anybody can do for you. But it says he healed them. And so the crowd wondered when they saw the mute speaking and the crippled healthy and the lame walking and the blind seeing. And they glorified the God of Israel. Healing just in general is rare in the Old Testament. Sometimes when we think Superficially, we think it's all over the place. It's not. There's literally only a handful of people in the Old Testament who experience divine healing, and most of those are healed directly by God without any human mediator. So when Jesus came on the scene, the miracles performed exploded in the demonstrations of divine power as never seen before or since. And the purpose of that was to validate the identity of the Messiah In fact, when John the Baptist was in prison and he sent Jesus, he sent messengers to Jesus to ask him, are you the Messiah or should we look for someone else? Jesus says in Matthew eleven, Go and tell John what you hear and see. The blind receive their sight, and the lame walk. Lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, and the dead are raised up, and the poor have good news preached to them. So, friends, giving sight to the blind is irrefutable proof that Jesus is the Messiah because he does the work of God. In fact, I would add this the the evidence that this is identifying Jesus as the Messiah is strengthened by the fact that we have no record of anyone other than Jesus healing the blind. This is admittedly an argument from silence, but I find it interesting that we're not told of any of the apostles healing blindness. In the list of the maladies that the apostles healed, and they did heal quite a bit. Blindness is never mentioned when it is mentioned in terms of the healing ministry of Jesus We're told that the apostles healed those who were sick, those who were paralyzed and lame and demon-possessed. They even raised the dead. But we're never told that they gave sight to the blind. All of this is to say that giving sight to the blind and to this particular man is documented here in the Gospel of John. so that we might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God Now it may well be that the reason this is a power exclusively exercised by Jesus serves to illustrate the fact that Not only can is God the only one who can give sight to the blind, but God is the only one who can give sight to the eyes of the heart To enable any of us who are born blind as we all are to the glory of God so that we might see the face of Jesus Christ 2 Corinthians 4, Paul writes, and even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are perishing. In their case, the God of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelievers to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. For what we proclaim is not ourselves, but Jesus Christ as Lord, with ourselves as your servants for Jesus' sake For God, who said, Let light shine out of darkness, has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. Salvation, belief in Christ, faith, repentance, all of those are described in Scripture as God doing a work. in the heart and here it's described as God shining his light so that we might see Christ. Now, as we saw as we read the chapter, that light came into the heart of this man who was born blind. Has that light shined into your heart? Do you see the glory of God in the person and work of Jesus Christ? Have you believed in him If you have, let that light permeate throughout every crevice of your soul, including those dark corners of suffering. You may not always see it with clarity. You may not see it at all. But you can know that God is always manifesting His glory in your life And in everything that takes place. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this truth, which is in many ways hard to understand. It's certainly impossible for us to grasp it in such a way that makes everything uh easy, takes away any of the any of the intellectual difficulties, and that's just a reflection of both our finiteness and our fallenness And so I pray, Lord, that you would grant us eyes to see and believe what you have revealed, even when it's hard to understand. Lord, I pray again that you would open the eyes of the blind even here among us. Among those with whom we are connected, our loved ones, our family members, our friends, our co-workers, with whom we have sought to proclaim the gospel Lord, we want Jesus to be magnified. We want him to be seen and known. And we know that's your purpose in all things. And so we ask that you would shine his light into hearts that don't currently see him, that he might be believed on and praised. For his sake we pray. Amen.