Well I want you to picture in your mind a balancing scale Imagine putting on one side the the full weight of the suffering of your life. There is the weight of your physical suffering, the bodily weaknesses from birth, the injuries that you've experienced in life, the sicknesses, the diseases. The disability, the ailments, add to that the impact of your physical suffering in your life. How it's impacted your education, your work, your mobility, your activity. Add to that the personal vulnerability and dependency Maybe that sense of a loss of dignity, as others have had to care for your most basic needs. Add to that whatever other facets of suffering your physical trials have brought into your life. Add to this side of the scale the personal suffering that you have experienced, such as struggles of fear, depression, anxiety. The weight of the pressures of life, the feared anticipation of hardship, the personal doubts, the hopelessness Compounding this way, consider the impact on your productivity, the Sense of being constricted in life that you just don't have the ability to live with freedom as you desire to live Add to that the tension in your relationships with other people who just want you to Overcome and move on with life, not be so weighed down and yet just don't understand what you're going through? Pile on to this side of the scale your relational suffering, those broken friendships Which once were such a source of joy and life and delight, but now are defined by bitterness and anger. Those broken family relationships, which would you would desire to be the connections where you would find your greatest support and encouragement. And yet there's hostility. Where the way to the home, which should be a refuge to you, but the thick air of conflict makes it Difficult. Pile onto this side of the scale the sufferings of life circumstances, the the weight of unmet expectations, the unfulfilled dreams, the unfulfilled hopes. This is the the weight of a life you didn't ask for, the job you can barely stand, the endless financial stress. This is the weight of being unemployed or underemployed. This is the weight of not being able to have the children that you desire. The pain of losing a loved one or feeling your own life withering away As you imagine this balancing scale on this side, put all of your physical suffering, your personal suffering, your relational suffering, your circumstantial suffering, and any other kind of suffering that you can think of. And here's the question. Is there anything that you can put on this side of the scale That could balance out the weight of your suffering to make it at least understandable, if not somehow even worth it. Some of you might be thinking about your sin. You know the sin in your own life, and perhaps there's been For you, many years of thinking that the suffering that you've experienced is the result of your sin And God put that suffering into your life to balance out the scales of justice because of the weight of your sin. Well, there's two problems with that possibility of balance. While you may feel the the weight of some of your sin The reality is you do not understand or have the ability to understand the full weight of the ways in which you fall short of God's glory which cannot make your suffering that you've experienced in any way a balance of your sin. The only way to balance the sin in your life is to experience eternity in hell. The second problem with thinking about your sin, balancing your suffering, is that if you have been redeemed by Christ, you have no sin to put on that side of the scale. Christ has taken away your sin. God would be unjust to make you suffer. For the sin that Jesus himself suffered for, as he made his death the all-sufficient sacrifice for your sin. If you have placed your faith in Jesus Christ and received forgiveness from God, you cannot look at your sin to balance out the suffering in your life. Well, perhaps you would consider placing on that side of the scale some good outcomes, perhaps some personal benefits, uh personal growth. even that you've experienced that that you would say makes your suffering possibly worth it So some of you would say, you know, yes, that suffering was hard, but the the benefits that came out of that, the good that came out of that in my life, the growth that I experienced, it made it all worth it. And you know what? I would even be willing to go through it again. But others of you would look at whatever benefits there were and you would say, yes, there are some benefits. But I would never want to go through that again. The truth is the temporal benefits that we might experience from the suffering of our life, especially the suffering that affects all of life. Rarely outweighs the suffering. It's one thing to endure some kind of suffering, some kind of suffering, and Come out of that experience scot-free and say, yeah, I'd go through that again. It's a whole nother thing to come out of a period of suffering severely injured. Where the impact is pervasive and lifelong. And that's where we would say, I don't want to go through that again. Perhaps the more biblically astute among us would point us to Romans chapter eight, verse eighteen, where it says that the sufferings that we experience of the present time are not worth comparing to the glory that will be revealed to us. But I would just point out that truth which we must rest in. Is a future glory, not today. And so what I want to ask is, is there anything we can put on the scale today? That would enable us to say, this suffering that I've endured is worth it. No matter how severe. Well, I believe there is. And we find it in our text today. So if you're not already there, turn to John chapter 9. John chapter 9. As we return now to our study of the Gospel of John, we come to the sixth of seven signs that John presents to us. As irrefutable evidence that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. The signs we've seen so far in our study of this gospel is Uh the turning of water into wine in chapter two, the healing of the uh officials' son in chapter four, the Healing of the paralyzed man in chapter five, and then in chapter six, we saw the feeding of the five thousand men, plus women and children, and Jesus walking on water. Along the way, we've heard Jesus testify about himself and his relationship to the Father, about his power and his purposes that also demonstrate that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. Time after time, we've seen throughout this gospel Jesus speak and act in ways that show that He is the fulfillment of the promises made by God through Moses and Isaiah and Jeremiah. And what we see here in John chapter 9 is just a more piling on of the evidence to the reality of who Jesus is. Now, this chapter is divided into three scenes. It's all one account, but it's really three scenes, and these are all situations of inverted sight. In verses 1 through 7, we read about the man born blind who is given eyes to see. In verses 8 to 34, we read about seeing people. who are blind to the reality and truth about Jesus. And then in verses 35 to 41, we read about this man once born blind, now given sight, who's given sight to the eyes of his heart in order to see and believe in Jesus. In fact the interpretive key to this whole chapter is found in verse 39 Where Jesus says, For judgment I came into this world that those who do not see may see, and those who see may become blind. So inverted sight will be our theme as we walk through this chapter over the next few weeks. Now to get the whole context into our minds as we just launch into this chapter, I'd like to read the chapter together. I'll read, you follow along, and then we'll dig in this morning to the first seen. So John chapter nine, beginning in in verse one. As he passed by, that is Jesus, he saw a man blind from birth. And his disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned this man or his parents that he was born blind? Jesus answered, It was not that this man sinned or his parents But that the works of God might be displayed in him. We must work the works of Him who sent me while it is day Night is coming when no one can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world Having said these things he spit on the ground and made mud with the saliva, then he anointed the man's eyes with the mud, and said to him, Go wash in the pool of Siloam, which means scent So he went and washed and came back seeing. The neighbors and those who had seen him before as a beggar were saying, Is this not the man who used to sit and beg? Some said, It is he. Others said, No, but he is like him. He kept saying, I am a man. So they said to him, Then how were your eyes opened? He answered, The man called Jesus made mud and opened my eyes, anointed my eyes, and said to me, Go to Siloam and wash. So I went and washed and received my sight. They said to him, Where is he? He said, I don't know. They brought to the Pharisees the man who had been formerly blind. Now it was the Sabbath day, or a Sabbath day, when Jesus made the mud and opened his eyes. So the Pharisees again asked him how he had received his sight. And he said to them, He put mud on my eyes, and I washed, and I see. Some of the Pharisees said, This man is not from God, for he does not keep the Sabbath. But others said, How can a man who is a sinner do such signs? And there was a division among them. So they said again to the blind man, What do you say about him, since he has opened your eyes? He said, He is a prophet. The Jews did not believe that he had been blind and received his sight until they called his parents, the parents of the man who had received his sight, and asked them, Is this your son, who you say was born blind? How then does he now see? His parents answered, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind, but how he now sees we do not know Nor do we know who opened his eyes. Ask him. He is of age. He will speak for himself. His parents said this because they feared the Jews, for the Jews had already agreed that if anyone should confess Jesus to be the Christ he was to be put out of the synagogue. Therefore his parents said, He is of age. Ask him. So for the second time they called the man who had been blind and said to him, Give glory to God. We know that this man is a sinner. He answered, whether he is a sinner, I do not know. One thing I do know that though I was blind, now I see They said to him, What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes? He answered them, I have told you already, and you would not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you want to become one of his disciples? And they reviled him, you are his disciple, but we are disciples of Moses. We know that God has spoken to Moses, but as for this man, we do not know where he comes from. The man answered him, Why? This is an amazing thing. You do not know where he comes from, and yet he opened up my eyes. We know that God does not listen to sinners, but if anyone is a worshiper of God and does his will, God listens to him. Never since the beginning of the world has it been heard that anyone opened the eyes of a man born blind. If this man were not from God, he could do nothing. They answered him, You were born in utter sin. And would you teach us And they cast him out. Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and having found him, he said, Do you believe in the Son of Man? He answered, And who is he, sir, that I may believe in him? Jesus said to him, You have seen him, and it is he who is speaking to you. He said, Lord, I believe. And he worshipped him. Jesus said, For judgment I came into this world that those who do not see may see, and those who see may become blind. Some of the Pharisees near him heard these words and said to him, Are Are we also blind? Jesus said to them, If you were blind, you would have no guilt. But now that you say, we see Your guilt remains. Well, to help us get uh or walk through this thoughts, keep our thoughts organized. We will walk through these first seven verses under three headings. Common confusion, divine purpose, and God's work. And as you can see Uh well, perhaps on the next slide, are uh this will be part one. Let's begin with common confusion. Look again at verses one and two It says, as he passed by, he saw a man blind from birth, and his disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind? It begins there with the words, as he passed by. It's been since July that we've been in the Gospel of John, so let's remind ourselves where Jesus is. Early in John chapter 7, Jesus went to Jerusalem for the Feast of Booths, one of the three feasts required of all Jews to attend. And he went through the first few days of that feast, and John chapter seven, verse thirty-seven moves us forward to the final day of that feast, which could refer to the seventh day of the feast proper, or possibly to the eighth day, which was a a holy convocation, a Sabbath day, if you will, uh a day of rest after the seven day feast. That was prescribed in Leviticus 23. As far as we can tell, everything that takes place from chapter 7, verse 37, all the way through the end of chapter 8 is on the same day. As Jesus taught in the temple, as he engaged with the Pharisees and the Sadducees, the religious leaders Their anger at him for his claims rose to a fury and really boiled over when he declared himself to be the I am. He identified himself as God. And so chapter 8, verse 59 says, So they picked up stones to throw at him, but Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple. So Jesus removes from the temple, and the next thing John says here is as he passed by. Now it would seem rather plain just looking at that that chapter what happens here in chapter nine is on the same day. And since John tells us in verse 14 that this is A Sabbath day, which is different than saying the Sabbath day, it may well be that this is on the eighth day, that day of holy convocation, after the feast of booths. But it's also possible, and many belief, that some time has passed, maybe a matter of days. It's not clear. Ultimately the exact timing doesn't matter, but it it more or less fits for all of this to take place on the eighth day of the feast. Whatever the case, verse 1 says that as he passed by, he saw a man born blind, or a man blind from birth. And we learn in verse 8 that this man was also a beggar, which is pretty much the only vocation that a man who is blind can have in that society. Those who had physical maladies of various kinds were not inherently unclean as were lepers, but they were considered to be the dregs of society because they couldn't be productive in that world. Uh they would only sit by the side of the road and beg. They were entirely dependent on the generosity and the kindness of others. So how did Jesus know that this man was blind from birth? Well, we don't know. It could certainly be that he knew through his divine knowledge, but The disciples also know. So whether Jesus told them, whether the man had a sign, or whether there was some indication, we don't exactly know. It ultimately doesn't matter. Uh we don't know his exact age, but it's likely that this was a young man, because they ultimately brought his parents, as we read, to verify his story, if he was an older man, say in his forties or older, they likely would not have brought the parents. He would have been obviously able to testify for himself. He wasn't a child. His parents affirm that he is of age, that he could testify for himself So he was probably somewhere in the neighborhood of an older teen or early twenties. Again, it's just a guess, and ultimately it doesn't quite matter, but that seems to be why they would have called his parents. Now, Jesus must have interacted with this man more than what we're told about. We actually don't hear from the man until after the healing takes place. And Jesus has left the scene. The man's own testimony later, which we already read, reveals that he knew that it was Jesus who healed them, or healed him, but he didn't know who Jesus was. And so his personal faith played no role in the healing. This young man sitting by the side of the road seems to have been oblivious to the fact that the Messiah who has the ability to give sight to the blind was walking by It seems by the lack of information that nobody told him that Jesus was coming. And again, that he he obviously didn't know who Jesus was. So what we have here is a situation where Jesus is walking by, and Jesus sees him, gives him his attention, and works in his life. Beloved, whatever you are going through in your life right now, Jesus sees you. He knows your pain. He knows what you're going through. It may seem to you that he is constantly passing by you and working in the lives of others, completely ignoring you. But the reality is he sees your broken heart, he sees your broken body, and he knows you. Jesus has been to Jerusalem before, and it may well be that he's passed by this young man in his previous trips, but for for God's purposes, this young man for this young man were such that it was on this day and not any day previous that Jesus would stop and change his life. You know, sometimes we think that it's the moment that God enters into our life and brings salvation or transformation or healing or provision. or whatever it is that we've been seeking from him, that's when he's finally noticed us. He's finally heard our prayers, or he's finally heard the collective prayers of all those who have been praying for us. But that's not how God works. God's purposes in our lives include The days and years and decades of suffering that we experience. In the mystery of His will. The season of suffering and waiting is part and parcel to God's plan just as much as his moment of relief. And so when you feel forgotten, know that you are not forgotten because He sees you. Well, perhaps the disciples noticed that Jesus was looking at this man. Again, there's some details that are not given to us, but Since Jesus has been teaching in the temple, their minds are likely in that studious inquisitive mode, and so they ask Jesus this question. Look at verse 2. Rabbi, teacher, who sinned? This man or his parents that he was born blind. Now, interestingly, we actually haven't heard or seen the disciples since the end of chapter 8. For whatever purposes that John had, he's kept them entirely in the background. They've been with Jesus, they've been listening, they've been observing, but they've been uninvolved. And so here they they finally speak up And present to Jesus a question that reveals a common confusion. Their confusion comes from the universally held belief As to how life should work. And that is that bad things should happen to bad people, and good things should happen to good people. And of course, by good people, nobody means perfect people. We just mean people like us. Sure, we have all our faults. But those who haven't done anything really bad should only have good things happen to them. Or so it's thought. Nobody asks. I've never been asked why do bad things happen to bad people. Nobody wonders why gang members get killed or terrorists get taken out or thieves get betrayed. Society doesn't seem to have any moral qualms about bad things happening to bad people. They might disagree on who the bad people are, but they ultimately believe That it's okay for bad things to happen to bad people. And we have this sense that for relatively good people We don't deserve to suffer. So when we experience intense suffering or we see somebody else that we believe to be a good person experience intense suffering. We have to find some kind of explanation for this rift in reality. Why is something going wrong? This is why Job's friends kept pressing him to confess whatever sin it was that led his suffering into his life, even though they didn't know that it was his righteousness that it was the basis, that was the basis for his suffering. The disciples here didn't know this young man. They didn't know anything about him except that he was blind from birth. All they knew is that from birth he's experienced not only the personal suffering of not being able to see, but the relational and economic and social suffering that flows from blindness They know that this man has experienced indignity every day of his life. He's needed help with the most basic aspects of life, living in a world where there are no conveniences And where society looks down on the disabled, it's impossible to quantify the suffering that this man has experienced from birth. And so in their minds, this can only be explained as justice on display. His parents must have done something when he was in the womb. Somehow, someway, when this man was in the womb, he must have done something to deserve this kind of life. Surely God would not allow someone who is innocent to suffer in this way. So either this man sinned or his parents sinned I wonder if any of you have asked this question when you learned that your little one had some malady in the womb. I wonder if it crossed your mind, and perhaps even more than that, to wonder, what did I do to bring this into my child's life? Or perhaps in your own life. What have I done that God has brought this suffering, whatever it is, into my life? The reality is none of us needs to look too hard to find any sin to explain why suffering would have entered into our life. This confusion is common because all suffering has a way of throwing us off balance. As the great theologian Mike Tyson once said, Everybody has a plan until you get punched in the mouth. Even those with good theology can get disoriented and confused when suffering strikes. Suffering has a way of causing theological amnesia. And so we can be grateful that these disciples not only voiced their confusion, but they modeled for us what we should do with our confusion. And that is, take it to Jesus. Look at how Jesus responds here with divine purpose. Look at verses 3 to 5. Jesus answered, It was not that this man sinned or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him. We must work the works of him who sent me while it is day. Night is coming when no one can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. So Jesus begins to correct their confusion with a flat denial. It was not this man's sin, it was not his parents' sin Personal sin was not the cause of this man's blindness. In fact, we can expand that to say from the rest of Scripture that it is rarely, if ever, the case that personal sin is the cause of what you could call natural evil. For those of you not in Pastor Robb's class, Natural evil refers to the impact of the curse of sin in the natural world, say diseases, disasters, accidents, and so on. That the the effect of the curse of sin that caused pain and suffering. Whereas moral evil refers to the unrighteous choices that people make, the sins they commit, that cause pain and suffering. There are maladies at birth that are the result of moral evil. When a mother drinks alcohol and takes drugs that can produce in the child fetal alcohol syndrome or neonatal abstinence syndrome But most maladies that children experience from birth are the result of natural evil because they do not correlate at all to the mother's choices. On a natural level, they are simply the result of living in a world where our DNA is corrupted. So Jesus corrects our tendency to blame people for the problems that they face, even if it's beyond their control. If this man's blindness was not caused by his sin or his parents' sin, who is responsible for his man's blindness? Well notice that Jesus does not say simply Well, you just live in a sin-cursed world. That's why this man was born blind. No, Jesus says there is a person responsible, and it is God. He says, it was not that this man sinned or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him. In other words, God caused this man's blindness so that at the proper time God could display his works in and through him. This is a truth that requires us to think very carefully. Because what was true for this blind man is true for every one of us. These words by Jesus are effectively the answer to the greatest problem that people ask or can conceive about God. The greatest problem that people conceive about God is the question of how God can be all loving and all powerful and yet let bad things happen. This is known as the problem of evil or the theological term theodicy. And this is what Pastor Robb's class is all about. This is just going to be a crash course on theodicy and it's probably going to raise more questions than answers. And I would just encourage you Especially if you're in another class to listen to the audio from Pastor Robb's class because it is much more nuanced and helpful and expansive than what we can be this morning. But let's begin with this crash course on theodicy at the beginning. Genesis 1, 1. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. By virtue of all things being created by God, he has the sovereign right Over all things. Psalm 24:1 says, the earth is the Lord's and everything in it, the world and those who dwell therein. And Romans 9. 21 declares that because God is the creator, he has the right to do with his creation whatever he wills. Paul writes, has not the potter over the no right over the clay? Let me start over. Has the potter no right over the clay to make out of the same lump one vessel for honorable use and another for dishonorable use? So Psalm 115, verse 3 says, Our God is in the heavens, and he does whatever he pleases. God not only has sovereign right to do whatever he pleases, he exercises that right such that he takes responsibility for everything that takes place. In John Job verse chapters 38 to 41 as as the Lord gives Job a talking to, the Lord reveals that he is responsible, that God that is, is responsible for all that takes place in the natural world, from from the weather to the the shape and functioning of nature. to the sustaining and the design of animals. The Lord says to Moses in Exodus chapter 4, verse 11, has Who has made man's mouth? Who makes him mute or deaf or seeing or blind? Is it not I, the Lord? The Lord says in Deuteronomy 32, 39, see now that I, even I am he, and there is no God besides me, I kill. And I make a lies. I wound and I heal. And there is none that can deliver out of my hand. Again in Isaiah 45, verse 7, I form light and create darkness. I make well-being and create calamity. I am the Lord who does all these things. God takes responsibility for everything that happens. And it would be wrong for us to try and take from God that which He takes to Himself. Because when you take something that belongs to God, that's called stealing. And stealing, my friends, is a sin. God takes responsibility for the smallest, least significant natural evils that Jesus said in Matthew 10, 29, are not two sparrows sold for a penny, and yet not one of them falls apart from your father. And God takes responsibility for the single most greatest significant moral evil in all of history. The killing of the Son of God. The early church prayed in Acts 4, 27, 28, For truly in this city there were gathered together against your holy servant Jesus. whom you anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, to do what your hand and your plan had predestined to t take place. So we cannot absolve God of responsibility for what happens because God takes responsibility for what happens. But let's press into that because God is not like us where we can take responsibility for the things we do wrong. God does not say, Oh, yeah, I did that, but my bad. God never looks back and says, you know, in hindsight, that probably wasn't the right thing to do. No, God never makes mistakes. He always does everything according to his predetermined will. Ephesians 1 11 says, In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him. who works all things according to the counsel of his will. In Isaiah forty six, nine to eleven The Lord says, Remember the former things of old, for I am God and there is no other. I am God and there is none like me, declaring the end from the beginning. And from ancient times, things not yet done, saying, My counsel shall stand, I will accomplish all my purpose, I have spoken, I will bring it to pass, I have purposed, I will do it. So everything is according to God's predetermined will. Well, what is God's will that drives everything that He does? What is the ultimate motivation and purpose behind all of God's actions? Well, there are many purposes that God has, but his Ultimate purpose is that his glory be seen and known and praised. Romans 11:36 is both the shortest and most exhaustive declaration of this truth. For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be glory forever. Amen. And then when Paul extols God's plan of redemption in Ephesians chapter 1, verses 3 to 14, three times he expresses God's purpose. He says, He predestined us for adoption to the praise of his glorious grace. In him we have obtained an inheritance so that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory In him you also were sealed with a promise Holy Spirit to the praise of his glory. In Ezekiel 36, before God makes that grand new covenant promise of forgiveness and regeneration, the new heart, the new spirit. God declares his motivation. He says in verses 22 and 23, It is not for your sake, O house of Israel, that I am about to act. But for the sake of my name, which you have profaned among the nations in which you came. He says, I will vindicate the holiness of my name. great name, which has been profaned among the nations and which you have profaned among them. And the nations will know that I am the Lord, declares the Lord God. When through you I vindicate my holiness for before their eyes. That is what God purposes in salvation God spoke through Isaiah to explain to Israel why he was bringing judgment on them. He says in Isaiah 48, verse 11, For my own sake For my own sake, he repeats that twice, I do it. For how should my name be profane? My glory I will not give to any other God does what he does for the sake of his name, which is to say that God is Supremely committed to putting his glory on display so that it can be seen and known and praised. Why does he do that? Because the excellency of his being and the perfections of his nature are worthy of it. The infinite splendor and majesty and glory of God demands to be seen and known and praised. Throughout the world, mankind builds grand, beautiful buildings for a singular purpose. To put on display the most magnificent and beautiful works of art that men and women have made. Uncountable sums of money over the centuries have been spent to preserve and display statues like Michelangelo's David. or Da Vinci's Mona Lisa. There is something in us as human beings that understands that it is right For exceptional beauty and excellence to be preserved and displayed for the joy of those who see it and for the praise of the artist. If there was a piano that produced the most rich, beautiful, clear sounds of all pianos We intuitively know that it would be a travesty to put that piano in a glass case with a black coat placard that says, This is the most beautiful sounding piano. No, the only right thing to do with such a piano is to have somebody play it so we could all enjoy its beauty and we could praise its maker. Strativarius violins are totally unimpressive to the eyes. They look like most any other violin. It's only when they are played. that the world can hear its beauty and value and the world elevates them above all others. Well we not only elevate things that are beautiful to the eyes and beautiful, delightful to the ears, but also impressive to the mind. When men and women excel in their abilities, in their skills, we put them on a pedestal. Whether it's athletic challen uh champions or exceptional singers or skilled actors or polished orators or intellectual powerhouses. We elevate and promote and praise those who rise above the rest. It is in our nature to do so. That which is the most beautiful, the most delightful, the most wise, the most skilled must be seen and recognized and praised. Beautiful artistry cannot be kept in the shadows. Sweet sounds cannot be kept silent. Exceptional skills must be used and recognized. We were made this way So that, when presented with the majestic glory of God as revealed in his excellent being and his perfect nature, Demonstrated through the sovereign exercise of His will, we would glorify and praise Him forever and ever. The skilled violinist entrusted to play a Stradivarius does not pick it up and play Mary Had a Little Lamb. No, they play Tchaikovsky, Brahms, Vivoldi. They play pieces that showcase the breadth and the depth and the richness of such an instrument. In the same way, God does not his put his glory on display with party tricks. No, he displays his glory By ruling with infinite wisdom over every atom and molecule and plant and animal and person and circumstance. He works through the created natural order, through the exercise of billions of individual wills, through the insidious efforts of the devil and his angels, and through his own supernatural activity. And from the moment he created the heavens and the earth through to the end of time, he is sovereignly working out his plan of redemption so that Ultimately, from beginning to end, his glorious being and his perfect nature would be on display. So that all creation in heaven and on earth and under the earth would praise his glorious name. Speaking of Jesus Christ, who in his humility gave up the glories of heaven to sacrifice himself for sinners, Paul writes in Philippians 2. Therefore, God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow. in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and that every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. What makes Jesus worthy to be worshipped in heaven and on earth and under the earth? And what makes God's glory worthy to be praised? Is not just what they did in redemption, but who they are It's not merely the particular plans and the actions done to redeem. It's how the plan and the actions put on display God's infinite wisdom, His wit love, His justice, His grace, His compassion, His patience, His wrath, His holiness All of these attributes and more make up the excellency of his being and the perfection of his nature, which must be seen and known and praised. Before the foundation of the world, God existed in all eternity, in perfect love. And unity. He did not need anything. He wasn't lacking anything. He wasn't lonely, and he certainly wasn't bored. God planned redemption. And inaugurated it by speaking all things into existence. Because the glory of his being And his nature are worth being seen and known and praised. God deserves to be worshipped for his love and grace. And he deserves to be worshipped for his wrath. And justice. It would diminish his glory if God only demonstrated love and grace and he saved every sinner. And it would diminish his glory if he only exhibited his wrath and justice, and he didn't save any sinner. For God to receive the praise He is due, some sinners must be saved and some sinners must be judged so that the full panoply of his majestic glory would be on display forever and ever But don't make the mistake, beloved, of thinking that the that only the work of Christ is life, death, and resurrection, and only the work of the Holy Spirit in regenerating Sinners who are dead in their sin and giving them life, that only those elements are part of God's plan of redemption. Because God's plan of redemption includes every detail of your life. God is glorified not only by his work of rescuing sinners from his wrath, he is also glorified by working in and through every aspect Of our lives from birth until death. What is true of Jesus and all the suffering he experienced and his death? And what is true for this man born blind is true for us. These things happen that the works of God might be displayed In us. Your condition at birth and every experience and trial you have had since then are part of God's inscrutably wise plan so that His work might be displayed in you Notice verse three, how he says, but that the works plural might be displayed in him. Jesus has more in mind here with regard to this man born blind. He has more in mind than just that he was going to give this man sight. That would be one work of God. But there are more works that God intends to do. In fact, just consider the reality that not only does he make this man uh seeing, does he heal this man's sight? But he also gives a significant lesson to his disciples. He teaches them a magnificent truth about the nature of God. And he teaches that to all of those who would read this account. He also, as we will see and have already read, he causes those who are seeing to become blind to the reality of who he is He also, at the end of the chapter, opens the spiritual eyes of this man's heart so that having been dead in his sin, he now sees the glory of Christ and believes in him. And we can only imagine that the impact of what Jesus does in this man's life would affect in some way his parents. His neighbors, and everyone this man would encounter for the rest of his life, whom he would tell, Jesus, the Messiah, open my eyes. And so it is that when it comes to our lives, though we often are Wondering what is God doing that he's allowed this into my life? We are often looking for some singular explanation. God has many works that He has in mind for us and for those around us, both now and into the future, some of which are easy to see. But many of which we will never know until glory. And all of it, all of the works of God ultimately shine the spotlight on God's being and his nature bringing glory to him. Now if this is true Then that means that our suffering has the potential to be infinitely significant. And it also has the potential, our suffering does, to be utterly wasted. You see, we waste our suffering by keeping the spotlight on ourselves or on others. Rather than directing the spotlight on God. We keep the spotlight on ourselves when we endlessly remain in self-pity. When our mind is consumed completely by seeking relief, we keep the spotlight on others When we focus only on those who have played a role in our suffering, perhaps a doctor who made a mistake, or someone who attacked us. By myopically focusing on ourselves or others, we ignore God's role and thus waste the opportunity to bring glory to Him. Oh, but friends, when when in the midst of intense sorrow and grief re we remember who God is And we cry out to him and we entrust ourselves and our situation to him and we make it our aim to display Christ-like character to those around us. And we testify to his goodness and we give thanks in all circumstances and we exude hope and joy. God is glorified because we are putting on display our conviction that God is worthy of worship no matter what. And when we say that God is worthy of worship, no matter what What we're saying is that God's glory outweighs all of our suffering. So call back to mind that scale with your suffering on one side. What is it that can put that we can put on the other side of the scale that outweighs our suffering? It is the glory of God. In fact, the Hebrew word for glory means weighty, it means heaviness. Our suffering is outweighed by the infinite weight of the glory of God. And so when we have eyes to see how the glory of God is displayed in and through our suffering, and we shine the spotlight of it, On it. The heaviness of our pain doesn't change, but it becomes endurable with his strength. We'll pause there and pick up next time looking at more of God's divine purpose here in the words of Jesus and then God's work. Just to encourage uh many of you, next week we're gonna be having uh Sean Mornen, our beloved brother, come and fill the pulpit. Uh we'll be here, but um some of us will be traveling for a conference this week, so I asked him to come, so we're looking forward to that. Let's pray as we Prepare for the Lord's Supper. As we pray, those who are coming to serve can come. Father, we Are in awe of these truths. In so many ways, they are beyond our comprehension. We cannot wrap our mind around them. And yet we see them so clearly in Scripture. And so to the degree that we can understand them, we give you praise and glory for them. For you. And to the degree that we can't press any further and we just can't understand the fullness of it, we praise you that your mind is greater than ours. That you are infinitely wiser than we can ever hope to be. And that because of your goodness, we can trust you. Lord, you've only ever proven yourself faithful. And so we trust you for how you intend to work through our suffering and difficulties for your As we come now to the table, may you encourage and strengthen our hearts with a reminder of the work of Christ. That greatest act of suffering for our good and your glory. Christ's sake we pray. Amen.