Turn in your Bible to John chapter 11. John chapter 11. And while you're turning there, let me tell you up front that Well while we would certainly prefer to be together and I don't really like preaching to a camera Uh if there's any bl benefit or blessing, at least for me, uh, in preaching in this way, is that I didn't have to go through my normal routine of cutting down the sermon to make sure that there's no right in the nursery. It's it's my understanding that we've gotten close to a right on a few occasions. No, not really, but uh um This message will likely be longer than than we're used to because I didn't uh take the time to cut it down from uh to what I normally uh aim to do. But I also understand that as much as there are often various kinds of distractions in the worship center, when we are at home, there are many more potential distractions And so I would just encourage you as you're sitting there, whether you're on your couch or w whatever comfortable seat you're in, uh to really focus in and hone in on the word of God and uh minimize as much as possible uh the distractions that are around you. Because we're gonna explore today life-transforming truth That really deals with some of the most painful, heart-wrenching, as well as glorious realities, namely death and life. Death at least is a subject that we don't typically like to think about. For some, it's a word that brings to mind some of our most painful memories. Uh for others, death is a word that brings to mind our greatest fear as we look to the future. And yet still for others, death is a word that brings to mind our our greatest hope, a a longing for heaven and to be with Christ and and our loved ones. And for you, maybe there's a combination of those three things that come to your mind when when you think about death. Well, here in John 11, we we know the story well, right? We know that Lazarus gets sick, Jesus gets told, he delays, he finally goes. He finds that Lazarus is in the tomb for four days, and ultimately he raises Lazarus from the dead. But as we've seen, between that time of Jesus finding out that Lazarus is sick and Ultimately raising him from the dead, there are several life-transforming realities that we learn based on Jesus' interaction with his disciples, with Martha today, with Mary, and so on. And these life-transforming realities that we've been working through Keep us steadfast in the face of trials. So these are vital things for us to consider. Just for a quick review, remember that the first life-transforming reality we saw in verses 1 to 5 is that suffering is a servant in the hand of God intended to reveal his glory to you Because he loves you. Right? Death is a servant in the hand of God intended to reveal his glory because he loves you And then digging into that a little bit more last week, we saw that in the context of unanswered prayers, God's timing in unanswered prayers is determined by his sovereign love. All of that we we pulled out of verses one to five. And then we saw in verses seven to ten That God's will keeps us suffering, which is to say that while we wait for our prayers to be answered, we can occupy ourselves with what we know to be clearly revealed in God's Word. In order to live day to day, even while we're waiting for our prayers to be answered, we can still move forward living for God in the things that He has revealed to us. And then we saw in verses eleven to sixteen that God's design, especially in our trials, is to increase our faith. His design is to increase our faith. This is to say that among the the many purposes of God, He designs our suffering not only to increase our faith in Him and expand our vision, our understanding of the glory and the power of God, but he also is doing that For those who are around us, maybe those who are observing our suffering, or those who come to hear about our suffering in later time. God's design is to increase our faith Now, today in verses 17 to 27, we're going to see the life-transforming reality that for those who believe, for those who believe, death is not the end. We have life now and forever. Follow along as I read John chapter 11, verses 1 to 27. Now a certain man was ill, Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary and her sister Martha. It was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was ill So the sisters sent to him, saying, Lord, to wh uh he whom you love is ill. But when Jesus heard it, he said, This illness does not lead to death, it is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it. Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus. So when he heard that Lazarus was ill, he stayed two days longer in the place where he was. Then after this he said to his disciples, Let us go to Judea again The disciples said to him, Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone you, and are you going there again? Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If any one walks in the day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world. But if any one walks in the night, he stumbles because the light is not in him. After saying these things he said to them, Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I go to awaken him The disciples said to him, Lord, if he has fallen asleep, he will recover. Now Jesus had spoken of his death, but they thought that he meant taking rest in sleep. Then Jesus told them plainly, Lazarus has died. And for your sake, I'm glad that I was not there, so that you may believe. Let us go to him. So Thomas, called the twins, said to his fellow disciples, Let us also go, that we may die with him Now, when Jesus came, he found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb four days. Bethany was near Jerusalem about two miles off, and many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to console them concerning their brother So when Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went to uh and met him, and Mary sat uh remained seated in the house Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. But even now I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again. Martha said to him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day. Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live. And every one who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? She said to him, Yes, Lord, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world This is the Word of God. Let's pray as we prepare our hearts. Father, as we come to this passage, we can already see that the matter with which it deals is life and death. These are are are matters which are of uh utter significance for our lives, because we all live as we are alive, and we will all die And so Lord, we need your help because death in this world brings to us much suffering and much pain. And yet we need this revelation from Jesus Christ to strengthen and encourage our hearts. Lord, I pray that wherever Each person is as they hear this message, as they consider the words of Jesus, that you would move us Closer to yourself, that you would draw our eyes to you, and that we would see your glory. In Christ's name. Amen. Well, we begin then when with Jesus arriving in Bethany. Bethany was a village, as it tells us in verse 1, and Jesus was actually well known to the residents of this village. In fact, Mary and Martha and Lazarus were not the only friends that Jesus had in Bethany, though Jesus ministered in their home in Luke chapter 10, and he's coming to their home once again Uh when he comes back to Bethany in John chapter twelve, he will actually be hosted at the home of another man, a man named Simon the Leopard. We can certainly presume that he was uh identified that way because he had leprosy, but no doubt Jesus healed him of his leprosy. So the the people of the village knew Jesus and no doubt loved Jesus. So when he arrived, he he would have been met by them. They would have undoubtedly crowded around him and and they would have been well aware of the death of Lazarus themselves. They would have been talking to Jesus And since Jesus was not rushing to r get to the house of Martha and Mary, he no doubt spent some time, just, you know, some matter of minutes. uh talking to the other other villagers. And that's when they told him that Lazarus has been in the tomb for four days. And someone was dispatched to go tell Mary and Martha that Jesus was here. Now, before we move on in the text, I think it's helpful for us to address the question of timing. Lazarus has been in the tomb for four days. There are actually two timelines that are possible within the constraints of this particular text that have been proposed for how this uh two-day delay by Jesus turned into a four-day time in the tomb for Lazarus. Now, in the end, neither timeline changes our interpretation of the passage, so in that sense it's not the most significant uh thing to to uh to determine, but it is worth considering what actually happened uh just as we try and draw all that we can from the text Now I remind you that according to what we've seen, starting in verse 3, Jesus, rather, the sisters send a message to Jesus that Lazarus is ill. Then Jesus stays for two days, and then he travels to Bethany and learns that Lazarus has been in the grave for four days. And so the question comes down to really, where was Jesus? How far away was Jesus when he heard the message? Well, if you have maps at the back of your Bible, it might help you to turn back and look for the map that shows the uh the nation of Israel during the time of Jesus and the apostles. One possibility, and perhaps the most obvious mathematically, is that Jesus was four days away. He tells the disciples after those two days Lazarus has died They start to travel, they arrive. Lazarus has been in the tomb for four days. And because we know that Jesus is somewhere on the Jordan River, that's what John has said in chapter ten, which we'll look at again in a moment, that would mean that to be four days away on the Jordan River is that he's on the north of the Jordan River, just south of the Sea of Galilee, in a region known as Decapolis, which is a reference to ten cities. The capitalist there would would be uh about a four-day walk, a hundred and fifty kilometers or so. And given the the pace of normal travel by walking, that would take approximately four days for the average person. So simply basis on the basis of the fact that Lazarus was in the grave for four days, that uh that option, that possibility is is the m is very reasonable. It's most likely if you're just focusing in on that time frame. And so some take that as the straightforward presentation of the passage. The problem is But that's not where John tells us that Jesus was. In fact, if you look back at chapter 10, verse 40, again, Jesus Where it tells us that Jesus went away again, this is he left Jerusalem, he went away again across the Jordan to that place where John had been baptizing at first, and there he remained. So Jesus is where John began his ministry. That's a very uh clear indicator. And then we learn in John chapter 1, verses 19 to 28 that John was baptizing at a place called Bethany across the Jordan. And that's a different Bethany than the village where Lazarus and his sisters lived. Bethany across the Jordan is a specific place, but since no one has found where this Bethany is, we we would need a little bit more help to know where exactly it might be. Now thankfully the Holy Spirit has given us that help through Matthew. In fact, Matthew chapter 3 verse 1 gives us a a critical clue as to where John began his ministry. It says, in those days, which is referring to when Jesus was living in Nazareth, In those days, John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness of Judea. The wilderness of Judea. There it is. The wilderness of Judea We know for certain is on the south side of the Jordan River, just w on the on the western shore, if you will, on the north end of the Dead Sea, if you see that on your map. And then we find further confirmation in Mark chapter 1, verses 4 and 5, which tells us that who it was that we're going to see John at first. Eventually John would travel around uh up and down the Jordan River and and move off to other areas where he could baptize, but he it he began there in the wilderness of Judah. And Mark tells us that John appeared baptizing in the wilderness and proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins, and all the country of Judea and all Jerusalem were going out to him and were being baptized by him in the Jordan River confessing their sins. Now, had John been in the north, in the Decapolis region up near the Sea of Galilee, the passage would have told us that Galileans were also going out. to him. And it's unlikely that if you were that far away, that all of Judea excuse me, all of Judea and all of uh the uh Jerusalemites would have been going out to him. But as it was Uh that whole region of Judea and all the residents of Jerusalem, that's probably uh an exaggeration, but a large number of them were coming out to see John at the Jordan River in the wilderness of Judea. And that happens to be about a day's journey away, a full day's journey So, combining these three Gospels, what they tell us about John's ministry, we can say with confidence that Jesus is across the Jordan, on the north side of the Dead Sea, in the region known as Perea, and that wherever the actual city of Bethany across the Jordan is, it's in that region which is really just due east. of Jerusalem about a day's journey. But that then raises the question if Jesus is one day's journey away from Jerusalem or from Bethany where Lazarus and his sisters live? How could Lazarus have been in the tomb for four days? Well, the most plausible explanation is that soon after the messenger was dispatched to go to Jesus, Lazarus died that same day and was buried that same day, which was their custom to bury within a day, and usually on the same day of death So there was that day, and then Jesus stayed for two more days, and then on the fourth day he traveled back, arriving on the fourth day that Lazarus has been in the tomb. Now, admittedly, that explanation would require that Lazarus was already dead and buried by the time that the messenger arrived to Jesus to tell him that Lazarus was sick and that Jesus himself didn't tell the disciples that Lazarus was already dead. He didn't give any indication until after the next two days had passed. Well, for me that's not a problem because it only highlights the sovereign purposes of God, that Jesus had specific timing in mind, that he only told the disciples what they needed to know when they needed to know it. And that's exactly what he's always done throughout his ministry. There's no reason why that timeline wouldn't uh wouldn't make sense. In fact it fits with all the details that we have in the text. Now having said that, those who take the position that Jesus was four days away are are in good company Uh but you do still need to wrestle with where John began his ministry, uh which many do not uh uh seem to address when they take that four-day Position. Well, having addressed that, look at verses 18 and 19 again. It says Bethany was near Jerusalem, about two miles off. And many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to console them concerning their brother, uh the distance between Jerusalem And Bethany was one point seven four miles to be precise. In the Greek it's uh fifteen uh stadia, which works out to about one point seven four miles. That is very close. Certainly too close to comfort for the disciples. But John pointed out to say that there was a sizable group of people who lived in Jerusalem who w took that forty minute or so walk to come mourn with Martha and Mary. Now when we began studying this chapter, I made it a point to say that Martha and Mary and Lazarus were wealthy And one of the indicators I didn't mention was that uh was this very fact. Uh it would seem that this family had substantial Connections in Jerusalem that compelled not some, but many in Jerusalem to come and mourn with them Now, uh traveling for 40 minutes, depending on one's pace, uh, is is not a great distance. It's not all that far, but it is a trip that requires purpose. In fact, uh Luke 22 tells us that when Jesus was uh being around Jerusalem, especially on that final week, instead of going to Bethany to stay the night each night, he would go back to the Mount of Olives Mount of Oz was a matter of just a handful of minutes from Jerusalem, whereas Bethany would be about forty minutes. And so Jesus determined not to go back to Bethany every night. That's That's how far it was that that was too far to be reasonable. Now, in any area where walking is the primary mode of transportation, there's certainly lots of those uh those places around the world today, li life is lived close to home. All all of the basic responsibilities that one has to care for one's home, especially women in the first century culture it would not afford them the time to travel such distances purely for social reasons. And so it seems that Lazarus had business dealings that made their family well known in Jerusalem. Whatever the case, the presence of many from Jerusalem will play a role in the rest of the story for good and for ill. We'll see that next week, Lord willing. Look at verse twenty, then. So when Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went and met him. But Mary remained seated in the house. Consistent with her the portrayal of Martha in Luke chapter ten when she hosted Jesus in her home, Martha is active. She's she's a doer So when she heard that Jesus arrived, she gets up. There's no way she's going to wait. She's going to go to Jesus. Mary, on the other hand, stays seated. in the house and lets others and is really waiting for Jesus to come to her. Because she's really doing what grievers did in that culture. That is, they they sit in their home and they wait For others to come and be with them. Many cultures have that practice where family, friends, the surrounding community come and sit with the one who is grieving. When we lived in Washington State, I went to the home once of a a man who had just uh passed away, a Native American man, and when I arrived His body was laying there on the living room floor, and all around the room, surrounding the entire room, were his family, his friends, his community, really sitting there in silence to mourn together for his death. Uh once in California, I ministered to a couple who lost their son in a tragic car accident. And when I went to visit them a day or two after the accident, I found about 20 to 30 people, and this is in the Armenian uh community. Uh twenty or thirty people just sitting around the living room being there to be present with this couple who were mourning When I went to Togo this last summer, uh Teresa and I had the privilege to go to a man's home who had just lost his wife. And when we got there, there were about seven or eight other women who were just sitting there with the men. This is a normal reality in many cultures that the community comes and sits uh collectively with the one who is grieving. So Mary and Martha were sitting in their home, surrounded by their community, grieving. But when the news of Jesus' arrival comes to Martha, she gets up, she goes out while Mary stays and waits for Jesus to come to her. Well we come then to the focal point of this passage In some ways, all of that is for us, and as John writes it here, it's an introduction to what is really the most significant portion of this, and that is the interaction between Martha and Jesus. This is the meeting of sorrow and mercy. This is an exchange between life and death. This is an interaction between one whose heart has been broken. And one who has the power to heal broken hearts. Martha knows Jesus. She loves Jesus. She believes in Jesus But she does not realize that Jesus is life itself. Now, for his part, Jesus does not overwhelm Martha with his glory. He doesn't rebuke her for having a deficient view of him. Rather, he gently speaks truth to her. Directing her mind beyond her sorrow to focus more on him The main point to take away from this conversation is the life-transforming reality that for those who believe, life, or rather, for those who believe, death is not the end We have life now and forever. Or in short, it is not death to die. It is not death to die That's the main point of this section. And so to unpack the remainder of this section, we'll look at it under two headings simply. Death is not the end, and then secondly, we have life now and forever. We'll see death is not the end from Verses 25 and 20, uh the first part of 25, and then uh we have life now and forever in verses 25 and 26. Let's begin with the first. Death is not the end. Now before we step into the text here, I want to emphasize that Martha is in mourning. And if you think about it, Her knowledge that Jesus had the ability to stop Lazarus from dying only intensifies her mourning And I don't mean that she knew that God has power to heal in the same way that we would think about God having the power to heal. I mean that she knew that Jesus was within reach. He was A day away and she knew that Lazarus' death could have been prevented Just imagine this scenario if you can, that your loved one has a terminal disease, and there is an experimental drug that has been proven to cure that disease. The problem is the FDA has not approved that drug yet, and therefore your doctors cannot administer that treatment to your loved one. Imagine how you would feel if your loved one died and then the FDA approved that medicine a week later Imagine how heartbroken you would be to know that if it were not for the bureaucracy, your loved one would have lived. I take that up a notch. And consider that it's one of your own friends that you know has the ability to heal your loved one. And for reasons that you cannot fathom, they chose not to come and not to heal your friend. It's hard to appreciate how much anguish she felt in those last four days. And so as we work through this dialogue, understand that she is speaking from a ruptured heart Now, Jesus knows this. He doesn't correct her. He speaks truth to her. And though his words to us might sound trite, Jesus is not like us who has nothing more that he can do than to weep with those who weep. Jesus notes that in a matter of minutes Martha is about to embrace her brother Lazarus once again. And so he speaks in such a way to get her to look beyond her sorrow and to him who is greater than she can imagine. Look now at verses 21 and 22. Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. But even now I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you. We should not take this as anger Blaming Jesus for Lazarus' death? We should take this as the brokenhearted cry of a woman who has just lost her brother. And actually her words convey great faith in Jesus. Now, if she had asked, why didn't you come? Or if she had asked, why didn't you heal him from afar, you could m perhaps say that she's questioning his goodness or his love. But she says, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died, which means that she is affirming first that he is Lord And second, that he has the power to heal. She affirms that. She doesn't doubt Jesus. She actually speaks consistently with what she believes to be true about Jesus. Well, one could falter for uh not having a more accurate view of Jesus and responding to such a tragedy in light of that. But if we're going to falter for that, we're actually going to indict ourselves Because not a single one of us knows all that we ought to know about Jesus, and we often respond to trials in a way that contradicts what we say we believe to be true about God. Here we see that Martha's devastated heart is clinging to what she knows to be true about Jesus. And that's really proven by what she says in verse 22. Again, she says, But even now I know that whatever you ask is from God, or w whatever you ask from God, God will give you. It would be tempting to see in those words this uh perhaps this this subtle request for her uh for Jesus to um heal or rather raise Lazarus from the dead, but the context does not allow us to go to that conclusion. First of all, the word whatever in the phrase whatever you ask is plural. If she would have intended to mean raise Lazarus from the dead, that would have been a singular. Instead she says, whatever you do, all the things you could possibly do, whatever you ask Uh we God the Father listens to you. Now second, and obviously there's no direct request to raise Lazarus from the dead. That's obvious there. There's there's no actual request. But third, in just a matter of minutes, in a short period of time from this very moment when Jesus actually moves to raise Lazarus from the dead Martha is the one who stops him. So, no, she's not holding out hope that Jesus is going to raise Lazarus from the dead. She is saying That not being there to keep Lazarus from dying in no way weakens her belief. In Jesus, and that he has a unique relationship to God the Father, and that because of that unique relationship, Jesus is able to perform miracles. Put another way, the fact that her greatest hope was dashed does not weaken her faith in Jesus Though Mark Martha is often chided for her behavior in Luke chapter ten when she was so busy about all the details and she wasn't like Mary who was focusing on the teaching. of Christ. Here Martha provides for us an example to follow. She is a woman with strong faith in Jesus that not even her greatest sorrow can weaken. Jesus may not have healed her brother, but she still believes that Jesus can do great things. That's what she's affirming. And so when the answer to our prayers is no, and when our expectations and hopes turn into our greatest sorrow, let us be like Martha. who lamented her sorrow to Jesus, but who maintained her trust in him. Well look at how Jesus responds in verse 23 Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again. You could say that Jesus here is testing Martha's trust. in his relationship with the Father by asserting that Lazarus will indeed rise from the dead. In other words, he draws out whether she believes he is able to raise Lazarus. Now his words clearly don't give any indication of timing. Only that it will happen And these are not the words that we would typically recommend that you say to someone in the midst of your sorrow. The better part of wisdom is when you encounter somebody who is in the depth of their grief that you enter into their grief by loving them with your presence, with a measure of silence, and whatever words are spoken acknowledge the loss and affirm the pain. Well, that's not what Jesus does because Jesus is about to bring her grief to an end. And in a way that only Jesus can, he speaks truth into her grief. to begin to redirect her thinking away from loss and toward life. Look at her response in verse 24. Martha said to him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day. So Martha expresses her conviction of the final resurrection Even with Jesus, the Son of God, standing in front of her, and with his declaration that her brother Lazarus will rise from the dead, it does not even enter her mind that he might mean that he will raise Lazarus from the dead right now. In her mind, that is beyond possibility. And at this point, her only hope is the resurrection on the last day Among the Jews there was uh multiple different ideas of what happens when a person dies. The Sadducees who only embraced the five books of Moses as scripture They denied that there is life after death. They were an annihilationist. When a person dies, they are annihilated. They go out of existence. On the other hand, the Pharisees embraced the entirety of what we call the Old Testament, and they affirmed that there would be a final resurrection. And one of the clearest passages in the Old Testament that teaches the final resurrection is Daniel chapter twelve, verse two. Daniel twelve, verse two, and it describes the end of time, and it says And many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, some to shame and everlasting contempt So that's a clear and explicit statement that at the end of time all that are dead will rise from the dead, some to life, some to condemnation. There are a handful of other passages that assume that there's life after death, but really don't give any other details of what that exactly means. For example, you have Job chapter nineteen verses twenty-five to twenty-seven where it says, For I know that my Redeemer lives, and at the last he will stand upon the earth. And after my skin has been thus destroyed, yet in my flesh I shall see God whom I shall see for myself, and my eyes shall behold, and not another. Job there is telling us that he believes that this life is not all there is But what are the details of that? What does that mean in specificity? Along with the rest of the Old Testament writers, he doesn't give us any more detail. But on the clarity of General chapter 12 and the hints of many other passages, most Jews embraced the idea of a final resurrection. Now Mary and Martha were faithful Jews, they were looking for the Messiah, and they found the Messiah in Jesus. And so it's no surprise that she would have hope in that final resurrection. But for now, that was her only hope. And the only problem with that being her only hope is that it wasn't her only hope. Before her stands Jesus, who is the resurrection. and the life. Look at how Jesus responds in verse twenty five. Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live. And every one who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? Well, this is the fifth I am statement in the Gospel of John. Just to review in John chapter 6, Jesus said, I am the bread of life. In John chapter 8, he said, I am the light of the world. In John chapter 10, he said, I am the door of the sheep. And again in that chapter, I am the good shepherd. There will be two more I am statements in John chapter 14 and John chapter 15. Each of those I am statements reflects some aspects of some aspect of Jesus' power and purpose. And this statement focuses on his power over life and death. Because Jesus is the resurrection, for those who believe in him, death is not the end And because Jesus is the life for those who believe in him, we have life now and forever Let's first consider that Jesus is the resurrection. It really is an unusual thing for someone to say, I am the resurrection. But that's because only Jesus can say that. If if those words were to pass through the lips of any other individual, we would be right to question their sanity. But not with Jesus, because he is the Son of God. The word resurrection literally means to rise up. And though it seems simple, it looks simple when we see it, to rise up is actually a complex Combination of brain signals and nervous systems and muscles and ligaments, and all those bodily functions are animated by a soul. the immaterial part of man. The body has has no will of itself. The body requires a soul with a mind, with emotions, with will, to energize itself. And so when the soul of a person departs at death, the body becomes, if you will, like a an unplugged machine. It lacks the energizing force to function. And in that condition, rising up is impossible. I mean, if you unplug your toaster, it does not matter what you do. It doesn't matter if you push down the lever, if you press the button, you can Rewire the circuit board. You can do anything you want to that toaster, but as long as it remains unplugged, it will never work. I don't know of a more painful experience than to sit with the body of a loved one who has just died. Because we are who we are, body and soul, we engage, we experience one another in that context of our body and soul. The look in the eye, facial expressions, uh the the affection we show to one another, a helping hand We engage with one another as bodies and souls. And so when a person dies and and their soul departs, the the lifelessness of the body is shattering because we instinctively know there's nothing we can do to cause that body to wake up You can't yell loud enough, you can't weep loud enough, you can't plead with them enough. It's hopeless Once the soul has left the body, it's the end. There's no amount of skill or education or technology that can cause the soul to return and the body to rise. Why is that? Because nobody on earth has the power to call souls back to the body. Nobody has autha uh authority and power over the soul. And so when Jesus says, I am the resurrection, one reason that that that sounds odd is because resurrection seems like uh a power that one can yield It sounds like perhaps he should have said, I can wield the power of resurrection. I have the knowledge, I have the skill, I have the authority to raise the dead. But that's not what he said. He said, I am the resurrection. This can only mean one thing. It means that resurrection is not a power that can be gained or lost, it's not an independent force that can be brought under control and wielded Rather, the person of Jesus the Christ, the Son of God, himself is resurrection power. This is to say that he restores life out of his own life. That the power of life is not an impersonal force, it is a divine person. Jesus puts it this way in John chapter 5, verse 21. For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so also the Son gives life to whom He will. He said, Truly, truly, I say to you, an hour is coming, and is now here, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live. For as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son also to have life in himself. Now that reveals the divine attribute of aseety, which is the self-existence of God. He depends on nothing outside of himself to exist, and all things exist by his will We read in Hebrews 1, verse 3, that Jesus is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. This is to say that not only did Jesus, who is the Son of God, create all things, as we're told in John chapter 1, but this is that he continues to ensure the existence of all things. Now, put it another way, if Jesus is not actively sustaining the material world, everything would cease to exist. Therefore, whatever Jesus wills to live, lives So when Jesus says there in John 5 that the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live, he can say that because he is able to grant life to dead ears. And cause them to hear his voice. But it's not just the physical body that Jesus has power over, he also has power and authority over the soul. James 4:5 tells us he yearns jealously over the spirit that he made to dwell in us. In other words, God made the spirit that dwells in us. Not only did he make our spirit, but at death he receives back our spirit. According to Ecclesiastes chapter 12, verse 7, which tells us what happens when a person dies, it says the dust returns to the earth as it was And the Spirit returns to the God who gave it. So because God in Christ created all things, And all things belong to him. He gives the spirit to those who live, and then he receives it back when they die It's for this reason that Jesus says in Matthew 10, verse 28, do not fear those who can kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Rather, fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell. In other words, unlike people, God has the authority and the power over the soul. Now, last time I mentioned that there seems to have been a superstition among the Jews at this time that when a person died, their spirit hovered over the body for three days, kind of wanting to get back into the body. But once the body decayed to a certain point, the spirit no longer recognized the body and then would depart. At that point, it was believed resurrection was impossible. The reason Martha didn't think that Jesus could raise Lazarus from the dead is because she didn't realize, she didn't know that Jesus had the power to call souls back. Once they have departed. And in saying, I am the resurrection, Jesus means that by virtue of his being, he has power over body and soul. And so he says there at the end of verse 25, Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live. The qualification there is whoever believes. Whoever believes. That does not refer to those who at one point in their past made a decision to believe and follow Christ. That's actually a participial phrase that could be translated, the one who is believing in him. The one who is believing in him. It speaks to what characterizes a person, really what defines them. To believe in Jesus is not merely to uh affirm what is true about him, rather to believe in Jesus to be so is to be so convinced of who Jesus is that you orient your life around him. Because Jesus is Lord, you submit to Him. Because He forgives, you confess your sin. Because He is righteous, you adopt His law Because he is just, you hate evil. Because he is loving and gracious, you let his loving grace, which has flowed to you, to overflow onto others And because he is faithful, you have confident hope in his promises. These things and more are characteristic, however imperfectly, of those who believe in Jesus. Their heart is is oriented around what they know to be true about Him, and the more we grow in our knowledge of Him, the more our life is defined by His. And so Jesus says that what is true about that kind of person is that though he die, yet shall he live. This is to say that true faith in Jesus is not just about how you relate to Jesus, it's also how Jesus relates to us. And because of the nature of that relationship, which we'll look at in a moment, Jesus sustains the life of those who believe. Death is not the end of life itself. It's the end of the body, at least until the resurrection, to be sure. But life continues with Christ. When a person takes their last breath on earth, they taste take their first breath in heaven. When the heart stops, The soul beats with joy in the presence of Christ. Paul says in 2 Corinthians 5, 4, For we are still in this tent. While we are still in this tent in our in these bodies, we groan Being burdened not that we would be unclothed, but that we would be further clothed, so that what is mortal may be swallowed up by life And then he goes on in verses six to eight, so we are always of good courage. We know that while we are at home in the body we are away from the Lord For we walk by faith and not by sight. Yes, we are of good courage, and we would rather be away from the body and at home with the Lord. My friends, for the one who believes in Jesus, I trust that's true of you, death is not the end. To die is to be swallowed up by life. That brings us to our next heading. We have life now and forever. We have life now and forever. Look again at what Jesus says in verse 25. He says, I am the resurrection and the life. And then verse 26, and everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. If Jesus had only said that he was the resurrection, then we would have the resurrection to look forward to, but we would be left miserable in this life. But because he is the life, those who have that life will never die. And that means that even while we look forward to the resurrection, we can live today Jesus says again, I am the life. He's made similar statements before. In John chapter 6, verse 48, he said that he is the bread of life. Later in that chapter, he said, As the living Father sent me, I live because of the Father, so whoever feeds on me, he also will live because of me And then, of course, he'll say in John chapter 14, verse 6, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. Well, what is life? You can pose that question to historians, to scientists, to biologists, to anthropologists, and you will get as many answers as the people you ask Thankfully, we are not left to wonder what is life. Jesus answers it with crystal clarity in John chapter 17, verse 3. Where he says, and this is eternal life, that they know you, the one true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. In other words, life is knowing God. And because God is life, and the Son of God is life, To be personally connected to him is to have the life that flows from him Think about life apart from God. Without God one does not know who made them and all things. Without God one does not know the meaning and the purpose of existence. Without God, one does not know that we are image bearers in all that means. And so lacking the knowledge of our Creator, lacking our meaning and purpose and how we are designed Life apart from God is nothing more than meaningless survival striving for the most pleasure one can have before death. Life without God is just trying to feel a little bit of pleasure as we as you spiral downward toward death. That's how Paul describes the life, a former life of believers in Titus 3. He says in verse 3, for we ourselves were once foolish, disobedient, led astray, slaves to passions and desires. Passing our days in malice and envy, hated by others and hating one another. That is a life of darkness and destruction, or rather, darkness and ignorance that can only lead to destruction. Now are there those who are who don't have Christ in their life who enjoy life? Well, sure there are those who, in God's kind providence, uh have uh whether it's possessions or resources or uh fam family that enriches their life But don't think that that doesn't mean that they don't experience the emptiness of success, the vanity of wealth, and the limitations of human relationships. I mean, if anyone could have experienced a great life apart from God, it would have been Solomon, right, who wrote the book of Ecclesiastes. He had everything that anyone with any craving could ever ask for. And his conclusion It's all pointless. Jesus said in Luke 12, verse 15, one's life does not consist in the abundance of his possessions. That truth is declared by Jesus, and all those who have an abundance of possessions experience that truth. That's not what life is all about. True life consists in knowing God, having a relationship with Him such that you know that He is not just the Creator, but Your creator. He is not just a God, but your God. He is not just a father, but your father To know and believe in Jesus Christ is not to know that he died for sins, but that he died for your sins. It's to know not that he merely forgives sins, but that he forgave your sins. is to know that not merely did he ascend into heaven, but he is there right now advocating and interceding for you. It's not merely knowing that he is coming again, but that he is coming to take you to himself. It's not merely knowing the right way to live. It's knowing that the manner of his life is best and wise and the most free way to live It's not merely knowing that we need to praise him out of some obligation. It's seeing the majesty and the beauty and the wonder and the glory of Christ and being compelled to praise him because of who he is. To know and to be known by God, God the Father and God the Son, is to have the Holy Spirit dwelling within you The Holy Spirit illumines our mind to the truth. He empowers us to walk in obedience. He strengthens us in weakness. He comforts us in sorrow. He grants us peace in anxiety. He convicts us when we wander. He stirs us up to faithfulness. And all of these things, our relationship with the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, are true no matter when in history you live, no matter where in the world you live, no matter how much time of life you have left, no matter No matter how much money you have in the bank account, true life is not rooted in this world. All that is in this world will come to an end. Now, true life is rooted in God, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. And because the life of the soul is rooted in God, once you have it Not even death itself can take it away. All death does, listen to this, beloved, all death does is remove the restraints of sin so that the life that we have now in Christ Will be fully realized in his presence. This is why Jesus says here in verse 25: Everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Obviously, that doesn't mean that our body will never die. It means that once our soul is made alive by the Spirit of Christ, He will sustain that life forevermore. Some of you are hikers and soldiers and you've had the experience of bearing a great weight, a backpack, a very heavy rucksack, while you're hiking or training or running. Imagine that you're like Christian in the Pilgrim's Progress, who started out his journey with this great burden on his back. Imagine what your life would be like if you got up every morning, you got ready for the day, you you went all throughout the day, and then you went to bed at night, all with this one hundred pound backpack on you. Could you live? Well, sure, you it would be terribly inconvenient. You would be incredibly exhausted, and you certainly wouldn't sleep very well But somehow, somehow, if if that was your plot in life, you would find a way to manage. But then imagine that one day that burden is taken away. What would happen? You would jump out of bed. You would spring up and down the stairs. You would your exercise routine would be easy. You would have energy that would that would move you through the day and propel you forward. You'd be moving around, not not uh knocking into things. You wouldn't be exhausted. And at night you would sleep with great comfort. That's that's something like death. To die is not or rather, it is not death to die. To die is to experience an exponentially greater life. A life with a God that we had here, but which is set free from from all the restraints, all the entanglements, all the limitations that our sin-cursed bodies and unsanctified souls have now. You know, we're so used to thinking about the future as the afterlife, right? We we've heard that term many times, we've used that term, the afterlife But that word makes it sound like life after death is somehow less than our lives before death. And that might be true for those who die apart from Christ and are destined to everlasting death. But that is not true of those who believe in Christ. For those who know and believe in Jesus Christ, we have eternal life now and forever. And death unleashes for us a life beyond imagination. So we've seen that death is not the end. We have life now and forever Let's come back to our passage here. There's a great wonder here. All that we've said about life being rooted in the person of Jesus Christ. who stands before Martha, who is grieving her brother's death, is true. It could be said that the greatest tragedy that one could ever face is to lose lose your loved one And that's happened to Martha. And yet before her stands the one who is the resurrection and the life. He has the power. over life and death. He alone created and sustains life and he alone is able to restore life. As the divine Son of God, His voice can reach the realms of glory and call souls back to come back to their bodies if that's what He wants them to do. And bodies which have decayed must listen to their creator who commands the body to receive the soul back and be entirely restored That's who stands before Martha. Jesus says to Martha, this is who I am. I am the resurrection and the life. And he asked Martha, Do you believe this? Do you believe this? Notice her response in verse 27. She said to him, Yes, Lord, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world. Now, I think it's clear here that Martha does not fully understand the significance of what Jesus is saying. Even though she affirms that Jesus is who he claims to be. She does not think this has any bearing on her situation now. Somehow she just can't open herself to the possibility that Jesus might actually bring Lazarus back from the dead. But beloved, let's not look down on her, because how often do you and I limit God? We worry We fret, we we act as though God has somehow lost control, that somehow He doesn't have the resources to to provide for us. He He's gotten confused about what's really best for us, somehow he doesn't have the power. That's how we often respond in times of trial Let's give Martha here a little bit of grace. The only reason that you and I can see with such clarity what Jesus is saying is because we already know the end of the story. We know what he's going to do. But apart from that, if if you and I were in Martha's shoes, we would respond maybe not even as good as she does here. Blind to the resurrection as she is, she makes a remarkable confession. Now, if you read through the Gospels, there are less than a handful of crystal clear affirmations of Jesus on the lips of those who encountered him. One of the most famous, Matthew 16, 16, Peter says, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. Again, Peter says in John chapter 6, verse 68, Lord, to whom should we go? Shall we go? You have the words of eternal life, and we have believed and have come to know that you are the Holy One of God. There's Thomas after the resurrection once he touched Jesus who said, My Lord and my God But do you remember the purpose of John in writing this gospel? He says in John chapter 20, verses 30 and 31. Now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book, but these are written So that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name I think it's beautiful and profound that the only precise affirmation of the identity of Jesus, which John has been urging us to embrace is spoken by a broken-hearted woman who loves Jesus despite her sorrow. In calling him Lord, she is clothed in humility and sees herself as his servant. In calling him Christ, she acknowledges that he is the King who is coming to establish his kingdom and rule over the world. And in calling him the Son of God, she affirms that he is divine. Even though she does not expect what Jesus is about to do, she still puts her life under the sovereign rule of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. Really, she follows in the footsteps of David and Asaph and the many other writers of Psalms who in deep distress cry out to the Lord And while they may not always know how the Lord is going to uh redeem their circumstances, rescue them from trouble, whatever the situation was, they they knew and confessed and proclaimed who He was And that he is good and sovereign and does what is right. Here, listen carefully, here in saying this, that Jesus is the Christ, the Son, of God. Martha expresses a faith that does not need Lazarus to rise from the dead for her to trust in Jesus She doesn't need Jesus to perform this miracle for her to believe. She affirms her trust in Jesus She may not have understood all the implications of what Jesus said, but Jesus has drawn her close. And to some degree he's lifted her eyes above her sorrow and gotten them on him When we come to know that death is not the end, and that we have life now and forever. We may not always know what God can and will do in our life, but like Martha, we can trust him no matter what happens next. Some of you are facing a recent loss. Some of you see death speeding towards you Others of you have broken relationships. Maybe you're struggling to provide for yourself or your family. Maybe you have chronic physical suffering. who are experiencing a multitude of other effects of the curse of sin in this world. There is no promise in the gospel that Jesus will make our lives easier. That'll take suffering away. He rarely raised people from the dead, even while he walked this earth. He did alleviate a lot of suffering, but not all of it. But he always has purposes for what he allows and what he alleviates. And one of those purposes is that we would loosen our grip on the things of this life and find our life in Him who is the resurrection and the life. Let's pray together. Lord Jesus, as we bring this particular study to a close, there's Always more to say because your word has been so abundantly clear about the power and the glory of Jesus Christ. You've given us in the New Testament riches of understanding of what happens when we die. as well as the final resurrection. And we long for that day when you will come back. We affirm the words at the end of Revelation that says, the bride says, Come, Lord Jesus. And yet we also want to affirm our trust in you, that you have the power over life and death. And even though that doesn't mean you always prevent death or extend life, it does mean that you are God. And because you are God, you are good And as the good and sovereign God, you delight to demonstrate your power and glory in ways that we cannot imagine. Lord, help us to be like Martha who trusted in you regardless of her sorrow. Help us to look to you, not claiming promises that don't belong to us. but trusting in you who has the power to do all things. May we be as bold and clear in our affirmation of you as our dear sister, Martha, was Lord, I know that there are many in our church who are suffering a variety of things. And in this day and in this coming week, many of us will be in our homes. will be alone. For some that will be a a pleasant rest. For others that will add to their sorrow And so, Lord, I pray that you would keep us meditating on the truth, that you would cause us to keep our eyes on Christ. And that as we have ability and opportunity, that we would love one another well and point each other to Christ. And serve one another. We ask all these things in Christ's name, amen