Good morning. Good morning, ladies of hope. If my voice sounds a little rough, it's because I have a little sinus thing going on, but it's okay, right? Everybody can hear me It's all it is so wonderful to see these wonderful faces. Um you guys know that I'm nervous. This is my first time speaking, but God is good. First of all, I wanna thank Karen. Margot, Ann Kane, Morad, Diane Baldridge. I don't know how you do it. But I appreciate you. You guys are wonderful teachers, wonderful mentors. So we're gonna talk about singleness. You know we can stay here all day, all night. If you're single, you know that you spend many hours talking about that discussion, right? But today I only have fifteen minutes. So bear with me. Singleness or single as defined in the dictionary of course is not married. That's an adjective. Or is a noun, it's a separate individual person or thing. And also it has an unmarried person and especially I don't know why they put this, especially one young and socially active. Now that's what the dictionary says. But before I start, um Just a little bit about myself, those that don't know me, much my name is Elsie Best. I've been at Hope since 2008 eight. My husband is John Best. Him and I I serve with him alongside him in a um ministry that he does call Principles of Christian Dayton. So you're probably wondering, okay, Elsie, you're married, so what are you talking about singleness for? Well, because God in his sovereignty and his Just wonderfulness. I was single until I was fifty two years old. So you know the not grief, but the longing, the questioning that I went through to understand, Lord, what are you doing? So that's where we're gonna talk about today. So when I mention single women, I'm also including divorced and those women that are widows because they may desire to be married again and currently if you divorce or widow, you're single. So these truths applies to you as well. You're not left out. In your season of singleness you probably will ask or think what purpose does my waiting serve? I'm waiting. So I'm waiting on the Lord to do something while I'm waiting. What purpose does it serve? It serves a lot of purposes. But first of all, if you guys remember Pastor Plumley as well as Pastor Mike, when they did their talk on foundational truths, the purpose of your servant sorry and purpose of your waiting is to do something now that would be better prepare you for your future seasons of life. So if you single now You should be doing something that will prepare you for your other seasons of life. So if you desire marriage What should you be doing right now as you preparing um for that? Then also another truth that Pastor Mike gave is that it gives you the opportunity to proclaim Jesus Christ to others. So seek his kingdom first, as said in Matthew 6. 33, and all those things will be added to you. Then you may ask, okay, what is God doing? I'm waiting for him to do something. We don't know what God is doing. Okay? He has the plan. He knows where you are. He knows where you're going to be. He knows what you're going to do. That's why your faith is so important in this season, as in all seasons of your life. Your faith is so important. As Isaiah fifty five eight says, My thoughts are not your thoughts, nor are your ways My ways, declares the Lord. For as high, for as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts, your thoughts. You cannot outthink God. You cannot decide well actually you can decide what you want to do, but God God has the absolute control over it. So God is always doing something. He is not static he's moving in your life then you may ask or think how do I not struggle with my singleness. Diane Baldwin talked about grief last month and some singles they are grieving. I grieved. I used to cry like all nine I will wake up and go to bed crying. I will think about Lord, is this the day that you will sin? that man. Oh, it wasn't today, okay, maybe it's tomorrow. I was struggling. And in that struggle, I'm gonna ch I'm jumping ahead a little bit God had to grab me, stop me, and make me realize that He's in control of my life. And I'm gonna talk about how you need to get in the Word, stay in the Word, and surround yourself with women single as well as married that love the Lord that will help you through that process. It is a grieving process and as Diane said, it's it's invisible, it's in it's internal. Um I thought that if I did good, be nice, dress nice, go to church, act like a lady, don't talk loud, don't spit on the street, that you know In New York. He's spit on the street like uh but and God would bring me that man if I do all these things. Again, not thinking that I had control over nothing. You cannot do any good thing and think that God would do something. Uh Y it's like acts, okay? It's like works. You can't do it. No matter how much you try, no matter how much makeup you put on, no matter how many degrees you get. When God says it's time is going to be time, it will be perfect. Because God does everything in decency and in order, and when he gives good gifts It is perfect. He he adds no trouble to it. Okay? Um I have a psalm here in I don't know why when I was younger, in my twenties. Psalm Six six. That was me. I was weary with my sigh, and every night I'd make my bed swim. I dissolved my couch with my tears. But then I started spending And in time, in his word, when I moved from New York to DC, I worked in Alexander, Virginia, and I lived downtown DC, so I had to take the train. So I had my Bible and so I would read the Bible on the train. I don't know, maybe an hour ride or something. Every day for like two years. And as I did that He began to soften my heart. He began to make it flash. He began to allow me to seek him and help me understand that it's all about Christ. It's not about me wanting and longing to be married. So that was in my twenties, my thirties, my forties. Since I start approaching fifty, I'm like, okay, God, you told me to Seek you. That's in your word, and your word is truth. You do not lie. So I continue to seek him. And I know that everybody has their own list But most important is that you must remember is that what you focus on will become your God. So if you spend in day and night focusing on being single, where's my husband is he coming today is he coming tomorrow is he in the supermarket is he in the library is he in the laundromat where is he that becomes your God and what does God say Have no other God before me. That's even that desire. And I will encourage you strongly, do not make singleness your God. There's so much more that God has given you and will provide for you and will give you than being married. Now, how not to Struggle with your singleness. Well the first thing is what? Make our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ your main focus your priority. It doesn't mean to play head games, God. I'm thinking about you, I'm thinking about you, I'm thinking about you. Okay. Let it happen. I did that. No. We don't know what God is doing, but He's doing something It is always so good. Stop comparing yourself to your married friends. You don't know what their life is like, like for real. Okay, that um that creates nothing but anxiety when you compare yourself to others. And then also remember God has your future. You do not. What is my identity in singleness? You know, when you I'm sure I was and some women that I've met, they identify themselves in their singleness. Sometimes it can be positive and sometimes it can be negative, meaning that I'm single and I don't need a man and I don't want a man and I don't want this I I'm single. I'm independent and I don't need anything. But as a Christian woman, what what does that sound like? That sounds like bitterness, doesn't it? Okay? So you need to examine your heart. Also, your identity is not in your singleness. It's in Christ. So don't let your status, your marital status define you. And also in your singleness You're given an opportunity to do things in the kingdom that married women cannot. So you really need to Thank you. You hear my mouth getting dry, folks. So take of um advantage of those opportunities. You are responsible for reading, studying, and meditating on his word. That's who you are in Jesus Christ. Are you developing developing internal relationships? Are you sharing the gospel? Those are the things that you're called to do regardless of what you're statuses. And if you're single, why do you even desire marriage? Is it because you want to have children or is it because you want to share the gospel. If you look at Ephesians five, one through five, it says, Therefore be imitators of God as beloved children, And walk in love as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. But sexual immorality and all impurity or covetousness must not be even named. among you as it is proper among saints. Let there be no filtiness uh sorry, let there be no filthiness or foolish talk, nor crude joking which are out of place. But in Instead, let there be thanksgiving, for you may be sure of this, that everyone who is sexually immoral or impure or who is covetous has no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. Have you surrendered your life to God? Have you submitted to God's will? Psalm 143 10 says, Teach me to do your will, for you are my God. Let your good spirit lead me on level ground. Remember God's time is not our time. And And for those that are single and you are desiring marriage, but you're doubting you're doubting God that He can do that for you, you gotta remember Genesis, right? He spoke the world, the universe, the star. Into existence. He took man out of clay, made man, and you don't think that he can bring a man for you after all of that? You can't doubt God. James 5 8 says, if any of you likes wisdom, Them, let him ask God, who gives generously to all without reproach, and it will be given him. But let them ask in faith with no doubt For the one who doubts is like a wave or sea that is driven and tossed by the wind, for that person must not suppose that he will receive anything from from the Lord. He is a double minded minded man, unstable in all his ways. So doubting God is that truly is not a good thing because God is who he said he is. So if you doubt in God and you're saying God isn't who he said he is, you what are you calling God? A lie? A liar? God cannot lie. God is not man that he should lie, nor fellow man that he should change his mind Has he said he will and will he not do it? Or has he spoken and will not fulfill it? Just remember that God will not leave you. nor forsake you. Proverbs three five trust in the Lord with all your heart, and do not lean on your on your own understanding In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make your path straight. Let me just pause for a minute. Again, this talk is for Single women never been married, divorced, as well as widows. But you can rejoice in your singleness. We know that Paul embraced his singleness. He said, I wish you were like me. single. So you can focus on things of the Lord. Um also singleness is good. Just know that marriage is temporary, you know, when we get to heaven there would be no given in marriage. But those eternal friendships, those relationships that are created now, those are the ones that are e are eternal. And there's so many things that single people can do and for the married women that are here how are you given advice to singles to date in a way that's holy and consistent with the scriptures. Are you taking time talking with singles about getting married one day? And if you are married and you have relationships with single women, are you being honest with them about what marriage is? Or have or are you giving them strawberries and pies and cherries and whipped cream? Not that you have to give the intimate details, but you have to let them know what marriage is. You're not doing them a service but not talking about what marriage really is. Take the time to talk with them honestly, especially when you have relationships. And for those mothers that have daughters that are ten, eleven twelve, I don't know what age does l do um little girls start talking about marriage. I mean it can be I don't know, five or six years old or something. Begin to talk to them about marriage then at that age. Yes, the dress, the hair, the makeup and all the pomp and circumstance, that's real. But give them what is real. It is your responsibility. And for those um um married women, uh you You racking poles over their heads so to speak for not being married or for being single, badgering now. When are you getting married? When are you getting married? I see you every day. Where's the guy? Where's the boy? Where's this? Where's that? Love them because that is a grievous process for them. You don't know what they are going through being single and by you, married women. asking every day or every month or whatever, when you get married? How come you're not married? You're small, you're beautiful. That has nothing to do with being married. So do them a favor. Help them. Now think Single women, you know I can say a whole lot to single women. Find a godly woman for a mentor. Okay? You can be someone in your family Of course look at all these women here at Hope. Also for those women that are comfortable with their singleness, there's a lot of women that are comfortable with their singleness. That God has given them that gift not to desire that affection from the opposite sex. Encourage those ladies that are struggling with their singleness. Don't isolate yourself, ladies, singles who are comfortable with your singleness. You only gonna hang out with the girls that are comfortable with their singleness, and also those ladies that are struggling with your singleness Don't separate yourself from those that are comfortable. You guys can offer so much to each other and be accountable. You know, we are kind of afraid to be really accountable to some. kind of do it on the surface level level. But if you're struggling with something, be accountable to somebody. Don't be afraid to allow someone to come alongside of you so to keep you centered and keep you connected to the body of Christ because sometime our grieving can separate us slowly, like a little drifting away step by step by step. Again, God is in control. He's sovereign. He knows what he's doing. Being single is not the leftovers or the forgotten's. You're a child of God, your daughter of God, then you are a sister in Christ.