Um, let's see. Life is full of periods of waiting, isn't it? Is there anybody in this room that has never had to wait? No. So let's actually see a show of hands. How many of you believe that waiting is pleasant. You love it. And when God says it's time to stop waiting, you say, No, please God, no, I was having such a good time waiting That is not what we do by nature, is it? We hate to wait. We do not want to wait like the psalmist. Instead we say, How long, O Lord? The wait, if it's long especially, is agonizing for us So if you haven't had to wait recently, hopefully the discussion at your table reminded you of times when you've had to wait. Or maybe right now you're in the midst of a very difficult meeting period and it hurts. It's fresh. hard. Well biblically we have good company when it comes to waiting. Hannah, we all know about Hannah. She longed to become a mother and was waited for years, ridiculed the whole time by her husband's other wife, who did have children. Abraham and Sarah, of course, who waited nearly a century to become parents. We can't even relate to the concept of waiting nearly a century. Noah waited longer than that. Did you know that? Noah waiting in before the flood He was the neighborhood Waco with a with a ship that he's building on dry land and he waited a hundred and twenty years. before the Lord sent the fled, and he was faithful. King David waited and waited for deliverance, the whole time being pursued by enemies, living in caves in great hardship. The prophet Jeremiah, who suffered alongside had rebellious Israel for seventy years during the Babylonian captivity. And even the Apostle Paul, who had to ask the Lord three times to remove his thorn in the flesh, and then received a no answer to that waiting period. And the Apostle Paul scripture also tells us was often prevented from seeing the church at Rome, even though he longed for many years. to come to them. So we are not alone in our wait and we have biblical examples of people who had to wait. I know in our thirty five years of marriage we've Mike and I have had to w had lots of seasons of waiting. The longest and the hardest was for our children. We had to wait sixteen years of longing before Eliana was added to our family and then we had to wait another six and a half years before Samaria was added to our family. So needless to say We're really grateful for our girls. They were very much worth the wait. We've had to wait twice for houses to sell, once when the market was crashed and we thought we were gonna have to foreclose, waiting and biting our nails, you know, wondering how the Lord would gonna work in that situation. More recently, we had to wait for two years to see how the Lord was going to resolve our situation and it ended up with him bringing us here. Um and right now thank you, right now we're in the midst of another wait. hopefully it won't be a super long one. But we're waiting for the Lord to provide a home for us and my parents to make. And so this is a real test of how are we gonna wait now in this most recent period of waiting. Um so being the ex Wait is very, very common to man. In fact, if you think about it, our very existence begins with a period of waiting. A gestational period. God could speak us into being. We know that. He spoke Adam into being, but he doesn't He says, No, your very existence is going to begin with a w a period of waiting. We don't know why, but it is built into the the the fiber of our existence. Wait, wait, wait, wait. And if we look at the biblical examples that I mentioned before. Some of them are honorable and worthy of following in almost every detail that we're given, like Hannah and Noah and the Apostle Paul. Others are not quite so honorable, even though they're in the hall of faith. We don't want to follow example Exactly everything Abraham and Sarah did. Theirs is a little questionable. The example that we are gonna examine this morning though is King David. He had to wait on the Lord a lot and under very difficult circumstances. Often while even running for his life. But the beauty of David is that he wrote out his prayers to the Lord in the midst of his agonizing times of waiting. And God in his goodness has given us written examples of how to cry out to him when he requires that we wait. So if you've got your Bibles, we're gonna look at Psalm thirteen together. As you know, the book of Psalms is a book of poetry and those Psalms or poems are broken down into a number of different genres or types. Psalm thirteen is a lament or a cry for help. So open to Psalm thirteen if you have your Bible and I will read it. How long, O Lord, will you forget me for ever? How long will you hide your face from me? How long must I take counsel in my soul and have sorrow in my heart all the day? How long shall my enemy be exalted over me? Consider me and answer me, O Lord my God. Light up my eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death, lest my enemies say, I've prevailed over him. Lest my foes rejoice because I'm shaken. But I have trusted in your said best love, my heart shall rejoice in your salvation. I will sing to the Lord, because he has dealt bountifully with me. So if you look at this cross. for help, just lament. It begins in verses one and two with David's raw, almost visceral expression of feeling abandoned by the Lord. He almost sounds like he's accusing God, doesn't he? I know I sometimes have a sense of How dare ye when I read the bold statements that he makes in the book of Psalms? But what is he actually expressing? Is he accusing God of something? Or is he just honestly and passionately expressing how Desperate he's become. He feels forgotten by God. He feels abandoned. His prayers seem to be going nowhere. He sees that his enemy appears to be prevailing over him. And as a result, he's almost completely lost hope. In fact he feels so hopeless that in verse three he says he fears that he may die. So the first point that I would like to draw out from this psalm is it's okay to lament. There's an entire book of the Bible called Lamentations. And did you know that one third of the book of Psalms are laments? To lament biblically is just to honestly confess to the Lord the intense struggle that's going on in our hearts. He already knows what's in our hearts better than we even do. So to verbalize and to confess to him what we're feeling is to be honest with him. And it's the first step. Truly learning how to cast our care upon the Lord, like 1 Peter 5 7 instructs us to do. I confess Lord, this is what I think of my circumstances, and this is what is making me feel. When I was struggling the most most with our childlessness over all those years, I did not know that it was okay and even good to lament. I thought to honestly express to the Lord what I was truly feeling was sinful. So I didn't express it. Not outwardly, I swallowed it. It was bubbling and boiling in my heart though, so you better believe my heart and my mind were grappling with it. I was stuck. And it wasn't a productive or a godly grappling. I was stuck In an ugly mire of resentment against God for dealing me a hand that I did not want. If I had had the biblical wisdom to see that the psalmist was not merely complaining, but was honestly expressing his naturality. response to his challenging circumstances, I am convinced that I would have found a significant measure of freedom from pain and I would have found some joy in my waiting. So if you need help in learning what it means To biblically lament, dig into scripture. Read the Psalms and look for the laments. A third of the book are laments. It shouldn't be too hard to find them. And uh and look at the book of Lamentations and see how How the Lord led Jeremiah to cry out to him during his terribly difficult times. And let me recommend a book to you that a precious friend recommended to me. This is an awesome resource in learning the art of believing It's called Deep Clouds, Deep Mercy, Discovering the Grace of Lament. But even though I'm recommending a book, know that you should go to Scripture first. Resources that God has given us are wonderful, but Scripture always should be first. God's wisdom is a good thing. is I mean this hopefully is God's wisdom but it's interpreted by man. So start with the word of God. And if you are being called by God to wait right now, you will be helped by making you use of that time by digging in and learning better what it means to lament biblically. My second point that I'd like to make is it's okay to express concern for our future. We have Desires. We make plans. It's good and it's well to have desires and make plans. In fact, that's the result of our being made in the image of God. Animals don't make plans. They're not able to. So that's a reflection of our being image bearers of God. But we must be willing to surrender our desires and our plans to the Lord's will and His purpose for our lives. David's ultimate concern in Psalm thirteen was that his enemy would prevail over him and he would die. Our concerns can vary greatly. They can be for our quality li of life or our varied lives, in the case of a severe illness. Our concerns can be about our material well being As in the case of a house search or a career change. They can be about our identity. Will I remain single for the rest of my life? Will my marriage survive? Or our concerns can be for our posterity, like Hannah, Abraham, and Sarah, and Mike and me. Will the Lord ever bless us with children? Our concerns can take any shape and be that a myriad of things. I'm sure you all have concerns in your mind right now and no no two of them are exactly the same because no two of us are exactly the same. same. Ultimately, it doesn't matter what our concerns are. What matters is how we respond to those concerns. So what do we observe about David and his concern for his future in Psalm thirteen? If you look at verse 2, he says, How long will my enemy prevail over me? He beseeches the Lord by saying, Consider me and answer me. And then he asks the Lord to light up his eyes, which can be interpreted. to mean, give me some hope. Are any of these inappropriate requests or unreasonable requests? Is it okay to express to God that we're struggling with how long a difficulty is lasting? And is it okay? Okay to ask God to consider us and to hear us. And is it okay to ask God to give us hope? Of course it is. He led us, and he is a compassionate God who longs to respond to each one of those pleadings and who longs to walk with us through our difficulties. It's okay to cry out to God and to express concern for our future. I have another book recommendation. If you're struggling to be content with your circumstances, leave Lisa Hughes's Unmet Expectations is a wonderful resource as well to really get in and examine your heart and the whole contentment issue and to help you grapple with that. It says, um, Unmet Expectations, reshaping our thinking in disappointments, trials, and delays, which would be the wait the wait part of our our um season of women's hope. My third point requires a little bit of a side trip biblically. It doesn't come directly from Psalm thirteen but it's very important to consider. My point is this. We need to examine our hearts to see if perhaps the cause of our weight is actually discipline from the Lord. If we look at what Jeremiah has to say in Lamentation 3. And you can turn to Lamentations 3 if you want to. I highly recommend that you read it. Go home and read it. It's it's it's pretty profound. We see a whole laundry list in that chapter of consequences for sin that Israel is suffering. That God was directly causing because according to verse thirty forty two they had transgressed and rebelled against the Lord. Lamentation three begins with Jeremiah saying, I am the man who has seen affliction. because of the rod of his wrath. He has driven me and made me walk in darkness and not light. Surely against me he has turned his hand repeatedly all the day. He goes on to talk about his body wasting away. He talks about being walled in, imprisoned. He says, even when I cry out and call for help, he shuts out my prayer. Have you ever felt like your prayers are bouncing off the ceiling? I've heard people say that before. And Jeremiah continues to say, He has saturated me with bitterness. My soul has been rejected from peace. I have forgotten goodness. So I say my strength has perished as well. is my hopeful waiting which comes from the Lord. His circumstances have been so overwhelming that he has completely lost the ability to wait with hope. Jeremiah is then confronted with what he knows. To be true about God, that God's loving kindnesses never cease, that his compassions never fail, but they're new every morning. That God's faithfulness is great. Listen to how he instructs his heart after recalling all of this about God's goodness. The Lord is my portion, says my soul. Therefore, wait for him. The Lord is good to those who hope. open him to the soul who seeks him. It is good that he waits silently for the salvation of the Lord. So after reminding himself of the goodness of God, Jeremiah's next move is to be outward, to call the people to the world. repentance. Let us search out and examine our ways. Let us return to the Lord. We have transgressed and rebelled. You, he says of the Lord, have covered yourself with anger and pursued us. You have cut yourself with a cloud so that no prayer can pass through. That's sobering. Are you confident right now that your heart is right before the Lord? Have you gone before Him and ask him to search you and know you and see if there's any wicked way in you? Do you need to remind your heart about what you know to be true about the Lord? Do you need to take your eyes off of your hurt and instead praise the Lord for his everlasting goodness. And then realize, like Jeremiah, that it is good to wait and to hope in silence for the Lord. Which actually leads us to our last point. My fourth and final point is we must learn how to live in the Lord in silence. So for this point we're going to look at Psalm sixty two. If you want to flip over to Psalm sixty two, we're looking at verses five through eight. Before we do that though, what's the repeated phrase that we read in verses one and two of Psalm thirteen? How long? How long? Is David being silent? Not in that Psalm, that's a lament. He's crying out, how long? Well, when we look at Psalm sixty two and read verses five through eight, David says, Surely wait in silence for God, O my soul, for my My hope is from him. Surely he is my rock and my salvation. My stronghold. I shall not be shaken. On God my salvation and my glory rest. The rock of my stronghold. Things My refuge is in God. Then he goes outward. Trust in him at all times, O people. Pour out your heart lament before him. God is a refuge for us. Do you You see the movement from pain in Psalm 13 to settled conviction in Psalm 62 and ultimately rest? We go from David's cry of how long, O Lord, to David instructing his own heart to instruct. Wait silently for the Lord. Why should he wait in silence for the Lord? Because like Jeremiah, David is confronted with his understanding of who God is. Wait in silence because God is My hope. Wait in silence because God is my rock, the rock of my strength. Wait in silence because God is my salvation Wait in silence because God is my stronghold in which I shall not be shaken. Do you remember what David's concern was in Psalm thirteen four, the second part of it? Lest my foes rejoice because I am shaken? And here he says, God is my stronghold, in which I shall not be shaken. Wait in silence, because on God my salvation and my glory, or my reputation, my identity, both rest. Wait in silence because my refuge, my safe hiding place is in God. David, like the prophet Jeremiah, is speaking to himself first. Oh my soul. But then after rehearsing all All he knows to be true about God, he also reaches outside of himself and commands the people. Trust in him at all times, pour out your heart before him. Now they were both leaders. Jeremiah was a prophet, David was a king, but we have positions where we also have influence on the lives of other people. So we can take a lesson from this. We don't learn these things internally. We do. We start by learning it internally, but we need to let it overflow and pour out to other people in our lives. So why Why is David taking comfort like Jeremiah was? And why should the people take comfort? Because God is also the refuge of the people, and He is our refuge in any storm, in any trial, during any Any weight, no matter how long, and no matter the outcome, He is our refuge. Our hope is from Him. He is our rock and our salvation, our stronghold in which we will not be. be shaken. Our glory, our identity, our reputation rest in Him, not in whatever outcome we're hoping for. God is our refuge. It is my prayer this morning that you will learn how to pour out your heart before him. It's healing. It's therapeutic to use a worldly term. But it is healing. And then it's my prayer that you'll learn how to wait and to trust him in silence. And for us as the believers in a in a post-Christ era that requires the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. We can't do this in and of ourselves. You can't drum up enough self-discipline and self-motivation to teach yourself to wait in silence. You must out to the Lord, acknowledge who he is and ask him by his spirit to work that in you and he will. It's his desire to sanctify you and you make you more like him. If you are struggling right now and uh what the question the the um key question I think is so significant because we all say God is good. We know that. Scripture makes that very clear, right? I don't think any of us would would argue with that. We say God is sovereign. I don't think any of us in here would argue with that either. But then our difficulties and our weights and our trials come and we're not content. We struggle. Therefore, there's a problem, there's a disconnect between what we say to be true and how we function, so we need to go before the Lord and say, Is it my faith? Do I really not believe that you're good? Do I really not believe that you're sovereign over the circumstances of my life? Or is it just my disobedient heart that I want what I want and I want it now. Either way, we've got an issue that we have to take before the Lord and and have him work on our heart and train us to be more like him. All right. Let's pray together. Father, you are good. We do know that in our flawed humanity with our fleshly body that we're so trapped in, as much as we're able to, we do acknowledge you are good and you are sovereign. But Lord, this fleshly body is our hang up. We um like Paul says, we do what we don't want to do and we don't do what we do want to do. Um our spirit is willing but our flesh is weak. So Father, I pray that you would use your word as we looked at Psalm thirteen and Lamentations three and Psalm sixty two. I pray, Father, that you would use it to be a teacher for us, that you would use it to be a healing ball. for those of us that are in pain and hurting because of the weight that you have ordained. And I pray, Father, that you would use it to instruct us and to point out sin if we do have wickedness in our hearts, stubborn rebellion or not believing you are who you are. I pray, Father, that your Spirit would use your word to reveal that to our hearts to help us to confess and to um give surrender that to you, recognizing it as sin and coming to you afresh and being willing to wait silently and to ask you to teach us how to do that with contentedness and with joy. We thank you for your love for us. We thank you that you do orchestrate every detail of our lives and that we can rest in you because of who you are. We thank you for this. It's in Jesus' name, Amen.