We had a couple of Sundays and a whole weekend to consider together as a church our important calling to take the gospel to the ends of the earth. I was thinking about that and just about here local evangelism as I was studying in John this past week. Undoubtedly one of the greatest areas of discouragement for you, and I've heard you, many of you share this with me, in carrying out that Great Commission, at least locally here in Maryland Is the reality that many of the people that you attempt to share the good news with aren't interested. Or they openly oppose it, mock it. You get a shoulder shrug, quick change of subject, you know. Or maybe hostile questions, mocking questions that show that from the questions they're not really interested in an answer. They're just putting Christianity, Jesus, the Bible down. I know that can discourage witnessing You might wonder, what is the point in committing yourself to doing local evangelism if folks won't listen? Maybe you've had that experience, maybe you've had those doubts inwardly. You want to be obedient to do evangelism, to do it locally as well as internationally. But you wonder what Jesus would have you say to these people when it seems there's so few that repent. Some will listen, but so few repent of their sins. And many who do make professions of faith often don't follow through with that. And the sad reality is their conversion wasn't genuine. One good question to start with is: what would Jesus say to mockers and to skeptics today if he were down here on the earth with us? If we could follow him around? And listen to him, how would he do his evangelism? That would be interesting, I think. Let's listen how he does it. Maybe we'll pick up something from him Would he be able to say the right things to make those folks we've been struggling with the witness to finally believe? And we would be like, wow, I wish I had thought of that. Are you concerned that when you witness unbelievers, you're not saying the right thing? And that's why they're not becoming believers Well, if that's one of your concerns, the Word of God has some, I think, surprisingly encouraging instruction for you today. And I think what you hear may be surprising because how Jesus dealt with skeptics might be surprising to you. Let's go ahead and open our copies of God's Word to the Gospel of John, chapter 10. I'm going to read the entire passage, verses 22 through 42. We won't get that far today, by any means. John 10, 22 to 42. Please follow along as I read. At that time, the feast of dedication took place at Jerusalem. It was winter, and Jesus was walking in the temple in the portico of Solomon. The Jews then gathered around him and were saying to him, How long will you keep us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly. Jesus answered them, I told you, and you do not believe. The works that I do in my Father's name, these testify of me. But you do not believe, because you are not of my sheep. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give eternal life to them And they will never perish. And no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. I and the Father are one. The Jews picked up stones again to stone him. Jesus answered them, I showed you many good works from the Father. For which of them are you stoning me? The Jews answered him, For a good work we do not stone you, but for blasphemy, and because you, being a man, make yourself out Jesus answered them, Has it not been written in your law, I said you are gods? If he called them gods, to whom the word of God came, and the scripture cannot be broken. Do you say of him whom the Father sanctified and sent into the world, you are blasphemy because I said I am the Son of God? If I do not do the works of my Father, do not believe me But if I do them, though you do not believe me, believe the works, so that you may know and understand that the Father is in me, and I in the Father. Therefore, they were seeking again to seize him, and he eluded their grasp. And he went away again beyond the Jordan to the place where John was first baptizing, and he was staying there. Many came to him and were saying, While John performed no sign, yet everything John said about this man was true. Many believed in him there. I find this to be a very fascinating passage of Scripture. Some have called this section The Jews' Final Rejection of Jesus, and titles such as that. For it is clearly a passage that demonstrates unbelief. Although it ends with a positive note, with some coming to faith, there's even hostility that is expressed towards Christ. Sure enough, this episode in the life of Jesus conveys other grand spiritual truths. It is one of the most powerful sections of the Gospel explaining the deity of the Son of God and his oneness with the Father. It is also a classic passage for learning about the eternal security of the believer. It once again shows the sovereignty of God in choosing to save some sinners and not all. These themes we will happily explore as we study. But the passage is just drenched with skepticism toward Christ, doubt toward the Word of God, blindness to the works of God And even open rebellion against the Messiah. Here, Jesus is confronted, indeed, encircled by unbelievers. Have you ever had that happen to you? A bunch of unbelievers circle you and want to ask you a question. This is what happened here to Jesus. He's confronted by them, but he turns the whole thing around and makes it a confrontation of them and their folly. And this I think we can learn from. As Jesus confronts rank unbelief, hard to understand unbelief. In the face of all the evidence, he reveals how foolish their unbelief is. His confrontation of unbelievers in his day gives us a little bit of a glimpse of understanding how we can deal with unbelievers in our day So properly received, I think it can reignite our zeal and our passion to get the gospel out, even when there seem to be most that will not receive it. I hope it encourages you As we go through this passage, we're going to learn from Jesus' confrontation of these sinners six follies of unbelievers. Six follies of unbelievers. They're filled with much foolishness. Here are six of them. We find them in the passage. Just zip through them now and then we'll go back. They do not embrace the truth. They do not follow the one who can help them. They spurn eternal salvation. They refuse to know God. They're blind to the works of God, and they show misguided hostility towards Christ. Let's go back to the first one. They do not embrace the truth. Look back at verse 22, please. Verses 22 through the beginning of verse 25. We note here at that time the feast of the dedication took place at Jerusalem. It was winter, and Jesus was walking in the temple in the portico Solomon. It gives us a little bit of the setting here Since it was winter, there's a gap of two or three months between verse 21, which was in the fall, and verse 22 in the winter. The feast of dedication is what today is called Hanukkah, it's in late November or early December. This was not one of the feasts that was prescribed in the law of Moses, such as the feast of Passover, Pentecost, or Tabernacles. Instead, it was a feast that arose later in Israel's history out of their inter-testamental struggle with Greek culture, particularly. It came after Antiochus Epiphanes defiled the temple in Jerusalem. He sacrificed a pig on the altar to Zeus, also called Jupiter. He erected a statue of Zeus in the holy place, insulting the Jews and their religion. He forbade the Jews to use their scriptures, even destroyed many of the copies And he made them sacrifice to the other gods as well. Against all of this hostility towards the Jews, Judas Maccabeus conducted a three-year, could be called guerrilla warfare And won back control of Jerusalem and the temple, and then having won back the temple, he rededicated it. That rededication happened on the 25th of the month of Kizlev in 164 or some say 165 BC. 2 Maccabees, an apocryphal book, which has and provides some good history of that intertestamental time, but is not Holy Scripture. recounts the story, which was indeed at winter time. Josephus, another writer of those times, a Jewish Roman historian, also mentions this struggle of the Jews in his Antiquities of the Jews. I want to quote him Now Judas celebrated the festival of the restoration of the sacrifices of the temple for eight days, and omitted no sort of pleasure thereon, but he feasted them upon very rich and splendid sacrifices. And he honored God and delighted them by hymns and songs. Nay, they were so very glad at the revival of their customs, when after a long time of intermission, they unexpectedly had regained the freedom of their worship that they made it law for their posterity that they should keep a festival on account of the restoration of their temple worship for eight days. And from that time to this, we celebrate this festival and call it lights. I suppose the reason was because the liberty beyond our hopes appeared to us. And that vents was the t was the name given to that festival. And they still celebrate it to this day. They were celebrating it in Jesus' day as well. For the Jews of Jesus' day, it was the last great deliverance that their nation had known. And it came to be known as the Feast of Lights, for lights and candles were lit to show that at a very, very dark time in Israel's history, God turned on a light and he preserved the nation. The irony in the passage for us as Christians is that the Jews ended up rejecting their deliverer in the very festival, commemorating God's deliverance of them in the past. What they should have learned is that Jesus was there, and he was their king, and he was greater and longer lasting security than the Maccabean deliverance ever could have been. After all, they were now in Jesus' time already under the domain of Rome. So the setting in the temple is also well known. He writes here that it was in the portico of Solomon. Note that. A portico is not a porch. Some of the older translations may have it as porch. It was more of a walkway with a roof supported by columns, maybe a roofed colonnade. The long row of columns was along the eastern wall in the court of the Gentiles. Many of the scribes would go there. It would provide shade in the summertime or protection against rain in the wintertime. And they would teach in that area. Winter was also the rainy season, and so we understand why Jesus is described as walking in it, probably teaching his disciples. It was called Solomon's Portico because it was popularly believed to be the remains of Solomon's temple incorporated into Herod's temple, though that is thought to be quite unlikely. This would also be, this area of Solomon's Portico would be the area where the early Christians would meet after Jesus was raised after the day of Pentecost, they would gather in this area for instruction and worship and prayer. That's according to Acts 3. 11 and Acts 5. 12. So as has been John's pattern, we see Jesus back in another temple setting and having a debate with the Jews. Look at verse 24. It says, the Jews then gathered around him and were saying to him, How long will you keep us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly. Now gathered around kukla'o literally means encircled. They encircled him. They trapped him. At least they thought they did. Their interest in taking this action is not to get close to Jesus to learn from him, but to make it impossible for him to slip away again and not answer their question. They want their question answered. And they want it unmistakably answered. How long will you keep us in suspense? They ask, if you are the Messiah. Tell us that plainly. Plainly is the word parasia. It means frankly or boldly or right out in the open, not in any dark sayings, parables, nothing like that. We want it straight up. They wanted something that they considered to be more definitive from Christ. They wanted him to go on record. Right there in the temple, and declare publicly, not like he had we read back in John 4, where he did it privately to the woman by the well, but to declare publicly that he was indeed the Messiah of Israel He had often spoken to them in parables and figures of speech. We've seen that in John as well. This time they want it straight up, and so they encircle him, they put him on the spot. But why did they want to know? Why did they want a clear, unambiguous answer from Jesus? You might be thinking, well, if they just got a clear answer from Jesus, they would have responded rightly to him. No. No. The context and previous dealings with the Jews in Jerusalem strongly suggests they wanted a clear statement to use against him in their courts. There was a lot of plotting, we've already seen it in the Gospel of John against Jesus. A lot of plotting going on behind the scenes. Dr. MacArthur adds some insights here. Given the revelation they had seen and heard, and their hostility to Jesus over the course of that revelation, their motive was suspect. Far from being an honest request for information, their inquiry was actually just another attempt to trap Jesus with a view to getting rid of him. Because he was the greatest threat to their power and prestige, they were desperately looking for a way to discredit him and dispose of him altogether. They were unsettled by the miraculous signs he performed, tired of the divisions he caused even with their own ranks, fearful of the revolt he might spark against Rome, which would jeopardize their privileged political status. Angered by his public rebuke of their hypocrisy And most of all, outraged by his unapologetic claim to be God in chapter five, verse eighteen, ten, thirty-three, and later in nineteen seven. The Jewish authorities' strategy was to make him declare publicly, openly, that he was the Messiah so that they would have a pretext for arresting him. He's claimed to be a king, you see. One has to see some inconsistency on their part, since at least some of these Jews in Jerusalem had already clearly understood that he was claiming to be on par with God. They already tried to kill him three times because of his claims. Chapter 5, verse 18, chapter 7, verse 25, chapter 8, verse 59. Here's Jesus, and he's confronted by these Jews. Now I want you to look at how he turns it around and he confronts them. Look at verse 25. Jesus answered them. I told you. I love that. And you do not believe. And we need to learn a lot about how to present the gospel to different kinds of people. You know? Not just how to say the gospel, but how to know who we're dealing with when we're witnessing. I think many evangelicals might see a circumstance like this that Jesus had as a wonderful opportunity to share the gospel. I mean, wouldn't this be great? You walk out of church and a whole bunch of people encircle you and say, tell us who the Messiah is. You're like, wow, what an opportunity. In this case, though, he knew the hearts of the people and he knew what was going on. You know, I guess some of us might give Jesus the advice and say, Well, Jesus, they just asked you if you're the Messiah, you're that you're in the temple, here they are, they're the Jews Um this is a wonderful tailor-made divine providence-given opportunity to give the gospel. Not only do you have a captive audience, they have you as captive. They've encircled you. They're there to listen. And they just asked you the big question. And so give it to them. Tell them But Jesus gives what would be considered a very weak, you know, maybe disappointing answer by many standards today. Instead of saying, Yes, I'm the Messiah, he says, I told you. I told you. That's interesting And then he says, and you do not believe. Not just that you did not believe, but you now do not believe. You do not believe. He makes it very clear. He makes it very clear that they've already heard And he makes it very clear that they do not believe. He's talking to unbelievers. Now, does that sound like anybody that you know that you've tried to witness to? They already have been told and they do not believe. Does it sound like anyone? Come on, that sounds like a lot of the people you've been witnessing to, right? We can learn something from our evangelism because we are in some of the same situations, maybe not as many people. So, as we learn from Jesus, I learned this: that Jesus did not play games with unbelievers. He held them accountable for what they had already been told. In fact, his words are like an indictment in a courtroom. These words will result in their condemnation. You do not believe. That's not just a statement of a fact That is an indictment of something wrong that they've done. It is immoral and sinful for them not to believe. Do you remember John 3. 18? He who believes in him, that is Christ, is not judged. He who does not believe has been judged already Already judged, because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. To not believe truth is folly. It's foolish. If someone tells you the truth about something in your life and you don't believe them, that's a problem with you. You're the one in jeopardy, not the person who's telling you the truth. Do you see that? He turns effectively the tables on them and says, I told you, I did what I was supposed to do. You haven't done what you're supposed to do, and that is believe. It's foolish not to believe. This is akin to Paul shaking the dust from his clothes. You know, after he brought the message of the gospel to the Jews in the city, he said, Your blood be on your own heads. Now I turn to the Gentiles. You're responsible for what you hear, and the people you talk to and you give the gospel to, they're already responsible for what you've told them. Now, you might think maybe I have to talk to them more and convince them Jesus is the truth. Maybe they say, I don't buy what you're saying. Well, after you have told them and you've been patient with them and you've explained things to them, because Christ has been very patient, has given them a lot of teaching. This is not after the first time you say a few words, but after you've been patient with them and you've sat down and you've tried and they keep spurning it, you have a situation where they're responsible for it Jesus is the truth. You in their life at that moment is going to be played back in eternity at judgment time. I mean the cameras are on from heaven, what you're doing is seen by angels, is recorded in whatever way they record things. And that person you're talking to has just been presented with the one decision they need to make in all of life. And now it's on them. The ball's in their court. Unbelievers will suffer eternally for their rejection of the message you bring to them. Have you ever thought about that? You're a danger to them in a sense. You're bringing the good news to them so they can be rescued and be saved, but their judgment is heightened if they reject what you say. The only reason anyone would ever reject someone coming to them in love and telling them the truth is that they love lies. They love lies. Lies insulate them and allow them to live the kind of life they want to. And so you have to tell them that. You don't believe the truth. I told you. You say, Pastor, that doesn't get them saved. I know. I know Jesus didn't push a button here and get these people saved. That's not your responsibility, beloved It is not your responsibility to save anybody. It is your responsibility to speak up for Christ. And don't say amen if you're not willing to do that. Speak up. Ask God for courage and boldness. Know that He has a purpose in what He's doing through you, even if it doesn't result in salvation. By the way, Jesus had many strong and clear statements about his deity and who he was. If you've been tracking through the Gospel of John with us, you know that. He had given them many ways to come to faith in him. Samples from John 8 alone. Unless you believe I am He, you will die in your sins. I do the works of my father, Jesus said. Before Abraham was born, I am, taking the very name of God. I am the light of the world. He who follows me will not walk in darkness but have the light of life. If someone truly wanted God and was seeking for God, those claims would be adequate enough. Of course, he's claiming to be the Messiah. That title, Messiah, was charged with all kinds of misconception A political ruler without a spiritual repentance. And so Jesus didn't openly use it, but he did declare himself even in this passage when I say I am the Son of God, who clearly is the Messiah. John the Apostle taught that these claims by Jesus written in the Gospel of John and the works and miracles that Jesus did also recorded in the Gospel of John. That they together, according to chapter 20, verses 30 and 31, are sufficient for someone to come to faith and believe Jesus is the Son of God and have life because they believe. Notice what Jesus says next. He says, the works that I do in my Father's name, these testify of me. Works is the word erge. It highlights his miraculous deeds, his miracles. It's not limited to that, but it highlights that. His miracles were an expression of the will of God to the Jews. The blind man had absolutely no difficulty in chapter 9 in understanding the claims of Jesus after he opened his eyes. The works told him what he needed to know. They testified to Jesus, and he believed, and that's what they all should have done. Jesus did the works, and he did the works in his father's name. He did it on behalf of his father Now we're going to see this aspect of works being brought up again, so I'll save more comments about that for later. All right. The second folly that we encounter from unbelievers in this passage is in verse 26 and 27 Second folly is they do not follow the one who can help them. They don't follow the good shepherd. They don't follow the one who is given to help them. That's foolishness. When someone comes along who can help you and you don't follow them, that's a folly. Look at verse 26. But you do not believe because you are not of my sheep. So he looks them in the eye and tells them, you don't believe. Again, that's on you. You're accountable to God now. You'll have to face the judge with that on you. And now he adds a further reason why he does not believe. The reason you don't believe is you're not one of my sheep. If you're looking for human responsibility and divine sovereignty in one verse, there it is. With no explanation, by the way, but with both that must be believed You don't believe because you're not one of my sheep, he says. This harkens back obviously to the previous verses we studied before on the Good Shepherd. The Good Shepherd comes to lay down his life for the sheep. to give them abundant life. Please notice what Jesus does not say. He didn't say, you know, I've done a pretty poor job of explaining my mission to earth up to this point in time. Sit down, guys, here in Solomon Fortigo, and let me help you get it straight. And I know that after I tell you this time you'll understand. He didn't say, you know, I really failed to give the right claims, and that's why it's been a hard time for you coming to faith. He didn't even give them an invitation right there He knew of their deep-seated rejection of him. He knew of their motives. And he says, You're not one of my sheep. You're not one of the ones, then, with the previous teaching behind us, that the Father has given to me to be one of my sheep. This was Jesus' constant explanation for the seeming failure of his ministry. You're going to have seeming failure to your evangelism ministry. What explanation goes through your mind? With Jesus he was never he never saw it as a failure of himself or of the word or of the mission. He said, Anyone who is One of my sheep that the Father gives to me, they're going to believe. It's not going to take an advanced degree or some Extra long presentation of the gospel to get them to believe. They're not going to need extra persuasion from me. It's going to come from God. They're going to believe. That's the explanation he gave in his ministry. He saw it for what it was when he faced skeptics and mockers and the unbelief. He didn't become discouraged. He knew what was going on. God has chosen some, and they come to faith The others I have no power and control over. They're in God's hands. You're not the group. That God has given to me, you that have encircled me here in the temple. He rested in God's sovereignty and salvation, even as he did evangelism. He rested and trusted that the right number of converts out of Israel would come and respond to his preaching. He needed to do nothing else to get them to believe. They would believe. They would follow. My sheep will follow me. There was no doubt in his mind at all about it. Anytime there was someone following him, he knew the Father had worked in that person's life to open their eyes. And that person was a gift from the Father to him He knew that. He knew what was going on. He understood. He wasn't, oh shucks. I can't seem to get this all figured out, how to convince the Jews to respond Maybe I should change my ministry strategy to get more people to come to my little church, to put it in our language. He contrasts their response to him with the right response they should have had. Look at verse 27. My sheep hear my voice And I know them, and they follow me. Now there are three marks of what Christ sheep do, and we already studied this before in chapter ten. I'll just go through it quickly. First they hear my voice, that again does not mean they heard his external voice with their ear. It can't mean that everybody heard his voice It means they hear with the inner person, with the inner ear, with the ear of faith, and see with the eye of faith. This is the inward call of God that penetrates a human being and summons them to Himself, to salvation. All Christ's sheep get that inward call, that voice of Christ. We preach the gospel, God takes it and puts it inside of a person and draws them to him, and the ones he does that for are the ones who are his sheep. Second notice he said I know them. What does he draw them into when he calls them to himself? When they hear the voice, he calls them into a personal relationship with them He doesn't call them to a religion to come to church and do a few nice things and get an ethic and a few morals. He says, I'm drawing you into a relationship with me. This whole thing is personal. I know them and they know me And then the proof of all of that is the last thing. They do what? They follow. They prove their faith by following. Listen, there are lots of people, celebrities, politicians. And they're saying they believe in Jesus, and they'll talk about this aspect of the Bible and that aspect of the Bible. If they're not following the teachings of the Bible, if their life doesn't demonstrate it, don't believe them. They're a brand new convert, give them a little time. People claim to follow Jesus and they're they're living in sexual sin. Without repentance, without shame, and we say with one another, Oh, I think that person's a Christian. Really? Many claim today to be believers, but they're not following. Don't believe those claims. Do you claim to follow Jesus? Do you claim to believe in Jesus? Do you think of yourself as a Christian? I know I did. I was raised in the United Methodist Church. I didn't know what the gospel was. They didn't tell us. And I didn't want to know. I was happy in my sin. I didn't know what the gospel was. I didn't want to know. I thought I was a Christian. You give me the form to fill out? What are you? Christian, Jew, Muslim, whatever. They didn't have Muslim back then. It was just Christian, Jew, Protestant, Christian. Yeah, that's what I am. Not a Jew. As I was drinking my beers, of course I'm a Christian. What else would I be? Jew? I'm not a Jew. People say they're Christians, but do they follow Christ? Jesus didn't say, some of my sheep get an advanced degree in being a sheepie. And they follow me. He just said my sheep follow. If you're one of his, you follow. If you don't follow It's not too hard. Have you been baptized publicly and given a public profession of your faith in Jesus Christ? That's the first command that He has for you to follow if you're a believer. Are you following his teachings from the Bible? That's not a neat idea that Hope Bible Church came up with. That's a command of his. Are you committed to God's people in church? Are you committed to them? Do you love them? Do you gather with them regularly? Do you publicly tell other people that you're a born-again Christian, that you believe in Christ, you believe in his resurrection from the dead, that you're staking your future on that? Do you tell other people that? If you don't, you're not following Christ. You're not one of his sheep You may think of yourself, you may have come in here thinking, I'm one of the sheep, you're not one of the sheep. If you're one of the youth in here, you're not following Christ. Your parents are following Christ, you're not following, you're not one of the sheep. Not yet. You can be. Are you living in sexual sin? You're just pursuing the better life now. Getting more things. Sprinkle a little bit of religion in your life, but your life is really about what you're pursuing here and now. And you haven't learned a thing from Christ. You're not following him. In those days to follow him, you weren't rich. You're not doing the work of God, serving the king. You're not obeying him. You're not following him. You don't do the things Jesus said to do. Your faith's not the saving kind of faith. Whatever faith you think you have, it's not that faith that latches itself onto Jesus And you need to turn from your heart of sin. You have a worldly heart. You love the things of the world. You need to turn away from that. You need to be saved. Alright, the third folly, third folly of unbelief, of unbelievers, is they spurn eternal salvation. Verses 28 through 30. They spurn eternal salvation. Verse 28, and I give eternal life to them. Who's to them? The sheep who follow, right? The sheep who hear, believe, respond, come into a personal relationship, and prove it by following, they get eternal life. Not just anyone who says that they're a Christian. Please notice how powerful and simple this is. And I give eternal life to them. Who gives the eternal life? Jesus Christ. That's simple. You don't get eternal life from somebody else. You don't get eternal life from the church. You don't get it from Mary, the saints, the priest, the pastor. You don't get it from Muhammad. You get eternal life for the one who has it to give. That's Jesus Christ. Let's be very clear about that, because he was clear about it. I give eternal life. You want eternal life? You'd like to live forever? Would you like to live forever? Live forever. You have to get it from Jesus Christ. He'll give it to you. He'll give you everlasting life. Everlasting life, eternal life, Zoein Ionion, life unto all the ages. It's one of the most important Phrases in all of the Gospel of John. John 3. 36, we saw it before. He who believes in the Son has eternal life. But he who does not obey the Son will not see life But the wrath of God abides on him. John four fourteen. But whoever drinks of the water that I will give him shall never thirst, but the water that I will give him will become in him a well of water springing up to eternal life John 5, 24, truly, truly I say to you, he who hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. And does not come into judgment, but is passed out of death into life. You can have everlasting life, and your body can still die, but that body will be raised. Your soul will always have the life, never lose it And body and soul will be reunited, and you in that condition will live on forever. You should be doing You're exercise, people. You should be taking care of your bodies. You should be eating right things, the hypocrite speaketh, who loves the cookies. You should be taking care of your body. And many of you aren't. But but if you don't take care of your body, you still get eternal life Endorsement for cookie, right there. How do you get eternal life? It was already said. You have to believe in Jesus. Say I believe in Jesus. Not facts about Jesus, people. You have to put your trust in him. You have to give your life to him. You have to give your life up. He's the king. You want to hang on to your life and get Jesus to fit into it, that's not belief. Jesus, take a back seat, I'd like to have you along for the ride. That's no good. He's got to be in control. He's got to be the driver. You hanging on to your life, it's too precious to you. Jesus said if you hang on to your life you'll lose it. If you lose it for my sake, you'll gain it. It's that simple. Give it up. Say I'm afraid. Don't be afraid. He rose from the dead. Say, but I have something to hang on to. What? You're gonna be dead in a few years. You have nothing to hang on to. What are you hanging on to? You got judgment. Give it up. John 6. 47, truly, truly I say to you, he who believes has eternal life. Is there anything difficult about that? Believe in Jesus today and receive into your life, today, everlasting life. John 17, 3. This is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. You come into a personal relationship with Christ through faith. What's wrong with people today? Why is society so messed up? The answers Christians give often are bad answers to that. We don't need more education. We don't need more morals, better ethics, teach our kids more character We don't want to clean up the old life. Jesus said the old life's no good. Jesus said the whole old life is bad. You know what's wrong with society is people need a whole new life. They need to be given a whole new life. It's the life of Christ inside of a man. Then you start to see character. Whose character? Yours? No. Christ's in you. The seed of God in you, the new life. You're born again, born from above, born of the Spirit. Clean up, try to take a few courses on ethics and being polite to civility. You try to clean up the outside, forget it. Your life is dead to God. You need new life in Christ. Eternal life, better than the life we have now. See, people around us are the walking dead. You know it's uh Halloween time. We've got spiritual zombies around all year round. They're the walking dead, hearts thumping, brainwaves working, they're unresponsive to God. They're dead in their trespasses, it says Ephesians 2 says that. You can be a very religious person and not have everlasting life. You can be a very religious person. You can give your life for your religion. You can die for your religion and not have everlasting life. You can pray, you can come to church, you can sing in a choir, you can give money, you can have A good work ethic, try to do good in life, say some prayers, but not have Christ in you because you're hanging on your life and you want to control God and use religion to make yourself look good or to satisfy your conscience in some way. But you need a whole new life. And only Jesus can give it. Christ's kind of life he gives to his sheep is expressly called eternal. Now I've heard some theologians try to argue that eternal doesn't mean everlasting. And they say something like this: that eternal means it comes from eternity, it comes from heaven, a place of eternity, and it's a heavenly kind of life. And it's that kind of life that Jesus was offering, not that it's going to last forever. Well I certainly would have no qualms with the fact that the kind of life Jesus offers to a sheep is not the life that comes up out of the ground when Adam was made. It's a life that comes from above. It comes down from above. Christ Himself did that. It's a life from heaven. It's that kind of a life. It's heaven's life. Yes. But it also means that it's everlasting. It's a false dichotomy when it says it means this, but it doesn't mean it means both. It means it comes from heaven and it never ends. That's what eternal means. It's everlasting. Even that contrast is made in Matthew 25, 46, where It's the judgment of the sheep and goats. And he says, these will go away into eternal punishment. That doesn't mean a special kind of punishment from heaven. That means it's going to go on forever But the righteous into eternal life. And the parallel is made. Eternal, eternal. It means everlasting in both ways. If you have eternal life, what that means is you're going to live forever. And you're going to have a special kind of life, not in your deadness and your sin, but in the newness of life Christ gives When the thousand-year millennium comes, you'll be there. One thousand years you'll be living in a completely remade earth, and it will be wonderful, and you and I will be in there And we'll see each other. And I hope you remember this sermon because I told you. I don't know whether we'll remember it or not. Probably wouldn't care. And then when the thousand years are over and Satan is released and he does his final rebellion, his revelation talks, then there's the new heaven and the new earth, and we're going to live on. And a trillion years will go by, and we won't age one wrinkle. How about that? Eternal life. He imparts it. The Son of God came to give life and give it abundantly. Eternal never ends. Never. It never runs out. We think of life as we've got to get a few things done before we die. How foolish is that? The proof that it's eternal, he even gives it next. The proof of that he says, and they will what? Never Perish. If all it meant is you're going to get a special kind of life enjoy it for a few years and dies, then that would be a lie. They, my sheep, will never perish. Never perish. It'll never run out. In Greek, there's a double negative which reinforces the thought. Everlasting life never ends, never results in destruction and perishing. Listen, if you are a believer and you have committed a sin that you are ashamed of, your life did not end. You're still saved. Hallelujah! You're kept, you're protected. Everlasting life is just that. It's everlasting. Otherwise, why call it that? Once you have eternal life, you always have eternal life. You never perish. Why then do some Christians say, once you gain your salvation, you can lose it? Lose it. You didn't grab it in the first place. It was a gift to you. And it's not your life, it's Christ's. And Christ's not going to commit suicide. His sacrifice on the cross was for us. He is everlasting life. It's his life in you that's not going to be withdrawn by him. You can't give it to yourself. He gives it and he keeps it for you. John 17, 12, while I was with them, my disciples, I was keeping them in your name. which you have given me. And I guarded them, and not one of them perished. The exception was Judas because he was the son of perdition that was predestined to that destruction. If you are a sheep of Christ, a believer in Christ, you will never see destruction. Death is not your destruction. Now, destruction awaits all others, and that's why there's folly in unbelief. To not believe in Jesus is utter folly There's no wisdom, there's no thinking, it's ludicrous not to believe in Jesus Christ Paul says in 1 Corinthians 1:18, for the word of the cross, the message of the cross, is foolishness to those who are perishing. They look at the message of the cross and they say it's foolish. They're the foolish ones. Because they're perishing. They're perishing. 2 Corinthians 4. 3. Even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are perishing. Perishing. You know, there's a fear of death built into fallen man. There's a dread of evil that overtakes man on this planet. That's why all these horror movies, especially this time of the year, freak people out, you know what I mean? They don't want to watch it and then they go and watch it. Then they can't sleep and they won't go in the dark. They want to climb back in the mama's room, but now they're adults. They can't. They're afraid. Fear of death. Why? Because there's a reality that's built in the man that after death comes judgment. It's not safe. The movies portray demonic activity and satanic activity. There's reality behind that. Maybe not the way the movie says it, but there's a reality behind it. And it's true. And man knows he's going to face judgment. And Father Man hates when we say that. But it's love to say that. It's love to rescue souls from perishing. We don't want people to perish. We want them to hear. We want them to believe. Jesus said, do not fear those who kill the body but are unable to kill the soul. That's something we need to meditate on. Do not fear those who can kill the body but are unable to kill the soul. There's a worse kind of a death. It's a longer, more painful, more shameful, more dark and hurtful and lonely kind of destruction that destroys someone on and on and on and they never pass out of existence. That's not what Paris means. It means they're always continuously being destroyed. We can't even comprehend that A fire that burns and hurts but never totally consumes. Worms that eat and eat and eat but never consume. Hebrews 10. 31 says, it's a terrifying thing to fall into the hands of the living God. People think it'll run up to God, high-fiving. They don't know God. People of Israel heard God talk from mountain. They said, No more. We don't want to hear God talk to us ever again. They were so terrified. He's so awesome. Revelation 14, 7. It was said with a loud voice, Fear God and give him glory. Fear God and give him glory, because the hour of his judgment has come. Worship him who made the heaven and the earth and sea and the springs of water. The folly of unbelief in Jesus is that people throw away eternal protection. To hang on to their old dead light. Imagine having your insurance and just throwing it away after you paid for it. I don't want. I won't get sick. If that's folly, throwing away eternal security is mind-boggling. And then he goes on and says, No one will snatch them out of my hand. That just reinforces what was taught. The hand was a place of holding firmly. Men like to show their strength by their firm grip. Jesus has a firm grip. When he grabs hold of one of the sheep, no one ever rips it out of his hand. If he has the football, he never fumbles. His grip is strong. He has you. The grip of the Messiah is stronger in your life than any other. No one can snatch out of your hand. Not Satan, not demon, not false teacher, not even yourself. You know, parents worry all the time about having their little children, of someone snatching their child and pulling them from their arms, and they can't think they're not strong enough to hang on and worry about that. Watch over their little ones. No one is ever able to snatch you out of the hands of Jesus Christ. There is no power. There is no power available like that. That can't happen with Jesus. So all you worriers out there, please listen. You worrying, you know who you are. You're a worrier. Jesus has a hold of your life now, and he always will. Rest in that. Trust in him. Let your worry go away. Rest in that. That's what he said. He promised that And then he goes on, and my father who has given them to me, knows my father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. Omnipotence has no rivals. There's no league that plays against the omnipotent one. Satan and evil are not a problem to God. He's not out there scratching his head trying to figure out how to stay a few steps ahead of our choices. Saving power of God in your life, Christian, is permanent. It's done. You're on a train, there's no way off. You're headed to heaven. It can't be undone by you, demons, false teachers. It can't quietly slip away in the night. Your salvation cannot be reversed. God doesn't change his mind. There are unsaved people in this world. There are saved people in this world. There has never been anyone who has lost their salvation in this world. If they turn back from following, it simply shows they were never one of Christ's sheep. Their faith was spurious, and when tested, it was found to be wanting. And to bring it all together, Christ talking about his power, the Father's power, and he says in verse 30, I and the Father are one. And we'll pick up with that thought because it's too important to do quickly today. We'll pick up with that thought next time. Would you bow with me? Let's get our hearts ready for the Lord's Supper. Take these truths and press them on your people. Lord, if someone's here that's unsure of their salvation, help them to believe today, help them to talk to one of us. and be sure and be saved. Help them not to wait another day. They've heard now, Lord, they're responsible. Help them to respond. We ask it interceding on their behalf. Thank you for this table that we're about to approach as believers and press the meaning of it and your presence with us upon our hearts right now. Amen.