The Women of Hope season of life, Jesus in every season. This was such a wonderful um lessons that we had done throughout the year. We got a chance to start in September and we did some wonderful lessons and it was such a blessing and I'm so glad that we decided to do that and even though we only can touch some of the lessons and we may not have touched a season that you're in and we have touched seasons that others are in, the lessons are still precious because Because God's truth is timeless and we can apply those truths to any of our seasons of of life. So it truly has been a blessing. So I hope you would really um keep this on hand because what I did is I put all the outlines of the lessons throughout the season in here, including mine. And I also want you to be encouraged and be reminded, you can always listen to them on sermon audio. And also don't forget, it's not just about your season of life. about those in your life. It's about your younger people that you know. It's about the older people that you know. So you never know that God's gonna use you to comfort someone in their season of life. So I hope you will keep this on hand and be blessed by this. So also a really sweet gift in the gift box. I'm not sure if anyone opened it yet out of curiosity, but I thought it was we wanted to use this. beautiful garden on the home that Lauren Killery put together. It's very pretty. And inside each one is we did Proverbs three, five through eight. So this is a um a really sweet gift that we wanted to give to the daughters. So we're so glad to have each and every one of you. So here we are. A time together, fellowship, beautiful fellowship. We meet new friends, we get the love on ones that we love already and we know. And we come and we have re we get we get lessons here to understand and to remember. these lessons. But before I get started, I want you to turn your Bibles, your cell phones, whatever you use, to 2 Peter 1. And as I'm talking, go ahead and turn to that and I just want to share something with you. Understanding and remembering. I wanted to share some scriptures because what's so important as we continue to grow in God's Word is understanding and remembering. Jeremiah nine talks about when the Lord tells him, Thus says the Lord, let not a wise man boast of his wisdom, and let not the mighty men boast of his might. Let not a rich man boast of his riches. But let him who boasts boast in this, that he understands and knows me that I am the Lord, who exercises loving kindness, justice and righteousness on earth, for I delight in these things declares the Lord. When and with when we talk about understanding in Proverbs 9 it says, give instruction to a wise man and he will be still wiser. Teach a righteous man and he will increase And learning. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the Holy One is understanding. Fear of the Lord, a reverence for God, showing respect, honor, worship, Obedience and trust, understanding, as God says, who He is. Remembering God. 2 Peter 1, that I had you turn to, breaks it down. So beautifully when it comes to remembering. And he starts with Grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord. Seeing that his divine power has granted to us everything pertaining to life and Godliness through the true knowledge of Him, who called us by His own glory and excellence. For by these He has granted to us His precious and magnificent promises, so that by them you may become partakers of the Lord. the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world by lust. Now, for this very reason also, he says, applying all diligence in your face, applying moral excellence, knowledge, self-control. perseverance, godliness, brotherly kindness, and love. Then he farther down in verse eight he says, For if these qualities are yours and are increasing, they render you neither useless nor unfruitful in the true knowledge. of our Lord Jesus Christ. He says in verse twelve, Therefore I will always be ready to remind you of these things, even though you already know them and have been established in the truth which is present with you. Remembering God. And one of the hardest times to remember God is in times of trials and despair. So I bring us to lamentations. Prophet Jeremiah in the worst time of his life when he was watching Israel be conquered. He said, My soul has been rejected from peace. I have forgotten happiness, so I say My strength has perished, and so has my hope from the Lord. But then he remembers and he says, This I recall to mine, therefore I have hope. The Lord's loving kindness. indeed never cease, for his compassions never fail. They are new every morning. Great is your faithfulness. So we continue to understand God and to remember his truth. So we are always growing and maturing. So ladies, I sent a quote to some of you, and I hope you all read it. I'll put it to a test later. I emailed a quote from the teacher. and and I and I asked the question, what kind of house are you building with God? This is a quote from Tim Chalys, and I forgive me if I'm spelling this, if I'm pronounced his last name wrong, but I think that's what it sounds like. Aging gracefully. So he says in his book, every moment you are laying the bricks to your home. From childhood you have been decorating it with each passing day. You add new ornaments and you stock or you don't stock it for days to come. Come, and as the winter of your life approaches, you will take up residence in the house you have built. So from childhood to the elder years of our life, as we are aging physically, we should also be Maturing spiritually. So, how do we process life from our youthful days of life to our elder years? From running up and down the hill with ease to a slow, steady walk. We learn how to grow graciously. gracefully with God. During my studies I realized that I cannot teach in 30 minutes how to grow gracefully. I cannot teach you this lifelong journey of aging gracefully that many brothers and sisters in Christ have spent countless hours researching scriptures and putting it into books to guide us. But as I was seeking information on this topic of aging with grace, I continue to see consequences common biblical encouragements and warnings that is common to all and all our seasons of life. So I'm choosing to share some of those with you today. And I want to start with encouragement for the young. To the young ladies. And when I define young, I'm 62. Whatever you define yourself, go for it. So from the younger to the older, I'm not going I'm not going to put that line in there for you. So to The young, I say, while you are young, invest now in the knowledge of God and use God's wisdom in making decisions throughout your life. Because investing now makes a difference in the future. You for the seasons that can be a challenge. To my fellow older ladies, I'm claiming the older. Have your goal to be a tidus to woman by maturing in God's Word and walking through your experiences biblically. Look back through your life with a biblical view on both your right and wrong decisions and grow from them. Then invest in others and let them glean from your life and be blessed. And the caution I get to us all as we're building our house is while your house will look cleaner as you mature, you will always have to dust. For the ways of the world will continue to float in and land on everything in your house. So guard your heart at all times through the living word of God. So in In my outline, I have five points I wanted to share. Five points to understand and remember as we go through our seasons of life, five precious truths to keep dear to your heart. Throughout all your seasons of life you need these truths in times of joy and also in times of sorrows. They are to understand and remember the meaning of life. I put that question on the card. I'm not sure how many got to it. this good food. Um, but I put that question on the car in your prayer wonder why'd you put that one on earth about the meaning of the life? But I think it's important that we understand and remember the meaning of life. Do understand and remember to abide in Jesus. The importance of renewing your mind with the Word of God, to trust in God and not lean on your own understanding when making life-shaping decisions, and how to run the race with endurance. These are some detrimental. That we need to continue to understand and remember as you walk successfully the path that God has before you. So let's start with the meaning of life. Aging gracefully is first understanding and remembering. remembering the meaning of life as God has revealed through His Word. When Israel would forget their God and Savior, they would fall into sin. They would forgive the author of life, God. In Judges it says, When all the generation from Joshua were gathered to their fathers, they arose another generation after them who did not know the Lord nor yet the work which he had done for Israel. Then the sons of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord. Israel forgot the meaning of life. So what is the meaning of life? The meaning of life, both now and in eternity, is found in the restoration of our relationship with God. To understand the meaning of life, we first start with the author of life. God Himself is the author. author of life. All forms of life originated from him. God is sovereign over all of life. God designed humans uniquely. We were created to have fellowship with him. God said is apart from all other creatures. God gave humanity responsibility. God created man and woman in his own minute and gave them authority over all his creation. And to continue, we must understand our guilt in the consequences of our sin. Humanity rebuilt against God. With unfaithfulness and disobedience in the guardian of Eden, Adam and Eve rebuild against God, resulting in spiritual death, which is separation from the From God. In addition, our physical bodies is subject to suffering, sickness, hardship, labor, decay, temptation, sin, and death. Israel needed a savior and So do we. We must understand this, that we need a Savior. We need Jesus. Through Jesus Christ, we can receive God's mercy and grace. Jesus canceled the penalty of death and eternal separation. from God by nailing it to the cross. Believers are forgiven and have communion with God through Jesus Christ. We have the gift of eternal life through Jesus. Fullness of life is found in being a child of God. And in right relationship with Him. Jesus said, This is eternal life that they may know you, the only true God in Jesus Christ whom you have sent. True life is being restored to fellowship with God. to relationship with Jesus Christ. Understanding who God is, understanding our sin and what Jesus did to save us helps us define the full meaning of life. So what is the meaning of life? The meaning of life, both now and in eternity, is found in the restoration of our relationship with God. Because every good gift and every perfect gift is from God. God created us to have joyful fellowship with Him, apart from A relationship with God's physical existence is empty and meaningless. So to have a joyful fellowship with God is to know God, and God calls us to know Him. Knowing God for whom we are not. is and for what he has done to create a grateful heart leading to praise and glorifying God. A quote from out of the book Agent with Grace, God revealed himself to us in his word and An ever-growing knowledge of God produces a more mature, God-centered perspective on our identity and purpose. So, ladies, in your season of joy, enjoy life, but acknowledge the one who gives you life. Every joy in this life is meant to point beyond itself to the one who allows us to experience such joy and such pleasure, and that is God. Enjoy life, but acknowledge the one who gives life. Oh sorry, second line. Um, enjoy life but set your hope on God rather than on the temporal joys of this world that will not last. Enjoy life but remember God. is the judge of your life. Walk in a manner pleasing to him. What we do in this life matters. From your youth, I would give to the young ladies, your life will be more joyful when you Grow nearer to God. Youth is a gift from God. Enjoy your youth, but enjoy your creator more. In our older years, you will age with God's peace when you age nearer. to God. Walk in this world living with eternity in mind. But also enjoy and appreciate God's good gifts, His creation, His provisions, our loved ones, our families, our friends. our brothers and sisters in Christ, the abilities that God has given us, arts and crafts, songs, music, instruments, writing, just a few to name. But most of all, remember the best gift is Jesus our Lord who gives the free giving. of grace, forgiving our sins, and the promise of living in perfect fellowship with God for all eternity. The next point I wanted to share is aging gracefully is understanding and remembering to abide in Jesus as he has revealed through his word. God rescued Israel, but again Israel forgot God. They did not remain and fell into sin again. We must not live without Christ. Abiding in Christ is the position of all true believers. Abiding in Christ is to remain in his word. The phrase abiding in Christ pictures an intimate close relationship. Abiding in Christ is loving Jesus and obeying his teachings. Abiding in Jesus produces good fruit that is pleasing to God. Therefore, abide in Jesus our Lord and Savior. Young ladies, follow the one who is leading you in the right direction, Jesus. Learn all about Jesus, understand the meaning of the cross. In our older years, when Feeling weary, continue to follow Jesus and remember He understands our trials. Jesus can sympathize with our weaknesses. The next um point I wanted to bring up is aging gracefully is understanding and remembering the importance of renewing your mind with the Word of God. Romans twelve two the Apostle Paul says, Do not be conformed to this world but be transferred by the renewing of your mind so that you may Paul tells Timothy, you, however, continue in the things you have learned and become convinced of, knowing from whom you have learned them. From childhood you have known the sacred writings which are able to give you the wisdom that leads to salvation through faith, which is in Jesus Christ. And then he tells us what we know so well, all scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for training and righteousness, so that the men of God may be adequate equipped for every good work. So therefore, think biblically, think big thoughts about God. God's story of redemption is being written in our lives. To my young sisters, stay in the Word of God. Stay teachable. To my older sisters, stay in the Word of God. Stay teachable. But one more, guard your heart from puffing up with knowledge. Know the responsibility of maturity. Spiritual maturity is seasoned with humility. God gives grace to the humble. Greater age brings greater responsibility via example. Two more to go. Aging gracefully is first understanding and remembering to trust in God and not leave on your own understanding when making shape shaping decis making life-shaping decisions as God has revealed us through His Word. Making decisions. Proverbs 16, the plans of the heart be belong to men, but the answer of the tongue is from the Lord. All the ways of men are clean in his own sight, but the Lord weighs the motives. Commit your works to the Lord and your plans will be established. The mind of man plans his way, but the Lord directs his steps. Our attitude towards decision-making should be that of Jesus himself, who affirmed, not my will, but yours be done. But if any of you lack wisdom, James tells us, let us ask of God, who gives to all generously and without reproach, and it will be given to him. But he must ask in faith, without doubting. Blessings from God. God blesses those decisions that he initiates and that line up with his will. God blesses decisions that accomplish his purpose and depend on his strength. God blesses those decisions that result in his glory. He blesses decisions that reflect his character, that promote justice, kindness, and humility. God blesses those decisions that come from faith. So ladies, lift up, lift all up to God in prayer. Look to God's word for direction. God reveals his will through the power of the Holy Spirit as you read his word. Know that God will guide you in the path of righteousness for his name's sake. Be patient and wait on God. In making life-shaping decisions, two questions to ask yourself. Am I going to trust and follow the Lord or am I going to follow and trust the world myself or the one who deceives the devil? Am I going to serve the Lord or am I going to serve myself? So last but not least, aging gracefully is understanding and remembering how to run the race with endurance as God has revealed through his word. Alright, ladies, get ready. Running the race. The race is the Christian life. We run for Christ. We do not select the course, for God has established the course. We stay the course in spite of trials and persecutions. institutions. The race demands that we do away with everything that hinders us. Sin and whatever else threatens our relationship with God. As we run, we must fix our eyes on Jesus, the Arthur and perfecter of our faith because he perfectly finished his race. He is focused on our lives. He is already at the finish line. No matter how long the race may be, we keep our eyes on Jesus, the champion who initiates and perfects our faith. And ladies, by the way, if you are in Christ Jesus, you have already won the race. Our hope is in Because we serve a living Savior. And this Savior is guarding us through faith, keeping us from stumbling, just as He is keeping our eternal inheritance from fading. So therefore, run the race within meaning of life and mind. Prepare by learning more about God. Practice by obeying God. Be encouraged by staying connected with the body of Christ. The longer we live, the more weariness we experience. And this weariness presses down on our bodies and our minds. Live with eternity in mind, striving to please God to the end. Accumulate knowledge and wisdom, use it to bless others. Continue to give back to the next generation. So in closing, I say again what I started with to my young ladies. Invest now in the knowledge of God and use God's wisdom in making decisions throughout your life because Because investing now makes a difference in the future. And to my older sisters in Christ, have your goal to be a tide of two women and mature in God's Word by walking through your experiences biblically. Look back through biblical eyes on both your right and wrong decisions and grow from them. Then invest in others and let them glean from your life and be blessed. And then again to all, don't forget, while your house will look cleaner as you mature, you will always have to dust. For the ways of the world will continue to float in and land on everything in your house. So in all seasons of life, understand and remember the meaning of life, to abide in Jesus. The importance of renewing your mind with the Word of God, to trust in God and not lean on your own understanding when making life shaping decisions in to understand and remember how to run the race with endurance. So I close with two quotes. First one from the book that I was reading, In Asia with Grace, by Sharon Bethers and Susan Hunt. And the quote says, The Word of God describes like okay, the word of God describes life like a mist or blade of grass. Our season is flourishing and is fleeting and intemporal, but eternity is forever. Living in light of eternity impacts not just us but our children's children's Psalms one hundred three that the steadfast love of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting on those who fear him, and his righteousness to children's children. To those who keep his covenant, And remember to do his commandments. So begin with the end in mind that our reference point for life is God, and that His word, His Word is our authority. The grass withers, the flowers fail. But the word of God will stand forever. And the last quote is from Tim Challies from Aging Gracefully. He says, We are all aging. We are passing through time until we reach the end of time. We find that greater age brings greater sorrow. But that is also but but that it also brings greater joy, especially to those who are in Christ. God tells us that greater age brings greater responsibility and that at every age we need to flee the temptation of wor worldliness, choosing instead to do what honors and glorifies God. To age gracefully, we must age in Christ and for Christ. Ladies, that's it. And I I know it's enough. So let me close in prayer with my lesson and I want to pray on Paul's prayer in Ephesians 1 and end with Peter's comment. Let's close in prayer, ladies. Heavenly Father, blessed Savior, Holy Spirit, we thank you so much, Lord, that you have revealed yourself through your word. You even have revealed yourself through creation itself, for truly it testifies to your glory in the work of your hands. So maybe when we walk outside we remember our Creator. Maybe when we look at the birds in quite the variety of different types we remember how you created so beautifully. So as Paul has prayed, Lord, that the God Of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory may give you a spirit of wisdom and a revelation in the knowledge of Him. Paul says that he prays that our eyes of our heart may be enlightened so that you will know what is What is the hope of his calling? What is the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints? And what is the surpassing greatness of his power towards us who believe? Those in accordance with the working of the strength of his might which he brought about in Christ, when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places, far above all rule and authority and power and dominion in every name that is named, not only in this age but also in the one to come. And he put and he put all things in subjection under Jesus' feet and gave him his head over all things, the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in. and all. My dear sisters, in Jesus' name we pray this. So I end with grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord. Amen.