Well, so far in our study, we have been drawing from verses one to twenty-seven five life-transforming realities. To call these life-transforming realities is in no way an exaggeration or hyperbole. Suffering, we all know, is universal. And ignorance about the causes and the purposes and the benefits of suffering intensify the sorrow and the grief and the pain of suffering. Put another way, when a person does not know the sovereign and loving God who presides over his creation, And they don't know what he aims to accomplish by the suffering in their life. Their suffering increases. Based on the promise of Romans 8. 28, we have all heard the cliche, if we want to call it that, that all things work together for good. You'll hear just about anybody say that, though most won't ground it in that scripture. But that is not true for everyone. Romans 28 limits the scope of those to whom that promise applies. It says, and we know that for those who love God, All things work together for good. For those who are called according to his purpose. That is to say, that for all those who do not love God, for all those who are not called according to his purpose All things do not work together for good. But for those who love God, and for those who are called according to his purpose, all things work together for good And yet, even those of us who know and treasure that promise, those of us who do love God, those of us who are called according to his purpose we can be overwhelmed by trials and forget the goodness and love and sovereignty of God. We can get swept away in the flash flood of trials and question whether God is in control, whether he still loves us, whether he's punishing us, whether anything good could possibly come from this. We might even doubt God's faithfulness. We know that we're supposed to say, if God is for me, who can be against me? But sometimes what comes out is, if God is against me, then who can be for me? In these moments, we feel alone. Even if we tried to explain what is going on in our lives, nobody would understand. Because words can't convey the depth of our sorrow. When you look at a life that has been shattered to pieces, there are no words to describe all of those shards. And so, yes, even genuine believers can experience hopelessness. This is where the realities revealed in John 11 become life-transforming. Because they pull us out of the pit of despair, they strengthen us in weakness, they draw our eyes above our trials, they expand our vision of the glory and power of Christ, who is in fact for us and not against us. Now this is not to say that embracing these life-transforming realities causes our suffering to evaporate. No, that's not true. We still suffer, we still sorrow. We still grieve, but our sorrow, our suffering, our grief are then infused with hope. And yes, even joy that anchors us and keeps us steadfast such that we can endure trials and draw near to Christ through them. So, what are these life-transforming realities? Well, first we saw that suffering is a servant in the hand of God intended to reveal his glory because he loves you. Suffering is not outside of God's control. No, suffering is entirely within God's sovereign control. It's determined by pot uh sovereign uh rather by perfect love, and it is purposed for his glory. More specifically, the second life-transforming reality is that God's timing is determined by sovereign love. When God allows what you don't want in your life, or He doesn't move when you want or in the way that you desire, it's not because there is a lack of love from God to you. Rather, it is because in love he is doing something greater than you can imagine. The third life-transforming reality is that God's will keeps us from stumbling Suffering as a way of of blurring our vision and confusing our thinking about what steps are we supposed to take in this situation. We often fear making a mistake, taking a wrong turn, making the wrong decision In such moments we can call to mind what God has clearly revealed, what He calls us to uh how He calls us to think and how He calls us to live and how we should spend and occupy our time and we can live Faithfully with that, even if we're not sure precisely what the next steps are in our situation based on our prayers Then the fourth life-transforming reality is that God designed suffering to increase the faith of his people. Both those who are enduring suffering and those who are observing the suffering of others. Through our faithful responses, if we're the one who is suffering, and through his work on the part of those who are are observing our trials. God's people see his power and glory on display, and their assurance and their conviction in the truth grows and strengthens The fifth life-transforming reality is that for those who believe, death is not the end. Life comes, we have life now and forever Hebrews 2. 14 speaks the truth when it says that mankind, apart from God, is enslaved to the fear of death. But when death is no longer a threat, And when life today is infused with the life of God who dwells within us, that recalibrates our entire orientation and perspective on life. Today, we're going to add to this list a sixth life-transforming reality, and that it is that Jesus is a man of sorrows. So you are never alone. Jesus is a man of sorrow, so you are never alone That may not sound life-transforming, but I trust you will see as we both unpack the passage and consider the implications of it, that this is life-transforming indeed. Now before we unpack the verses of 28 to 37, let's read from the beginning of John chapter 11 up to verse 37 to get all of this into our minds. John writes, now a certain man was ill, Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary and his her sister Martha It was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was ill. So the sisters sent to him, that is Jesus, saying, Lord, he whom you love is ill But when Jesus heard it, he said, This illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it. Now, Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus. So when he heard that Lazarus was ill, he stayed two days longer in the place where he was. Then after this he said to his disciples, Let us go to Judea again. The disciples said to him, Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone you, and are you going there again? Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If any one walks in the day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world. But if any one walks in the night, he stumbles because the light is not in him. After saying these things, he said to them, Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I go to awaken him. The disciples said to him, Lord, if he's fallen asleep, he will recover Now Jesus had spoken of his death, though they thought that he meant taking rest in sleep. But Jesus told them plainly, Lazarus has died. And for your sake, I am glad that I was not there, so that you may believe. But let us go to him So Thomas called the twins, said to his fellow disciples, Let us also go, that we may die with him. Now when Jesus came, he found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb four days Bethany was near Jerusalem about two miles off, and many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to console them concerning their brother. So when Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went and met him, but Mary remained seated in the house. Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. But even now I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you. Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again. Martha said to him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live And everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? She said to him, Yes, Lord. I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world. When she had said this, she went and called her sister Mary, saying in private, The teacher is here and is calling for you. And when she heard it, she rose quickly and went to him. Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was still in the place where Martha had met him. When the Jews who were with her, Mary, in the house Consoling her, Mary uh and saw Mary rise quickly and go out, they followed her, supposing that she was going to the tomb to weep there Now, when Mary came to where Jesus was and saw him, she fell at his feet, saying to him, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. When Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews who had come with her also weeping He was deeply moved in his spirit and greatly troubled. And he said, Where have you laid him? And they said to him, Lord, come and see. Jesus wept. So the Jews said, See how he loved him But some of them said, Could not he who opened the eyes of the blind man also have kept this man from dying? This is the Word of God. Well, this section, verses twenty-eight to thirty-seven, ranks among the most emotionally intense passages of Scripture. The most intense would have to be when Jesus was in the Garden of Gethsemane, which would just be a few weeks from this very m moment. But this passage is a candidate for the second most emotionally intense moment. We have here Jesus and Mary and the Jews who came to console Martha and Mary. And each one in their own way and for their own reasons experiences emotional distress at its highest level. But what John highlights the most is the emotional response of Jesus to this situation. Before we get there, we need to let John set up the scene for us. So let's look again at verses 28 and 29 When she, Martha, had said this, she went and called her sister Mary, saying to her in private, The teacher is here and is calling for you. And when she heard it she rose quickly and went to him. When when we read the Gospels, it's natural for us to uh think and and receive what is written as a full presentation of what was said and what was done in all of the accounts of the Gospels of Christ. But this is a good place to remind ourselves of what John writes in the very last sentence of this gospel. Remember, he writes, Now there are also many other things that Jesus did. Were every one of them to be written, I suppose that the world itself could not contain the books that would be written In other words, it would be impossible for John himself or even all the gospel writers put together to give us a full transcript of every conversation that Jesus did and every account of all of the actions that Jesus performed. And so for that reason, when we consider Martha's Mary's Martha's words to Mary here We ought not go the direction of some and say that Martha effectively lied to Mary, that she told Mary that Jesus was calling for her when he actually wasn't. Notice how verse 28 begins. John writes, when she had said this. Well, when she had said what? Verse 27. When Martha said to Jesus, Yes, Lord, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world As we saw last week, in the midst of her sorrow, Martha stood firm in her conviction about Jesus. She considered him Lord and God and the Messiah It would be rather strange, I think, for her to move from that clear and firm expression of belief and loyalty to Jesus. to go off to Mary and somehow lie to her for some unknown reason. Far more likely is that Jesus and Martha exchanged more words than what are recorded here, and that after declaring that Jesus was the Christ, the Son of God, that Jesus asked her to go and call Mary to come to him But for the sake of brevity, John records her obedience to that rather than doubling the account of Jesus' words in such a short span. And notice also there in verse twenty-eight that it says that Marthas was saying these things in private Remember that Mary is in her home, she's surrounded by the Jews from Jerusalem who've come to console them and mourn with them. And so in speaking in private, which likely means that Martha whispered in her ear with that crowd around them She may have been trying to give Mary an opportunity to go to Jesus and have a private time with him without the crowd around them. Did you notice how Martha referred to Jesus? What she called him. She calls him here the teacher. This is not the word rabbi, which the disciples call him back in verse 8. She doesn't say to Mary, the Lord is calling you. She doesn't use his name. Jesus is calling you. No, she calls him the teacher. What I think is beautiful about this is that w women in that culture were generally discouraged from pursuing any formal education, especially as adults. Rabbis did not have d uh women as disciples But as we see in Luke chapter 10, when Jesus is in the home of Mary and Martha, Jesus welcomed everyone: men, women, and even children to sit under his teaching. Preaching and teaching people about the kingdom of God is what he came to do. And as his ministry progressed, Jesus spoke in parables to really hide the truth from the masses of the Jews who were unbelieving, but to his true followers he brought truth uh he brought clarity to the truth so that they would understand Martha and Mary, as indicated here, are among his closest friends, and more importantly, he is their teacher. And so of the title she could rightly use, she could call him Rabbi, she could call him Lord, she could use his name or Christ as the title. But here, teacher conveys a more personal, more intimate, relational role that he played in their lives Well, Mary hears this as it says in verse 29, and she gets up and goes out to Jesus Look at verse 30. Now Jesus is not yet coming to the village, but was still in the place where Martha had met him. It's likely that Jesus stayed in that place because he was already nearer to the tomb than he was to the home. And remember, he didn't come to Bethany to console Martha and Mary like the Jews did. He came to Bethany so that he could raise Lazarus from the dead. So the tomb was his destination, not their home. And so instead of uh going to their home, he had them rendezvous with him so that they could ultimately make their way to the the tomb. Unfortunately, Martha's attempt to give Mary some private time with Jesus failed. Look at verse 31. When the Jews were who were with her in the house, consoling her, saw Mary rise quickly and go, they followed her, supposing that she was going to the tomb to weep there. So, this group of Jews who were there to console them, they hadn't yet heard that Jesus had arrived. And so Mary had a few steps on them, but ultimately they followed her close behind. Last week we considered the communal dynamic of grieving that is a vital part of many cultures even today. These Jews were there for one reason, and only one reason, and that is to console, to mourn, to grieve with Martha and Mary. This was not like a reception after a funeral where the attendees all uh interact, fellowship with one another. No, this is This is a situation where their focus was on Mary, at least at this very moment. So they were gonna do whatever she did. They were gonna go wherever she went because they were there solely for her. As well, in addition to those who came to console them, it's very likely, uh, because of another dynamic in their culture that they had hired professional mourners. That was the expectation. Poor families were expected to hire at least two or three professional mourners. This would be a group of people, some of whom would play flutes most of whom would weep and wail and and cry and be an expression to the community that this family is mourning. And even though it's not stated here that there are such professional mourners, it would be the norm that there would be, and it would have uh been normal for those mourners to fulfill their purpose for seven days. And we're just four days out from Lazarus passing away. So it's very likely that there's this additional commotion of flu players, those who are wailing, manifesting the expression of sorrow and grief. So you have altogether the people of the village who are around Jesus as he comes near to Bethany. You have Mary and Martha and those who came to console them from Jerusalem, and very likely a number of people who are uh expressing uh grief through their lament, their wailing, their music. And so Mary comes to Jesus And she is not alone. She is surrounded, and Jesus is well by all of these people. The the sight and the sound of mourning is massive. Mary is not concerned about who's around her. She is overcome with grief. Look at verse 32. Now, when Mary came to where Jesus was and saw him, she fell at his feet. Saying to him, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. Falling at someone's feet happens when you are so consumed by emotions that your legs buckle and you just Collapse to the ground. In such distress, there's no concern about what other people will think. You're not thinking about whether or not your clothes will get dirty or if you're going to embarrass yourself. You have completely lost control because of the overwhelming power of sorrow. And so she collapses in front of Jesus and says exactly what Martha had said to Jesus. when Martha spoke earlier in chapter eleven, which tells you that for the last four days they had been saying to each other, If Jesus had only been here, our brother would not have died. Like Mary, we can say the same, or rather rather like Martha, we can say the same of Mary that she is not angry. She's not blaming Jesus for the death of Lazarus. She's she's calling him Lord out of submission. And she expresses her confidence in his ability to heal. Her heart, understandably, has been torn apart by the loss of her brother, compounded by the knowledge that again, had Jesus been there, he would have been able to prevent his death. Who knows? Perhaps we would not be surprised if there was some measure of guilt on their part for not having called to Jesus to have him come sooner. Whatever the case, though Mary displays her grief more intensely than Martha does, at least as John describes it, both sisters maintain their trust in Jesus. Her pain is deep, and she and all her those who are around her are hit by another wave of emotion that bursts out in tears and wailing. Look at verse 33. When Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews who had come with her also weeping. He was deeply moved in a spirit and greatly troubled. This word for weeping here of Mary and the Jews refers to this loud, expressive emotion. Along with the flow of tears, there would be groans, there would be moans, there would be cries, there would be wailing. And with this crowd, this would be a cacophony of intense emotion Jesus, think about this, had been traveling the better part of the day, and in their travels it would have been relatively quiet. They've just been walking along and their silence, the the the quiet of nature would have been broken only by their conversation. But after this full day of relative peace and quiet as they travel, they arrive here to Bethany, and they are now surrounded by the sights and sounds of unrestrained emotion. And so it says Jesus was deeply moved in his spirit and greatly troubled This requires our careful attention, lest we make too little of what is going on in Jesus' soul. As some of them did when they said in verse thirty-six, See how he loved him. They thought that Jesus was deeply moved and greatly troubled because he had the same grief for Lazarus that they all had. But of course we know that that's not true because why would he weep over the death of one he was moments away from raising from the dead? What is going on in Jesus' soul? Well, the word translated deeply moved leans in the direction of actually anger or sternness or intensity. In the one time it's found in Gla classical Greek, it refers to the snorting of horses who are preparing for battle. In the New Testament, it's the word used that when Jesus was sternly warning someone he had healed to have them not spread the word about their healing. Of course, nobody ever obeyed what he said. Words that are connected to this word and the root word all refer to anger in that family So this is to say that the word translated, deeply moved, is a complex word that doesn't fit a narrow definition of a particular emotion. It's not grief specifically. It's not anger only. It's certainly not sympathetic emotionalism. In fact, combined with the phrase greatly troubled, the idea here is a deep unsettledness, a tectonic shifting in the soul. Literally the words greatly troubled in the Greek is he troubled himself. It's reflexive He troubled himself. In almost every other context, the word is passive because it's the circumstances that trouble a person. But John doesn't say that the circumstances troubled Jesus here. He says that Jesus troubled himself. And I take that to mean that Jesus is not passively overwhelmed by the grief and sorrow that surrounds him. Rather, he took it into his heart, and he responded by stirring up a storm in his soul that is otherwise controlled by peace. The people around Jesus are grieving the death of Lazarus, and they're filled with the pain of the reality of death, and all that that means for each one of them, and especially for Mary and Martha. But Jesus has far more going on in his soul. Interpreters debate of what is the source of Jesus' emotional response here is is his soul stirred as a sympathetic response to the grief around him? Is he angry because they don't believe that he can raise Lazarus? Uh is he angry over sin and death in a more general sense? Well, I think it's helpful at this point to remember what emotions are. Emotions are the sparks in the heart when circumstances or information that we hear collide with one's thoughts beliefs, expectations, desires, will, all terms that reflect what's going on in the heart. In other words, when what's going on outside of you Collides with what's going on inside of you, emotions erupt. Whether they be emotions of joy or sorrow or anger and so on. Therefore, emotions are windows into the soul, urging us to consider what is inside the soul that gives rise to certain emotions in light of circumstances. That's very clear what's going on in the souls of Mary and the Jews. Again, they're grieving the loss of Nat Lazarus. They're they're doing what anyone would expect them to do. As well, Mary and Martha and the Jews know that Jesus could have kept Lazarus from dying, so that intensifies their grief. But what about Jesus? What does he know? What is in his heart? What are his desires and what's his will that causes him to experience these intense emotions in this moment? Well, since he knows and has known for several days that he's going to raise Lazarus from the dead, would he be grieving his death? I don't think that seems likely I don't think he is moved and utterly ultimately weeps for the same reasons the other people do. So again, what is in Jesus' heart. What does he know? What does he desire? What is his will that gives rise to these intense emotions? Well First, Jesus knows better than anyone the power, the destructive power of sin and death in this world Right? He created all things, Scripture says, and he created all things very good. And even though it was part of the plan of God to allow sin to take place, he hates sin. hates the destructive effects of sin on all of creation, especially on those who are made in the image of God. Second, and related to that, he he not only sees the weeping of Mary and the Jews, and no doubt Martha as well, but Jesus knows what is in their heart. He can hear what they're not saying. Before anyone said, did not he who healed the blind Uh could not he who healed the blind man have also raised Lazarus? Jesus knew what they were that they were thinking it and that they were questioning his love. This could stir emotions ranging from discouragement that they're not setting their minds on truth, perhaps sorrow over regret that may be in the heart. Maybe some anger that they doubt him despite all that he has done. Well, third, Jesus knows that he's about to raise Lazarus from the dead, and he knows that they don't think he can. raise Lazarus from the dead. If you think about the last two plus years of Jesus' life, once people realized that he had the power to cast out demons and he had the power to uh heal any disease and sickness People brought all of their sick and their lame and their demonized to him. The constant experience of Jesus is that people were looking to him to do the impossible. They expected him to do what nobody else could. They were always begging, asking, pleading with him knowing that he had the power to do what they desired. And they would often ask, does he have the will? Often people would ask him, Lord, if you will, please heal them, or heal me. In what is recorded of the life of Jesus, nobody ever came to Jesus weeping. Nobody ever came to Jesus hopeless. Whatever their trouble was, people knew that Jesus had the ability to resolve it if they could just get to him. So for what must be the first time in his earthly experience, his own beloved friends, Martha and Mary, and this group of Jews who knew he has divine power, they come to him who is the resurrection and the life. They come to him who is the Son of God. They come to him who is the light of this world, and they have no hope. They're so convinced that Jesus is powerless in this situation, they don't even think to ask that he raise Lazarus from the dead That alone would be a cause for righteous indignation. But whatever amount of indignation he would be right to have would be mixed with compassion. for the m a and mercy of God who understands our frailty because he knows that Martha and Mary, and at least some of these Jews who would genuinely believe in him, he knows that it's not that they are in hardened unbelief. They just don't know what to believe. They have a lack of knowledge of the real power of God. And so that would naturally result in compassion. Because if they knew his real power, they would in fact be looking expectantly to him and not grieving before him. Well, fourth, because Jesus knows hearts, he also knows that some of the Jews who will witness this miracle that surpasses all of his other miracles still will not believe. In fact, some of them will go to the Pharisees in Jerusalem to tell them what Jesus has done, and the Pharisees will use this very miracle to ramp up their efforts to murder him as well as to murder Lazarus, as we'll see in chapter twelve. That too would give rise to righteous indignation. So these are just a few things that Clearly in the text, Jesus knows and has all in his mind, all at one moment. Now we could talk about the desires and the will of Jesus. Just to be brief about it, Jesus desires that they believe in him, and some of them will, and some of them won't Jesus desires that they know him fully, and they don't yet know him fully. He desires that he and the Father be glorified, but they don't yet know that he is worthy of the glory that he truly deserves. Jesus clearly wills to raise Lazarus from the dead, but they don't ask him to. Again, these are just some of the things that are in Jesus' heart and some of the normal emotions that would result from what he knows, desires, and wills coming into contact with what he sees and hears around him. In my estimation, interpreters who try to narrow Jesus' emotions to one particular cause err by not applying the full humanity and deity of Christ to this moment. I agree with those who consider that as the Godman, Jesus, his heart is full of human and divine thoughts desires and will, and given all of that, in the face of this cacophony of weeping, including his close friends, a profound tempest of emotions stirs in his soul Well, what does he do with that? He takes action. Verse thirty-four He says, Where have you laden him? And they, the crowd, say to him, Lord, come and see His action is He begins moving toward the tomb. But then the dam breaks, and the tempest in his soul overflowed and poured out of his body. Verse thirty-five. Jesus wept. The word wept here is different than the loud, boisterous Weeping of M Mary and the crowd from verse 33. This word is only used here in the New Testament, but it's a verbal form of a noun that means tears. In contrast to the weeping of others, which is loud, which is uh is boisterous, this conveys a quiet weeping, not accompanied by wailing. and sound. This is a visible but quiet weeping. Now we know that the verse divisions are not inspired by God, but if there's any two words that deserve their own verse, it would be these two words, Jesus wept. This, as you likely know, is the shortest verse in the English Bible. And it conveys weighty truth. Jesus weeping reveals to us that Jesus was in fact truly man, even while he was truly God. His body could not contain the storm in his soul, and so it burst forth with tears, which is God's designed way of releasing pressure in the soul. Well naturally the Jews did not understand his emotion, and so they they say in verse thirty-six, some of them, see how He loved him, and others, in verse 37, could not he who opened the eyes to the blind man also have kept this man from dying? They assumed that again he was grieving the death of Lazarus like everybody else. In fact, they use the same word for love that Mary and Martha used when they sent for Jesus. One might think that since Jesus traveled from place to place throughout his ministry, that it would have been difficult, if not impossible, for him to developed friendships apart from those that were his traveling companions, his disciples and others who traveled with him. But that wasn't true. Jesus had indeed developed a love for Martha and Mary and Lazarus. But as we said at the beginning, both the family and the Jews vastly underestimated his love for them Others there raised a measure of doubt. The way verse 37 is structured grammatically is it's a rhetorical question that implies a yes answer. In other words, yes, if Jesus could open the eyes of the blind, surely he could have kept this man from dying. In other words, they believed that he had that power, therefore He must not have loved him enough. So there's that implied doubt of love and concern for Lazarus Of course, they could not be more wrong. Jesus loved Agapahod, as it says early in the chapter, Lazarus and Martha and Mary. More than that, Jesus loved the Father. And so in unity with the Father's plan and purpose, Jesus followed Lazarus, or rather, he allowed Lazarus to die so that he could raise him from the dead. And put his glory on display Well, that's the passage as in terms of a relatively brief walkthrough, and we know that verses 1 to 37 is really just a setup for the miracle that will take place in the next section. But it's worth asking, is there something here in this section? Why would John record this? Is there something here for us to benefit from in our own life? I think there is, and that's the last life, or rather, the next life-transforming truth we can draw from this, and that is that Jesus, as I said, is a man of sorrows. Therefore, we are never alone. He's a man of sorrows. Now it's easy to see here that he is a man of sorrows. What's maybe not as clear is how does that affect our life? Well, Hebrews chapter 4, verses 15 to 16 says For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every way has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. And thinking about that particular passage, it's helpful to remind ourselves that the word tempted is also the word at its root that means to be tested, as is as in to be put through a trial. And so, yes, we can rightly say that Jesus faced the same kinds of temptations that we face, and yet because he resisted temptation, he was without sin. But we can also say that he experienced the same kinds of trials that you and I face. And those too, he responded. without sin. This is to say, he responded to trials the way that a sinless human should respond if their heart is filled with truth. Jesus weeping, then, is the right response of a heart filled with truth in light or in the face of painful circumstances. Isaiah 53 says that the suffering servant, who ultimately would be Christ, was a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. Surely it says he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows As truly man, Jesus was moved by the impact of sin in this world. As truly God, his emotions were governed by the perfect knowledge. and desires and will of God. As truly man, Jesus, in this very moment wept in front of Mary and this crowd As truly God, Jesus has the capacity to experience sorrows and grief for everyone. So, how does this reality transform our lives? Well, it tells us that because our sympathetic high priest carries our griefs and our sorrows, we are never alone. We can never say, no one goes, no one knows what I'm going through. No one knows how I feel. I can't talk to anyone because no one understands. That's not true Jesus knows what you go through. Jesus knows how you feel. Jesus understands so he can listen compassionately to whatever you have to say. But to take this further, we shouldn't limit ourselves to saying that because Jesus has gone through the same kinds of things, he is able to understand what we're going through. That's true But it's far more personal than that. The Bible teaches that those who believe, those who have eternal life are mysteriously united to Christ such that we are in him and he is in us. Specifically, the Spirit of Christ dwells within believers. Romans 8:9 says to the Christian, You, however, are not in the flesh, but in the Spirit, if in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him. Therefore, by virtue of the Spirit of Christ dwelling within us, Jesus is united to our experiences. It's for this reason that Paul warns against sexual immorality in 1 Corinthians chapter 6. He basically asks, why would we involve the Spirit of Christ in our sin? Or think about Matthew 25, where Jesus gives a glimpse of the final judgment. Jesus explains there in Matthew 25 that on the day of judgment he's going to separate the sheep and the goats. And the way he's going to separate the basis that he's going to use in that separation is how they treated him when he was hungry and thirsty, a stranger, naked, sick, and imprisoned. He he says to some I was hungry and you gave me food. I was thirsty and you gave me drink. I was a stranger and you welcomed me. I was naked and you clothed me. I was sick and you visited me. I was in prison and you came to me. Those who cared for Jesus, who ministered to him, were welcomed into everlasting glory And those who did not care for him, those who did not welcome him and minister to him were sent to eternal punishment. What's interesting is that both groups We're surprised and confused by this way of dividing them. The first group asked, When did we feed you? When did we give you a drink? When did we see you naked and clothe you? The second group asked, when did we not feed you? When did we not give you something to drink? And so on. And Jesus' answer was not, well, when when you were motivated by love for me, that's when you did it for me. Or when you were thinking about me, and you did this to others. No, his answer was, as you did it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me Again, he didn't say when you did it to one of the least of these, it's like you did it to me. He says, when you did it to one of these, you did it to me. Such is the union of Christ with his people that He's not just uh He's not just with us when we are hungry. He says, I was hungry. He's not just with us when we are sick. He says I was sick. Therefore, if you have the Spirit of Christ dwelling within you, no matter what you are going through, Jesus is going through that too. Because he knows you perfectly, he has a better grasp of what's going on in your soul, even than you do. And because he knows all things, and because he knows your sorrow even more intimately than you know it yourself. He is able to minister comfort and help you in your time of need. He is able to listen to your heart's cry. And by his spirit, he is able to strengthen you in his In your sorrow. All of that I think is an implication of the statements he was deeply moved in his spirit and greatly troubled And Jesus wept. If in fact Jesus is a man of sorrows, if in fact his spirit does dwell within us, then he experiences our sorrows as well. Some of you might have the opinion that if you have all of the right theology, all of the right truth, then that means you should never be affected by anything. You should always be stoic. In fact, we might think that because God is omniscient, because of all of his other perfections, that he is just even keeled, emotionless, unmoved by anything. And there are theological debates to be had as to whether God has emotions and what that means, given what the scripture tells us. But whatever can be said about the divine nature in that regard, we have here Jesus Christ who is truly man and truly God. And he wasn't just that while he walked this earth. When he ascended into heaven, he didn't leave his humanity behind. He maintains his humanity even now and for the rest of eternity. And so if he can experience and express emotions in this moment, And there of course are many other moments in his life when the gospel writers draw out his intense emotions. Then we can be certain that emotions themselves are part of what it means to be made in the image of God. They are not the result of the fall. And again, because Jesus is in fact truly man and truly God, and because his spirit dwells within us. Divine mystery though it may be, we are never alone in our suffering because He is in the storm of our soul with us. Now if that that was all we could say, we would be comforted by having a companion in our suffering. But next time, Lord willing, in a few weeks, we will see that Jesus overcomes sorrow by his power. We'll look forward to that. Let's pray as we close and transition to Lord's Supper. Amen. If you're serving, you can come. Father, we are so grateful for this presentation of our Lord. It shows us the reality of His humanity. And because of how he perfectly experienced and responded to life, it tells us that when we sorrow, when we grieve And when we do so under the truth that we are being like him Lord, we are also grateful for the truth presented in various places of your word that When you promise to be with us and never forsake us, it's more than just that you are our companion by our side. It's that you are truly in us. You are in our suffering with us Lord, help us to embrace and live by that reality. And to look to you, to lean on you, to depend on you, to speak to you, to lament to you, to cry out to you. Knowing that you know exactly what we're feeling and thinking. And may you comfort and strengthen and give us endurance in those moments. We ask in Christ's name, Amen