Now Miss Jessica is gonna continue the discussion on the season of singleness. My name is Jessica Gillary. My family's been coming to Hope since two thousand one and so I grew up in uh at Hope Bible Church. Um, I was homeschooled growing up and thankful for so many examples of wives and mothers who um helped to teach me, um and prepare me. Um and for me um as a child if someone had told me that I'd be approaching my thirty first birthday and still be unmarried, I don't think I would have uh accepted that. Um But as Elsie said, God has been very good. Um, I've been thankful for the way he's been working in my life, um and excited to share some of that with you. I had a few favorite places on my college campus. This in western New York. The dormitory kitchen where my roommate and I would settle in for homework over instant oatmeal and black tea. The hiking trail that was a blaze of colors and smelled like rain and soil in the fall. But one of my most favorite places of all was The old soccer field. Nicknamed the Field of Dreams, it was the best place for stargazing. The light pollution that is prevalent in our area here didn't obscure the magiciancy of the night sky in the middle of nowhere New York. My friends and I would lie on the grass, speechless, drinking in the thousands of lights. God's immensity and power were so tangible. As I lay beneath the nighttime canopy he had formed, I felt so very small. Elizabeth Elliot writes about the Jubutis. Between the transcendence and nearness of God in relation to matters of the heart in the book Passion and Purity. In the chapter titled Does God Notice, she writes her her thoughts following the revelation that Jim Elliott loved her. But felt that God was calling him to be single. Maybe only until he had gained some missionary experience, or maybe for the duration of his lifetime. Elizabeth herself was also pursuing a future on the mission field. It was uncertain what the future would hold for them. She writes, What was God going to do about all of this? Was he interested in the plight of two college kids? Would he bother with us when he was busy with who knew how many other worlds? Lift up your eyes to the heavens, she quotes. Consider who created the world. Through his great might, his might and power, not one is missing. God made them, she reflects. Can he keep track of us? The chapter. Title Does God Notice? And some of the questions she expresses reflect some of the same thoughts I've had through my season of singleness. The culture can read sexual identity, expression, and relationships to the be-all and end-all of what it means to find meaning, Purpose and life satisfaction. Without sexual or romantic relationships, I'm told, my lack my life is lacking, repressed, or deficient. Obviously, that ideology must be rejected. Yet I can feel the same sense of lack when interacting with the life. Interacting with others in the church, where marriage and motherhood are valued, and rightly so, against the grain of our current culture. But when marriage and motherhood are equated to a woman's meaning and purpose, I and others can wonder if we somehow missed out on God's best. What is my womanhood for? Where do I sit? Does God have a good plan for me? Or did I somehow get the plan B of singleness while he was caring for so many other people and holding un the universe together? Does God see? Each of you had A sentence on your sheet that says, Singleness is blank. As I've interacted with other single women over the years, I found that while many of us have similar experiences and questions, each of us can also have unique ways of experiencing or viewing the season we're in. When you hear singleness is blank, think about some ways that you would complete that sentence, whether they are true or not. You can write them down if you want, there'd be two to four ways. Um as I was thinking about sharing today. what came to mind were some of the different perspectives on being single, the reality of the gospel and the way it speaks truth into our lives, the rest that comes from viewing our season through the lens of Scripture, and the ways that we respond to one another in the church with truth Comfort, care, and burden bearing. So first, some different perspectives on being single. They are the things single women might say to themselves, whether true or not. Singleness is a state of being incomplete. I mentioned This in the the introduction. In addition to a single woman's own thoughts on marriage, her family members yearly questions about when she's going to bring someone home for Thanksgiving dinner, and well meaning comments from ladies at church pointing out eligible suitors across the foyer can help to reinforce the the idea that something is wrong with her. She can also hear from others that marriage and children are the best things God has given them for their sanctification. Is the single woman stunted in her spiritual growth because she doesn't have the husband and children she needs for her sanctification and maturity? The second way a single woman might complete that sentence is singleness is a consequence. This is a hard one, something that can work in the back of the single woman's mind. Consider these statements offered to single women that Tim Keller quotes in the meaning of marriage. from an article on singleness by a woman named Penton uh Paige Benton Brown. I'm not familiar with the author, so I'm not able to endorse the article. However, I refer to it because it accurately captures some sentiments that I and other singles have come across. The first one is As soon as you're satisfied with God alone, he'll bring someone special into your life. From this statement, the single woman can hear, Because you're so discontent, God has decided that you don't deserve to marry anyone. Here's the second one. Before you can marry someone wonderful, the Lord has to make you someone wonderful. From this statement, the single woman can hear that she's not grown in her sanctification enough or mastered the tools for being a wife enough to marry anyone. These thoughts can carry a lot of shame as the single woman holds tightly to the false belief that single because God isn't pleased with me. Thirdly, singleness is a time of waiting. The desire to be married, though it can be elevated disproportionately, is not a bad desire in and of itself. However, it may seem that because God is not granted that desire, nothing is happening. But is God actually inactive during our times of waiting? Next, thinking this is a time when grief can hit unexpectedly. Holding a friend's newborn baby, seeing a friend's engagement photos on social media. These and other occasions are times of celebration when the single woman has the opportunity to rejoice with those who rejoice. And she can. Yet in these moments um she can also uh these moments can also be complicated emotionally as she experiences The sudden pangs of loss in the midst of others' joy. Next, singleness is lonely sometimes. Yesterday was Valentine's Day. While it has become one of my favorite holidays in recent years, coinciding with my realization that I actually like. The color pink? Keeps the heart decor, and other and all things glitter. It wasn't always that way. Holidays can be times when a single woman feels the lack of family. What a celebrity for those moments of isolation. Next, singleness is is a gift. The joke can come back to this one as always, well then can I exchange it? There are many others. Singleness is a burden. Singleness is freedom. Singleness is painful. Singleness is a source of fear as I want to be a little bit more. about living on a single income and who will care for me if I get sick. The final one I have to summarize the list is singleness is multifaceted. Various perspectives can share the same space in, can share space in the same heart or come and go. over the course of a single season. That is why when we are talking to someone in a single season, listening is so important. Listening without bringing our own assumptions allows us to respond with compassion in a way that is fitting to what our sister in Christ is going through or thinking. As single women, listening to what we are saying to ourselves about our single season also allows us to take those thoughts, examine them carefully, and see if they are actually true. As we listen to others or reflect on our own thoughts, we have the ability to see both perspectives. That feel real but aren't, like feeling punished by God, or experiences that are real and painful, like grieving, and look at them in light of the reality of the gospel. And that is what we'll consider next. Returning to the transcendence and nearness of God, I I love the description of creation in Genesis. God's matchless, incredible power is put on display as he creates everything out of nothing. Yet in chapter two, the reader is awed by his nearness as the narrator focuses in on the creation of mankind. Adam and Eve are both special creatures, unlike other any others, because they are created in God's image, made for a relationship with God and with others. But when they sin by transgress transgressing God's prohibition, the relationship with God is broken. God has said that the penalty of transgression transgressing his command would be death, and tells Adam that he will indeed return to the ground. Yet in Genesis two fifteen, as God speaks to the serpent who deceived the woman, God foretells of a time when the serpent will be delivered a deadly blow by one of each Offspring. God's words look ahead to the time when He will send His Son, Jesus, the perfect sacrifice who will defeat sin and death through his sinless life, substitutionary death on the cross, and triumphant resurrection from the grave. For the single The details of the fall in Genesis reveal her deepest need. Her deepest need is not for marriage. It's not her loneliness, her financial worries, her security, her childlessness. Rather, it is the same deepest need that all of us have. We were made for fellowship. With God, but our sin has separated us from Him, and we are justly deserving of death. A single woman's deepest need is for a Savior, and her Savior has come. Ephesians 1, 3-14 details all of the beautiful and glorious things that we have received as blessings from God. God through our Savior Jesus Christ. I wish I had time to really read it in its entirety, but to summarize the truths it contains, if a single woman is in Christ, she has been chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world, before Genesis 1-1, before God Created all these exists. Before Adam breathed for the first time, God chose her to be his own. If a single woman is in Christ, she is a recipient of God's love. She was re- predestined to be adopted, to be a daughter in God's family. She has been blessed. By the glorious grace of God. She has been redeemed, freed by the pavement of Christ's blood. All of her sins have been forgiven through God's lavish grace. If a single woman is in Christ, she has obtained an inheritance from God. She has received salvation through faith in Christ. Christ, her coming inheritance has been guaranteed guaranteed by the giving of the Holy Spirit. God Spirit himself indwells her. Consider Galatians three, twenty six through twenty-eight. For in Christ you are all sons of God through faith. For as many as you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is neither male and female, for you all are one in Christ Jesus. In the context of this passage, Paul is not saying that these distinctions entirely disappear. Rather, he is writing about the fact that in Christ the distinctions that often separate us do not matter when it comes to receiving God's blessings and promises. Single and married women have the same identity and status as children of God. What glorious truth! Despite what she tells herself about her singleness or what others say to her, the single woman's life is not unblessed, incomplete, or second tier for being unmarried. The same blessings her married Christian friends have received in Christ are the ones that she herself has been given. It is this identity in Christ and these truths about what we have received in him that are to fuel our lives as single women. After reviewing the reality of the gospel, let us turn to the rest that the single woman finds through viewing her singleness through the season of scripture, through the lens of scripture. In 2 Timothy 316, Paul writes, All scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness, that the man of God may be complete, equipped for every good work. Scripture to teach us to correct and adjust our thinking. First, the single woman finds rest in God's sovereignty. Being single is not an indication that God has forgotten her or that she has slipped through the cracks. In Romans eight, Paul reminds us that nothing is able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus. Instead, God is in control of her single season and has a design for it. Sticking to married and unmarried believers in First Corinthians seven seven, Paul writes, I wish that all were as I myself then, that is single, but each has his own gift from God, one of one kind and one of another. Scripture affirms that the single woman's season and the married woman's season are both gifts given by God. Before looking at the gift, consider what we know about the gift giver. God is our Father. He demonstrated his love by sending Christ to die for us. He knows us intimately. The psalmist writes in Psalm 139, Lord, you have searched me and known me. You know when I sit down and when I rise up. You discern my thoughts from afar. You search out my path and my lying down. You are acquainted with all of my ways, even before a word is on my tongue. Behold, O Lord, you know it altogether. Psalm 199-68 of friends of God, you are good and do good. While I do not always understand what he is doing, he can be trusted. I rest in the fact that he is good and he knows me. As we continue to look at the gift, we see that the single woman also finds rest in the knowledge that God is active in her sanctification. As we look at Ephesians, one we see some of God's purposes in choosing those he would bring into his family, that they would be holy and blameless and that his glory would be praised. Thus the single season, while it may be a time of waiting, is not a time of inactivity. Instead, God is working in and through The unique elements of this season to mature me, shape me, teach me more about himself, and help me to see that he alone and no one else is the true satisfier of my soul. The single season also presents unique opportunities to glorify God through undistracted devotion. giving and serving. Paul writes in First Corinthians seven that the married woman has many anxieties. Every person has been given twenty-four hours, seven days a week, to steward, a limited resource. Yet this single season is one in which I have fewer anxieties And then I have fewer individuals depending on my time and attention than my married friends. This season contains a special, God given opportunity to care for the people God places in my path and brings into my life for his glory. Rather than rejecting God's gift because it's not what she wants, The single woman can accept the gift of God with trust, gratitude, and expectancy. Finally, the single woman finds rest in the fact that she has a savior who draws near to her in the midst of her sorrows. This has been one of the most key things I've learned during my single season. Lessons about the character of Christ. In the past, I felt that I could not take my pains, sorrows, and questions to God. That they were something to hide away in shame because God would disapprove of them. However, Jesus makes us with his compassion. Heart in the midst of our suffering. Hebrews 4. 16 tells us that he is our high priest, through whom we are able to with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. Jesus can sympathize with us. with our loneliness. During his time on Earth, his family members and companions misunderstood the purpose of his coming. At his arrest his closest friends fled into the night. The crowds that cheered his entry into Jerusalem during Passion Week cried out for his execution a few days later. On the cross he bore our sins, crushed and forsaken. Jesus' heart of compassion invites us to draw near. All of these things can be hard to hold on to in the midst of daily life as a single woman. Yet they are true. We can ask God to help us believe and trust him. What is the response to these things? One beautiful thing about being adopted into the family of God is that both single and married women are included in the body of Christ. How do we care for one another the unique seat stations that God has called us to? Application for single women is to get to know God's heart. As I've mentioned, this has been one of the most important lessons God has taught me during my season of singleness. Diane Baldrich mentioned the book Gentle and Moly during last month's breakfast, and Sharon Jarvis mentioned the book Dark Cloud's Deep Mercy last fall. If you're looking for resources to help you see God's heart better, those have been very helpful for me in recent years. The second application for single women is to lean into friendships with others, both single and married. We were made for relationships with others. others and God has given us all the given us all the gift of family and deep friendship in the local church. Developing friendships with younger women, older women, single women, and married women allows the single woman to learn about the unique situations each woman faces and Enabling her to develop compassion for others, minister to others, pray for others, and grow in her relationship with God as she receives wisdom from others. The third application for single women is to use your gifts to serve. The single woman can believe that she is a lesser. However, in Christ all believes all believers have been given gifts by the Spirit for the common good, as First Corinthians twelve, four through seven affirms. The recognition that she has received the same blessings in the gospel The same status as God's adopted child, the same spirit as her married friends, should lead the single woman to steward her single season well by serving others with her unique God given gifts. Lastly, the single woman has many opportunities to be a helper. Article titled Gender Roles in the Single Woman, Andrew Kumazi writes, In Genesis 2, God created women to be a helper to the man. This, of course, is in the context of being a helper fit for a husband. The single woman does not serve any one man, but she is able to cultivate a In the body of Christ, in her workplace, in her friendships, through her hospitality, through her prayers for others, the single woman has many different opportunities to be a helper as she comes alongside others to support and serve. Women, the first application is to consider how your words can build up as you interact with single women. The book Women Helping Women lists a few discouraging questions or statements that are often spoken by single women for us to consider. How's your love life? Don't worry, you'll find someone. Don't you get lonely? When are you going to settle down, grown up, and get married? Have I got a man for you? What are you waiting for? Instead of reinforcing to the single woman that she is lacking and only needs marriage to solve all of her problems, married women have to be a little bit more. Opportunity to encourage single women in their season through using their words and interactions to convey the single woman's value, seek to understand and come alongside her unique struggles, encourage her service and ministry to others, pray for her concerns, rejoice with her. in forever joys God brings into her life. The second application for married women is to show your single friends real marriages. For singles struggling with their God given season, it's an immense blessing to be in a relationship with married women who are honest about both the joys and struggles of marriage, so that single women don't view marriage as the solution for all of their problems. Single women need to see marriage as a beautiful, God designed relationship. But single women also need to see that marriage is not the ultimate source of satisfaction or salvation. Christ is. Thirdly, a married woman can consider how she can how she can invite single women into her life. I've been so thankful for the married women who have taken the time to invite me out to brunch, host me for dinner with their family, or talk to me over the phone or in person when I've needed wisdom. The interest they've taken in me has make has made me feel like a valued part of the body of Christ. While some women will take the opportunity to mentor single women, other women might adopt a single woman into this. family. A fourth application is to be available to help single women in times of need. Single women can have legitimate concerns related to finances, safety, repairs, and other areas of need that can make her feel vulnerable as she figures. You can help your single friend by offering to be available during times of need. This is part of bearing one another's burdens. For example, a couple of years ago while my parents were on a trip to Israel, I was home at eleven PM with my friend and sister. when a car drove off the road, hopped the curve, came across our driveway, and crashed into our front yard. It was a blessing to know that a close family friend from church was a phone call away to help us figure out how to deal with that late-night emergency situation. Thank you for listening as I shared about the many facets of this season. As we've reflected on the reality of the gospel, the rest and strength we find in God's Word, and the ways we can respond as we seek to come alongside one another in love. I hope you've been encouraged in some of the same ways that I have been talking about the first time. I'm putting by God's word and so many of my f so many of my fellow family members in Christ during my single season