We are told, and it has been emphasized to us, that division is not a good thing. People should come together, work together, learn together, advance together. We are constantly told to tolerate those who are different from us, to agree, to coexist, to be inclusive, to have a big tent. We Christians are told that denominational distinctions are wrong, and we should support the ecumenical movement Among churches, often in cooperating with parachurch organizations, there's much pressure put on local churches to reduce what they teach down to the lowest common denominator to find agreement with the widest spectrum of churches and those professing Christianity Cause cooperation between churches at the lowest level. We are even told that teaching doctrine, doing expository preaching, emphasizing doctrinal instruction That all of that is divisive. As we are taught things, we enter into more and more controversy. Those things just divide people, separate Christians from one another, and that none of that is good Well, there is no doubt that among true Christians and true churches, the Bible urges unity. In fact, there are a number of very strong exhortations in Scripture that say that. 1 Corinthians 1 Verse ten Now I exhort you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all agree and that there be no divisions among you, but that you be made complete in the same mind and in the same judgment. That's pretty clear Philippians 2, 2 is no less strong. Make my joy complete by being of the same mind, maintaining the same love, united in spirit, intent on one purpose. The beauty of Psalm 133, verse 1, is often sung. Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brothers to dwell together in what? In unity. Even so, as the wisdom literature instructs us, Ecclesiastes chapter 3 and verse 7, there is a time to tear apart and a time to sew together. Well, that wisdom is seen in our scripture passage today. Jesus unifies his own people. This is true. But first, he divides humanity. And that is the focus of the passage today in John chapter 7, verses 40. Through 53. John 7, verses 40 through 53. Please follow along as I read this passage of Holy Scripture And it says, some of the people therefore, when they heard these words, were saying, This certainly is the prophet. Others were saying, This is the Christ. Still others were saying, surely the Christ is not going to come from Galilee, is he? Has not the scripture said that the Christ comes from the descendants of David and from Bethlehem, the village where David was So, a division occurred in the crowd because of him. Some of them wanted to seize him, but no one laid hands on him. The officers then came to the chief priests and Pharisees, and they said to them, Why did you not bring him? The officers answered, Never has a man spoken the way this man speaks. The Pharisees then answered them, You have not also been led astray, have you? No one of the rulers or Pharisees has believed in him, has he? But this crowd which does not know the law is a curse. Nicodemus, he who came to him before, being one of them, said to them, Our law does not judge a man unless it first hears from him and knows what he is doing, does it? They answered him, You are not also from Galilee, are you? Search and see that no prophet arises out of Galilee. Everyone went to his home. You know, one of the fascinating and helpful features about the Gospel of John is that it purposefully documents not just the things that Jesus claimed and the works that He did, the miracles that he performed. But also how all the people reacted to those words and to those miracles and all of that. It tells us what Jesus did, and then it kind of shines the spotlight over on the people that were standing around him and says, Now how did they react to that? And that's what we see a lot of here in this passage. The reader of the gospel gets to think about the things that Jesus is saying. And then think about his his or her own reaction and almost sees that mirrored in the reactions of people in the text. As they're thinking, what do I do with this claim? You see the people that were around Jesus arguing the same thing. What do we do with this claim? And so interestingly the reader is drawn into the reactions of the people around Jesus. And John does that on purpose so the reader can evaluate his own heart. There are lots of different kinds of reactions that are recorded here. Here as back in chapter 6, we saw differing reactions when Jesus fed The five thousand some wanted to crown him king, others quickly ran to follow him back to the synagogue in Capernaum. The true disciples made their stand with Jesus, decided to stay. Back in chapter five, the healing of the lame man, uh there were differing reactions to Jesus' miracle there Chapter 4 with a Samaritan woman. There we see a little bit more of a unified response in that the whole town seemed to have believed in them. In chapter 3, there was differing reactions with Nicodemus and others there as well. And the main reaction, the obvious effect of Jesus and his teaching in the temple at the Feast of Vuos here in chapter 7, is division. That's what happens. Jesus stands, Jesus cries out, Jesus teaches, Jesus quotes Scripture, and the people become divided. In fact, there's a sharp disagreement. Jesus did not bring the nation together. They didn't all get together and start singing Kumbaya in the temple there. There was not that real sense of unity that happened People have that view of Jesus, that if Jesus would just arrive, he would just unify everyone. Well, they don't know anything about Jesus. They haven't read about Jesus. They probably haven't even read one drop about Jesus because his entire life is divisive. You know, they didn't get their little candles out and sway back and forth in perfect harmony, you know, we are the world, or we are the nation, or we are God's chosen people. It just didn't happen The unity that people think ought to happen with God here among us, i i it just didn't happen. In fact, quite the opposite occurred. Jesus did not peacefully coexist with the Jewish leaders. He didn't sit down at the table and try to find the lowest common denominator to figure out a way to be unified with them. So since Jesus divides people, that ought to affect us in the way we think about ourselves, our church, our ministry, the gospel, witnessing, and all of that. I think we have to expect division. When we preach the Word of God, when we are doing what we ought to do, we ought not to be surprised by division. In fact, we ought to expect it. And in many cases, we ought to see that it is good, that it is valuable, that it is a division that God wants. It's a division God is bringing about. It's part of His plan. So to prove that here, there are two divisions in this passage. First there's a divided crowd in verses forty to forty-four, then there is or are the divided officials in verses 45 through 53. Let's look at the first divided group, the crowd. There at verse 40. Look again at it with me. Some of the people, therefore, when they heard these words, that's all of Jesus' teaching, particularly about the Spirit of God, that He's crying out, Come to me and drink When they heard these words, we're saying, This certainly is the prophet. They're hearing Jesus cry this out in the temple, and they haven't heard anything like this, and they're concluding this is the prophet, and they're sure of it. They certainly say this. Now, we've seen this designation thought of as belonging to the Lord Jesus before, back in John 6. 14. It says, therefore, when the people saw the sign which Jesus had performed, they said, This is truly the prophet who has come into the world. See the multiplying of the loaves, this is the prophet. They hear great claims in the temple. This is the prophet. So many people concluded this. Moses had fed the Israelites manna in the wilderness. Jesus arrives on the scene, he multiplies loaves, they see the parallel. The prophet was supposed to be the one who would come and be like Moses according to Deuteronomy 18. So they thought, well, what else is like Moses than this? Surely this is the prophet. Even the leaders in Jerusalem had asked this question of John the Baptist since he was regarded by the people as a prophet and had such a great impact on the nation. When they sent their delegation down to the Jordan to ask him way back in John chapter 1, who are you? Are you the prophet? He said no. But it's interesting to ask the question. There was an expectation of this prophet who would arrive But not all agreed with that. Some disagreed with that. Some are saying he's the prophet, but not all agreed with that. Notice in verse 41, another group. Others, this is a different group, were saying, no, this is the Christ. And it's interesting because we would put those together now. The Christ is a prophet. Come on, guys, come together on that. There's no big disagreement about that. But here there's a disagreement. This is the Christ. In fact, this is a direct declaration among some sizable group, we don't have a percentage here, but some sizable group of people that listen to Jesus who are eyewitnesses who concluded what they were supposed to conclude. This is not just a mere man, this is not just a Galilean, this is not just a great prophet, this is not some sorcerer or miracle worker. This is the Messiah, Christ being the Greek translation for Meshiach, the Hebrew Messiah, the anointed one, the one who is going to come and lead the nation, be the king over the nation, the Messiah. Wow, they got it right. They got the right conclusion. They got the right identity. It's nice to know some of them back there got that, right? And again I say it's interesting, at least at this point, in people's opinions, the prophet and Messiah were not necessarily the same person. When they even thought about the suffering servant who was going to come, that was a whole list of prophecies that someone was going to come and fulfill, such as in Isaiah 53, and then the reigning Messiah who was going to come and rule. Many of the Jews didn't even see that person as the same. They thought of two people coming Yet we know it was Jesus and his first coming and his second coming that's going to fulfill the one person, two comings. And so some of these things were unclear to them, even though there was quite a bit about this in their scriptures Even again, I'll say back in John 1, when they questioned John the Baptist about his identity, they again asked him, Are you the prophet? Okay, if you're not the prophet, are you the Christ? They didn't see it as the same thing. The Christ was greater, evidently. And so to call him the Son of David the Messiah was the greatest conclusion one could have. So these guys look like they're believers, look like they're at least getting the identity right. Now, concluding that Jesus was the Messiah seems easy for us in church. Reading the Gospel of John, here we are in chapter 7. If you're not convinced by now, I don't know, just keep reading. You get to chapter 20. It says, I wrote all of this, so you will believe. But for them, put your shoes, put yourselves in their shoes for a minute. This was hard to conclude. First of all, they had to put all the passages of scripture together, and then there was the intimidation of the leaders, for example. In chapter 9, we're going to get there. In verse 22, it says this. The Jews had already agreed. Remember, the Jews refers to the leaders. The Jews had already agreed that if anyone confessed Jesus to be the Christ He was put out of the synagogue. So the synagogue was the center of life, social life, religious life, respect. Uh often people wouldn't even do business with you if you weren't part of the synagogue. You put out a synagogue, that was hard for a Jew, very very hard indeed for a Jew. So if you came to that conclusion listening to Jesus and you started saying he's the Christ, there would be opposition. You might change your tune, because that's going to be too hard to say, even though in your mind you were convinced. Because people are cowards. We're all cowards at heart. You know, most people just back down when it starts they start to suffer for uh something that they know is true. But there's a third group here, they're a more hostile group. Look at verse 41. Still others, still others were saying. And evidently they were saying this on and on. There's some disputing going on here. Surely the Christ is not going to come from Galilee, is he? They all knew Jesus as Jesus of Nazareth, right? Where's Nazareth, that tiny little town up in the mountains in Galilee? Not such a great region and a very small town, and that's where he's from. The Messiah, our Messiah? We've been waiting how many thousands of years for somebody from Galilee? Surely that's not how it's going to be. Verse 42, has not the scripture said, it's good they're going back to Scripture, right? It's good that they look back to the Scripture. Has not the Scripture said that the Messiah, the Christ, comes from the descendants of David? And from Bethlehem, the village where David was. So here's the origin issue coming up all over again. We saw this a few weeks ago. It's a stumbling block for many of the Jews. The irony, of course, is Jesus was born in Bethlehem, the city of David, and they didn't take time to check their facts. And if they would, it would have helped them. But due to the weight of this objection among the Jews here, more than the reasoning for the opinions of those other two groups, John includes Some of the reason here. Surely, he puts that in front of us. Surely the Messiah is not going to come from Galilee, is he? That can't be the origin of the Messiah. Maybe these are the Judean Jews again concluding this, giving pride to their heritage there in Judea, but it really could have been anyone who knew the scriptures and understood what they said. Of course, half of what they said was correct, right? The scripture does make it clear the Messiah had to descend from King David, who's the son of David, just from the royal line of David, he was going to be a king And therefore needed to be born in David's hometown in Bethlehem. Micah chapter five says that Bethlehem is in Judea, and so they were right about that. Here are a couple other verses that say that. Psalm eighty-nine verses three and four. I have made a covenant with my chosen. I have sworn to David my servant, I will establish your seed forever and build up your throne to all generations. That throne is the Davidic throne. And so the king has to be the son of David. Isaiah 9 7. We quote this all the time at Christmas time, but listen to it. There will be no end to the increase of his government or of peace on the throne of David And over his kingdom to establish it and to uphold it with justice and righteousness from then on and forevermore, the zeal of the Lord of hosts will accomplish this. This is why the New Testament scriptures emphasize again and again, Jesus was indeed born in Bethlehem. Explain How he was born in Bethlehem, how he got to Nazareth, and all the rest of that, so there'd be no doubt at all about that. Luke chapter 1, verse 32. The angel to Mary, Jesus, your son, will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. And the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David. Emphatic. That's who he is. He's from that line. He's going to be the Son of God. He's the Messiah. He'll get the throne of his father David. Luke 2 4. Joseph also went up from Galilee. Notice that. Joseph also went up from Galilee from the city of Nazareth to Judea. To the city of David, which is called Bethlehem. Luke 2. 4. Couldn't be clearer to answer this objection. You can see how this was written to answer that objection. Why? Because he was of the house and family of David. Paul opens up the great letter of Romans. We saw this last week in our class. Talks about the gospel concerning God's Son, who was born of a descendant of David, according to the flesh. There it is Revelation 22, 16, Jesus speaks. One of the last things said in all of the Bible, Jesus speaks to the Apostle John. He says, I Jesus Have sent my angel to testify to you these things for the churches. I am the root and the descendant of David, the bright morning star. So that should have been clear, but here there is a diverse opinions among This crowd. They are not united at all. What is the result? Look at verse 43. This is the main point of the section. So a division occurred In the crowd, this is the temple crowd, the feast crowd, a division occurred in the crowd because of Jesus. Jesus has messed up the party. They've come together at a feast to be unified from all over the world to celebrate their Jewishness, their heritage, what God had done for them in the wilderness, and with this crowd of worshipers right there in the temple, a division occurred. in that large crowd because of Jesus. Because of Jesus. Jesus is the culprit here. Jesus caused the division. And that's the main point. The word division is schisma. It's used again in chapter 9, verse 16. I'll read that for you. Therefore, some of the Pharisees were saying, This man is not from God, because he does not keep the Sabbath. But others were saying, how can a man who's a sinner perform such signs? And there was a division among them. There it is again. Everywhere Jesus goes and talks, division. Chapter 10, verse 19. Again, more division. A division occurred again among the Jews because of these words. Many of them were saying, He has a demon and is insane. Why do you listen to him? Others were saying, these are not the sayings of one demon-possessed. A demon cannot open the eyes of the blind, can he? I mean, they're miles apart in their conclusions. They're nowhere near each other. Division, division, division. Not just here, but wherever Jesus went. Crowd after crowd after crowd. They're strained, they're having good debates, Jewish debates, back and forth. You wish you had the microphone to go around and hear all the things that we'll be saying. It's like we have a little bit of that right now. Here's a group over here and they've got their signs going up, you know. He's not the Christ. Ain't got another group going over here and they're picketing and they got the sign he is the Christ. It's the divided situation. Jesus divides. Jesus divides men. And that continued to happen when the apostles preached Jesus more division. Proof. Acts chapter 14, verse 4. Paul and Barnabas They're in the southern Galatian area, the preaching in Iconium, and it says this in Acts 14, 4. But the people of the city were divided. There it is again. And some sided with the Jews, that is against the preaching of the apostles And some sided with the apostles. The apostles are going around and preaching Jesus and splitting up whole communities Poor little town of Iconium split because of the preaching of Jesus. How about Acts 24, 5? Giving a summary of Paul's ministry, the unbelieving Jews who were bringing charges against Paul said, For we have found this man a real past. A real pest, and a fellow who stirs up dissension among all the Jews throughout the world, and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarene. These Christians, particularly these apostle preachers, they're a problem. They're pests. They cause dissension. Brother Tony read from Matthew 10 this morning in our scripture reading. Jesus himself warned anyone thinking of following him That there's going to be division. What kind of division? Oh, even the kind of division that goes right into one's very own household. I mean, what's supposed to be more unified than a family, right? Not so. Matthew 10, 21, brother will betray brother to death. That's not good. And a father, his child. Wow. And children will rise up against parents and cause them to be put to death. You will be hated by all because of my name, Jesus said. Wow. Some are very, very surprised, shocked, even to read These words from the lips of Jesus in Luke 12, 51. Do you suppose that I came to grant peace on earth? I tell you, no. But rather division. Wow. For from now on, five members in one house will be divided, three against two, and two against three. They will be divided father against son, and son against father, mother against daughter, and daughter against mother. Mother-in-law against daughter-in-law and daughter-in-law against mother-in-law. Got the point? It could have kept going on, right? Uncles and nieces and nephews and everybody. The whole family world out there is going to be splintered because of me, Jesus said. That's not unity. That's division all over the place. Jesus divides people. And if you don't get anything else from today, write that down somewhere and underline it, circle it, think about it, okay? Jesus divides people. The division should be expected. The division is by God's design. The division is good. It's good. It's what God wants. It is the beginning of a division that God will make in the end times, finally, when he brings to light everyone and what their hearts are, and he divides everybody permanently. Talk about that more in a few minutes. You should just know for now, as an application, when I go out witnessing, I'm a troublemaker. I may give the gospel to someone sitting on a park bench and it may end their marriage. It may cause them problems with their parents. It may cause them trouble with their co-workers. Are you still gonna do it? Are you still gonna do it? That wasn't too loud. See, uh, some of you already know about this in your homes, don't you? You come to Christ and you feel the pain of this. Husband, wife, parents, you, kids. It's not all hunky dory. It's not all unified. It's not all nice. It's hard fat. But the division is God's will. God separates his people from the others. And there is no unity, there's no club, there's no organization that God is not willing not to break open. Because of him. He is the highest. We owe him the highest allegiance. Nothing comes before that. When you think that way, believe that way, live that way, you will be divided from others. That's part of the cost of following Jesus. If you learn Jesus some other way and were told that's not true, I'm standing on my tippy toes here and leaning over the pulpit, you were taught wrong. You need to know that's part of following Jesus. Families, co-workers, friends, marriages, no human relational unity will survive the issue of Jesus. None. And when you preach Jesus, Jesus will be confessed as Lord. And when someone confesses Christ as Lord, that changes their relationships. with everyone. 1 Corinthians chapter 7 and verse 15 says, if an unbeliever wants out of his marriage because his spouse has converted to Christianity, let him go. It's okay. Wow. Turn just a minute to 2 Corinthians chapter 6, if you would, to see the emphasis of this in one of Paul's Epistles, Second Corinthians chapter six Starting at um let's start at verse 14. Something was wrong. I'm still in 1 Corinthians. 2 Corinthians 6. Verse 14, do not be bound together with unbelievers. For what partnership have righteousness and lawlessness? Or what fellowship has light with darkness? You know how these are supposed to be answered, right? None. None. You're supposed to keep saying that as you read through the passage. Or what harmony has Christ with Belial, you know, a demon? Or what has uh a believer in common with an unbeliever It's interesting it says that because, you know, on a superficial level we have lots in common with them, right? Bank accounts and all kinds of things. Or what agreement has the temple of God with idols? For we are the temple of the living God. Just as God said, I will dwell in them and walk among them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Therefore, come out from their midst and be separate, says the Lord. The separation is God's will. He says, I want you separate from them because I'm in your midst and I'm holy and I don't mix with them. I don't get along with them. And I'm in you. You're my temple. And you have to be separate. You have to be divided from them. Do not touch what is unclean. It goes on to say, and I will welcome you, and I'll be a father to you, and you shall be sons and daughters to me, says the Lord Almighty. This is God's will. You can turn back. This is God's will. Even in the end times, as I mentioned earlier, Jesus will permanently separate people, never to be joined again Matthew 25, the Olivet Discourse, speaking of the end times, all the nations will be gathered before Jesus, and he will separate them one from another, as the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. And you know what he says to one group? He says, Come and inherit the kingdom. And to the other group he says, Depart, go away into the eternal fire, you accursed ones. Eternal, wide, sharp, clear separation, two groups only. Like a great continental divide, the rain falls and some of it flows towards the Atlantic and some towards the Pacific. But it is divided. Jesus is a division. You have to choose the sides you're going to go on. Back here in John 7, the division is accentuated in verse 44. Some of them wanted to seize him, but no one laid hands on him. There's some wanting to grab him But there's other competing factors there in the crowd, there are other things going on, it's a divided crowd, and so they're not even able to get him arrested, which is what the leaders want. Now we come to the second group that is divided as well. It's not just the crowd, not just the masses, not just the common people, but there's some trouble among the officials as well. Now we're going to find later that actually the issue of Jesus brought together certain people in their evil plan against Jesus. But here you see even some disagreement and dissension there among the leaders, starting at verse 45. The officers then came to the chief priests and Pharisees, and they said to them Why did you not bring him, Jesus? So the chief priests and Pharisees are asking the officers, why did you not arrest and bring Jesus to us? I guess they they they had already dispatched these officers. We've seen that before back in verse 32. They were dispatched to arrest Jesus. They want to make sure they they got their hands on Jesus and arrested him before the feast was over. This is the last day, the great day of the feast. They're afraid when it disperses Jesus will disappear in the crowds again like he's done before and they can't find him, can't arrest him. Here is their opportunity is right in front of them. Some of the people want them to do it anyways. And uh the officers, the arresting officers come back empty-handed. So there was kind of a a suspense that John left us with before when when they were dispatched and we never knew what happened. Now we find out. They got closer and worked through the crowds, got closer and they started listening And as they were listening, they slowed down a little bit, and soon they stopped and they just stood there mesmerized and they listened some more. And they never got around to that resting part. It's kind of humorous. You know, uh, why didn't they come back with Jesus? What was the problem? Well, their answer is in verse 46. The officers answered. Never has a man spoken the way this man speaks. Now you know, well I wish I could have been there to hear Jesus speak, you know. Can you just imagine the leaders' reaction to this? You know, they really think they're in control. This is their temple district. They got the temple police going, and they're like, all right, we're going to put an end to this. We're in charge here, you know Here come back the officers, good. And then they get an answer like this? Are you kidding me? That's crazy. Excuse me, why did you not arrest him? Did you have trouble finding him, even though he's shouting and standing over there? Did he overpower all of you on his own? Was there something unclear about the instructions we gave to you? Arrest him and bring him We didn't tell you to go and listen to them. Arrest them! Bring them back. Yes, but uh Never has a man spoken the way this man speaks. What an answer. We never heard anyone speak this way before. He speaks with such, we have to fill it in a little there, truth, such confidence, such clarity, such authority, such understanding. We've never heard anyone ever teach like this before. These men are under conviction. They're swimming in their minds. They're astounded. They were knocked out of their senses the way they normally would think. Please keep in mind they didn't see a miracle this time. They didn't come back saying, Wow, we saw a miracle. It was just the way Jesus spoke. That's it, just the way he was speaking. But what love he had, what holiness, something about his eyes, something about his presence, some greatness in his words. Something hard to describe. Something divine. Maybe something fearful. They were not going to be among those that would be considered murderous thugs. They wouldn't join that group of people. You know, it's interesting these these temple police really were uh drawn from among the Levites They were rel religiously trained people. They they they knew they knew a lot about uh the Jewish faith They'd heard many, many rabbis and teachers in the temple before. These weren't just guys off the street that weren't used to hearing sermons. They'd heard a lot of things before They they were not novices. And they come and they hear this man speak and they they can't even fulfill their duty and arrest him. They come back to those who are their bosses and in charge of them, and they just tell him We just never have heard anyone ever speak like this before. Dr. Laney, in his commentary, says, although intending to make an arrest, they were themselves arrested by Jesus' words. Lensky writes, the authority, majesty, and power of the speaker restrain these officers, contrary to explicit orders. They acknowledge that the manner of Jesus is superior to anything ever found in any other man They are only one step from saying that this manner is superhuman, yea, divine. Much as these officers felt constrained to obey their orders, a stronger influence had come over them. They simply could not and would not lay hands on a man who spoke as this man did. Thus another strange thing appears. The very tools through which the rulers plan to bring Jesus to prison and to death, by making this honest confession, disrupt the unity of the Sanhedrin and thus cause their own plan to be dropped. The means defeat the end, God often plays with his enemies and makes their schemes ridiculous. Disunity and division right there among their own people, the officers and those that sent them. These men stood in the presence of a man who was more than a man. They didn't understand it. Even their job didn't matter. They were stopped dead in their tracks. But the blindness and the hatred of the Jewish leaders continues on. And thus the division sharpens in the argument. Look at verse 47. The Pharisees then answered them You have not also been led astray, have you? Now, this is said with a lot of contempt. No one of the rulers or Pharisees has believed in him, has he? But this crowd which does not know the law is accursed. Man, the Pharisees are frustrated. It's kind of fun, isn't it, to hear that frustration. They're pulling their hair out. They're troubled. As far as they are concerned, this whole scene has gone from bad to worse. Now they have their own guard joining in with the accursed crowd and dividing opinion against them. Are you kidding me? We send our own officers out to arrest them and they come back believers. Yeah, we we could have arrested them, we just didn't think it was a good idea. He's such a good man. Listen, you don't ask the questions and you don't think around here. We think for you. You just go do what we tell you to do. You just keep your uniform straight, march in line, and go do what we tell you to do, and let us do the thinking around here The Sanhedrin, the rulers and the Pharisees, thought of the whole crowd. Isn't interesting. Here's their kind of contemptuous view of their own people. Here's a whole crowd. And they look at the whole crowd of Jews who come to celebrate. They just look at them with disdain. You know, this is this crowd. In fact, this crowd is accursed. This is an accursed crowd. You know, it probably comes from Deuteronomy where it says, Cursed are those who do not obey all the words of the law. See, they they obeyed the words of the law, oh yeah. And they spent uh they burned the midnight oil figuring out how to obey all of the law They made studying the law their life. But this crowd. They probably can't count hardly any of those 613 laws. I got them memorized backwards since I was 10 years old. They don't keep the laws. There's an accursed crowd. We're the holy ones here, see? We're the experts. You don't see any of the experts going over there and believing in Jesus, do you? Shouldn't that kind of put a little light bulb off in your mind there, buddies? Boy, they're really coming down on them here. If we're not believing them, don't you think that should cause some pause here? Do you smell uh a little arrogance in leadership here? A little bit of arrogance? Just do what you're told. Often the elite will look down on the masses. It's interesting that God has his gospel and his truth spread among those who are Simpler, humbler, poorer often, even less educated, because they seem to have more common sense and they have more readiness to just accept Evidence as it is, rather than some very complicated argument that covers pride and ends up leading themselves astray. God opens the eyes of the poor common man more than the rich, educated, and powerful. And he only does it just to mock them. Just a mockdown. These Pharisees are blinded by their pride. They think they're right. No one else can have anything, any good point at all. And yet John's irony again rests within the text. They are the ones who know the least of any of them. And by the way, there is one leader who believed, or at least begins to believe. Look at verse 50. Nicodemus, he who came to Jesus before being one of them, one of the ruling council. Said to them, Ah, finally a voice among them, and here's another division. Verse 51: Our law does not judge a man unless it first hears from him and knows what he is doing, does it? Well, you know Nicodemus, he came in in chapter three, and all he had surmised at that point in time as Rabbi, we know that you've come from God. No one can do these miraculous signs that you do unless God is with him And Jesus takes that and launches into a discussion about the new birth. And Nicodemus didn't really understand all that, and Jesus had to give Nicodemus a rebuke. Are you the teacher of Israel and you don't understand these things? And then Jesus went on and continued to instruct him some. Well here Nicodemus is back and saying, wait a minute, I know one thing, and that is we don't judge a man without put putting him on trial properly, having the evidence for and against. We have to go through the just process. We don't just make up our minds like that. That's not the way we do it. Deuteronomy chapter 1, verses 16 and 17. Deuteronomy 17, verse 8. Deuteronomy 19, verse 15. Many, many places in the law made it clear, evidence had to be gathered, judgments had to be just. While the Pharisees were cursing at the crowd for not keeping the law, the irony again and the hypocrisy is that they were breaking the spirit of the law and not allowing proper evidence to be presented even about the identity of Jesus, that they were cursing the crowd of a crowd. It's just amazing the irony here. It's just drenched in irony. And so Nicodemus was exactly right. If you want the truth, put it on trial. Give the evidence for and against. Don't rush to a heated judgment. That's prejudicial. That's wrong. You know, even the pagan Romans understood what justice was supposed to look like. In Acts 25, verse 16, the governor Festus told King Agrippa when it was uh they were talking about Paul's case, what to do with Paul Acts twenty-five, sixteen, it says, It is not the custom of the Romans to hand over any man before the accused meets his accusers face to face and has an opportunity to make his defense against the charges. They knew that. The Romans did that. And the Romans could figure that out. And the Jews, the Jews had the law of God. Of course they were supposed to figure that out. That's justice. Everybody should know that. For pursuing the truth, Nicodemus would eventually be rewarded. He would find out indeed Jesus was the Son of God and come to confess him as well. Hanging there, that's later in the gospel. Verse 52 Look at the wonderful and mature response the Pharisees give to Nicodemus. They answered him, You are not also from Galilee, are you? I mean, what a low blow, right? Oh my. Search and see that no prophet arises out of Galilee. That's it. We don't need a trial. We don't need any more investigation. Enough is enough is enough. You know, sometimes people that know a little think they know a lot. When all your arguments fail, just deride other people. You are not also from Galilee, are you? That's a cut. Okay. You're from the boondocks. You can't stand with us. You're in the Sanhedrin. Come on. They taunt the cademas. And now we see even more division. Even part of the Sanhedrin, the ruling body of the Jews. Oh, by the way, there there were prophets from Galilee. They got that part wrong. Jonah was from Galilee. Nahum was from Galilee. The reference on Jonah is 2 Kings 14, 25. Some say Elijah was. He certainly ministered there. And there are others, Hosea possibly. And so it ends. And you have this note, everyone went to his own home. We're going to deal with that note in conjunction with chapter 8 in our next passage. But you see, it doesn't end in unity at all. There's division, division, division, division, and there's no resolution. It's just left with division. In the true church, division is forbidden. We read that in 1 Corinthians 1 10. Those who cause divisions in the church are to be rejected. Titus 3. 10. Reject a factious man after a first and second warning. Those that would divide the church are wrong. Division there is wrong. Division is a bad thing among God's people. But with the unbeliever, division is expected. Division is necessary. Division is good. I'm not trying to say we have nothing to do with them. Obviously, Paul answered the fact that we are to love them, we're to do good deeds for them, we're to try to live at peace with them. Yes, all of those things. We interact with them. 1 Corinthians 5 talks about that. But you are not to join their opinions, you're not to join their practices. In some cases it's going to cause even division where you can't even enjoy time with them anymore. Believers are forbidden even from marrying unbelievers in 1 Corinthians 7. 39. In many ways, we are not to be inclusive people. We are to be exclusive people Nor are we to accept the opinions of others and just say, hey, it's an alternative lifestyle. People are doing it differently these days Big tent, bring everybody in. That's the love of Jesus. That is not the love of Jesus. It certainly isn't the righteousness of Jesus. And it certainly isn't the will of Jesus. Be discerning, people, about where you are to be connected and where you are not to be connected. Your connections And your unwillingness to separate and recognize what God is doing in your life to cause a separation may be the cause of a stumbling block for you. While God is trying to get you separate, you're getting joined and it's hurting your Christian walk. Be discerning. Often, while we are being derided as being intolerant, those yelling intolerance against the church are the very ones who are intolerant of the church and reveal their hypocrisy. Yes, Jesus loved sinners and he cared for them here in the temple. He outreached to them. He said, Come and drink to all of the sinners. But he also at the same time confronted unbelief and sin and hypocrisy. And Jesus was not easy to get along with. Jesus was a fork in the road. People had to decide. Jesus did not practice the seeker philosophy in his outreach. He made it hard on the people to make a decision, and most usually decided against him. He confronted sin and false belief in his ministry, and so Jesus divided men I mentioned that eternally there will be a division also. That will happen at the great white throne judgment as well, where God Himself will divide humanity forever. The sons and daughters of Adam and Eve, humanity, will have a separation that will be forever, never to be joined again. Those who have not believed in the Lord Jesus Christ will be hurled by holy angels into the lake of fire, and those whose names are written in the Lamb's Book of Life will inherit the new heavens and the new earth and be with God and be his people for ever and ever. There are two kingdoms. There's one of darkness and one of light, and when light turns on, it doesn't mix with darkness. There are the children of God and there are the children of the devil, 1 John 3:10. There are those who walk in the light, there are those who walk in the darkness, Ephesians 5, 7 and 8. There are those in the book of life, and those not in the book of life, Revelation 20, 15. The division is sharp. It is present and it will be eternal and it will be irreversible. This is God's design To call out from humanity a believing people who will love him, who will house him in their bodies, who will serve him forever. Beloved, may I say, this is our calling. This is your identity. This is who God is making you to be. These are the consequences of receiving Christ as Lord and Savior. This is God's will for the church To be separate under God and to accept the divisions that God in his sovereignty and in his holiness is bringing about. Let us pray. We pray you would strengthen our discernment to see these things to be true. To work very hard at unity among your people and understand the great gulf that divides us from others, and the many ways that that affects our daily lives. We pray you'd give us courage to stand firmly for Christ. We pray, Heavenly Father, that we would not be afraid of the divisions that come, the loss of friends, the loss of popularity. The estrangement from co-workers, that when we feel that and sense that, that we would not Be completely sad from that, though that saddens our heart to some degree, Lord. But we would understand this is what you're doing. To set aside people for yourself. And we would embrace your will and we would embrace your methods, and we would see that they're good. Strengthen your people, keep them holy and separate unto you, we pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.