Well good morning. Um I have to confess that as I approached your meeting here, I heard Diane speaking about eating food. And you're at a breakfast and I was getting none of that food. Fortunately she was talking about spiritual food, wasn't she? Well anyway, um how many of you can remember what God created created on the fourth day. Fourth day of creation, he created what? Okay, good. Yeah, so the sun, the moon, the stars, the galaxies, right? Do you remember why he created those? Seasons. Seasons. How do we know the seasons? Because of our relationship with the sun and and everything, right? Uh As it turns out, um tomorrow, right before nine o'clock, there's a significant event in the the history of the earth. Uh uh that's connected with those seasons. Do you know what that is? It's cancer. The fall equinox. It's actually over the equator, not the uh yeah, so the sun Because of the tilt of the Earth and its rotation around the sun, we have seasons. Four seasons. And if you're a baseball fan like me, you know those four seasons are are pre-season, regular season, postseason, and off season. Right? Um no. Spring, winter, um not in that order. Spring, summer, fall, and winter, right? So from uh from one perspective, tomorrow uh we'll be making our transition from summer to fall. Although there even meteorologic meteorologists have different ways of defining when you go from one season to another. But um God designed all that. And He designed all the seasons of life that we go through. I don't know if you've talked about it yet, but uh you know, w we start out um nine months in our mother's womb. Uh we have a period of infancy, uh childhood which has its own ranges of time, right? You get into adulthood and you have other uh uh periods of time, but seasons of life. Um does God have seasons of life? No. What is it about a a season of life? The fact that there are multiple seasons of life. What does that suggest? Change, right? Those there's some Similarity uh usually from one season to the next, but there's some distinct differences from one season to the next. And the eternal, unchanging God Stepped out of eternity into time and space and experienced the seasons of life as we do. Right? The unchanging God as a man went through changes. The scripture talks about him growing in stature and wisdom and favor with God and with men. Right? Even in his ministry he had different phases that he went through. Um it it just reminds you of how humbling it must have been for the eternal God to become a man, to live through the kinds of experiences that we have, um, including change, that um He created, but had never had to participate in until he became a man. Turns out there are a lot of things we can learn from the life of Christ that help us navigate those seasons of life. And I wanted to walk through a couple of them that are uh uh rather foundational. I think. And the first you have it on your sheet there, the first lesson for today from the life of Christ is to view the challenges we face today In light of eternity. If we take our eyes off of eternity, what's likely to happen when we look at our present situation? We're going to lose perspective. Right? We're going to get caught up in the the moment and forget that there's a context, an eternal context, in which we're living out our lives in that moment. And we read in Hebrews 12, you have it there in your paper, about Jesus, with implications for us. It says, Therefore, since we have so great a cloud of witnesses surrounding us. Who's that? All the heroes of the faith in the previous chapter, right? Since we have such a great cloud of witnesses surrounding us Let us also lay aside every encumbrance and the sin which so easily entangles us, and let us run with endurance. the race that is set before us, fixing our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfecter of faith, who, for the joy set before him, endured the cross, the despising the shame and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. So as the ultimate example for us, we need to keep our eye on the goal, right? What is the eternal conquest uh context? Where are we headed? How does what I'm doing right now fit in with that? And sometimes that's going to involve perseverance. We're encouraged to persevere because we know this is going to pass. We have a future ahead. This is all part of God's. God's work in our lives, we can get beyond this because we keep our eye on the goal. Right? Jesus Himself said in John 18, um, and here he He's responding to Pilate as he's being questioned. Jesus said, My kingdom Is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, then my servants would be fighting so that I would not be handed over to the Jews. Or to you, Pilate. But as it is, my kingdom is not of this realm. What was he doing? He was he was keeping this very tense moment in perspective. He had he understood the big picture. He understood the eternal consequences of what was about to happen, which was not going to be fun for him, right? But he spoke truthfully to this person of immense power about that moment that his kingdom was not of this world, not of this realm. Earlier in his ministry as he was uh preaching in Luke 4 Verse 43 it says, Jesus said, I must preach the good news of the kingdom of God to the other towns as well. Why? For I was sent for this purpose. I know why I'm here. I need to do what I'm supposed to do in this season of life. Right? That's why I'm here. You ever think about why you're here? From an eternal perspective that ought to influence our choices in life, how we navigate those challenges and so on. 1 Peter 2 again refers back to the example of Christ. For you have been called for this purpose, since Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example to follow in his steps. And speaking of him, and quoting the Old Testament, who committed no sin, nor was any deceit found in his mouth In other words, he didn't deserve it. And while being reviled, he did not revile in return. While suffering, he uttered no threats, but he kept entrusting himself to Him who judges righteously. He had an eternal perspective on the suffering he was going through. Justice would eventually be served By God helping him to persevere through what was needed to happen right now, right? Anyway, continuing. And he himself bore our sins in his body because of his obedience to that on the cross. So that we might die to sin and live to righteousness, for by his wounds you were healed. He persevered, he understood the eternal consequences, even in our lives, our salvation. enabling him to stay focused, do what was necessary, and um what a cost that was, but thanks be to God he did it, right? We all are the beneficiaries. So, some possible applications here from that first lesson is to stay focused on the goal. That presumes we know what the goal is. continually in the word right uh to know what the goal is uh but the goal is glorifying god eternally and serving him while we have opportunity Second possible application here is to invest in eternal things in every season of life. Jesus in the Matthew 6. uh passage about uh uh from the Sermon on the Mount said uh don't lay up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy, but what? Lay them up where? In heaven, right, keep your eye on eternal things, you'll make better decisions here and now. And above all, he actually concluded that that uh uh sort of concluded that episode in his teaching in Matthew six. Above all, seek the kingdom of God and doing what's right. That's what righteousness is, doing what's right. Why do we do that? Because that's what has eternal significance. Right? That's the goal. Well, the second lesson I think we can take from the ministry of Christ, the life of Christ, the example of Christ, is once we maintain an eternal mindset, where keep we have our eyes on the eternal goal, then set realistic priorities for today According to your current season of life. So, what should your priorities be for today, given that eternal perspective? Jesus had to do that. He went through seasons of life. He went through seasons in his ministry. And particularly as you look through the Gospel of John, and to some extent through Matthew. uh a pattern emerges. Early on he said in in John chapter 2, and this is speaking to his mother at the wedding in Cana He says, um and she wants him to to know that you know they're all out of line. And he says, you know, what makes you think this is the time for me to do something about that. But he says, my hour has not yet come. Later in John 7, uh, verse 8, he's interacting actually with his brothers now. And they're asking if he's going to go up to the feast up to Jerusalem. And he says, Go up to the feast yourselves. I do not go up to this feast, at least not now, because my time has not fully come. He's he understands time probably better than we do because he came from outside of time. into time, and he understands the need to um uh live appropriately in the hour that we have. And he of course knew uh the um the death that he would suffer. He uh he knew Why he came. He came not just to die, he also came to live a perfect life. But the hour he's referring to is the culmination of that in his sacrifice. He says, My hour is nigh yet come. Uh Um when it does come, I'm gonna need to be there in Jerusalem. That's where it has to happen. But my hour has not yet come. In the next chapter, John eight He taught in the temple, and no one sees them, it says, because his hour had not yet come. This is the Apostle John's commentary, explanation, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, that in hindsight, Jesus, John knew that Jesus knew that his hour had not yet come, his hour of his ultimate support. sacrifice. And God orchestrated events so that, because his hour had not yet come, he would not be uh captured, if you will, by the Jewish religious leaders uh before the right time. It would be uh One or maybe two years away, I forget which. Um But God orchestrated it so that they didn't capture him because his hour had not yet come. He understood that that um uh He has a work to do now, but let's not get bogged down in what's going to happen in the future. And God orchestrated things so that that wouldn't have to happen. Later in John twelve, Jesus answered them saying, The hour has come. For the Son of Man to be glorified. Now my soul has become troubled. And what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour But for this purpose I came to this hour. That's why he came. And he understood the the the timing, the the context, and now is a shift, it's a change. His hour has come. And somewhere around that time, Matthew 26, 18 records that he was prepared. Preparing for that Passover meal, and said to his disciples, Go into the city and to a certain man, and say to him, The teacher says, My time is near. I am to keep the Passover at your house with my disciples. I don't know if anybody who heard that understood what he meant by my time is near. In retrospect, we know exactly what he meant. This is his final Passover meal with his disciples before his crucifixion. Later in John 13, 1. Now before the feast of the Passover, Jesus knowing Knowing that his hour had come, that he would depart out of this world to the Father, having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end. So he knew it wasn't just things were happening. to him. He knew exactly how this all fit in with God's plan and his ultimate sacrifice. And then in the high Priestly prayer later in the upper room, John 17, Jesus said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify your Son, that the Son may glorify. glorify you. So he had a lot of things to do up until his hour had come, preparing for it, preparing his disciples. But now things were changing. And in that that upper room time with his disciples, he was um preparing them for that change. I'm gonna be leaving. And they said, Well can't we go where you're going? Uh they didn't exactly understand it quite yet. right? Um but there's change here, his hour had come. And so he made decisions in his ministry. He prioritized some things and deprioritized other things because of where he was in that season of his ministry, in his life. But when his hour had come, things changed, and he set his face to Jerusalem, he went there obediently, and all these events took place. Well, some lessons I think we can draw from his example is first of all, don't worry about what you can't control. We Jesus actually taught a about that in Matthew 6. It says, um, you know, you you see the lilies of the field, how gloriously they're arrayed. And yet um God does that for them. They're not asking for it, basically. Um And at the end he says, don't worry, don't be anxious about the the affairs of today uh or the future even because today has enough um challenges of its own. So don't worry about what you can't control. Do we have any control freaks out there? We all are to some extent, right? Don't worry about what you can't control. What's the flip side of that? Be responsible for the things you can control and you are responsible for, right? That's a lot of what Matthew 6 is saying. Another application is to Invest in eternity according to your current opportunities. The passage there in Luke ten is the episode with Mary and Martha And Martha's choice was to be busy with the housework and the hosting responsibility. And things that fell to her, and so on. And she was looking for a little help and understanding from her sister, right? What did Jesus say? Don't trouble yourself. he has chosen the right thing, uh which was what? Sitting at the feet of Jesus, hearing truth. Eternal truth. Why was that important? at the moment. Jesus wasn't going to be with them forever. She was soaking in what she could, right? And the other details are important, but they'll take care of themselves. And there will be a time for that. There's a time and a place for everything. Jesus is saying The time now is to learn. Soak up. That's a good example for us. Invest in eternity according to your current opportunities. Third, redeem your time. Don't waste it. You know, time is like money. You can spend it. You can waste it. You can invest it. Right? How do you invest time? You use it for things that are going to uh yield dividends. There will be uh payback because you invest in what you're doing now, it's gonna have Long term benefits. Do you have any moms here? You know what investing in your children is? Right? So there is a period of life when you in Invest, not directly for your benefit, although there is a lot of benefit, right? But you're investing to multiply your wisdom, your example, right? Right? So that others would would follow suit. But that that applies to lots of areas of life. We're told in scripture here in Ephesians and Colossians. to redeem the time. You know, if time is not redeemed, it just gets wasted. It's like a coupon. If you don't redeem that coupon, it's wasted. It's worth nothing. Right? Redeem the time. Make the most of your time here and now with eternity in view so that there will be some eternal benefits. Consequences. So our approach to the seasons of life ought not to be Woe is me, I'm in this season of life. If only I could be in this next season of life, or some prior season of life. Well, you you may reach some other season of life eventually. You'll never go back to that previous season of life. But God has you right now in your current season of life, are you using it wisely? That's why I put the questions at the top. What are you able to do now that you won't be able to do later in life. And I'm not talking about um climbing Mount Everest or or this kind of thing. But are there are there things of spiritual significance, eternal significance that you're able to do now That you might not be able to do later in life. And secondly, what should you do now to be better performance? be better prepared for future seasons of life. Um anybody go to school? We all go to school, why? To prepare for future seasons of life. Right? There's a lot you can do. It's not just education, but there's a lot you can do to prepare for the future given the season you're in now. And maybe I'll close with the observation that as you work through those various seasons of life, the balance of your various responsibilities is likely to change. Right? Uh various responsibilities, including um your responsibilities at church. In some seasons of life you're going to have more time available than you might in other seasons of life. That's okay. That's good. God created that. But make the most of each season of life so that God would be glorified. Amen? Do you want to take questions now or some thoughts? Um just wondering what kind of seasons you've gone through that stand out to you or maybe describe the season you're going through now? Yeah I'm getting ready for the postseason. Explain it to non baseball or not sports. Well the Orioles might not actually make it, but they probably will. Yeah. Anyway, my wife and I are now in a season of life many people call empty nesters. We've raised four children. Each Each of us had responsibilities for the family that were very high on the list of priorities, God's priorities, investing in those children. They're all f on their own now. That frees us up a fair amount if we still have the energy. But um investing in them didn't mean that I didn't have Opportunity to work at the church and to minister and and and so on. Ministry was very high priority, but the family was also a high priority. But the midst of those things is different now in our empty national. Season of life. I fortunately still have my wife, but she's not as much of a time drain on me as investing in my kids was, right? Um now you have grandkids. Well, we do have grandkids but we have a different responsibility with them. Right? Um I like to think of this. We get a lot of the benefits and very little the responsibility. Yeah. Pastor Allen often we don't know what's going to be required of us in the next season of life. So How do we prepare for that? Good question. Well, um you know the verse that says, The mind of man plans his ways, but what? God directs his steps. It's good to have plans. Uh God pretty much expects us to have plans. But to expect but to keep a loose group grip on those plans because he can very easily change things. And we need to be good with that. But we shouldn't just kind of sit back and not be prepared for anything. Chances are pretty good that if you make um reasonable projections about what the future might hold in terms of your time, let's say, and your your resources and abilities, God may well use that maybe not quite in the way you have in mind, but he can still use it in other ways. I know a lot of you went to college, university, you got a degree. If you're anything like me, And I think a lot of you probably are. You're not actually active in that area of that you had a degree in. My original training was in engineering. And my first work experience was in engineering. Not doing that now. And a lot of people are like that. But the skills I developed while being trained in that way carry over to other contexts. So Yeah, plan, uh work your plan well, count the cost, but be flexible as God directs. Um I I think you kind of actually answered my question. question. Mine mine was really more just like any advice as far as people that are in a season of waiting. You know, it's not necessarily that you have a specific goal that you're working towards, but you're just waiting and you don't really necessarily know what comes after that. Yeah, and uh in a lot of s situations um yeah we don't have control of it, we don't therefore we don't have specificity and and this kind of thing. Um But that often gives opportunity, more flexibility, more ability to do things now while I have the opportunity that I'm might not have in the future. And one of those is to devote our time to um the study and application of God's Word. Preparing ourselves for whatever might come. And in doing that, we're going to be prepared better prepared for whatever God brings our way. If we're just our waiting and doing nothing and wasting our time, we're not investing it. Right? We can invest our time in the lives of others, we can invest our time in developing ourselves to be more Christ like in the future than I even am now, right? Um and be in prayer and submissive to God. He will um unfold his his plan and his will for you in time. Um but like any challenge, it's it's a challenge. It's not um well even with a bed of roses, you have thorns. Uh I don't know whoever sat or laid on a bed of thorn a bed of roses. But you get the point. The point, yeah. Yeah. Oh yes. One one thing that you can do now that you can't do later is to tell your young grandchildren about Jesus. If you don't do it now later on their ears might be closed. Or we might be gone. Exactly. Right. So I I try to talk to them, send them things in in the mail um or online and just always keep their mind on Jesus. Mm-hmm. Make the most of the time. Right? Exactly. Another thing I guess you could do kind of on the flip side of that is tell your grandparents or your parents are they're not believers. And I kinda wish I'd done that when my paternal granddad was alive. Because I I don't know, but looking back I wish I preached more the gospel to him. Yeah there are probably opportunities All of us have missed, right? And later regret. So often we you know, Christ has told us that I came that you would have life and had it more abundantly. And and we see that scripture p used in different teachings to the point of They're looking for the abundant life here instead of the eternal life. Can you speak on that? Yeah, in John ten, Jesus um contrasts himself with a thief, right? Who comes to kill, steal, and destroy. But I have come, I'm the good shepherd, I've come to uh give life and to give it abundantly. Um So the question is, was he speaking about our life here and now or Or our life eternally? I think it was both. Do you think you have a better life now than you did when you were an unbeliever? You bet. Um With God, your wisdom, you're seeing the world as God sees it, and you're able to make right choices, that's a blessing, right? Um it's an abundant life. We can go through life. With joy, with confidence in God, not in us, live life in the power of the Holy Spirit, which wasn't possible before. But it's still life here, isn't it? And that abundant life is actually eternal life. In fact, in that same passage, I think Jesus says, I give eternal life to them, right? Not just an abundant life now. And so, yeah, I think it's both. And uh even though some of our time here in this life is going to be challenging, God designed it that way. And he designed it specifically. for you in that situation to go through that challenge, why? So you would be trusting him, relying on him, applying biblical truth to that situation, coming out of it, better or worse? better. That is, if we follow his wisdom. Right. Um I think that qualifies as an abundant life. We're uh our sanctification, our growing in Christ likeness um has an abundance to it that um I don't think any of you would trade for anything. I was waiting so I was trying to figure out how to phrase this question. get older, some of us might be grandparents, so that's kind of an obvious way you can invest your time in your grandchildren. Um if you have grandchildren. Um if you don't have grandchildren though, what are some And then there are there are some other ways that you can invest in your own family. But what are some ways in which you can invest in your church family, in your church body um, as you get older that people may not think about. Good question. So what are the only things that have eternal value? God's word and people's souls. God's word won't fail. It won't cease to exist. It won't cease to be true. It's always going to be true. And people's souls are going to last eternally one place or another. And so we always no matter what season of life we're in, we have opportunity to invest in the lives of others. They don't have to be related to us. And I know many of you do that. Here at the church there's opportunity to disciple. In fact the past Many of you probably have memorized in Titus 2 gives some specific instructions about what the older women are supposed to do. What are they supposed to do? Teach the younger women what it means to be Christ's. like in your life. And uh there are just so many opportunities for that. That's what you're doing this morning contributes to that, right? Um but you can also As part of that, take someone under your wing, and maybe they're going through an issue, a problem that you can relate to, you can come alongside and encourage, explain how you went through something similar to that. And maybe you failed. That's okay. There's a testimony there. Here's what I wish I would have known at the time. Right? Learn from my experience. Or maybe your experience was very good, and it could be an encouragement for them to follow suit, right? Right. Um but not just navigating the affairs of life, but building them up in the things of God's Word. Um if you the God's Word and men's souls. If they're already a believer, their eternal destiny is secure, but we're all a work in process. And so you can invest in them in God with God's word to help them in that that sanctification process, becoming more and more like Christ. Um and that takes a lot of forms, a lot of contexts. It could be in a small group, it could be one on one. There are lots of opportunities. And maybe I'll, I think, close by giving an example that I like to give often. That God designed us to be like a lake rather than a pond. Do you know what the difference is? Between a lake and a pond. A lake has an inlet and an outlet. It's basically a widening of the stream. Right? A pond has water coming into it one way or another. Maybe it's just rainfall, maybe it's It's runoff from rain coming in, or maybe there's some kind of a stream coming into it, but there's no outlet. So it stagnates. Um maybe in flood times it it just overflows, there's no control, right? But a lake needs to have and does have both inlets and outlet, water coming in, water going out. You know the Sea of Galilee is a lake. Dead Sea is a pond. Nothing comes out of the Dead Sea except through evaporation. Lowest part of the earth. But Sea of Galilee has the Jordan River Company. coming in, Jordan River coming out, and it's it's a well balanced lake. We need to be well balanced. We need to have input, being fed in our own spiritual life. Both by our time in the Word and by the teaching of others that we receive and so on, right? But we need to have output. We need to be involved in using our spiritual gifts. uh bringing others along with us, being a good example, um not just receiving, but also giving spiritually. God designed us that way. In fact, we need each other because of that. So we need to be both receiving and giving. um of eternal things. Eternal truth. There's lots of opportunity to do that. Even and for every season of life. Even someone who's very young in the faith can have a role to be an encouragement To someone else. They'll have more opportunities later as they become more and more mature spiritually, but there's always opportunity no matter where you're at. So don't lose heart. Every season of life has I feel like closing in prayer. Does that work? Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we um we're humbled by the example of your humility step Into time, taking on human flesh to live a perfect life and to die a sacrificial death for us. And that example that you gave us to um keep our eyes on you, keep our eyes on eternity, have the big picture, the goal in mind as we travel through time. And your example of making the best of each season of life are a challenge to us, an encouragement to us. Um I pray, Lord, that all of us would be faithful in that walk and be content where we are, but pressing on. Being persevering. and joyful in the process. Lord, our desire is to honor you and to that you would be glorified. May we cultivate these things in our lives so that that would be true. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.