Okay, good morning ladies. Hope you can all hear me. Uh it's a joy to be together with all of you on this lovely occasion when everyone just shows their creativity in such marvelous ways. Um I'm glad to be here. And uh today our topic is um three gifts for troubled times and I don't know that there's ever been in any time in history that there hasn't been trouble uh since the fall of man, that could apply to any time in history. And it certainly can apply to our time today Today, as a Christmas theme message, we're going to focus on one of the prominent characters in the birth of Jesus, and that is his mother Mary. And I think that it was really fitting that last week if you were at our service, Pastor Gabe kinda set the stage for my talk today, which is um the birth of Christ. And I think that's the message that m came out is for tomorrow. So you're gonna get triple dose of all this. Um, when we first encounter Mary, we're told she's a virgin and thus she's probably very young. And that she comes from a town called Nazareth. Even with this information, the emphasis is not on Mary. but on a miraculous angel sent from God to give her a very surprising message. And if you have the paper that should have been handed out to you, uh we're gonna read this together, the Luke, which is the main birth message uh in the passage in the scripture and we'll read this together. You can follow along as I read. In the sixth month and from the verses before which you don't have on your paper, the sixth month is the sixth month of Elizabeth's pregnancy and Elizabeth is the mother of John the Baptist. In the sixth month, um I'm losing my place here. Okay, uh in the sixth month, an angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city of of Galilee named Nazareth, to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David And the Virgin's name was Mary, and he came to her and said, Greetings, O favorite One, the Lord is with you. Now, it it's interesting to note that right away the angel tells her that this isn't just a generic message. This is a heavenly message. He says it's from God. But she was greatly troubled at the saying and tried to discern what sort of greeting this might be The angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son. And you shall call his name Jesus. And he will be great and would be called the Son of the Most High And the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever. And of his kingdom there will be no end. And Mary said to the angel, How will this be, since I am a virgin? And the angel answered her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. For behold, the son the child to be born will be called holy, the Son of God. And behold, your relative Elizabeth in her old age, has also conceived a son, and this is a sixth month with her who is called barren. For nothing will be impossible with God. And Mary said, Behold, I am a servant of the Lord, let it be to me according to your word. What a great affirmation of Mary States in God. And the angel departed. Now, is it any wonder that the angel had to preface all this information to Mary with Fear not. And you are favored by God. This is a pretty shocking announcement to a young girl. Who's a virgin? Unmarried. And uh God knew that Mary would need strengthening for this role Have you ever faced an uh a a fearful event or encounter in your life? I'm sure you have. Most of us have, and we can identify with Mary in this role This announcement could alter her engagement to Joseph, and it could also re- result in her being stoned for immorality. Mary asks a very legitimate question. She understands the implication that this could be an unusual conception. How will this be since I am a virgin? The angel tells Mary that it will be accomplished by the power of the Most High. Then he gives Mary a sign that will be an encouragement and a confirmation to her. Her relative Elizabeth has conceived and is six months pregnant, even as she is old and called barren. And is this the angel is saying, Mary Let this give you peace. God is able to do the impossible. Trust Him. Think how scary this must have been. Sometimes we um Something has come to you and it's hard or unpleasant or even life-altering and you must go through it. The question is, will you go through it with the peace of God Or with anxiety, or me even with bitterness and anger toward God. Now Mary knew her Old Testament And we can see what Mary is thinking in this new reality by how she responds almost immediately Since she knew her Old Testament, it seems her thinking is centered around Psalm 103, which she quotes in a song of praise when she visits Elizabeth. The first two verses of Psalm 103 says, Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. Mary takes this admonition to heart. and begins to list all the benefits this announcement would bring to her. She's thinking the positive thoughts of this new reality And ladies, isn't this where peace comes from? Thinking correct thoughts that God has put in his word. Let's read, and you can follow along in this section, let's read what Mary is thinking. Luke 1, 46 through 55 said, And Mary said, My soul magnifies the Lord And my spirit rejoices in God my Savior, for he has looked on the humble estate of his servant. For behold, from now on all generations will call me blessed, for he who is mighty has done great things for me, and holy is his name. And his mercy is for those who fear him from generation to generation. And we see here that Mary knows God's character and she's willing to trust it, even in this unknown situation. He has shown strength with his arm, he has scattered the proud in the thoughts of their heart. He has brought down the mighty from their thrones and exalted the humble estate. He has filled the hungry with good things. And the rich he has sent away empty. He has helped his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy as he spoke to our fathers Abraham. and to his offspring forever. And I think this last sentence here is so amazing. Mary sees her situation in light of a bigger historical context from the scriptures, and she's willing to put herself into This is uh a glimpse of how scriptural Mary's thoughts are during this time. She's remembering the promises of God and believing that through this child They would be fulfilled. Through God's word, Mary is finding peace. And this, ladies is the same source that will give us peace in facing hard things in our life. A word from God. And a word that will give us peace to trust Him for the outcome of whatever he has planned. And I think this dovetails so nicely with what Diana said about being in the word. Spending time in God's Word. And along with spending time in God's Word, today I'm going to encourage you to memorize some of God's Word. I would encourage you to hide some of God's word in your heart so that God can bring them to your mind when you're wobbly. A verse I found comforting when overcoming fear and the unknown, and I've used this so many times in my thoughts, is Isaiah 41. 10. Fear not, for I am with you, be not dismayed. For I am your God. I will strengthen you, I will help you, I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. That's a wonderful verse for any situation we're in. Another one for uh when you feel inadequate for the role that you might be called upon to play is 2 Corinthians 9:8. And this says, God is able to make all grace abound to you, so that having all sufficiency in all things that all times you may abound in every good work. And I've used that one over and over again. At the end of the day when I'm exhausted and my tasks are not finished, God is able to make all sufficient To give you all sufficiency to do the good work that He's called you to do. Let's be like Mary and receive the gift of peace to do God's will by relying on God's word. You can be loving to that husband. You can be patient with that child. You can persevere under the burden. You can conquer that anxiety. So you can say with Mary. I am a servant of the Lord. Let it be to me according to your word. So the first gift Mary received at Christmas was the gift of peace in facing God's will, and she receives this peace by knowing God's character through His Word. The second gift Mary received is a gift of courage to follow God's will. It's one thing to have peace in it, but it's another thing to follow and proceed in it. The first thing Mary does is to go boldly and it says with haste To rejoice and gain courage from Elizabeth, her relative. Elizabeth is a Holy Spirit-inspired cheerleader for Mary She praises her for her role as a mother of her Lord. She reassures her that she will be blessed among women because she believed what was spoken to her from the Lord. Elizabeth was a spokesperson from God to support and encourage Mary. Let's not discount godly friends in our journey. to follow God's will. And friends, don't discount your role as being an encourager and a supporter You might be the one to help your friend find the courage to trust God. One of God's divinely appointed means to guide us is to use people in our lives. Joseph also played a role in supporting Mary. We read the story of how God orchestrated his reaction in Matthew one. Joseph has his own visitation from God to reassure him that this child is indeed from the Holy Spirit. And has an important role to fulfill, that is saving his people from their sins. God intervened to change Joseph's heart, and he quickly resolved not to divorce Mary, but to take her as his wife. God had made both of their hearts willing to accept possible slander and the unknown together. It must have given Mary great encouragement to have Joseph's full support. God's strengthening of Mary not only included Elizabeth and Joseph, but shepherds who came reporting that a heavenly host appeared to them announcing the birth of his Savior, who is Christ the Lord. This pronouncement identified him as the Messiah. The Bible records the profound impact this had on Mary It says she treasured up all these things, pondering them in her heart. And to treasure is to keep alive or to savor. And to ponder is to think about or understand the implication of something. So Mary meditated on this and took it deeply into herself. All these interactions would be fuel for Mary as she stepped out in the future with courage in her role. as the mother of Jesus. We could also mention Simeon, a righteous man, who met Mary and Joseph as they brought Jesus to the temple to perform the purification writ, right, required by the Jewish law. Simeon, by the Spirit, recognized the baby as God's salvation, and he declares Jesus would be the light to revelation for the Gentiles and for glory to Israel. However, along with this glorious truth, he reveals a sobering truth to Mary. This child would also be a sign that is opposed, and a sword would pierce her own heart. Mary would face your own personal sorrows surrounding the life of Jesus. Sometimes courage comes in the form of knowing what you're about to face. All of these incidences were God ordained circumstances to Strengthen and encourage Mary. And God will do the same for us when we face our challenges. Look for them. So God has given Mary the gift of peace in facing the gift the will of God. and the gift of courage in carrying out her role as a mother of Jesus. The third gift Mary receives is a gift of blessedness, of embracing God's will. Blessedness is a state of being happy Happy in God. This comes when we are reassured of belonging to God and being under His care To follow the giving of this gift, we need to see Mary's progression to the upper room after the crucifixion. This was a gift not given immediately, but given over a period of time. Now Mary was an Old Testament saint under the law, and she and Joseph were devout as indicated by their commitment to circumcise Jesus on the eighth day, to perform the rite of purification on the fortieth day, and to travel to Jerusalem each year at the Passover, as Luke 2 records. But Mary was like old wine in old wineskins, and she had to be transformed into new wine and new wineskins. She had to come to understand The understand the new way of worshiping God was not through temple sacrifice, but through her very own son. Jesus himself said, Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him And Mary's journey to embrace this truth was a progression. Let's follow along with Mary as she struggles to fully understand who her son is. The first glimpse we have is at the Feast of Passover, when Jesus is 12 years old. He's sitting among the teachers in the temple. And his parents have lost track of him and they were feverishly looking for him. When they found him, Mary admonishes him. for causing them anxiety. And he replies by saying, Did you not know that I must be in my father's house? Jesus is already sensing his obligation to be controlled by God. Luke clearly records in Luke two fifty that they did not understand what he spoke to them. Even at this young age, Jesus was aware of being a unique son of God. Again we see Mary at a wedding in Cana. When the wine runs out, she says to Jesus, They have no wine, with the clear assumption that she's expecting him to get involved. He firmly but respectfully tells her What does this have to do with me? My time has not yet come. He's basically saying, this isn't your place to direct my power. This is for my heavenly Father. And John 5. 19 records Jesus as saying, The Son can do nothing of his own accord, but only what he sees the Father doing. So Mary is seeing and learning that Jesus' total allegiance is to his heavenly Father. The next look at Mary's progression to fully understanding who her son is occurred when great crowds were coming to hear Jesus preach and be healed. Mark three records this theme. Then he, Jesus, went home, and the crowds gathered again so that they could not even eat. And when his family heard it, they went along. out to seize him, for they were saying, He's out of his mind. And this was his mother and his brother saying this. And the scribes who came down from Jerusalem were saying, He's possessed by Beelzebel, and by the prince of the It seems that his mother and his brothers found his claims and ministry to be literally not Madness. Verse 21 says, They came to bring him home because he was out of his mind. Jesus rebukes them by saying Who are my mother and my brothers? Whoever does God's will are my mother and my brothers. His family was believing the leader's assessment of him as demon possessed. They tragically stood outside both physically and spiritually. But the last glimpse we have of Mary is in the upper room, after Jesus' crucifixion and ascension into heaven. She's gathered with the disciples of Jesus, awaiting the gift of the Holy Spirit, which has been promised to all who believe. Mary has received the gift of faith. The blessedness of full assurance of faith in her Son. She's willing to say once again what she said when the angel appeared to her I am a servant of the Lord, let it be to me according to your word. God has provided Mary. Three gifts that first Christmas season. The gift of peace in facing God's will, the gift of courage in following God's will And the gift of blessedness of embracing God's will. Now, we might think, well, Mary is a special case. Well, she had an angel visit her with exp as specific instructions and heavenly protection as she fulfilled God's plan. But when we look closely, Mary dealt with the same discouragements and confusion as we encounter, and she availed herself of the same resources we have. The word of God, prayer, other believers, and God's enabling. Mary very much gives us an example of living in a broken But rising above its evil allurement, and living a life of faith in God and His promises. Mary's three gifts can be our gifts this Christmas. The blessing of knowing God more intimately. Often comes couched in difficult and challenging trials. In the midst of our trial God will graciously give us peace to face it, the courage to walk through it, and the blessing of being closer to Him because of it. Let's pray. Our Father and our God, we are so thankful that we do live under your protection and your care for us, even in the midst of difficult circumstances in our lives. And Lord, today in a group this size, I'm sure there are many here who are facing challenges. They're wondering how to walk through. And Lord, this example of Mary stirs our hearts to ask for your peace, to ask for your courage, to ask for the blessedness of being close to you in our trials. And we know God that we are. You have bigger and better plans than we could even imagine. And we see how you blessed Mary and how you blessed the world through her. And Lord, we never want to discount our impact on other people by following you faithfully. So we pray now that you would give us the peace that passes understanding in this Christmas season and help our minds to understand more fully. The glorious gift that you've given us through Christ Jesus. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.