Right. When we think about anxiety, we know in the Bible that there is a verse that says, Be anxious for nothing, right? Is that really possible to fully obey? day. Be anxious for nothing. What kind of success have you had throughout your life with that instruction? Who has followed that 100%? Not one of us, right? No one is able to fully be successful at that because we are anxious creatures by nature. And what do we know about our nature? Thanks to Adam and Eve. It's sinful and flawed, right? Right? So anxiety comes naturally to us. It is who we are. We are an anxious creatures. We pray when we've got a struggle as Christians, we pray, we cast our care on the Lord, and then we toss and turn. Oh my long once it's dark, right? And all these anxious thoughts and we think, I gave this to the Lord, why is it back again? Well have you ever taken the time to really think about what anxiety actually is? I haven't. I just experienced it. I hadn't ever stopped to say what is anxiety. The Greek word, we're gonna look at Philippians, and so the Greek word in that biblical instruction can mean to have one's thoughts occupied with. That's what we experience in the middle of the night, right? Our thoughts are occupied with whatever it is that makes us anxious. Or that same Greek word can simply mean concern or worry. Merriam Webster defines anxiety as being characterized characterized by extreme uneasiness of mind or brooding fear. Would you say that anxiety is comfortable or pleasant? Does anybody enjoy anxiety? No, I don't think any of us enjoy anxiety. Um, what about all the physical manifestations that we can feel as a result of being anxious? Rapid heart rate, palpitations, chest pain shortness of breath, sweating, muscle tension, shaking and trembling, headaches, neck aches, aches, back aches, nausea, diarrhea, loss of appetite, trouble sleeping, fatigue, Irritability, just to name a few I think we would all agree that anxiety is not pleasant and is not good for us. So, what kinds of things can cause us to become anxious. Go ahead and just call some out. What kinds of things can cause us to be anxious? Children, yes. Money. Job. Job. Health. The future. Family relationships. Those are very related. Yeah, good. The weather. We were just talking about hurricanes and floods. Um the future of our loved ones, the future of our nation, our own performance, which is connected to our reputation and how people view us. In thinking about it myself, I realize that anxiety ultimately s stems from the fear of the unjust We do not like not knowing what will happen. And we especially fear that what does happen is not going to be the outcome that we desire. So we fear Fear the unknown because we fear it may not be what we want it to be. So, what about fear and stress and worry? Do they all fall under the umbrella of anxiety? If we look at fear, what is fear? Fear. At its most basic, the dictionary says fear is a reason for alarms or an unpleasant and often strong emotion caused by anticipation or awareness of danger. There are things in this world that That we should legitimately fear. Would you agree? I think so. Fear moves us to defensive or protective action. So fear can have a a definite positive aspect to it. It keeps us safe. And in that sense, it's healthy. inappropriate and usually short-lived. There's a reason for it, and once that reason goes away, then fear goes away as well. What about stress? If we look at emotional stress, Merriam Webster tells us that it's an emotional factor that causes bodily that whole list of things we talked about or mental tension and maybe a factor in disease causation. That doesn't sound good, does it? Something that happens in our minds can make our bodies sick. I think it's safe to say that emotional stress is a very close cousin, if not a sibling, to anxiety. And I think we maybe probably already all know that worry is not a very productive thing. Jesus confronts the crowd in the Gospels and asks, which of you by worrying can add a single qubit to his lifespan? Do not keep worrying. Your father knows you need those things. Seek his kingdom and all these things will be added to you. And if we look at the dictionary the English dictionary again, the definition of worry is Is a mental distress or agitation resulting from concern, usually for something impending or anticipated, fear the unknown, and then it goes on to define it simply as anxiety. So in worry we have anxiety's twin ugly twins. So how do we end up in a state of worry or anxiety? First, we have a situation that has an unknown outcome. Right? It's not y well, it can be about things that we know. It's not always because we can know that we have cancer and we can know what then it may kill us and we may have anxiety and worry about that. But I think more often the general run of the anxiety for us is it's an unknown outcome. And it usually involves anticipation and our big struggle, we talked about this at our table. I was I was um impressed because a number of the ladies said this very thing that the big struggle is the fact that we don't have control over that outcome. What's gonna happen is gonna happen. Therefore we worry that it might not go the way we would like it to. So anxiety ultimately is the result of not being able to control our circumstances. Now God gives us a command not to be anxious. So it's only logical that we would look at his word. for guidance on how to obey that command because we know we cannot do that on our own. We have no ability to obey that command in our own flesh to just muster up the strength and stop being anxious. We can't. We're anxious creatures by nature. So let's look at what he has to say about worry and anxiety. Turn to Philippians 4, and we're going to go through verses 6 through 9. So Philippians 4, verses 6 through 9. And my the version I'm going to be reading is the Legacy Standard Bible, so it might sound a little different. Verse 6, it starts out, be anxious for nothing. But In everything, by prayer and petition, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God, and the peace of God, which surpasses all comprehension. Will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. And then verse 8, finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is dignified, whatever is right. Whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if there is any excellence, and if anything worthy of praise, consider these things. The things you've learned and received and heard and seen in me, this is Paul speaking, practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. So, we are commanded to not be anxious ever for anything. And we know that's not easy. Not even possible. We cannot do it in our own strength. But it is possible by the power of the Holy Spirit to have victory over anxiety. And our first steps that we're to do is we are to present our requests to God with thanksgiving. Our second and we are called to replace our anxious thoughts with commendable, God-honoring thoughts. And third, we are to actively practice the good works that we know God intended from the beginning before the foundation of the world for us to do. So these three steps are our keys to finding the antidote to anxiety. If we are to let our request be made known to God, what kind of people are we to be then? People of prayer. We are to be people of prayer. And what are we make to make what are we to make known to God? What does it say in Philippians 4 6? Every request. Everything. Every request. Nothing is too insignificant. And nothing is too overwhelming for our God. And what is our attitude to be when we come to God to present these requests? Thankful. It's to be with Thanksgiving. If we're already deep in the grips of anxiety, how easy is it to be thankful? Can you just switch gears and suddenly turn from deep anxiety to thankfulness? No, it is not. I in fact I think sometimes it's impossible to switch those gears. So that means we need to have the per se perspective of preventing anxiety. Not I mean there's always Everything is possible with God and with the power of the Holy Spirit indwelling us. So if we're battling anxiety currently, we can confess that to the Lord and He can change us. That's repentance, right? Go in the opposite direction. But the ideal would be to prevent it. I'm actually reminding myself of Ken Sandy right now, the Relational Wisdom Conference where he used to help people reconcile. He would come and deal with their conflict and he's like, I want to teach people how to prevent conflict. So we want to prevent anxiety as well. We want to head it off at the past and not let it get a start in our hearts and our minds. So we do that by presenting our request to God right away by prayer and petition and with thanksgiving before we've let worry and anxiety. Take control of our minds. Well, what kinds of things do we have to be thankful for? If our lives seem like they are falling apart all around us here on Earth, what do we have left to be thankful for? Let's turn the thing. to Ephesians 1. Turn in your Bibles to Ephesians 1 and we're going to look at verses 3 to 14 and verses 2 to or 2, 1 through 10. I'm just going to read through it quickly, so listen closely, because I'm sure a lot of you are familiar with Ephesians 1 and 2 to our overflowing with all that the Lord has has given to us as believers. Okay, Ephesians one, I'm starting at verse three. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. In Christ. That's important. Just as He chose us in Him before the foundation of the world that we would be holy and blameless before him in love by predestining us to adoption as sons through Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise Of the glory of his grace, which he graciously bestowed on us in the beloved. In him, we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our transgressions, according to the riches of his grace. Grace, which he caused to abound to us in all wisdom and insight, making known to us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure, which he purposed in him for an administration of the fullness of the times, that is, the summing up of all things in Christ, things in the heavens and things on the earth in him. In him we also, and this is Paul talking about he and the apot the other apostles, have been made an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will, to the end that we who first have hoped in Christ would be to the praise of his will. glory. And now the rest of this applies to all of us. In him you also, after listening to the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, having also believed, you were sealed in him. with the Holy Spirit of promise, who is given as a pledge of our inheritance, unto the redemption of God's own possession, to the praise of his glory. What does that do to your heart? heart right now to read all that and to know that all of that is poured out on us. The words like abound and um in Philippians, the um surpasses all comprehension. goes beyond anything we can even comprehend. It makes no logical sense. It's exponentially beyond it. The gifts from the Lord to us are amazing. Okay, chapter two. I wasn't done, I just had to exalt And you chapter two, verse one through ten. You were dead in your transgressions and sins, in which you formerly walked according to the course of this world, according to the ruler of the power of the air, the spirit is that is now working in the sons of disobedience, among whom we all also formerly conducted ourselves in the lusts of our flesh, doing the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, even as the rest. But God Being rich in mercy, because of his great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us alive together with Christ. By grace, yeah. have been saved and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus so that in the ages to come he might show the surpassing riches of his grace and kindness kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not of yourself. It is a gift of God, not of works, so that No one can boast, for we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, so that we would walk in them. So our first step in preventing anxiety is to present our requests to God, to go to Him in prayer with thanksgiving. And all of that informs your thankfulness. Our second step is to Replace our anxious thoughts, what I like to call thinking thinking, with commendable, God honoring thoughts. Philippians four eight gives us a list that acts as a sort of a measure. So do your thoughts currently line up? With that measure, we're to think on things that are true, dignified, right, pure, lovely, and commendable, if there is any excellence, and if anything worthy of praise. These are the things that we're to fill our minds with. Would you say that the passages in Ephesians 1 and 2 satisfy those qualifications? So we can correct our tendency to sink into sinful anxiety by training our minds to think on things that elevate our thinking to the throne room of God. Remember Jesus said to his audience in the gospels, don't worry about the things of the earth. God knows You need them. Money, health, weather, life decisions. The Lord knows you need help with those decisions. We're to set our minds on Him and He will allow all of that to fall into place as we take steps in the obedience and trusting him. So we must be responsible. We do have to take steps of obedience. We need to handle the affairs of our lives. But what we don't do is we don't let our thoughts spiral down into worrisome What if? We must remember all that we have in Christ. We must present our requests to God and then rest in Him and trust that He will lead and guide us. So our third way that we can walk in victory is the first time. over anxiety according to Philip Philippians four nine is to practice the things that we've learned, the things that we've received, and the things we've seen and heard in the people around us that God has given us as godly examples. As a believer in Christ, what are some of the things that you've learned during your walk with him? Go ahead and just call them out. What have you learned in your walk with Christ? He is faithful. He is faithful. He is enough. We can trust him. him. He always has a plan. He always has a plan. And we'll leave you. He'll never leave us. The burdens he gives you he'll give us strength to carry. The burdens he gives us, he'll give us the strength to carry. That's good. But deciding he is good. His timing. Mm-hmm. There's no condemnation. That's great. There's no condemnation. Never give us more than we can handle. Never give us more than we can handle without a way of escape. Things that are painful can still be used to bless us. Things that are painful can be used to bless us. Good. His love is unconditional. His love is unconditional. He gives joy. He gives joy. We've learned a lot, haven't we? Do we call those things to mind when we're anxious? Our anxiety becomes this big monster that fills our minds. What are some of the things that we as believers have received? Eternal life. His grace and mercy. His spirit. Peace. Freedom from the bondage of sin. We have to receive the spiritual gift. We've each received a spiritual gift. Yeah. How much do we ponder that? And what is the purpose of our spiritual gifts? So we'll feel good? No. To serve the body. Good. Yeah. Right. Uh what are some of the things that you hear and see from the godly examples that the Lord has placed in your life? Blessings to others. Blessings to others. Encouragement. Perseverance. Wisdom and patience. Not acting like nothing is wrong but still having faith. Okay. Not acting like nothing is wrong but still having faith. Bearing up under difficulty? Yeah. Good. We are to practice those things, the things we learned that you all said the things that we've received and what we see godly examples around us, what we see them doing. We are to practice those things, Philippians tells us. The things we've learned, received, the things we've seen and heard. Others, we are to walk as those who've been delivered from slavery to sin into the glorious light of Christ. Is that a true fact about us? We have been delivered from slavery to sin, into the glorious light of Christ. Christ. We're to exercise our spiritual gifting in ministering to the body of Christ. We're to follow the examples of godly people around us. We are not to sit around wallowing and worry over the unknown In our lives. We must get busy for Christ as we wait on Him to reveal the outcome of our scary situations. What will be the result? Of presenting requests to God, replacing our anxious thoughts with commendable ones and actively practicing the things we've learned, received, heard, and seen. Verse seven of Philippians four tells us that if that tiny little word that is a conditional word, right? If we do as we're instructed and we present our to God present our request to God with thanksgiving, then the girls and I had to learn logic in our home school and if then our logical in logical arguments if we do as we're instructed then the peace of God which surpasses all comprehension. Which makes sense. If you think of a a difficult trial situation, does peace make any sense? It doesn't make sense, does it? If your world is falling apart or even an aspect of your world is falling apart. Peace does not make sense naturally. Supernaturally, it does make sense. And he does not just give us peace, he gives us peace which surpasses all comprehension, our ability to even understand. And what will it do? It will guard our hearts and our minds. Which is what we need, right? When we're laying there in the middle of the night, our minds and our hearts need guarding because they're susceptible. to our flesh and to this anxiety that we're victims of. We're like it's prey, it takes over and eats us up. So if we present our request to God with thanksgiving, then the peace of God will guard our hearts and our minds in Christ Jesus. And verse nine of Philippians four tells us that if, again, there's the big if, if we think on the things we are instructed to, then before it was the peace of God, right? Now this is the God of of peace will be with us. Let's think about that for a minute. If the God of peace is with us, and if his peace is guarding our hearts and our minds, Is there any room for anxiety? No. There isn't. And it's protected. So much of the Old Testament talks about God being our refuge and our stronghold. All these protective terms. what this is talking about, his protection of our hearts and our minds. But we have to be obedient in that and we have to know that we can be obedient in that because of the power of the Holy Spirit living in us. We have the power to be victorious over our anxious nature. We can talk to him. We can thank him. We can beseech him. Then we live for him. And we trust him and rest in him. Well we wait on him for this unexpected outcome. We talk to him, we thank him, we beseech him, we live for him, we trust him, and we rest in him. as we wait for him to work. Today, this morning, if you find yourself in the clutches of worry and anxiety, I hope you can see that you're actually struggling with your sinful flesh, that you're in disobedience. to a direct command of the Lord's. Now, is that a shocking, scandalous thing? No. No. Moment by moment, all throughout the day, we're probably in disobedience because the Holy Spirit used to show us our sin. So this morning He's showing you. He's showing you that you have a sin issue with anxiety. You've allowed yourself to become a victim of your weak, sinful flesh by entertaining your anxious thoughts, but there is a always hope in our gracious God. Last night if you were at the Good Friday service, what did Christ do? He went to the cross. That's exactly why we celebrate this weekend. Because We deserve a consequence for sin, most definitely a dire consequence, but that's what Christ bore for us on the cross. He bore that sin, so we confess to him, I'm sinning. I'm not trusting you. Forgive me. And then we f we um focus on him. And we ask for his cleansing and forgiveness and thank him that he gives it freely. Then we cast all our cares on him. We ask him to help us move ahead. in thankfulness and obedience and confidence in our unknown future because of all that he's taught us and all that he's given us in Christ. And then we need to get up and we need to get busy for him. Because there are good works that he intends for us to do, not to earn salvation because I'm speaking to those of us that already are saved. We're already in Christ. And so we don't do our good works to earn his salvation. We do good works because we love him and we're overflowing. and we want to pour out into the lives of others and by his spirit he does give us gifting so that we're able to do that in unique and special ways for one another. So find ways that you can occupy your thoughts and your time by serving him. We can avoid going down the path to anxiety by number one, what's the first thing? Present our requests to God with what? Thanksgiving. With thanksgiving. And if we forget what to be thankful for, we know we can go to if Ephesians one and two, right, to be reminded. We replace our anxious thoughts with what kind of thoughts? God honoring, commendable, praiseworthy thoughts. And if you forget what those might be, go to Ephesians one and two. to be reminded. And then the third step is we do what? We actively practice the good words. Like Ephesians two eight and nine said, that we know God intends for us to do because he in he designed them for us. That's before the world was even established. What's our promised result of this? The peace of God will guard our hearts and minds in Christ Jesus and the God of peace will be with us. All right. Now you may have noticed these really pretty cards that Karen did on the table. These are two verses that have really been significant to me, especially the Psalm 94 verse, but I didn't really I didn't take the time back when I was really going through a difficult time to define what those consolations might be. So this study has been wonderful for me personally to um inform that word Consolations. Psalm 9419, when the cares of my heart are many, your consolations cheer my soul. And those consolations are a lot of them in Ephesians 1 and 2, and just read, read your Bible. And you will see the consolations of the Lord all throughout it, how he cares for his people. Isaiah 26, 3 and 4, I wrote notes on this one. Um there's a promise at the beginning of it. You will, that is a you will do this. There's a promise there. You will oh, okay, that was my version. This one doesn't say it. You keep him. The Legacy Standard Bible says you will keep in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on you. Why? Because he trusts in you. So there is a conditional we have to obey. We can't. I think I had him here earlier and I didn't say it. We can't just let go and let God. God is sovereign. His will and his purposes are going to be accomplished. But that does not mean that we just lay back like a blob and he does what he's gonna do. He requires obedience and it's our joy to obey. So you will keep in perfect peace, his mind is stayed on you because he trusts in you. There's an exhortation in it. Trust in the Lord forever. Why? For the Lord is an everlasting rock, never to be shaken. The songs that we sang earlier. today. I wanted to do in Christ alone because well, I didn't even I didn't even pay attention to the Easter. You know, the middle verse is about Christ being in the ground, which is perfect for today because back after Christ had been crucified, today was the day that he was in the ground. ground. Um, but I want it in Christ alone because it's all the comforts that we have in Christ and who He is to us. And then every promise of your word, if you go down through that, it talks about circumstances, painful circumstances of life. And the fact that we can stand on every promise of his word. That's what these consolations are, the promises that are found in God's Word. So I hope this is both an encouragement and a challenge to you today. Sorry, to realize that We can live differently. We do not have to be victims of anxiety. We are its prey, but by the grace of God we've been delivered from that. It it need not catch us. All right, let's pray together. Father, sometimes it's hard to even express thankfulness to you because it can be so overwhelming. It makes me grateful that the Holy Spirit intercedes for us with groans when we can't find words to express what we would like to express. But Lord, when we look at Ephesians and see all that you have done for us and the the superlative words talking about pouring over abundant above and beyond um we don't understand that. Lord, and I pray that you would help us to be in our Bibles, reading your word regularly, so that your Holy Spirit can be revealing more and more to us all that we have in Christ and and all that we are in Christ. I pray that we would move forward from today, that by your spirit we would be encouraged and that we would want to move forward obeying the things that we're to obey and that you would show us how we can minister to one another so that we can fill our our hours with service to your body and to you ultimately. And Lord, I pray that you would guard our hearts and our minds, especially in those dark hours of the night when it can be so hard to combat anxiety and where our sinful flesh just tends to take over, Lord. I pray that you would remind us that we are more than conquerors, that we are victors in Christ because of your payment on the cross and because of the power of the Holy Spirit at work in our lives. Thank you for this. Thank you that you have chosen us and made us your children. We pray, Father, that we would bring glory to you, especially in the areas of our lives that naturally would produce anxiety. We pray these things in your precious Son's name. Amen.