You look at your phone and you're like, oh, I just got invited to a pampered chef party and I'm gonna go because I get to be with people and I need new tools. It's a new year and I'm gonna eat better and my food's gonna look better and and I'll love my food if I get these new tools and so will everybody else. I'm gonna go. Can't wait to get the new tools. I'm that excited to share tools with you about how to deal with something that will always be part of your life Just like food, and that is grief. If you're not in it, somebody else is. And you're going to be in it at some point. And while the elephant is in the room and no one ever wants to talk about it I will talk about it because the Lord wants to use his gospel to minister to you. in times of grief. I um had a very interesting time getting ready for this lesson Because I actually had about two hours worth of sharing with you that I wanted to do just on Jesus' heart. Because that is what I am super excited about. And I doubt that one percent of the people in this room understand Jesus' heart when it comes to suffering and grief. Um and I wanted to throw that on you and drench you in the wonderful quenching waters of Jesus' heart. But like Dawn, excited about what she was going to share, I have very little time. So I wanted to preface w before we begin that I have a whole other many teachings. about what I've learned about Jesus' heart. And um and I and I want to thank um Pastor Gabe. for for teaching the way that he does and bringing the gospel so center into our congregation. Um that's really helped um lead this. I had posted twice on our hopebook um in the in the women's group and many of you don't go there. So um I posted a little bit about grief so you could get thinking about it. And some um most people don't want to talk about grief, right? I mean unless you're in it and you need help, you don't want to talk about it. Um so I I I want to just go into it in a general And then get a little bit more narrow focused. Um we don't recognize grief a lot of times in other people and um what it can include is psychological distress Separation, anxiety, confusion, yearning, obsessive dwelling on the past. An apprehension about the future. It can be caused by many circumstances And I just kinda want you to think while I'm speaking because I want you to own it for your own self what you're thinking your grief might be. Maybe you moved and you're grieving where you used to be, or you're grieving where you are right now, and you're mad and miserable Maybe you're grieving the loss of youth. Maybe you're grieving the loss of your ability to do something that you could do and you're still young. Um and I want you to try to think about those things without guilt Just let it be. And recognize that the other ladies in your life and the other people in your life, but we'll keep it to ladies, can be going through that too. And they can be having this this wheel of conversation about I should be more spiritual than this, it shouldn't bother me. I just need to, you know Be better at this, but just let it be, because the Lord who made you and who knit you together in your mother's womb Knows everything that's going on with your heart and your mind and is not pushing you away. Jesus is not pushing you away If Jesus were going to push you away, then he wouldn't have come as a baby without any physical provision. And he wouldn't have gone to the cross. Even though he begged his father not to, because every single person in here he knows and he loves. and he's excited about. And he draws close to you when you're in grief and you're suffering. Opposite of what we do. We see conflict in people. And we want to get away from it because it makes us uncomfortable. Typically that's that's our reaction. And that is not Jesus' reaction. And you have to learn that. That's why I want to teach. And that's why I want to give you some resources. You have to learn it. Me standing up here with my mouth for a few moments is not going to be enough. But if you can learn it and grasp hold of that, it will transform all of us. Because we will have hope and the light of Christ shining through us. I promise. Um, grief is often an invisible injury to our brains and our soul. If I were up here and you saw blood gushing out of my leg, you'd run to me and give me some comfort and help. You'd offer me water Something to drink. You'd offer me a bandage or maybe a blanket to keep me warm while I was bleeding. You might hug me or hold my hand, right? Right? I mean you're not gonna stay in your seat or you're you're just gonna be praying or something. You're gonna wanna you're gonna wanna help me. Um but if you've had a major loss in your life And I'm not just talking about death, although that seems to be a a biggie. Um if you've had a major loss in your life, you've had a major physical event. But it's invisible. So I'm looking around and I don't see anybody bleeding right now. or with m any major head wound going on or fill in the blank. So I don't know what's going on in your head and your heart But you might be dry and parched as a desert. And you might feel like you've had your arms ripped off and your legs ripped off inside of you right now. And nobody knows. Except the Lord. And if you're in that position, you have to take time to deal with your injury. Um we're all women here and to some extent we've all been gifted with nurturing the desire to nurture and the ability to nurture. And you've got to nurture yourself. in this area. You can't just get up, do your thing, and think that what's broken inside of you is all of a sudden going to just heal itself by showing up on Sundays or a couple of prayer meetings or something. It won't Just like if you have a broken leg, you have got to go to physical therapy if you want it to get better or at least do a lot of it at home. And it's the same way with your hearts and your minds and I just wanna say that. It's a big thing that I point out when when um I facilitate grief share. I think it's a really good word picture. That you need to deal with your injuries with the Lord daily, according to how bad they are. And only the Lord is there with his word in the middle of the night at 2. 30 in the morning when you're miserable and you can't breathe and you're having a panic attack But he is there and he's listening. And he loves you. I also wanted to mention this because you Just don't know. Um, we are really more like a hospital here, right? We're trying to bring people to Jesus. Jesus is the healer and the physician. We're trying to bring people hope. So tomorrow when we come in, we're all coming in from different circumstances and so forth, and we might We might just barely be coming in the door. And just to be patient and quiet and watch before we Speak. And we this is something that I am continuing to learn. Um I have made big boo boos with this. recently. So just because I'm giving you this tool doesn't mean that I have mastered it. As long as I'm here on this earth, I'll be working on it. But it's beautiful when you can um use it and um and love one another with that So Scott, you've you've heard about some of the things that grief can do and how it can affect you and um and now you know that it can be very invisible And that you need to deal with your injury at home with the Lord every day. Um and then we talked about Some questions that you can ask people. And you know, I mean, I'm assuming that you're going to use discernment in this. This is just a tool that you can use Um and my dear husband, who is a complete opposite personality that I am, actually gave me this. And he said, Can you help me understand? Um because a lot of times we want to say, Oh, I I I know how that feels. Um, I'm divorced also. Um or I know how that feels, um, I lost my child. Or I know how that feels, I lost my job and blah blah blah. But we really don't. We have a similar conversation starting place, but we really don't because we don't know the relationship that that person has With their job, with their spouse, with their child, with with moving. We don't know all the layers of people. But if you ask that question, then you can see where the person is at the time that you're having the conversation. Can you help me understand? Um or how does that make you feel if somebody just tells you about their grief If you just say, how does that make you feel? Because you're already you've already had an emotion come up while they're talking to you Right? We can't prevent our emotions. They're just automatic things that happen. They're not good, they're not bad, they're just there. What we do is um that's another discussion. But if Somebody might have told you somebody died, and you might say, how does that make you feel? And they might say, relieved Can you can you help me understand? Well, they were suffering for so long. That I'm relieved that they're not suffering anymore. That might not be what you think the person's gonna say But it might be what they say. Or they might say a lot of other things. So use those tools They're very powerful. Um I'm wondering yeah, you can yeah, we can talk about it later, but I'm wondering if anybody got to practice those um this week or last week. God wants us to comfort others. And sometimes if the conversation is a little bit too Too hard to have with a person um a box of tissues, some chocolate, and a water bottle go a really long way. Those are three tools. If you ca if you carry little tissues in your in your purse or your bag or whatever it is, they're always nice to have for people. And if you're able to offer them a bottle of water Um, and some chocolate. Just chocolate's magical. So the first thing that you can do is turn to prayer, which I've already talked about. Cast your burden on the Lord and He will sustain you. Psalm 5522 So while you're praying or you're praying with somebody else in grief, you can pour out your heart to God in prayer, sharing your emotions and struggles. You can use the Axe prayer model of adoration, confession, thanksgiving, and supplication. Ladies, you're not gonna make it through this world with joy if you don't Get into God's glory and how magnificent He is. Because he's so far above us, and that's where our hope is, right? We're down here, we're suffering, things are miserable, life is messy It is not black and white. It is not in fine lines. As much as we want to try and we do try to make everything smooth, there will be dissension, there will be Every m it's just messy. But God, God is above all that. And He offers us eternal life and forgiveness and the Holy Spirit inside of us, which can make us what we aren't in our flesh. It can make us forgive things that we cannot forgive in our flesh. And it can make us recover from things that we cannot recover in our flesh. So, that's where the adoration comes from. That's adoration of God. And if you're feeling angry at God and like you don't want to have anything to do with him Open up your Bible and say, Dear God, please help me to believe that you are a good God. Because I don't. Please help me believe that you have a purpose for me and a future for me. Because I don't. And you saved me, and you go through the whole list with the scripture references about what God has said about you. He didn't have to make you. He didn't have to make me, but he did out of joy. He went to the cross for the joy set before him. What is that joy. It's us. It's people. That is not how we think. A lot of times we think if it weren't for people, I'd be fine Actually if it weren't for me I'd be fine. But I mean we all think that, right? Another elephant in the room, we all think that, but that is not how God thinks. And so we need our minds renewed because we rarely think the way God thinks. And when you're in grief and you can hardly think, you need a tool to help you think right and to get you out. And that is his word. It's living and active. It's sharper than any two-edged sword. It changes things. Number two, anchor yourself in God's word. Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. Psalm 119-105. You can choose one comfort verse, like Psalm 23, something from there, or the whole Psalm, or Isaiah 41, 10, to memorize. or journal. A lot of times when you're in severe grief, everything goes like this. But try and pray it out loud. Um a lot of times when you're in a lot of grief you can't just pick up something and read it because the words don't go in. You have to actually read, cast your burden on the Lord, cat and just read it out loud. Just Be sensitive to what you need at the time without guilt or somebody else Um anchor yourself in Jesus' compassionate, gentle, and lowly heart towards you when you were in grief by writing out all of the various scriptures that talk about God's own grief documented in Scripture. I guarantee that you will be amazed, humbled, and changed for the better. So it's amazing what you can see about God's grief just in Genesis in the beginning of Genesis. And I really want to tell you about that, but I don't have time. And then it's really amazing about the grief that God shows in Exodus. And I don't have time to show you that. But I just um that is the blessing of trying to read through the Bible in a year with whatever plan you have as as much as you can because you see you see more of God. It's just it's like If you only do parts of scripture, you only get a little bit of the rainbow, but if you do the whole thing, you get more of the rainbow. And I've been trying to read through the Bible every year for thirty-five years. And every time I see something different. Every time because it's the it's God going, look, I'm gonna give you something sparkly and shiny. Look at my heart. Look at my awesomeness towards you. Look at my love, the depths. Don't you just love to look at rainbows? Don't you just love to look at Some beautiful gemstone and everything got is so much more than that. So much more Connect with the supportive community as much as you can. Now, while I said You don't really know somebody else's grief completely because of their individuality. It is helpful to be in a group of people that have similar griefs because somehow you say the same words, you've had the same experience You use the same words. Your brain has been changed. And that is very comforting, right? We all want to be understood. We all want to be um around people that get us And we love sharing that fellowship. And so um if you've had a particular loss, a support group that that communicates to that particular loss is extremely powerful. Bear one another's burdens The Bible says, and so fulfill the law of Christ. That's from Galatians. Seek encouragement and prayer from trusted friends. mentors or small groups. And one thing that you can do if you haven't done this is reach out to a friend or join a group this week. Two groups that I'm familiar with. I'm actually familiar with more groups, but I'm going to just mention divorce care. is um one of two groups um that I'm very familiar with um from Church Initiative. And Church Initiative um gives Churches, churches only, so you can't you're not supposed to have a divorce care group and you're not supposed to have a grief share group outside of a church and I think that they have great wisdom in that. So HBC does not offer divorce care, but if you just look up divorcecare dot org. You will see a lot of resources and a lot of groups that are very close to where we are. uh in proximity. Um and you can check them out. Some of them are online, some of them are online and in person, and some of them are just in person. Um but very helpful. Um we do have grief share here And um that's exclusively for the death of someone. So the other losses that we spoke about are real um but grief share is specifically about a death and um I think it's important to say that you could join one of these groups and not have one of these events have happened to you in twenty five years and it'll still be helpful. Or you might put your toe in the water and go, um, no, it's not for me. And that's okay because people who lead these groups are very understanding and um they're just very helpful. So the next thing you want to do is engage in worship and gratitude. And I mentioned that when I said you need to have adoration in your prayer time. Um I picked these two songs that we we sang. And I would like you to You know, put it in your purse and it might get lost. But there are two songs that you can just look up on YouTube and you can have somebody else play the music. And you know, if you can just barely get out the words, it'll be good for your soul. Singing, trying to sing, whether you're tone deaf or whatever And you are stinking miserable is a very, very powerful tool. And I have said that many times, and I can't say it enough Um, I love to sing. My voice is okay sometimes. When I'm grieving it stinks. And it is the best tool to make me feel better. Because i It's the right focus. And God does something to it. When you draw close to him God does something to it. We are not going to be here forever. We're going to go and sing to the Lord for eternity. So it's a good thing to do it in here. Um so worship shifts focus to God's goodness and invites his peace into our hearts. And um you can also create a worship playlist. Or write down three things that you're thankful for daily. So somebody in this room gave me a little journal that I have by my bed um just to write three things down before I go to bed that I'm thankful for for the day And that is um very it's a great tool. It is a great tool. Because usually before bed, I'm sure all of us were in bed and we're rattling off some prayers Um, maybe with focus and maybe half asleep. And um but to very purposefully think of three things that you're thankful for right before you go to sleep is um a very Powerful tool also. And my goodness, buy a hymnal. Go to hymns of grace dot org. They're twenty dollars. and buy hymnal. Um and sing along with the book, um or or look it up. Um I have uh twice. Um spent many, many hours for two dying people um just singing through a hymnal So, um, to the these two different people that were dying. Um, it's good for you And it's good for them. And it is a tool that you can use if somebody is at the end stage of life. Um It's it's just really helpful to to do that, to have a hymnal and to sing, uh, while they're dying. Um the next thing is take care of your physical body. We spoke about that some and just to remember First Corinthians six nineteen, um do not know that your bodies are temples of the Holy Spirit, and you want to acknowledge the connection between physical and emotional health. So you need to take a walk. If you can't take a walk if it's like this, um try to the YouTube has wonderful Exercising things and if you need some helpful hints, because I get bored and I like to have fun So I have some things that I could recommend, but you could just write fun inside walking on YouTube and you'll find something. But you need to move It helps. Um, and that needs to be every day, every single day. Um and then put some electrolytes in your water I forgot well, so I have mine. I I'm always pushing the stuff. Electrolytes really help, and if you've been crying Um, you know, and you're just you think about what it looks like to be in grief and you're like this you know, and your muscles are tense and everything. You need electrolytes and there's so many out there that are really good and did you know? That your HSA or your FSA will cover some of these things. So that means that you can use your tax-deductible money for it. Um, it's really important. Sometimes water just doesn't do the trick. Um take naps. Take naps, no guilt. So I have to take a lot of naps. And um I just say, Dear God, please take my nap However long it's gonna be, if I don't have to set a timer that particular day, I'm like God please help me feel refreshed so I can do your your work, dear Lord, and um help my grouchy spirit. Um but naps are very good and they're very helpful and there's no guilt No guilt. I know what Proverbs says about the lazy man and the folded hands and everything. That's not what we're talking about. Different context. Um so naps. And then sometimes you just need to laugh. Goodness graciousness. You need to laugh. Sometimes you're in grief or your friend is and they feel like and you need to laugh. And that's okay. Um, so the only person that I can recommend to you, I have a couple other ones, but The only person that's so far, and I'm sure somebody will say, oh but, is um Nate Bargett, B-A-R-G-A-T-Z-E. His whole thing is to be clean and please pray for him because y you know how that is in the world when you try so hard. Um, but his humor is I think it's funny. You might not. But there's some other people. You can just look up clean comedians online. Um and go at it. There is no guilt in that. We need to laugh. God made laughter and we need it. And you might be in deep grief and you still need to laugh. You need to laugh. Um, turn off the news. You don't need to know about the wildfires and everybody they're killing. And you don't need to know about the persecuted church and you don't need to know about every prayer request that comes in hope book. Did I just say that? Did you hear what I said Because sometimes it's too much. And I think one of the wonderful things that um Dave Doyle did was speak into this. That's it's the Holy Spirit inside of us that makes us able to bear one another's burdens and to do the ministry of the Holy Spirit. It's not us. And if we're Weak in any manner, shape, or form, and we can't take other people's need It's okay. Because God hasn't equipped us at this time for that. And we don't know how long it's going to be. And if somebody says, I'm sorry I have to shut down the prayer meeting for two days a week. And only go to one. Or I'm sorry, I can't show up to that prayer meeting. Or I'm sorry, I can't read Hope book, I don't know what you're going through. Or I'm sorry, I can't make you a meal. I get just fill in the blanks. It's okay. You'll know when you can and you'll know when God equips you. No guilt. Get it off. No guilt. You'll function better if you deal with your wound And don't judge other people. Um dun dun dun dun dun dun. You might want to create a memorial or a healing Ritual. The Lord is near to the brokenhearted and saves the crushed in spirit. So you might want to honor your grief or your memories through creative expression. Write a letter, create a memory box, or plant something in remembrance. And again, that doesn't have to be death It could be a chapter of your life that's closed. Um that you're mourning over. And that is like a memorial service. Um I have a pet peeve when when People have died and there's no memorial service because they think that um please forgive me, I think that it helps create a closing for everybody that you really can't grasp, but it does. In some in some some structured way. And so if that's happened in your life and you haven't done that for something you want to, um like I said, I'm going to say it again, write a letter saying goodbye to that part or that person, create a memory box, or plant something in remember and Maybe you it's planning season coming up and Carolyn knows all about that. She'll help you. You can plan a beautiful bulb and think, Oh, that is that represents that for me and dear Lord, thank you for giving that to me in that part of my life. or that person. It's helpful. It's just a tool. Um and you want to embrace the hope of eternity. We spoke about that a little bit. He will wipe away every tear. Death shall be no more. That's in Revelation 21, 4. Focus on the promise of heaven to find strength and peace in grief. Um when I had been in grief Uh I took a I have taken a deep dive into the throne room of heaven in in Revelation. And and and see it. You want to see it. Because one day you will see it One day you will see the throne with all the emerald color coming out. And one way one day you will see God with the white woolly hair and the bronze legs and the and the Lord of Lords and the God of Gods written on his sky See it. Whatever scripture has to do with your future glory with the Lord of creation Please meditate on it and be able to pull it out of your pocket at any time and dive deep into it. That's where you're going. That's who you're going to. And it gives you hope and oxygen. And certainty in your soul that you have been sealed until the day of redemption And it will happen. Um offer grace to yourself in grief. Spoken about that. The steadfast love of the Lord Guess what? It never ceases. His mercies never come to an end. They are new every morning. And that's from Lamentations. Um allow yourself time and space to grieve without guilt. And like I said before, actually plan time to grieve and put it into your schedule. And maybe identify one way you can extend grace to yourself this week. I have a lot of books that I can recommend. Um so um if you haven't seen Um oh one thing I wanted to say. Music is very powerful, you all know that. So I love This is old 'cause it's a C D. But I love Andrew Peterson's Resurrection Letters. Um it's It's a deep dive into um the Lord's heart and um it's phenomenal and you can look it up on YouTube I think that it has everything and it's its own Spotify. But it's really good and um I wanted to share that. The other thing is, um we have a lot of of workbooks in Grief Share. So Linda has um facilitated um Grief Share and um Derena has facilitated Grief Share and Blossom. has. And am I forgetting anybody? Um so they're great resources to talk to. Um I had to step back, uh, because I've been in grief all year. And uh Linda and the most uh magnificent retired counseling pastor, Jeff Girdler um picked it up and led it this past autumn and they're going to lead it again when? March in March 4th on Tuesday night. Um there are two individual grief share offerings Um one of them is surviving the holidays, which we just passed, and that probably won't be offered again until next fall, but it's amazing. And the other one is loss of a spouse Um and so at any time um I'm happy to go um do this with somebody Um it's a video that takes about twenty-five minutes and you have this workbook and um then you can pray and talk with somebody. Um and all of the churches usually offer all three of these with grief share in different ways. They're so helpful. They're really, really helpful. Um and I've um Yeah, I have so many stories that I can tell um about the how God has used this ministry to bring a lot of people that don't believe that Jesus is the Son of God um to him and I just it's a wonderful, wonderful ministry. Um So if you go on griefhare. org you'll see a lot of books and a lot of videos and you can watch some things and it'll help. Um the other I don't remember who I was talking about to Corrine. I was talking to Corrine. And I said, Well uh whose voice do you like to listen to? And um and I had to explain myself you know We all have teachers that we prefer, right? And I can just list off a couple. Some might really like to listen to John MacArthur, the way that he presents truth Right, I mean um he's got a different way than John Piper does. He's got a different way than um Paul David Tripp does. Um and there's all kinds of teachers. But I love Paul David Tripp. He can um slap me upside the head with his words and comfort me at the same time and he is I like him a lot. So um I actually was sent this in the fall by his ministry and I um jumped over um to this from what I was doing and um I love it. It's really, really good. And um it's a daily devotional. So if you've already fallen off the wagon and you want a suggestion for uh twenty twenty-five to read through the Bible in a year, this is Um I would recommend Everyday Gospel. He also has a couple other ones that he produced before that I've done a handful of times and I can't remember the name of them. New morning mercies. Thank you. Yeah. Um so Nancy Guthrie um is the woman who um facilitates grief share videos with her husband and um She's written a lot of books but this one is my favorite, hearing Jesus speak into your sorrow. Um and I also want to say that you can sign up for daily emails from Grief Share and um they're very helpful, effective, and short. And they'll just come to your inbox and um and they're really wonderful. Um so Johnny Ericsson Tata is a hard read Um and there's less I could say about her. But um she's if if you can handle her and what God has done through her Um just looking at her shorts online, um, her podcasts, her YouTubes Um this is an incredible book, um, a place of healing. But um yeah uh yeah, there's a lot I could say about her. Um and then gentle and lowly. So a lot of people probably have already done this. This is my third read of this. Um and Um it's really good to go through uh with another person, actually, if you get another woman or or two or three. And they do have a study guide, I found out that you can do with it. Um and it's amazing. Uh Dane Ortland, O R T L UN D. Um it's very, very helpful. I actually um don't have anything else to say. But I hope that you've got enough um tools to help you in your times of grief. And um and if you ever want to um talk to me or any of the other ladies that I mentioned about it, um there's several people in this room that have taken grief share, um and I think have benefited from them and um I don't know if you would like to stand up and just so people know who you are. But um anyway, you you can if you just if you want to do that and so people know that it's not such a scary thing to do and um and it's very beneficial. So um thank you. Thank you very much. And um I thought that um is there did there is there a question? Uh where's Karen? Right there. Was there a question? Oh specifically questions? Yeah. The is there for for that sent out, yeah. And my um so I think if you just I'll share maybe one thing that you learned that you would like to put into practice this morning and that was encouraging to you, something along that lines. And then I'll close in prayer in about