I don't usually read off of this but I'm gonna I'll try not to look like I'm reading. But if I don't do that I'm gonna lose my place this morning. Um this is just kind of a scenario. I come downstairs and a quiet time in my home and sit down at my dining room table to read my Bible or do some work related to my studio or Hope Academy, teaching or biblical counseling. And I think to myself, I have a few hours. How can I best use this time? Most times I've prayed about the time in advance. I lay out my Bible or my work in front of me, open my notebook, take out a pen, open my computer, start, and then someone enters the room. needs my attention. I look up, I answer questions, begin to listen, then another enters the room. And another. Um, I close my work, realize this is God's plan for the moment, whisper a prayer in my mind, to be flexible and trust the Lord for the time He has given me and choose to serve with joy. This is a fairly accurate scene that takes place almost daily in my home and I know that many of you can relate to that. Um it may not be the same You may have a husband, um, you may have a few kids, so who are younger than mine, um, you may be taking care of, um, a sibling, um, you may have a roommate. You may be single and you may have a roommate or someone in your home. and your roommate comes in and and needs a few minutes of your time. So it's not not uncommon for many of us. But what's different is that there are different generations in my house. There are three generations. And for those of us who are taking care of maybe a parent and maybe some older children, we've been dubbed the sandwich generation. I don't know if any of you guys have heard that term. It's one of those terms that's starting to go around now. Um so we might have even grandchildren, some of us, or we also may have several other ministerial responsibilities at church or in the community. It can be a joyful thing to serve, but it can also be exhausting. You might feel like there aren't pieces of you for those who need a peace. When we turn when we feel like this. Well most of us in the room know the answer to that question that we learned in Sunday school when we were little. It's Jesus. But let's look more closely at where contentment, joy, and strength come from and our example comes from in Jesus. So first we'll talk about putting the Lord first. Um it is really important to make sure that we are praying in the Word of God. and in the Word of God daily. It really is true food for us. And when we don't eat well, we cannot have a proper perspective. We can become short and impatient with our loved ones. We can begin to feel overly burdened. and sometimes depressed. I was listening to an interview with an association of certified biblical counselors on that site with a counselor named Jim Corber, who was stressing that caring for aged loved ones must be an act of worship to the Lord. We've been influenced by our culture to seek comfort, to have kind of a me time mentality and to see youth as the favorite time of life. And even if we don't buy into that as believers, we're still influenced by it 'cause we're swimming in that soup all the time. Um when we put our focus on Christ and meditate on the gospel, how he gave up his life here on earth for us, we are drawn into worship and the desire not to cling so closely to our own life and how we think it should be. Sacrificing our time and desires to do our own thing with our own time becomes less of a pull on our hearts. And we are more prepared to give love and attention to those in our care. I find in my own life that by not taking time to meditate on the word I can become anxious about my time and what is not getting done. I can worry about my own life, the fact that it is fleeting. When am I going to get to do the things I need? plan to do while I still have strength to do them. I just turned sixty in this past September, um, and sometimes that's a thought that I have. When I meditate on what's true, I can remember the words of Christ. For whoever would save his life will lose It, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. So it's a joy to know that we're not losing our life. At times when I become anxious, I can remember Isaiah 41:10, which says, Fear not. For I am with you, be not dismayed. For I am your God. Sorry, I'm feeling a little ambush on this way. I will strengthen you, I will help you, I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. It is a beautiful thing that the Lord has given us. us his word to renew our minds. Knowing he is with me and I am not alone gives me strength and calms my heart. Sometimes we can grow fearful when we feel like we don't have enough strength to keep serving. The fact is that on our own we don't. We don't. We are not enough, but he is sufficient. And we are able through him. He reminds us that his strength is perfected and our weakness. He gets glory when we rest on him. We are reminded of this in Second Corinthians twelve nine through ten. But he said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness. Therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses. so that the power of Christ may rest upon me. For the sake of Christ then I am content with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities, for when I am sh weak, then I am strong. Here, Paul is talking about an affliction that the Lord has allowed to remain with him. But the fact is the same that when we are weak, the Lord is strong, and we can boast in Christ at those times. Others can see the power of Christ Working in our lives, which brings him glory. They recognize that apart from Christ, the care we are giving could not be happening. And the Lord is honored. Furthermore, the Lord tells us that when we cry out to Him and lean on Him, it's not a good thing. It honors him. I took some time to go through Psalm fifty verses fourteen through fifteen and I love this passage because it says, Offer to God a sacrifice of thanksgiving, and perform your vows to the most high and call upon me in the day of trouble. I will deliver you and you shall glorify me. I thought I would take time to look up some of these words and um it was rich. Um the word Thanksgiving there, the word for Thanksgiving um is confession, forsaking of sin, praise, worship, and song. To pay a vow here means something promised or owed, tied to service. Like when you think of Hannah, giving her son to in service to the Lord. Um means to cry out for help and it's actually it says a loud sound, so it's loud crying out to the Lord. In the day means daily or continually or in the moment. The day of trouble meaning distress. And then deliver has the idea of equipping or arming for battle. It can mean remove from, but it can also mean equip. And most times it means equip. And then glorifying He means heavy, abundant honor. So when you put those things together, you realize that the Lord wants us to cry out to him with thanksgiving and worship, to call out crying for help. I mean literally crying out loud for help and to do that daily when we need his help, when we were in distress, and that he will equip us and that he we will give him abundant honor when we do that. So that's just a beautiful picture of how the Lord is there for us. us and remembering that God doesn't always change our circumstances, but the fact that He equips us in our circumstances. And then I wanted to talk about how we find joy in the moment, looking more specifically at the relationships um that we have in our lives. Um if you're married, then obviously you have a spouse and you have someone who you need to be taking time for. Um so once you've put the Lord first, spending time with the Lord and renewing your mind in his word, finding your strength in him, you can love those whom the Lord has put in your life. Um and I'll be honest and say that sometimes I don't put my husband first and I'm supposed to. I'm just gonna be honest. I don't do that. Um I have a husband who can um seem very self sufficient and so it's kinda like, Okay, he's he's good, let me go over here and deal with these things over here and that's that's not right. Please don't follow that example. Um I'm working on that. Um so Ecclesiastes nine nine tells us to enjoy our marriage all the days of our lives together. So um I would encourage you, if you're like me sorry, um to find ways to spend time together, even if it's short. Um, we've begun to be more purp purposeful about having my sister sometimes come over and stay with my mom who lives with me, um, so she's not alone if we go somewhere um for an extended amount of time. Or we'll go over on short errands or something. like that. We're trying to find ministries to do together because often we're doing things that are different. Um and we're trying to find a hobby to do together. Um recently we went Irish step dancing with some some friends of ours. Um and that was should you call it Irish step dancing. It's Irish dancing. Like it's almost like square dancing or line dancing but but different. And it was a lot of fun. It was so much fun. Um so we're trying to find fun things to do together. Um and then you know Sometimes you have children in your home, or you have grown children in your home in my case. Psalm 127, 325 tells us that children are a gift from the Lord. So those of us who have children know that and have experienced that. when we need to spend quality time with them, sometimes we can forget how much of a blessing they really are. For those of you with younger children, I will tell you that older moms in my life used to always tell me, oh, they grow up so fast. past with a certain wistful look in their eyes. I understand that look now. When my girls were very small, days would go by like molasses. I was very happy to be a mom, but you know, they're diapers cleaning up messes. figuring out how how to feed toddlers and then the things that they got into. So I won't tell you stories 'cause I don't want to embarrass them. There are two of them in the room. Um, so I'll just give you kind of vague ideas. So If you can take baby powder and Dutch cleanser, a lot of people don't use Dutch cleanser anymore, but that's that powdery stuff that you use to scrub out your your tub. Think of an overturned bottle of grape juice on the carpet. If you're addressing on the wall, a mural of c and crayon that they were so proud of, those Mihai artists. Um decorated furn furniture, just use your imagination. And the panic of a mom whose child went missing for several agonizing minutes, you know, those days. I often wanted them to just be bigger. Then one day they were. And as much as I wanted to, I couldn't c throw down the clock. Um we only have a short amount of time to nurture, teach, and train our kids. Um, it is best done with a smile, giggles about the small, super funny things they do and speak. We have a family journal in our home in which we have recorded some of the funny statements that have come out of our mouths and we still do that. It's a joy to go back and read through them, recalling what was going on in our conversation at the time. So take time and treasure those moments. And then going on to caring for older parents, because that's the topic. Um I thought I would start here with what is obvious. Ephesians six twenty three says to honor our father and mother, and gives the promise that if we do, blessings of walking and obedience to the Lord will follow. Proverbs three twenty two says, Listen to your father who gave you life, and do not despise your mother when she is old. Leviticus nineteen thirty two says You shall stand up before the gray head and honor the face of an old man, and you shall have to Fear your God, I am the Lord. Mark seven, nine through thirteen um is a place where Jesus reproved the Pharisees for holding to their traditions, giving their money to God, um giving their and money to God seeming to be righteous in their deeds, even while neglecting to teach others and themselves the importance of caring for their parents. In that passage it says, And you said to them, You have a fine way of rejecting the commandment of God in order to establish your tradition, for Moses said, Honor your father and mother, and whoever reviles father or mother must surely die. But you say, if a man tells his father or mother, Whatever you would have gained from me is Corbin. that is, given to God, then you no longer permit him to do anything for his father or mother. That's making void the word of God by your tradition that you have handed down. And many such things you do. Thankfully, I have a mother who is worthy of honor. I'm not gonna get through this without crying, sorry. Um, I have a mother who is worthy of honor. But I know that that is not always the case and painfully may not be the case with you. I have a mom who was always there for me and if she couldn't be there for me, she found someone else to be there. Um and again I know that isn't always the case. The Lord does not tell us to honor our parents because they deserve it. But because of their position as our parents, he commands that we care for them when they no longer are able to do so for themselves. That does not mean it is easy. So if you've been hurt in the past by a parent, which is not my case, but it may be yours, and need to work through some of the scars that inevitably may have been left. Please remember that our church does have a counseling center and we have resources like brief share. And I would encourage you to go and and work through some of those things and allow those who are here um at our church to walk alongside you to work through any pain that may exist. If you are caring for an older parent, find ways to make that time meaningful. Enjoy the time, though there may be some very difficult days. It is a time to honor your parents for all they may have done for you when you were a child and possibly even into your adult years. It is a time to get to know your parents better. There are some things you may not have known about their lives when they were younger. Or about family members. Listen to your parents' experiences. Here are some fun facts I have learned about my mom and about her elder sister. Number one, my mom used to be chosen often to pitch for neighborhood softball teams. I had no idea my mom was that sporty. I knew she enjoyed volleyball and took tennis punts, but softball I had no idea. Um my mom was told me about how suitors might show up at the same time because there was no telephone. Um, they would sit around the top trying to wait one another out. And I could just kind of picture that. Um and then my mom's eldest sister, Aunt May, named all of her siblings. Um, they were a total of nine brothers and sisters, so that means she was the oldest and she named eight of them, including my mom. So she named my mom Mabel Lee, and I love that name. Um my mom told me that they used to think that the baby arrived in the doctor's bag. Besides these you may learn about your family history. Your parents might have a sense of humor without even trying. But it's been fun to watch Hallmart movies with my mom and listen to her comments. We love to watch Halmark when we start on Christmas, I'm just gonna admit that. Um So while we are watching, my mom had us rolling with laughter during that season, listening to some of her comments. They were really fun. Um and the funniest thing lately, I hope she doesn't mind my timing this story 'cause it was it was funny and she laughed. So I figured if she laughed I could cheer. Um but the funniest thing lately is when she came out of her room, went to the Oreo cookies on the table, got one and said, I came out here because I needed a cookie for strength to change into my bed. clothes. So after she ate it she said gleefully, It worked Um So to me that was the best excuse ever for a cookie. Um so find just find the fun. taking care of your parents. Others of you may not be taking care of of parents, but you may be caring for a sibling or for another relative. These principles still apply, asking the Lord for strength, appreciating the time you have with your family member or friend, finding the joy or asking the Lord to give it to you. And remembering that our Lord is a caring God who takes care of us and asks us to care for those who are weak and in need. Paul spoke of this after being an example to the believers in Ephesus. In Acts 20, verse 34 to 35, it says, You yourselves know that these hands minister to my necessities and to those who were with me. In all things I have shown the things that I've been doing. And remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he himself said, It is more blessed to give than to receive. Listen to the heart of our Heavenly Father. In these words are the law given to Moses. to give to the people regarding the sabbatical year in Deuteronomy chapter 15. If among you one of your brothers should become poor in any of your own of any of your towns within your land that the Lord your God is giving you. You shall not harden your heart or shut your hand against your poor brother, but you shall open your hand to him and lend him sufficient for his need, whatever it may be. Take care lest there be an unworthy thought in your heart, and you say the seventh year, the year of release is near, and your eye wrote grudgingly on your poor brother, and you give him nothing. And he cried to the Lord against you, and you be guilty of sin. You shall give to him freely, and your heart shall not be grudging. when you give to him. Because for this the Lord your God will bless you in all your work and in all that you undertake, for they will never cease to be poor in the land. Therefore I command you, you shall open wide your hand to your brother. to the needy and to the poor in your land. This was pertaining to neighbors. If this is hard for your neighbor, then certainly we should be able to care for our relatives and friends in need. And then ministry, because we're all ministering, you know, even if you are reaching out to your brother or sister in Christ next to you on a Sunday morning, we're called to minister to one another. So there's work to be done in ministry or in other capacities where you might serve. in the midst of being a sandwich. Um, Philippians one twenty one through twenty six gives us a clear picture of what it is to live as a believer, not for ourselves, but for the glory of the Lord and care for his people. Um it says here Philippians, for to me to live is Christ and to die is gain. If I am to live in the flesh, that means fruitful labor for me. Yet which do I choose I cannot tell. I am hard pressed between the two. My desire is to depart and be with Christ where that is. But to remain in the flesh is more necessary on your account. Convinced of this, I know that I will remain and continue with you all, for your progress and joy in the faith, so that in me you may have ample cause to glory in Christ Jesus. Jesus because of my coming to you again. So to put this in context, because we know we're not the Apostle Paul, but Paul recognized that life is not about this life. It just is not about this life. It is not about what we can get. out of this life. It is about living for Christ. We are His. We have died. We have died ourselves. And Jesus and Jesus said in Matthew 16, 24 through 27, If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cause and follow me. For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits his soul? What shall a man give in return for his soul? For this for the Son of Man is going to come with his angels in the glory of his father, and then he will pay each person according to what he has done. We don't serve Jesus to earn rewards. But it is comforting to know that on days when the sacrifice is seemed very, very high, that we have full life in Christ now and more into eternity. We're losing nothing. And look at what the Lord sacrificed for us on our behalf. Cruel death on the cross. We can never repay him for conquering sin and death for us, setting us free, giving us new life in him, and reconciling us to the Father. So let us reflect on this marvelous truth, meet into Christ, and love those in our care well in his power. That's all I was going to share.