Okay, so uh let's open up to John eight. So uh today we're we're doing uh special thing. I'm I'm just gonna teach for a little while, maybe uh twenty-five, thirty minutes, and then I'm gonna turn it over to Joel, uh, who's come to share his testimony today. So um Yeah, so let's open to John eight and we're gonna read um I know that Jeff covered uh uh a little bit of what we're gonna read, but we're gonna go back to verse thirty-one and read thirty-one through forty-seven. So Jesus said to the Jews to make the lead If you abide in my word, you are my truly my disciples. And you will know the truth and the truth will set you free. And the answer is we are offspring of angels that have never been sent to anyone. How is it you say you'll become free? Jesus answered them, Truly, truly I say to you, everyone who practices sin is a slave to sin. The slave does not remain in the house forever. The sun remains forever. So if the sun sets you free, I know that you are offspring of Abraham, yet you seek to kill me because my word finds no place in you. Um, yep, thirty. I speak of what I have seen with my father, and you have And you do what you prefer to be. Abraham is our father. Jesus says that. You are Abraham's children Do the deeds of Abraham. But as it is, you are seeking the killing, a man who has told me the truth, which I heard from God. This Abraham did done to me. He was doing the deeds of his father We went up board of fornication. We had one father, God. He says that if God were the Father, he would love to have God proceed for it and come from God. For I have not even come as I always initiative. But he said, Why do you not understand what I say? It is because you cannot hear my word You are of your father, the devil, and you want to do in the eyes of your father. He was a murderer from the beginning, and then not Stand in the truth because there is no truth in him. Whenever he speaks a lie, he speaks from his own nature, that he's a liar and the father of lies. But because I speak the truth, you do not believe me Which one of you basically said, if I speak truth, why speak of truth? He who is of God hears the words of God for this reason. Alright, thank you. So the question we're facing today is who are God's children? Who are God's children? That's kind of the the central question, the central issue of of this text. What did the people in Jerusalem think? How would they have answered this question? Right. Yeah, they're like, we are. Because we're Abraham's children. We're there therefore we are God's children, right? So yeah, so they thought they were the children of God just by virtue of how they were born. Um what do what do you hear people today say Yeah, who are who are God's children? If you asked like a random person on the street, what do you think they'd say? Everyone, right? Yeah, everyone's God's child. What what do you think what do you think Jesus would say? I'll leave that question hanging, because that's what we're kind of going to look at right now. So we're going to go through Jesus' view on this question in John 8, right? So first thing about Jesus' view, um when he talks about uh God as Father He often says my father, right? He's he's t uh t calling God my father and doing it in a really like special way that indicates Hey, I have a special relationship with the Father, with God. Um so in some sense, um, you know, Jesus is setting himself apart as the only natural child of God. Um and we've seen that, you know, in earlier chapters of John that uh but but it's evident here also in verses like uh verse thirty-eight When he says, I speak the things which I have seen with my father, therefore you also do the things which you heard from your father. So he's drawing this separation between himself where he has th uh his father is God, and everyone else where their father is the devil. Um so in Jesus' view, really, like only he Only Jesus is a natural child of God. Right. Um We can become children of God by being saved by Him, but we're adopted children. Did you guys realize that that the Bible calls us adopted children of God? Jesus is the only begotten Son of God. So Jesus would actually give a much more restricted answer than either the Jews of the first century or most people today He would say, Only only I am a natural child of God. Um so everyone else So what what about everyone else? What would he say? Um who who uh is the father of of other people Yep, yep. I mean it's it's pretty it's pretty harsh, but this is this is Jesus' message. Remember he's speaking to God's chosen people, right? Whatever he says that applies to the Jews applies even more so to the Gentiles. So what he's saying here, when he says that your father is the devil Um you know that's not he's not just speaking about the Jews, he's speaking about all people, right? All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. So his view here really is that um Everyone else is a child of the devil and a slave to sin. That's kind of the other big theme of this passage is slavery and freedom, right? He's saying the truth will set you free. Free from what? free from slavery to sin. Um so look at verse thirty-four. Jesus answered them, Truly, truly I say to you, everyone who commits sin is the slave of sin. Alright, so he contrasts slaves with sons. He's like, You guys are not sons of God, you are slaves to sin. And then in verse forty-four He says, You are of your father the devil, and you want to do the desires of your father. He was a murderer from the beginning and does not stand in the truth because there is no truth in him Whenever he speaks a lie, he speaks from his own nature, for he is a liar and the father of lies. So he calls them slaves of sin and he calls them children of the devil Um and those words apply equally to to Gentiles, including us before we were saved. Um so that's kind of Jesus' view, right? It's a lot that's a lot more stark than uh than what we might find today in popular culture. So what what does he cite as evidence for this Right? R so he doesn't just assert this, right? He doesn't just assert you all are children of the devil. Um he actually brings some evidence and some arguments to bear. Like what in this passage have you seen Jesus cites as evidence that we are by nature children of the devil and not of God Yeah, that they want to kill him. They're their deeds, right? Yeah, where do you see that? Verse 40. Yep, but as it is, you are seeking to kill me a man who has told you the truth, which I heard from God. This Abraham did not do. And that points back to verse 38, which says, I speak the things which I have seen with my father Therefore you also do the things which you've heard from your father. So our deeds, yeah, our deeds do prove that w you know whose children we are, right? Whether we're children of the devil or whether we've been saved and are children of God. Our deeds. But it's not just our deeds, right? It's not It's not just our outward external actions. What else do you see in this passage? Anyone see anything else that's evidenced of our paternity, of who our Father is? Yeah, what verse was that? Ah, yes. Um yeah, inability to believe, right? Or I guess I would put that in this I'm sorry? And trust, yeah. Inability to believe. Um and I might also put here Right, because um there's the there's verse forty-five that which you mentioned, but because I speak the truth, you do not believe me. Um But look also at verses verse 43. Why do you not understand what I'm saying? It is because you cannot hear my word, right? It's an inability to to understand and be convicted by and really follow the Word of God. That that is something that Jesus is bringing as evidence that they're children of the devil. And also check out verse forty-seven. He who is of God hears the words of God. For this reason you do not hear them because you are not of God. Right, so this is um this is Jesus essentially saying when You know, before God draws us, before he saves us, we are dead in our sins. We do not even have the ability to hear his word in a sense Right, in the real sense of of hearing and understanding and being convicted by it and being able to obey. Um I'll write down 43 Forty-five forty-seven for that one. Alright, anybody see any other evidences? uh that Jesus brings that uh that the Jews and by extension all people are by nature children of Satan. Look at verse 44 Uh yeah, I think that fits pretty well with uh with the deeds part, right? So our our deeds, our evidence, um our inability to hear and believe. Uh look at verse 42 If God were your father, you would love me, for I proceeded forth and have come from God, for I have not even come on my own initiative, but he sent me. So what What evidence does that verse contain? Right, yeah, our lack of love uh for Jesus. Lack of love for Jesus is evidence of uh being a child of the devil, right? And because he turns it around, he says, if God were your father, if you were a child of God, you would love who? Me. You would love me. That's the test of of a believer. That's one test of a believer. Do you love the Lord Jesus? Uh, you know, Paul says in Galatians, I think, that anyone let anyone who does not love the Lord Jesus be accursed. Um so love love is a huge part of it. Um there's one more um oops, sorry, that was forty-two In verse forty four, uh there's one more thing that's kind of buried in In verse 44, you are of your father the devil, and you want to do the desires of your father So what that also kind of suggests a a piece of evidence that they're children of the devil. The one that we haven't covered yet here. Yeah, our desires, what we want to do. It's really connected to the love part, right? If we don't love Jesus, what do we love? We love ourselves, we love um sin, right? We love to do the things that that that Satan does, you know, which is basically um you know, exalting ourselves at the expense of God and others. So our desires. Okay, so these are these are the pieces of evidence that Jesus brings in his uh his his debate, his discourse with the crowd to show them that they're actually children of the devil and not children of God like they think they are. And these are things we need to hear too, because it's easy for us, uh, you know, to grow up in a church, uh, to be born into a Christian family and to think we're children of God by birth, like like the Jews thought. Um But we need to look at ourselves like Jesus is saying, we need to examine our hearts. First we need to examine our deeds, right, and see are we producing the fruit uh of works that come from being a child of God, but we need to go deeper than our deeds. We need to go into our hearts. Do we have the ability to hear God's word? You know, when you hear God's word, does it grab you? Uh does it convict you? Uh we need to look at our love for Jesus. Do you have a genuine love for Jesus? And this is something that has really uh been on my heart and my mind for the last several years even, you know, I'm I sometimes look at my heart and I say, Where is the love for Jesus? And I've been praying uh for the last several years that God would just grow my affection and love for the Lord Jesus. And you know, I I take comfort in in things like when Jesus said, um, even if you have faith as small as a mustard seed Like that is enough. You can move mountains, right? So it's not like we need to be totally complete in any of these areas in order to be a child of God. The point is that we're growing in all these things. Um and I'm certainly still growing in my love for the Lord and I have a long way to go in that. Um but we just we need to be careful to examine ourselves and see What what's going on in our hearts? Are we growing in these areas? Or do we have just complete deadness in these respects? You know, what are our desires pointing to? Do we desire to please the Lord? Or do we primarily desire to to please man, to please our parents, to please our friends, our teachers, um, our bosses, whatever Yeah, because the each of these Jesus is presenting as negative evidence against people that they're children of the devil, but When somebody's a child of God, each of these flips around and becomes a a positive evidence that we're a child of God, right? We do the deeds of God our Father We hear and are convicted by and believe the word. We love the Lord Jesus and our desires are pointed towards pleasing Him. So Jesus he doesn't just um you know preach the the disease, so to speak, right? He also preaches the cure. And we're kind of taking this a little bit backwards. Like he he covers the disease in um you know, verses thirty-nine through forty-seven, but the cure is before that in thirty-one through thirty-eight. Uh there's only there's only one way to flip this around, to go from being a child of the devil to being a child of God. Uh or equivalently, to go from being a slave to sin to being a free son in the family of God. So what is that way, according to this passage? The only way to become a true child of God is to be set free. And Jesus says a little bit about how we're set free. Um like you said, Lily, by abiding in Jesus' word. That's in verse 31. Um Jesus said, If you abide in my word, then you are truly disciples of mine, and you shall know the truth and the truth will make you free. So there's this kind of this kind of chain there, right? Abide in the Word leads to what? What'll happen to you if you abide in His Word? You'll know the truth, right? Know the truth. And then what will that do to you? It'll set you free, yeah. So this is thirty-one and thirty-two. So um and then He sort of provides an overview of that whole thing in verse 36. If therefore the sun shall make you free, you shall be free indeed. Right, so well so here we've got kind of two pictures of how to be set free, how to become a child of God. Uh you abide in his word, and by doing that you know the truth, and then you're set free Right? It seems like it seems like that's kind of a a human-centric view of the process. But then we've also got verse 36, which says, if therefore the Son shall make you free you shall be free indeed. So that's kind of a God level process, right? Uh again, it's you know, those of you who've been in this class for long enough know that I'm a big fan of seeing God level processes and human level processes operating at the same time, right? Um so Is it God who sets us free? Absolutely. Jesus, the Son, has to set us free. We can't free ourselves on our own. But is there something that we need to do in the process? Of being set free? Yeah, abide in the Word, right? That's that's the key here is abiding in Jesus' word. That's our part. By abiding in his word, that's how we know the truth, and then the the truth will set us free. That is how the sun sets us free. Right, by giving us his word, by uh giving us the Holy Spirit to illuminate his word in our minds so that we know the truth and are set free. So it's the work of Jesus, it's the work of God all the way through, but we also do work. We also abide in his word. Later in John in um chapter fifteen Jesus picks up that same theme and develops it a lot further. That's the the chapter where he says, I'm the vine and you are the branches. So Abiding, it really it just um looks literally the word just means to to stay, right? To remain uh to not depart, not go away, or be cut off. So um there's there's a sense in which uh I mean to go through this would would take a long time if we were to do it exhaustively, but uh there's a sense in which this this word abide is almost passive. I don't I don't want to lean too heavily on that, but it's it's not like we have to go out and conquer new territory. It's just that, you know, once the Father draws us Um what we what what is our activity is to remain where he put us, right, and not to fall away. If you look at what's happened uh to Jesus' followers before this, like in John six when he gave the uh the discourse on that I am the bread of life. You know, and you need to eat of my flesh and drink my blood to have life in you. What did most of his disciples do? When they heard that. Yeah, they fell away. It says they they turned away and were not walking with him anymore. Did they abide? No, that's the opposite of abiding, right? Being offended, taking offense at Jesus' words, uh saying like, ah, no, I just can't accept this, and turning around and leaving Like that that is the opposite of abiding. What did the twelve do, though, when Jesus came to them and said, Well, are you gonna leave me too? And where would we go? They say, yeah, where would we go? You have the words of eternal life. The words of eternal life, right? They abided in his words by staying with him Alright, so uh I guess I guess what I'm saying here is that um this idea of abiding is it's not I mean we we tend to think of like, oh, am I doing my quiet times, right? Like am I having daily devotions? And and we we think of that like of how well am I doing in my daily devotions as a measure of our abiding. And you know that's helpful. But I think the real test of abiding is when there's a trial, when when you uh when your faith is challenged, do you stay with Christ or do you leave? That's the real test of abiding. Um and lest anybody get the picture that uh that this kind of abiding and this salvation is a work of man. Uh it's not. Let's turn to Ephesians. Ephesians 2. And we're going to look at verses 1 through 5 because in these five verses it kind of encapsulates everything Jesus is saying here. So first I'm going to read verses 1 through 3. And think about this question, who are God's children? What makes someone a child of God? Okay, Ephesians 2, 1 through 3. And you were dead in your trespasses and sins. He's talking to the Ephesian church here. He says, you believers, were dead in your trespasses and sins, in which you formerly walked, according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, of the spirit that is now working in the sons of disobedience. Sons of disobedience, right? Talking about children. Among them we too all formerly lived. Now Paul's including himself in this. We too all formerly lived among them in the lusts of our flesh, indulging the desires of the flesh and of the mind. And we're by nature children of what? Of wrath, even as the rest. So, Paul, like Jesus, is putting everyone in this bucket of being a child of wrath, a child of the devil. uh a child of disobedience. Alright, that is that's exactly in line with what Jesus is saying here, proved by all these things. That's the bad news. The good news, the good news, which is in verses four and five, is that God loves his children even before they are his children Right? So look at verses four and five. But God, being rich in mercy, because of his great love, with which he loved us. Even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us alive together with Christ, by grace you have been saved. So, even when we were children of wrath, children of disobedience, children of the devil, that is when God loved us and made us alive together with Christ. Alright, so God loves us even before we were his children. We didn't have to abide in his word first for before he would love us and make us his children. So don't get the order of these things confused. God's action comes first. God's regenerating of us comes first and he gets all the glory for saving us. The ab our abiding fits inside of that. It fits inside of God's regenerating us and making us alive together with Christ. Uh getting the order of that is really important. Any questions or observations from from this section here? I was gonna say that even in uh in Java, um the The um they asked like how is it that you say you become free and verse 33? And even there, like, you kind of explain to like those two things that it's kind of what you're just putting out with everything else. If you're remaining insane, they're obviously not a violent increase. Right. So you can go. So it's like it's like echoing even Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Oh, I was gonna say that it's right there because in verse thirty-three it says they answer him, we are offspring of Abraham. They have never been explained to anyone. How is that that you say you will become free? And then thirty-four says, Jesus answered them, Truly, truly I say to you, everyone who practices sin is enslaved to sin The claim is not remaining in the house forever, the several means forever, and so on, and so forth. And right there he's just going to other passages pointing out like abiding, abiding, and if you don't abide, you are practicing Since you're not a body in Christ and you're not um obeying the word that's given you and giving you Um so you're not free. Right. Exactly, yeah. I mean Jesus' view as captured by John is really simple. It's like you either practice righteousness by abiding in the truth Or you practice sin because you're a slave to sin. And those things, you know, over time those two groups get get more and more separated as their desires lead them in different directions. Yeah, any other observations or teaching that um God actually save us Uh but we were doing we were waiting for us to make a closure that we don't have to do. Yeah. Right. Yeah, what if God had waited for us to make the first move? How many children would he have? Yeah, well. Well, one. But yeah. None of no adopted sons. Yeah, yeah, I mean Jesus has um has already said I think in um In chapter six, either it's either six or ten, uh where he says, Um, the Father has has given sheep into my hand, and nobody can snatch them out of my hand. Right, so So even the abiding is is a work of God. It's it's just that it's a work of God and it's a work of us. Right? There are two Uh there are two layers of causal explanation for the process of abiding, and they're both they're both operative. Um God saves us, God keeps us Uh but then on the human level, it feels like we we make a decision to follow him and we it feels like we are working hard to remain in his love and r and abide in his word. That's all enabled by the power of the Holy Spirit. Okay, I don't want to take too much time away. Um