Okay, so we're going to be talking about kingdoms. Alright, and that's so that's what John the Baptist was doing. He was lifting his gaze to the kingdom of God. That's what Jesus was doing when he left Judea. He was lifting his gaze to the kingdom of God. Uh that's what Jesus was doing when he was evangelizing this woman at the well. He was lifting his gaze beyond the uh beyond sort of the earthly kingdoms uh Jew versus Samaritan, man versus woman, um and and uh looking at the kingdom of God and he because he um had this work that God had ordained for him to do by going into Samaria and revealing himself as the Messiah to this woman and to her whole town, as we'll see. Um and uh then we'll we'll also see today that uh he lifted his gaze to the kingdom of God by teaching his disciples. Right, that's sort of the third way, in the midst of this this encounter with the Samaritan woman, his disciples don't get it either. They have an earthly perspective. Um they they I think are starting to understand that Jesus operates differently than the world, but But they don't really get it. And so he takes time to teach them. He's teaching them how to how to lift their gaze, how to see beyond the kingdoms of the world to the kingdom of heaven. So turn with me to John 4, and we're going to start in verse 27. And can I have a volunteer to read verses 27 through 30? Okay. Thanks, Ellen. Um Justin and his disciples return And we're surprised to find him talking with a woman. But no one asked, What do you want? Or why are you talking with her? Then leaving her water jar, the woman went back to the town and said to the people, Come see a man who told me everything I ever did. Could this be the Messiah? They came out of the town and made their way toward Yeah, so what is what is the woman's response here to She told everybody and the grandma. Yeah. She's excited. That's right. She told everyone in the grandma. And she yeah, she was excited. So like This is, I think, especially important because, you know, before we learn in her conversation with Jesus that uh Yeah, she she was known as a sinful person, right? She was known um by the town probably that that she had had five husbands and that the w the man she was living with was not her husband. And so She there was probably um that might be the reason why she was coming to the well at a time when nobody else was there. because she she probably had a lot of stigma and a lot of shame and was avoiding contact with other people. But after she understands and believes that Jesus is the Messiah her her excitement about that overcomes the shame that she felt previously. And now she's running throughout the city and telling everyone. Um you know, which is something that that she almost certainly would not have done uh before. So she has already been changed uh by by understanding and believing in Jesus. Meanwhile, let's look at the disciples and their response. So the disciples come up and and what is their response when they see this situation? Got Jesus talking to a Samaritan woman alone at a well. It's almost like I think like why is why is he even talking to her? Yeah. Like, you know, that's the thing that's not done in those days. Yeah, exactly. That's the the thing that's not done. It was a um a huge faux pas. They're like, uh oh, why is what's going on here? Why is Jesus doing this? And in the last couple of uh classes before this one, we talked about the three barriers that Jesus overcame uh in talking to the Samaritan woman. Does anybody remember what those were? So Jesus in talking to the Samaritan woman he overcame three barriers. Uh because this was not a not a usual not an expected social interaction between to her and she's a female Yeah, so the man-woman barrier, right? That was one of them. Uh definitely. The big one in that culture. Men didn't talk to women alone outside their family. Angie Samaritan. Yeah, sorry, Coke. Yeah. I'll call on you next. Um yeah, Jew versus Samaritan. That was a huge historical and cultural barrier, right? There was there was enormous hatred between the Jews and the Samaritans. Uh we talked about some of the historical reasons for that in um in times past. And so he overcame those two barriers, but but those weren't even the biggest one that he overcame. What what was the biggest barrier? Yes, God versus sinners. God holy God versus sinful human. And this was the biggest barrier because um God's holiness is fatal to our sin, right? What happens if a sinful person comes into the full presence of God? They're done. Fire breaks out, consumes that person. Right? It's It was to the point that in the Old Testament, not even Moses, who was a very righteous man, could could see the face of God and live. um without God um putting protection on him, right? God God stuck him in a rock and said, No, I'll pass before you and you can see my back. So, yes, this the His Holiness as the incarnation of the eternal God, meeting her sinful nature. Uh that was a huge barrier that that he overcame and that God has to overcome with all of us when he saves us. Salvation Is from God. It is initiated by God, and he overcomes our hostility and our enmity when he reaches into our heart and changes us and gives us the desire to seek him. So he overcame those three barriers in in talking to this woman. The disciples don't know any of that. They d are, you know, they don't understand uh what's going on. They they they understand that it's weird that he's talking to a Samaritan woman, uh, but they don't understand his purposes. Because they're still thinking kind of on that human level. They don't see fully the kingdom of God and how Jesus is doing the work of building the kingdom of God. Uh so Jesus takes this opportunity, even in the midst of his ministry, right? The primary thing he's doing is sharing the gospel with the Samaritan woman, and now he's gonna teach the the people of Sikar, the people of her town. But even in the midst of his primary work, he turns to his disciples and he ministers to them and helps lift their gaze to the kingdom of God. Alright, so can somebody read uh verses thirty-one through thirty-four. Okay, what do you want to read? Yeah. Alright. Meanwhile the disciples were urging him, saying, Rabbi eat. But he said to them, I have food to eat that you do not know. So the disciples were saying to one another, no one brought him anything to eat. Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him who sent me Oh yeah, yeah, that's it. So this is This is interesting because, you know, Jesus kind of seizes on the disciples' question or or h or their their offer of food to to convey just like how deeply satisfied he is in doing the work of the Lord. is that when he says um I have food eat that you do not know about they also have anything for a T. Yes, yeah. Right, because their eyes are down here, right? Their eyes are down here, they don't get it He's saying, No, lift your eyes to the kingdom of God, to the will of my Father. He says, My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to accomplish his work. The Father has this plan, right? He's got this work that he's accomplishing through Jesus, and that is bringing souls to himself, bringing a harvest, as we'll talk about in a couple minutes. And Jesus is so satisfied to be to be in submission to the authority of God and doing that work that He set out for Him, that He's like, this is like food, this is better than food, this is better than eating. And that's what he's trying to convey to his disciples here is that when you lift your gaze uh above sort of your earthly needs, your earthly kingdom, and you look at the kingdom of God. That's what is satisfying. That's what's going to satisfy. And so he's trying to, that's what he's, that's what he's conveying, that's what he's te this um and he goes on in verses thirty five through thirty eight um to sort of explain that even more with this with this extended metaphor of harvest and food. So all right, who wants to read 35 through 38? I can read that. I just have the old King James version, so I'm gonna shoppy. We'll follow along. Alright. So say not there are yet four months and Then come harvest. Behold, I say unto you, lift up your eyes and look on the fields, for they are white already to harvest. And he who reaps receives wages and gathers fruit unto him. And herein is that saying true: one sows and another reaps. I sent you to reap That whereon ye bestowed no labor, other men labor, and ye are entered into their labor. Thank you. Yeah. So he pivots from from I have food to eat uh to this metaphor of sowing and reaping and harvesting, right? So there's a couple of clues here that uh that give us a a an idea of what he might be uh uh picturing or what might be happening physically around him, right? He says, do you not say there are four months and then comes the harvest So the first the spring harvest was in mid-April. So this event may have taken place in like December or January. He might be saying there there are four months until the first harvest. But this harvest is ready now. Uh right. So if that's true, if if that's what he's saying, uh then December, January, um there would have been some uh small shoots of of wheat, like the the uh the the first the beginnings of the crop growing up out of the ground. Because it was planted in November, so it would have grown up a little bit by December or January And so he might have looked around and seen these crops growing out of the fields and said, okay, uh you guys understand there are four months until the harvest. But this harvest is ready now. Lift up your eyes and look on the fields that they are white for the harvest. So notice that before this, it said that the men of the city were coming to him. Right? In verse 30 it says they, the men of Sikar, went out of the city and were coming to him. Now it was typical in those days in that culture to wear white robes. Um and so It could have been, uh this is speculative, but it could have been that Jesus turned and he looked and he saw the fields of crops that were growing up that were that were green. They weren't yet white, signifying ready to harvest But there were people coming out of the city dressed in white robes. And um he might have said he might have used that as a visual to say, look Even though it's four months till the physical harvest, this this field is white for harvest already. So we're gonna go and speak to these people about the kingdom of God and about who I am, the Messiah, and we are going to have a harvest here. But he talks to them about sowing and reaping. He says, you guys get to reap. Already he who reaps is receiving wages and gathering fruit for life eternal, so that he who sows and he who reaps may rejoice together And he says, I sent you to reap that for which you have not labored. Others have labored, and you have entered into their labor. So so what does sowing and reaping mean in this in this analogy and what do they look like? I say, you know, um witnessing in the form of Speaking to people about, you know, who God is and speaking of the work that God did in our lives, hopefully bringing people into the kingdom of heaven too. And so you're still in the Word of God. And I guess reaping would be them coming in. Uh-huh. Yeah. Right, yeah. For those I think that's the difference between sowing and reaping is that uh When when you're sowing, sometimes you sow, like you share the gospel with somebody, you tell them about Christ and and who Christ is. Uh you tell them about uh their need for salvation and and um how Jesus how Jesus' death was an atoning sacrifice and how we need to repent and believe. And sometimes it it just doesn't um they they don't respond to that, right? The people you're you're telling often don't respond. I think most of our sharing the gospel is sowing. But sometimes sometimes it's reaping, right? Sometimes you meet somebody who the Lord has softened their heart to the point where where this is just what they need to hear, right? And they are ready. to believe it. And they're they're ready to say, yes, I I need uh I need Christ as my Savior. I need to be saved from my sin. And that that I think is rare, but we should be we should be looking out for that, right? We should be ready to recognize um someone who the Lord has prepared their heart to receive the gospel. And because that that's sowing and reaping, right? Most of our life is going to be sowing. Um occasionally we might be be blessed and privileged to reap. But Jesus is saying, you know, that one sows and another reaps. We're all laboring together. We all enter into the same reward. We all enjoy the same privileges, whether you're the one who shares the gospel with somebody and they respond, or whether you're the one who shares the gospel with somebody and they they just say thanks, no, thanks. Alright, so what what is the reward? He talks about a reward here. Already he who reaps is receiving wages and is gathering fruit for life eternal. What is that reward? The kingdom of God? Like entry into the kingdom of God, right? Yeah. Yeah, exactly. your job is to do. Just to share the kingdom of God. That food that Jesus was talking about, right? Being filled with uh with the satisfaction of doing the work of God, Devon? Um my Definition of starting is like really putting in that word like the openings and all that. So you using like I'm trying to figure out what the best way to explain So I'm gonna just stick with Albert Peace to say. Mm-hmm. No. Yeah, that's when things get rough, like keep getting in there. Like push harder. Yeah. That's like a really good verse about that is Galatians 6. 9. You know this one, it's do not let us not lose heart in doing good, for in due season we will reap if we do not grow weary. That's Galatians 6. 9. That's uh that's a really good verse because yeah, that principle is is is true. You know, there's a lot of times where we're going to be sewing. either either sowing the gospel, right, sharing the gospel, or sowing um sowing to the spirit, which is uh a phrase used in the New Testament for pursuing Sanctification. Remember, Jesus said, seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. So we do have a responsibility to progress in our sanctification, to become more like Christ. And that's hard, right? That's a that's another form of sewing. Um and the temptation is to grow weary and to kind of give up, to kind of back off of that and and just like take a break for a while. But But God says no no don't do that. Don't grow weary. Now's the time for sewing. There will be a reward though. Uh Devon. Um Philippians. Uh-huh. Yeah. So was that Philippians two five or you said? Yeah, two five. Two five? Yeah. your attitude should be uh the same as as that of Christ Jesus, who, being God, did not consider equality with God something to be grasped or held on to tightly. um but took on the form of a servant, right? That's what we remember at at Christmas. So he is he's the prime example of sewing, right? Of of Doing the hard thing, uh, sowing to the Spirit, doing the work of God uh in in a selfless manner even even when it costs a lot, even when it costs him his life. Um because and he didn't just do that because he enjoyed self-sacrifice He did it for a reward, right? It says elsewhere that for the joy set before him he endured the cross. So he was he he was in it uh for a reward, for joy. And that sounds that sounds a little weird to say at first because we Um we need to understand the distinction between two types of reward. So there's uh what what C. S. Lewis calls intrinsic reward and extrinsic reward. And he uses the analogy of marriage. So if I um wanted to marry my wife because I um because I love her and I want to enjoy her company and um you know I'm I'm gonna get this great reward of having this this wonderful companion and friend for the rest of my life. Uh I'm getting married for for a reward. But is that an intrinsic or an extrinsic reward? Oh it's the other other way. It's intrinsic reward. It's it's a reward that's that is logically and and naturally connected to the thing that you're pursuing, right? So I I pursue my wife um And and because I want the the pleasure of her company, the uh the help and the and the fellowship of working together in marriage, that's an intrinsic reward. Would that is that uh is that a bad thing to do Mm-hmm. No. Now what if I what if I um you know pursue marriage uh because m my uh fiance has a lot of money and I want to uh I want to get that money. That's is that intrinsic or extrinsic reward? Extrinsic. Extrinsic reward. It's not connected. It's not something that's connected to love or to the pursuit of a person Right, it's just it's it's a an added on factor. Uh and that, you know, that's mercenary. That's uh that's not a good that's that's not we all recognize that's not a good motive for pursuing marriage. Right? So there's there's intrinsic rewards and there's extrinsic rewards. And so when we say that Jesus for the joy set before him endured the cross Do you think that was an extrinsic joy or an intrinsic joy? Intrinsic. Yeah. And how was it an intrinsic joy? How was it logically and necessarily connected to what he did on the cross? It's out of love. For who? Yeah, for us, for those he was going to save, right? So he went to the cross specifically to purchase us. And um scripture talks about how we are being made into his bride, right? His pure and spotless bride. So He's going to uh be united to us in heaven. You know, there's going to be that great marriage supper of the Lamb. So he's it's an intrinsic reward. He went to the cross to purchase us so that we could be his bride and so that he could enjoy fellowship and communion with us throughout eternity. That's an intrinsic reward, not an extrinsic reward. So what about here when he talks about reward for people sowing and reaping? Do you guys think that's an extrinsic reward that he's talking about or an intrinsic reward? So it can be it can be both in a in a sense, right? Maybe in the meantime in the more um initial sense of speaking, it would be intrinsic, but it could be extrinsic when we get to heaven. Okay. And we'll receive something that's tangible. Speaking of our reward there, but I guess in this sense in this passage is more intrinsic. Yeah, I think I think this passage is talking about an intrinsic reward. Um I mean, first of all, there's the clue of what Jesus said that he is satisfied by doing the work of God, right? More so than if he actually ate food. Uh so that that kind of speaks to an an intrinsic reward. But uh also if you look at the rest of the New Testament, you see you see this kind of reward spoken of um about sowing and reaping. Like the Apostle Paul, you know, he he dedicated his life to traveling throughout the Greek world and sharing the gospel and and preaching the gospel. And he wrote these letters to the churches that he founded. where he calls them, he refers to them as my children, my beloved children in the faith. And he even refers to them in Philippians as my joy and my crown. Right. The crown is a symbol of reward. Now if if you were to get a a literal crown, that would be kind of an extrinsic reward. But He's saying you, the the churches, the people who have come to believe through my message, you are my reward. You're my joy and my crown. Right? So so th he is pursuing uh he he's sowing the gospel not for an extrinsic reward, not because um you know, he's going to get money out of it or anything, but for the intrinsic reward of uh the joy that he experiences through them believing and walking in the faith Right. So that's that's the kind of reward I think that's in view here. And and that we that God offers us when we sow and and reap um for him is the joy of the joy of people responding to the gospel and believing. And the joy of knowing that we are advancing the kingdom of God. How many of you, just out of curiosity, have ever seen or or you know been witnessing to somebody and had and and and they have actually come to faith? You you've experienced that, Lindsay? Yeah. Uh I mean, d do you keep up with that person or Yeah. Um is it I mean, I've had that happen once uh in my life. I've I've shared the gospel with um several people you know throughout college and and even high school and but I went on a um a mission trip to China after college. And I met a college student there who had never um he had never heard the gospel, he had never really been exposed to the Bible. But we we met and we started talking and we were talking in in broken English because um you know I don't speak any Mandarin and he he spoke a little bit of English and so we were talking and I was you know, trying to present the gospel to him and I thought I was doing just a terrible job, and I probably was, but you know, it doesn't matter because God is the one who changes hearts. And I came to the end of the gospel presentation and I said, so um what what do you think about these things? Do you do you believe what we've just been talking about? And he said, yes, I do. And I said, wait a minute. Are are you sure like I didn't are you sure you understood this part that I just said about and so we went back and and talked about it some more, but he actually believed and then over the next six weeks he would come back and learn. We went through um ten lessons uh that were just sort of introducing him to scripture and to the doctrines of scripture. And I ha because of the the Chinese government's uh repressive policies, I haven't been able to contact him since then. Uh it would actually be dangerous for him if I tried. Um but I got to hear uh from another student who had who had gone to the same place in China with the same uh evangelistic organization a couple of years later. Um I was like, oh you went there? Like how are how are people doing there? And Uh he was like, oh yeah, the the campus fellowship is really good. It's led by this guy named, you know, and he said the guy's name. And I was like, what? It was It was probably the only time that I have literally jumped for joy in my life. I was actually jumping up and down on the sidewalk. Um because it was it was just such a joy to hear that this guy who had responded positively to the gospel was continuing in the faith. You know, and I um That I I'm sure that it's going to be an even more full joy when when we meet uh in heaven And get to experience the presence of the Lord together finally, as we um haven't been able to do on earth. But that that has always stuck with me as just an example of of the pure joy of doing the work of the Lord. I haven't uh had that feeling since then, but um you know it's the Uh that that's a rare thing. Getting to be in the position of reaping as opposed to sowing is a rare thing, but um that is just a foretaste of the joy and the reward, I think, that God offers I don't know if if you had any similar experience with uh the person who you were witnessing to. Well I mean you you you said you still you still keep in contact with this person, right? Yeah. Who who who was it, by the way? Alex, oh great. That's awesome. Yeah. And so um he so he for those of you who aren't here, Alex usually comes to this class and um That's yeah, that's wonderful. So he he came to faith. What and when you witnessed to him? Huh? Encouraging him. Yeah, but before that he Okay. Wow. That's amazing. Praise God. That's that's a joy, right? That's sh yeah. Nice. Yeah. Yeah, but it's it's so clear that um sometimes it's so clear that God has been preparing somebody's heart, right? That they're just They're just ready to receive and to believe. Okay, let's continue on. Let's read verses 39 through 42. Anyone want to go there? Lindsay. Thanks, Lindsay. Many Samaritans from the town believed in him because of a woman's testimony. He told me all that I ever did. So when the Samaritans came to him, they asked him to stay with them. And he stayed there two days. And many more believed because of his word. They said to the woman, It is no longer because of what you said that we believe, for we have heard for ourselves, and we know that this is indeed the Saviour of the Lord. Yeah. Okay, so notice the word believe occurs twice here in these in this little section of four verses. And we'll we'll see this throughout the Book of John. And Pastor Kirby talked about this actually when he started the Book of John. Is that Belief is not not all belief is equal. The Gospel of John is the Gospel of belief. But whenever it says these people believed in Jesus. You have to kind of look at the context and do some digging to figure out what kind of faith they had. Because one of John's points, one of the themes throughout his gospel is that There's a kind of faith that's pleasing to the Lord, and there's a kind of faith that is not pleasing to him and is not save does not save. So we're going to look at that uh at that distinction here, and I think what John is doing in this this passage and then the next passage is he's setting up a contrast between the Samaritans who followed this progression from from weak faith to actual true saving faith, versus the Galileans who just stayed in the superficial category. Alright, um so turn back real quick to John chapter 2, verses 23 and 24. Here's an illustration of the way, the kind of ways that John talks about faith in his gospel and belief. John chapter 2, verses 23 and 24. Now when he, that's Jesus, was in Jerusalem at the Passover during the feast, many believed in his name, beholding his signs which he was doing. But Jesus on his part was not entrusting himself to them, for he knew all men. So that's kind of that in some ways is a surprising passage, right? Because Here we have people believing in his name. We think, oh, that's great. They're saved. They're followers of him. But no, he was not entrusting himself to them. Literally, he was not believing in them. as they were believing in him, because he understood that their belief was superficial. Because look at what it was based on. It says many believed in his name, beholding his signs which he was doing. So this is um uh you know a recurring thing in John is that um for the most part the the Jews that he encountered were they s they sat back and they were skeptical and they were expecting Jesus to perform miracles and signs and wonders. And that's really what they conditioned their faith on, right? They they withheld beliefs until he showed the signs and wonders, and then they would say, okay, yeah, we believe you. But That kind of faith does not rise to the level of the worshipful submission that God actually wants from us and want and expects from someone who's saved and who's a true follower of Him. So and I think that's here why Jesus is saying on his part he was not entrusting himself to them. They had this superficial faith that was based on seeing miracles, so he wasn't placing his his trust or his belief in them. So we see that I think we see that nuance and that contrast here in this uh this passage and the next passage And I want to look at the Samaritans first and show how they kind of follow this progression through three stages of faith. So we've got these three stages. Of faith for the Samaritan. So first we got this we got this stage of interest This is if you look at verse uh thirty-nine, from that city, the city of Sikar, many of the Samaritans believed in him because of the word of the woman who testified. He told me all the things I have done. So it's you f uh the Bible's using that word belief, believe, but this is a belief of interest, right? They're just they're not yet followers of Jesus. They don't yet understand that he's the Messiah. They're not yet worshiping him as God. They're coming to him to learn more. And notice their belief is indirect. It's through the woman. It's because of the word that the woman is telling them. Right, so that's what this kind of faith is. It's it's indirect. Um it's usually it's it's because of what somebody else is told. It's not that you had a direct encounter or relationship with Jesus. It's just that, you know, maybe you're curious. There's some interest. You're intrigued by Jesus. You're coming to him and saying, hmm, what's here? Um so but then and and this this I think is really the place where um you know back in in chapter two what we just read that's where the people in the temple were in Jerusalem. They they were at this faith of interest, right? They're like, oh this guy can actually do miracles, you know. There's something here. Uh we should stick around and and just see see who he is. But then pretty quickly the Samaritans move from this faith of interest to a faith of pursuit. Right? They start actually pursuing Jesus and wanting to know more, because it says in verse 40, so when the Samaritans came to Jesus, they were asking him to stay with them. And he stayed there two days. Right. So they weren't just interested. They said, no, we n we want to know more. It was a pursuing kind of faith. And this is significant because uh you know as we alluded to earlier, the Jews and the Samaritans, they really didn't get along. They had uh historical animosity. So But these Samaritans, they had to humble themselves a little bit to invite Jesus to stay with them for two days. That I'm sure that uh that was not a level of hospitality that they were accustomed to offering to Jews So to invite him to stay with them for a couple days and to say, you know, please, please stay here. Please don't don't go on. uh was it they had to humble themselves. It showed it demonstrated uh the growth of their faith from from interest to pursuit, right? They And really all of us as followers of Jesus, all true followers of Jesus, should be characterized by this desire to pursue him and to know him. Right, and and that will sometimes take us humbling ourselves um or giving giving something up. to know him. But uh that's the second stage of faith that these Samaritans went through. And then finally the third stage of their faith. And when we see this in verses forty-one and forty-two, it says, so after he stayed with them for two days and they and he they learned from him for those two days. It says, many more believed, there's that word again, because of his word. So they believed in verse 39, because of the word of the woman. And then in verse 41, many more believed because of his word. And they were saying to the woman, It's no longer because of what you said that we believe, for we have heard for ourselves and know that this one is indeed the Savior of the world. So what's different about this belief than about that first initial belief of interest? Yeah, yeah, one is hearing, the other one is seeing. Uh it's it's it's the difference between indirect and direct. Right? It's like yeah, personal. Personal. They had they had a personal encounter with Jesus and and relationship with him now. They had learned directly from him who he was. Um in a they've gone beyond just hearing about it from the w hearing about it from the woman. What else is different? Is this within within the same passage? Yeah, within the Okay, so I say um it looks like they're ready to take what they what what they've heard to apply it to their lives as after they're saying, okay, you know, this is the Christ. So um when it's saying that they believed well, the King James Version with the old version. So what I heard like in a certain way back But believe when I said believe on, it means to go ahead and take what you've heard to apply to your life and submit to the to the will of God, basically. And it looks like that's the step that they're ready to take. Yeah. Yeah, it does it look it does I would totally agree with that. Uh so they said, for we have heard for ourselves and know that this one is indeed the savior of the world. Right, so I think them using that title, Savior, is is what really uh clues us in to the fact that they're willing, they're ready to submit uh to his will. And and really uh take on his message and apply it. Because, you know, everyone in this area in at this time was expecting a political and a military messiah, right? They were all expecting somebody who would rise up against the Romans and kick the Romans out of Israel and restore a Jewish uh kingdom, a Jewish state. And so they weren't looking for a savior in the sense of one who would save them from their sins. So but the fact that uh they call him here the one who is the savior of the world indicates that they've had their their perspective transformed, right? They've had their gaze lifted from from the earthly kingdom of Israel to the Kingdom of God, which is about saving sinners out of the whole world, not just the Jews and the Samaritans, out of the whole world from their sins. So they use this title savior and that that conveys sort of a recognition that they need to be saved from their sins and that they are ready to believe in this one. And also It's another step of of humbling themselves, right? Because they're Samaritans again. They they don't believe or you know historically they didn't accept the um the books of the Bible that were written by uh the the prophets from Judah. Right? They only accepted the first five books of the Bible. So They may not have had the same kind of messianic expectation. They they probably didn't expect the Messiah to come from the Jews. They thought they were the true worshippers. of Yahweh, right? They wanted they expected the Messiah to come from uh from Samaria. And so they Uh when they say this one is indeed the Savior of the world, they're essentially humbling themselves and saying, We are we are willing as Samaritans to follow a Jewish Messiah, and that would have been a big step of humility. for them. So essentially, yeah, they're confessing their sins, they're humbling themselves, submitting to Jesus, they're worshiping him. This is the kind of faith that that God wants and that that pleases him. And notice he didn't have to do any miracles. It doesn't say he did any miracles here. I mean other than uh other than him sort of omnisciently um knowing what the woman did in her past uh and and showing that that uh that is miraculous, but yeah, go ahead. I've had this question for a while. But like what was the purpose of Jesus using miracle if it can cause superficial things. Um that's a good question. I think there's you know th there's a lot of nuance to that question. Uh one reason that he did miracles was in fulfillment of prophecy Right. So we talked about how his mission, part of his mission in his first coming was to bring a foretaste of what the kingdom of God looks like. Uh well there's a lot of prophecy in the Old Testament about the kingdom of God and how um you know it'll be a place where all diseases healed and all um you know, everything is restored. It will be a a place of peace and uh and security and safety and prosperity for God's people. And so part of the miracles were bringing that foretaste of the kingdom of God. in in response to the prophecies of the Old Testament. So in that sense it was not Jesus like doing miracles to for the attention or to get people to believe. Although he elsewhere in the Gospels he says You know, if you do not believe my words, at least believe on the evidence of the miracles themselves. Right? So he does he does appeal to the miracles that he does as grounds for belief. I think Um but he's he's clear in that that kind of faith is a a lesser degree, a lower faith, not as pleasing to God as the kind of faith that the Samaritans showed where they didn't need to see any miracles and they just heard from him and came to the conclusion that he was the Savior of the world and they that they need to worship him and follow him So I think that some faith is better than no faith, right? Um and and you know, you see Jesus uh saying to his disciples, uh, you men of little faith. And he doesn't say you men of no faith, he says you men of little faith. So there there is some sense in which a little faith is better than no faith. But uh the the the point is or his desire is for men to believe on him because of his words, because they hear and obey his words. Not because they see miracles. Yeah, yeah. I mean the Pharisees are a prime example, right? They said, Oh, he only does miracles because the power of Satan is working in him. Which is Yeah, yeah. And you know, Jesus called them on their faulty logic. Uh but yes, people even then made up excuses for not believing in him, even with the miracles. And so in that case the miracles serve as like extra evidence in the courtroom of God. Like when he comes to judge uh say the Pharisees or the the people who rejected Jesus even after seeing his miracles. God's going to say, look at all the evidence that you had. Look at everything that you were shown. And you still didn't believe, um, you know, that that's just going to weigh against them in God's judgment and um illustrate his justice. Right. It's something that we don't like to talk about. It's uncomfortable for us. But one of God's attributes is His His justice, His holy justice. Right, where he dispenses wrath on those who do not treat him as he deserves as God. Um yeah, I like this one. Sorry. Okay, yeah. So yeah, I want to finish out this section and draw the contrast here between the Samaritans who had this this who progressed to the true worshipful faith versus the Galileans who who really didn't So this contrast here uh shows up in the next section. So just remember That uh this and this is a recurring theme, this contrast between um the the right kind of faith that is shown by very few Uh and the the wrong kind of superficial faith that's shown mostly mostly by the people who listen to him In John 1. 11, in the beginning of this gospel, it says, He came to his own, and those who were his own did not receive him. Alright, so that that is one of the opening statements of the gospel, and it's one of the recurring themes, and let's see how that plays out here. Let's do, uh can somebody read verses Forty three through fifty four, all the way through the end. Okay. Okay. After the two days he left for Galilee, now Jesus himself had pointed out that a prophet has no honor. His own country. When he arrived in Galilee, the Galileans welcomed him. They had seen all that he had done in Jerusalem. Jerusalem at the Passover festival, for they also had been there. Once more he visited Cana. Cana. Cana in Galilee, where he had turned the water into wine. And there was a certain royal Official whose son lay sick at Capran. When this man heard that Jesus had arrived in Galilee from Judea He went to him and begged him to come and heal his son, who was close to death. Unless you people see signs and wonders Jesus told him, You will never believe. The royal official said, Sir, come down before my child dies. Go, Jesus replies. Son will live. The man took Jesus at his will and departed. While he was still on the way, his servants met him with the news that his boy was living. When he inquired as to the time when his son got better, they said to him yesterday at one and a afternoon the fever left him. Then then the father realized that this was the exact time at which Jesus had said to him, Your son will live. So again his whole household believed. This was a second sign of Jesus performed after coming from Judea to Galilee. All right. Yeah, so this this passage um is a little bit hard to understand. It's kind of hard to get the logic of what's going on here. Like it starts out with Jesus going into Galilee, and it says, For Jesus himself testified that a prophet has no honor in his own country. So when he gave came to Galilee, the Galileans received him, having seen all the things he did at Jerusalem at the feast. So that doesn't seem to follow, right? It's like He says, a prophet has no honor in his own country, but the Galileans received him. So isn't that a good thing? Um but I think uh this is again another one of those contrasts between um superficial belief, superficial receiving of the Lord and and true belief, true faith. Because what does it say? They why does it say they received him? Yeah, because again, because they saw the miracles, right? They they were receiving him not because they wanted to hear his words and learn the words of life that he was bringing. They received him because they said, oh, he did miracles down there. Now he's gonna come up here. We we'll receive him so that he'll do some miracles up here and you know bring bring fame and honor and attention to our region. Yeah, it was for their benefit. And yeah, that's a f that's a fundamental difference between the superficial faith and the true faith, right? Like superficial faith seeks some reward that's extrinsic. He seeks some benefit from God. Like, oh, he's gonna work a miracle for me. He's gonna heal me. He's gonna make me rich. Um true faith seeks God Himself, right? Seeks fellowship with the Lord as the reward So yeah, so this is uh that's what Jesus means here by a prophet has no honor in his hometown. I mean that phrase, uh you know, on on one level could mean that um just this general attitude that people have about a great man arising from their midst, like if if somebody from your hometown becomes famous. like a like a famous musician or something and then comes back and does a concert. Um you know, there's this attitude of like, hey, you you grew up on the next street over. Like who do you think you are? You think you're better than me? Like touring around the world? Um So there's there's maybe a sense of that. Like you uh Jesus, hey you we know you're from Nazareth. You you think you're better than us going going down to Judea and baptizing people? Um but I think it's it's m even more than that. The the Galileans saw it that because they were the chosen people of God Right, that they thought they that because they were the Jews they were entitled to this special treatment from God because of who they were Right. They said, Oh, we were born as sons of Abraham. So now God is finally gonna come and and and treat us right. You know, he's finally gonna come and deliver us from the Romans and heal all our diseases and and uh make everything good. So so bring it on, God. You know, they had this this sort of mentality that that they were entitled to this special treatment from God. Um And uh yeah, so they they received him because they saw the miracles he had done in Jerusalem and they said, all right, it's time for us. Um And then the passage gets into this episode with the father of the sick child, right? And it's hard to understand Jesus' response here because When you first read it, it sounds like here's a desperate father whose son is sick, like your heart goes out to this man. Why did Jesus respond so harshly to him? Uh you know, the the the man's son was sick and at the point of death, um and he was requesting that Jesus come down and heal his son, and Jesus therefore said to him, Unless you people see signs and wonders, you simply will not believe. Ouch, right? But I think if you look closer, it is um He's not responding so much to the father or rebuking him as he is rebuking the people around him. One of the clues to that is in verse 48, in the grammar itself. Um it says, Jesus said therefore said to him, and that that Greek pronoun is in the singular, so he's talking to the father. Uh unless you people, plural, see signs and wonders, you simply will not believe. So It's clear that although he's responding to the Father's request, he's addressing the crowds around him because he knows their hearts, right? He knows what they're seeking. He knows they want to see a miracle. Um and so he's he's not really rebuking the father for his concern for the for his son here. He is rebuking the people for seeking signs and wonders from him And it's we uh we also know that he's not we also can infer that he's not rebuking the father because Um elsewhere Jesus taught that we should be persistent in prayer. Right? He he very much encouraged this kind of um this kind of supplication to to him and and to his father. He said, you know, if you uh he told the story of um the man like uh the man who who went to his neighbor for bread in the middle of the night and was knocking on the door and because he wouldn't give up knocking the man uh just to shut him up you know got up and got some bread and and gave it to him Right. That's um that's an extreme illustration, but like the point of Jesus of many of Jesus' parables is that we should be persistent when we're asking the Lord in prayer. for for things that are in line with his will. So it's not bad that this father was coming and persevering and requesting Jesus come Heal his son. That's that I don't think is what Jesus is rebuking here. And the other thing is that Jesus actually does heal his son. Right? The royal official said to him, Sir, come down before my child dies. And Jesus said to him, Go your way. Your son lives. So he heals him with a command, right? He notice he does not go with him. He does not give the people what they want. The people want to see a miracle. He does a miracle, but it's remote, and they don't get to see the result. So he he is not willing to give the crowd what they want and satisfy their their evil desire for their selfish desire for uh for miracles And, you know, that's that's a an illustration of how God he does not reward this superficial faith. Right? The the faith that that seeks a blessing from him. Um he is not The faith that seeks something from God rather than seeking God Himself is not the kind of faith that God rewards. God rewards the kind of faith that seeks God Himself. And he ward he rewards that with with fellowship with him. Um okay, but to the man's credit, he believed Jesus, right? So so here's another example of this word believe being used in a couple of different ways. So in verse um fifty, it says, the man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him, and he started off. Now I think that this I think that this was um you know the the superficial kind of belief, right? He But to his credit, he took Jesus at his word, right? He said, Okay, I'm going to go, I'm I'm going to stop begging Jesus, and because he said that my son is healed, I'm going to go. Um so he believed And as he was now going down, his slaves met him, saying that his son was living. So he inquired of them the hour when he began to get better, and they said therefore to him, Yesterday, at the seventh hour the fever left him So the father knew it was at that hour in which Jesus said to him, Your son lives, and he himself believed in his whole household. Now why would it say that again? Why would it say He believed Jesus. And then when he heard that it was at the exact time, then he believed in his whole household. Because it's talking about the two different kinds of faith, right? In the f in the beginning he believed His belief was kind of the belief of desperate need, right? Like I need my son to be healed, so I'm gonna I'm gonna believe what this man says. And then when it happened It says, he himself believed and his whole household. Now that's a that's kind of a phrase that we find throughout the New Testament that that points to salvation Right, like in in the book of Acts it says the Philippian jailer believed in his whole household. And Cornelius, the the first Gentile believer, he believed and his whole household And so this this does, by its usage throughout the rest of Scripture, point to an actual saving faith. Uh and it it sort of suggests that. It doesn't explicitly say that in the text, but it suggests that this time when he believed He actually understood who Jesus was by virtue of this miracle and was now willing to submit his life to Christ. Now Yeah, again, that's that's a little bit speculative, but it's based on on the usage of this phrase in the rest of the New Testament. But here we see, yeah, we see the same kind of transition from a superficial faith to an actual worshipful saving faith. But this one had to happen through a miracle. Right, so so that's the contrast that John, the author, is drawing here between the Samaritans who just had to hear And they and they made this progression to worshipful saving faith. Versus the Galileans, most of whom were just looking for a show. But this father who who was the one who actually made it to full saving faith, but he had to do it on the basis of a miracle that Jesus did. So the there's a he there's a great contrast here, and I don't know if we have time to to read this whole thing. But do you guys know the the story of when uh Jesus went to heal the centurion's son? Yeah, so there was a there was a Roman centurion. Or not not his son, his servant. Yeah, there was a Roman centurion. His servant was sick. Uh he was paralyzed. And the centurions sent slaves to Jesus and said and to ask him to heal his son. And Jesus said, okay, I'll go with you. I'll come. And The uh the man said, what did he say? Excuse me, remember? Yeah. Something along the lines of do not need I don't think you are not I'm not honor I'm not willing enough for you to come to my house but just do as you say while I'm command under command and of command. And when I say go, my servants go and I say um do this, my servant do this. So I'm doing it. And then Jesus says, I have not met another Peter being astonished. He says, I have not I have not found any other faith as great exist. Mm-hmm. That's exactly yes, exactly. Great summary. He said, um when Jesus said, Yeah, I'll come and heal your servant, the centurion answered and said, Lord, I'm not worthy for you to come under my roof, but just say the word. and my servant will be healed. For I too am a man under authority, with soldiers under me, and I say to this one, Go, and he goes, and another come, and he comes, and my slave do this, and he does it. And when Jesus heard this he marvelled He marveled and said to those who were following, Truly I say to you, I have not found such great faith with anyone in Israel. So, Jesus there are very few times when Jesus is impressed in the Bible. This is probably the clearest one. And he's impressed with the faith of this centurion. And look at the contrast between the centurion and the father in this in this passage, right? So the father is is pleading with Jesus, please come heal my son. And um You know, he's he's uncertain about it. Uh Jesus says, okay, he's healed. He goes, he sees the confirmation, and then he believes. By contrast, the centurion, Jesus offers to come all the way to his house, right? He gives, he offers that. And the centurion says, no, no, no, you don't need to do that. I totally understand your authority. I understand that you are God, that you are in charge of angels and people and sicknesses and all these stuff. So you just need to say the word. That's a faith that grasps Jesus' identity as God and submits to his deity in worship, right? That's the kind of faith that the centurion showed. And so Because of that, that's why Jesus was marveling. He was saying, here is a great faith that understands who I am as God and what it means to be God, namely to be in authority. Right. Faith is tightly connected to authority. That's something that as you like I'm just gonna plant that thought in your head and as you read the scriptures, uh it'll it'll start popping out to you, the connection between faith and authority. That's the kind of saving, true, worshipful faith that Jesus is looking for, is one that recognizes him as divine and as having God's authority.