Alright, so we are done with the whole six-month unit on biblical manhood, womanhood, marriage. Uh so thank you all for bearing with me as we go through that. That that was good. Um and I'm I'm glad I you know I hope that it was that it was helpful and um instructive for everyone. But I'm really excited actually to be back in the scriptures. Uh we're we're returning to John today. Uh we're picking up in John 6 where we left off. And I'm excited about it because, you know, only only Jesus has the words of eternal life. And so It's so important to come back to the scriptures. Uh even as we talk about topics that uh that the world is talking about, that the world um you know, is is really speaking loudly on uh it's still important to come back to the scriptures. So open to John And we're gonna do we're gonna be in John chapter six. We're gonna do the end of chapter six. Um and by the way, I don't know if you guys have seen this kind of notation before, but if you ever see somebody write like John six six fifty-nine FF W that F F means uh to the end of the chapter. Right. That was something that I didn't learn growing up and so it confused me. Uh But yeah, so if you ever see that just means to the end of the chapter. That's what we're gonna do today. Uh but before we dive into that passage, uh I just wanted to recap J John one through six, sort of what we talked about in the first six chapters. Of course, Pastor Kirby was the one who taught the first three chapters. uh and then I I went and taught four or five and most of six. But uh the Gospel of John, who remembers uh what Pastor Kirby called it if you were here during that time or or I I think I repeated this. What is the the sort of theme of the Gospel of John. It's the gospel of belief. Yes. It's the Gospel of Belief because belief is the main theme, or at least one of the main themes, in the entire Gospel of John. It's um and When John in his gospel talks about belief, uh we shouldn't just assume that he always means true saving belief. You know, not everyone in the Gospel of John who believes is an actual saved believer. In fact, so far in the first six chapters of John, we've seen people respond to Jesus in basically three kinds of ways. The the first category of response to Jesus and his message uh has been unbelief. And uh the people who have exemplified this response are the Pharisees and the rulers of the Jewish people. Alright, so uh like in John chapter five verse eighteen, after he um healed the the man on the Sabbath It says, For this reason therefore the Jews, meaning the rulers of the Jews, were seeking all the more to kill him, because he was not only breaking the Sabbath, but also was calling God his own father, making himself equal with God. So we see the the Pharisees and the leaders, they had this this kind of unbelief that wasn't just indifference or apathy, it was hostility. They were looking to kill him. And they were looking to kill him for basically two reasons. Hey Josh. Two basically two two reasons. They could not handle his central claim about himself, which was what's Jesus' central claim about who he is? That we've seen so far in this gospel. That he is not just the Messiah, because uh People didn't quite know you know, f some people were comfortable with him being the Messiah as they conceived of the Messiah. But his claim was was really more than that he was the anointed one Say but that he was the Son of God, right? That he was divine, that he that he had this special relationship with the Father from the beginning of time. That was the claim that they couldn't handle that made everybody want to fall away. And that was the claim that uh that made the Pharisees want to kill him 'Cause he was claiming to be equal with God. And they also saw him uh you know, breaking the Sabbath. They thought he was breaking the Sabbath and they that made them That made them want to kill him too, because they thought he was like undermining their authority and um declaring his authority to be above theirs, which he was. But yeah, that was that was what they were reacting to. They were reacting against him calling himself God and making himself to be equal with God. Um and so that was the nature of their unbelief. So that was that's the first category of response to Jesus was unbelief. The second category of response to Jesus that we've seen in John's Gospel so far is false belief. So there's a lot of this. There's a lot of false belief. For example, in chapter 2 You don't have to turn there, but um in chapter two at at sort of the end of uh after he's cleansed the temple John gives a summary statement of how people are responding to his ministry in Judea. Um and in verse two, uh sorry, chapter two, verses twenty-three and twenty-four It says, Now when Jesus was in Jerusalem at the Passover during the feast, many believed in his name as they observed his signs, which he was doing. But Jesus, on his part, was not entrusting himself to them. Because he knew all people. So on on the one hand, it says, even in the text, that the people were believing in him, but why were they believing in him? Yeah, because they they saw the signs, right? They were they were impressed with his power. Um It was kind of it was like a self-serving, uh, superficial kind of belief. It was the belief of, wow, look at that guy. Um, did Jesus credit their faith as true faith? No, he didn't. He was not entrusting himself to them. Literally, he was not believing in them. They were believing in him, but he was not believing in them because he knew their hearts, he knew their fickleness. Um that's That's false belief. It's called belief, but it's not the kind that Jesus is looking for. Alright, so that was the Judeans in chapter two. And then In chapter three we see another example of false belief or inadequate belief. Um and chapter three is all about Nicodemus coming to Jesus uh at night. So Nicodemus, he had a kind of belief, right? He came to Jesus and he said, You know, we know that you're from God because no one can do the signs that you're doing unless God's with him. So that's a kind of belief. But was it acceptable to Jesus? No, how do we know? Yeah, yeah, because Jesus spends you know, he doesn't say, Oh, congratulations, Nicodemus, welcome to the kingdom. He has to explain to Nicodemus And Nicodemus is like, what? How can I be born again? Aren't I already in the kingdom because I'm one of Abraham's children? Because I'm a Jew, you know. Um so Nicodemus' faith was not as you know, such as it was, was not the kind that was acceptable to Jesus Right. He had he had kind of a false belief. It wasn't it wasn't necessarily like the self-serving superficial belief of the crowds. It was more of like a weak and timid and uninformed kind of belief. Also remember he came to Jesus at night because he was afraid to be publicly associated with him. Still clinging on to the old system. Yeah, yeah, clinging to the old system, clinging to his reputation. You know, he he clearly loved you know, being part of the Sanhedrin and the ruling council more than he loved Jesus and was attracted to uh his words and his message So that's another kind of false belief, Nicodemus that we've seen. And then in chapter four, it's like you know, two, three, four, we've got another example of false belief. At the end of chapter four Jesus has just uh passed through Samaria and talked with the w the woman at the well and he goes up to Galilee and check out what what the Galileans uh how the Galileans received him. So in chapter four we've got verses forty-five and forty-eight that I'll read. Uh so when he came to Galilee The Galileans received him, only because they had seen all the things that he did in Jerusalem at the feast. Jesus said, you know, skipping to verse 48, Jesus said, Unless you people see signs and wonders, you simply will not believe. So again, you know, the Galileans, they weren't hostile to him. They received him. But they only received him because what? Yeah, because of the signs and the wonders, the miracles he was doing. And Jesus was Jesus happy with their reception of him, with their with their belief in him? No, he said, unless you people see signs and wonders, you simply will not believe. He's looking for a different kind of belief. Okay, so th those are the first two responses that we've seen to Jesus. Unbelief, hostility, like the the Pharisees, and false belief, like most of the Judeans and the Galileans and people like Nicodemus. There's a third category of response that we've seen to Jesus and his preaching. Uh and that is true belief. This is this is the right one. Uh the true belief. And we've seen a couple of examples of this, thankfully. Uh The first example we've seen of true belief as a response to Jesus was in chapter one, John the Baptist. John the Baptist, when he saw when he looked up and saw Jesus coming, he said, Behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. So John the Baptist got it. He saw to the core of who Jesus was. He saw that Jesus was from God, he was the Lamb of God, and he was there to take away the sin of the world. Right, so connected to true belief is this understanding of who Jesus is and why he's here. John saw that. John the Baptist saw that. Another person who saw that, or group of people, was the twelve. The twelve that he first called. Bless you Um like when in chapter uh one, l the last part of chapter one, he calls his first disciples, and Andrew is among the one of uh among the the first disciples that he calls. And what does Andrew do? Remember he turns right around and runs and finds his brother who is Simon Peter. Right. Simon at the time, later we'll be named Peter. So he Indrew runs and he finds Simon and he says to Simon, We have found the Messiah Right? That's true belief. That's true. He recognizes um who Jesus is. Maybe he doesn't fully understand Jesus' identity yet, but he's excited and willing to to sort of leave everything behind and follow him and invite other people to do the same So yeah, we've seen that that response of true belief. And then probably the most significant and shocking example of true belief that we've seen in the entire gospel so far is in chapter four, the Samaritans. Right? This would have been utterly shocking to a Jewish audience, um like you know the people who would be reading John's gospel, that the best and and and most clear respon example of true belief in Jesus is coming not from the Jews, but from the hated enemies, the Samaritans. Um if you look at John four, verses thirty-nine through through forty-two, this is after he's talked to the Samaritan woman at the well and you know, told her prophetically about all the uh all that she's done in her life and uh then she runs to the town and and says, Come see the man who's told me everything I've ever done. Could this be the Messiah? And then in verse 39 It says, now from that city, many of the Samaritans believed in him. So we've got to be careful because we don't know if this is true or false belief yet. But says many of the Samaritans believed in him because of the word of the woman who testified. He told me all the things I that I have done. So when the Samaritans came to Jesus, they were asking him to stay with them, and he stayed there two days. Many more believed because of his word. And they were saying to the woman, It is no longer because of what you said that we believe, for we have heard for ourselves and know that this one truly is the Savior of the world. So what's different about the Samaritans' belief from, say, the belief of the Judeans or the Galileans? Why did the Judeans and the Galileans believe in him? Yeah, because they saw the signs, right? They were impressed by the miracles. They were like, you know, we're we're gonna sit back and y we're we're gonna reserve our our belief for the one who can do the most impressive miracles. Why did the Samaritans believe in him? Was it because of signs and miracles? No, it doesn't say he did any. So at first it was the woman's testimony, right? But then What did they say afterwards? It's no longer because of what you said, you the woman, said that we believe, for we have Heard for ourselves and know that this one truly is the Savior of the world. And it in 41, verse 41 it says, Many more believe because of his word. Right? So that's the hallmark of true belief, true faith is it doesn't demand signs, it doesn't demand um sort of like this visible evidence or satisfying a selfish demand, it humbly accepts the word of God and submits itself to Jesus' words. That's what the Samaritans did. That's that's the kind of true belief that they showed, is they were willing to listen to Jesus' words and accept Jesus' authority based on his own testimony, his own word. And that's why they had true belief, whereas the Judeans and the Galileans had a false belief that was selfish and superficial. Okay. That's the main point I think that John in in his gospel is making here with the example of the Samaritans. So we've seen three responses to Jesus. Unbelief, in in the form of hostility, false belief, uh which is selfish and superficial or weak, and true belief, which accepts Jesus' authority and submits to his word. So that's the background for chapter six, which we covered way back in the winter. Chapter six, unfortunately, is another example of false belief. on the part of the multitudes. So chapter six, remember, is the chapter where we see Jesus feed the five thousand. the five thousand men, so probably more like fifteen or twenty thousand people overall. Uh uh so he he feeds the crowd and after he does this the crowd in some sense starts believing in him, right? W what they said after he fed them was um Yeah, when when therefore the people saw the sign which he had performed, they said, This is of a truth the prophet who is to come into the world And um remember we talked about that way back in the winter. That's a reference to an Old Testament prophecy that Moses gave. He said, um, you know God will raise up a prophet like me, like Moses, who will come and and uh and teach you God's ways. And so they were recognizing that this Jesus was the prophet like Moses, that he was a messianic figure. So they had some level of belief in him. And they wanted to come and make him king by force, right? They wanted him to be a a sort of political messiah who would deliver them from Rome and for and lead them to national independence. So they sort of believed in him, uh, in that in that kind of way, but it was a false belief, and Jesus didn't want that, right? So what did he do? They came they were trying to seize him and make him king by force, but he he slipped away, right? He got away from them. Uh, 'cause he didn't he didn't want that kind of faith. He was not there to fulfill their expectations for what a messiah should be. So the next day, remember that night he um he sent his disciples off across the Sea of Galilee and he went up on the mountain to pray, and then a storm came up and the disciples were in trouble. He walks out on the water, um, you know, passing by them and they're like, Help me, help us and so he saves them. Uh they get to the other side. Meanwhile the crowd who got fed, they're still wanting to be around Jesus. They're still wanting to, you know, come and make him the king, but they can't find him anymore. So they're confused. So they they run over to the other side of the Sea of Galilee and they finally catch up with him in Capernaum And they're like, how did you get here? But he takes that opportunity to teach them and to actually rebuke them for their false belief that they had showed the day before. So that next day he rebuked them for their false belief and he exhorted them to truly believe. So if you're not already there We can open up now to chapter six, John six, and I'll just read a couple of excerpts from Jesus' teaching with the crowd to set the stage for today, today's lesson. So in uh chapter six, verses twenty six through twenty nine, Jesus answered them and said, Truly, truly, I say to you, you seek me not because you saw signs, but because you ate some of the loaves and were filled Do not work for the food that perishes, but for the food that lasts for eternal life, which the Son of Man will give you, for on him the Father God has set his seal So in other words, Jesus is saying, your belief is selfishly motivated and superficial. Don't work for the for the physical food that perishes. you know, turn your your eyes to eternity. Look for the work for the uh the food that lasts for eternal life. And then in verse twenty eight, therefore they said to him, What are we to do, so that we may accomplish the works of God? Jesus answered and said to them, This is the work of God that you believe in Him whom He has sent. So he again brings it back to belief. He's saying your belief was inadequate. You wanted you wanted to believe for selfish reasons, superficial reasons. You need to truly believe to really believe in me, in the one whom God has sent. So clearly their their belief was not enough. They needed a different kind of belief. Jesus was looking for a a different kind, a true belief. Uh but what does this mean? So he expands on this later in verse forty-seven. So flip down to verse forty-seven through fifty-one, where they're talking back and forth about what does this mean? What does this mean true belief? And Jesus is explaining what he me what he means by that. In verse forty-seven he says, Truly, truly I say to you, the one who believes has eternal life. I am the bread of life. Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, and they died. This is the bread that comes down out of heaven, so that anyone may eat from it and not die. I am the living bread that came down out of heaven. If anyone eats from this bread, he will live forever. And the bread which I will give for the life of the world also is my flesh. So they didn't understand this, right? Jesus is saying, uh it's not You know, uh it's not the the manna that came down from heaven that the fathers ate in the wilderness. That's that's not the thing that will give you eternal life. You know, being the recipient of a miracle um is not what's gonna make you uh live forever. It's not what's gonna save you. Rather, you have to believe in me 'Cause I'm the bread that came down from heaven. And you have to internalize me, you have to live on my words in order to have eternal life. And so they're they don't they don't understand this. They don't get it. They they're get tripped up on him saying that I'm the bread who came down from heaven. They're like How can this guy say that he's the bred who came down from heaven? We know his parents. He was born to Joseph and Mary And by the way he was born out of wedlock, so he's like an illegitimate child. Uh how can he say that he's coming down from heaven and therefore better than all of us? So they started arguing with each other and with him But Jesus does not back down, he doubles down, and in verse 53, he says Uh truly, truly I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in yourself. So he takes the language up to the next level, right? And they're like, Whoa, what how can we eat your flesh and drink your blood? That's just weird. Okay, so that's the stage. That's setting the stage for what we're gonna study, which is verses fifty-nine through the end of the chapter. So who wants to read Can have a volunteer to read chapter six, fifty-nine through seventy-one. When many of his disciples heard it, they said, This is a hard saying we can listen to it. Jesus knowing himself that his disciples were growing up about this and said to them, Do you take offense of us? Then what if you were to see the Son of Man ascending to where he was before? It is the Spirit who gives life because the flesh is no thought at all. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and light. But there are some of these who do not believe, for Jesus knew from the beginning who those who did not believe, who it was who portrayed them. And he said, This is why I told you that no one can come believe unless it is created by the Father. After this, many of his disciples come back and no longer walked So Jesus said to the twelve, Do you want to go away as well? Simon Peter answered him towards that whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life and we have believed and have come to know that you are fully done. Jesus answered them, Did I not choose you for twelve? And yet One of you was a devil. He spoke of Judas, the sign of the son of Simon Scary, but he, one of the twelve, was going to call. Alright, thank you. So I've called this lesson today, uh, True versus False Belief in Jesus. The difference between true and false belief in Jesus. And in one sentence, the basic difference between true belief in Jesus and false belief in Jesus is that true believers stay and false believers leave. So let's write that up here. So true believers say And false believers leave And there's a little bit more nuance to it than that. It's not just physically staying with Jesus as Judas proves. You know, Judas was physically there until the ver until near the end. Um it's saying remaining in in the sense of in your heart, remaining in the teaching and in the words and under the authority of Jesus. But when false believers leave, eventually, at some point that becomes a physical departure, right? A physical departure from God and from the people of God. Um so this is the basic difference. And you know, in this passage we see that as um you know a bunch of the disciples they get too tripped up on his words and his claim to be the bread coming down from heaven and to be the life of the world and they what do they do They they turn away and they and they leave, right? They're not following him anymore. And these were some of his disciples, right? These were the discip the ones who had responded to his call to follow him. And after he says this, they turn away and they're not walking with him anymore. So they prove in that instance that their belief was false by leaving. Uh while the true believers, the ones the at least the the eleven who tru who in this passage truly demonstrate faith, they stay. They stay with Jesus. Because they have nowhere else to go. Um and we'll talk about that in a second. But So this uh we see it sort of implicitly in this passage that the true believers are staying and the false believers are leaving. But later in the Gospel of John, Jesus makes this distinction, this point here, explicit. So if you look at John 15, verses 4 through 6, I'll just read it for you real quick. Jesus is talking in the upper room to his disciples, and he says to them, remain in me, in other words, stay or abide in me, and I in you. Just as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, but must remain in the vine, so neither can you unless you remain in me. I am the vine, you are the branches. The one who remains in me, and I in him, bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing. If anyone does not remain in me He is thrown away like a branch and he dries up, and they gather them and throw them into the fire and they are burned Okay, so in that in that teaching, he's making this point explicit. He's drawing a clear distinction between those who remain and those who do not remain. And what what happens to those who remain? No, no, no. The ones who Yeah, that's the other one. Um so those who remain in Jesus like a branch remains in the vine, they will be preserved and and it says in the text they will bear much fruit. Yeah, so that that fruit is sort of the evidence that they of their remaining. The evidence that they uh that they're They're remaining in in the vine, in the faith. Uh what about those who do not remain in the vine? What about the branches that are not plugged into the vine. They yeah, they they dry up first of all they dry up, right, of their own accord. But then eventually they're gathered up and they are thrown into the fire and burned uh which is uh you know a pretty clear allusion to the fires of hell. So uh Those who stay, those who remain, they're the true believers, they bear fruit. Those who leave, those who do not remain in the vine, which is Christ, are the false believers So that's the explicit teaching of Jesus in the Gospel of John here. And the most fundamental thing that distinguishes the true believers from the false believers is remaining or not remaining in Christ. And notice that um it's not really like the most fundamental distinction is not really about the fruit. The fruit is the evidence, the fruit is the effect of remaining Alright, so it is true that that true believers, those who are really saved, will demonstrate fruit in their life. Uh but we gotta get the cause and effect relationship correct here, right? Does fruit cause you to remain in the vine? No. That would be silly, you know, from the agricultural analogy. If a vi if a branch was like, okay, I gotta bear fruit so that I can you know then get connected to the vine and remain in the vine. No, that would be silly. That doesn't happen. It's the other way around, right? Remaining in the vine causes the fruit So we gotta keep that in mind. Like our works, our the fruit that we bear in our lives does not cause us to be saved and it does not cause us to remain in Christ. Remaining in Christ is what causes us to bear fruit. So, yeah, you can look for evidence in people's lives. You can look for evidence, and you should, in your own life. Am I bearing fruit? Um, you know, you can use that to tell whether you're remaining or not. Uh, but you should never confuse the cause and effect there. Um Okay, so we're gonna go through this passage and we're gonna talk about two things. We're gonna give three reasons each for why False believers leave. And then three reasons for why true believers stay or remain. Okay, so uh this first one we're gonna take uh why false believers leave because that's that's first in the text. This is uh verses fifty nine through sixty six. Okay, and reason number one why false believers leave is that They don't submit to Jesus' authority. They don't submit to Jesus' authority. So look at verse sixty here. Many therefore of his disciples when they heard this said, this is a difficult statement. Who can listen to it? So um you know on the one hand this is kind of like You know, these are the disciples. These are the ones who have been following him around. They've been observing him doing all these miracles, healing all these sick people, feeding this huge crowd of like 20,000 people. Who did they think this guy was Right? I on in one sense, like what you know, uh are you are you just now realizing that uh that this guy is not you know is not here just to serve you and to do impressive things for your sake. Um but on the other hand Um, you know, this is this is kind of an understandable response too, right? Because for us, we read these words of Jesus. Um like you you must eat my flesh and drink my blood. And they kinda go in one ear and out the other. Because we've been reading the ho the Bible all our lives. We've heard um you know, we we're familiar with the Lord's Supper where we uh symbolically eat and drink the flesh and blood of Christ. And so we're like, uh yeah, this is not not that big of a deal. But I think if we were there in the moment, in the time when it was first said It would have been shocking to us as well. Right. Uh really? We have to eat your flesh and drink your blood? What is that about? Um but either way, you know, so their responses on in the one on the one hand, like kind of shocking. On the other hand, very understandable. Uh but what they're doing fundamentally is they're rejecting Jesus' authority. They're saying You know, you I just don't think you have the authority, Jesus, to say something like that. That we need to eat your flesh and drink your blood, or that you are the bread who's come down out of heaven. I just don't think you have that authority to say that. I'm not going to accept that from you Right, who can accept this saying? And Jesus knows that it's about authority, because in verses sixty-one and sixty-two he says, But Jesus, conscious that his disciples grumbled at this, said to them, Does this cause you to stumble? What then, if you should behold the Son of Man ascending to where he was before? Right, so in other words He's saying, you know, if you can't handle me telling you that I'm from heaven, that I'm the bread of life come down from heaven, what are you gonna do when you see it You know, when you see me glorified by my Father going back to heaven, you know, if you can't accept my authority from my words, you're gonna accept it when you see it You know, in the end, every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. Um So he's essentially saying It's far better for you to accept my authority now through my words than be compelled to accept it uh when when my father glorifies me. Um so it is about authority. They're not accepting Jesus' authority They don't want to admit that ha that he has the authority to say these difficult things and to place these difficult demands on them And then closely related to that, a second reason why false believers leave is they don't accept Jesus' words. So they don't accept his words. Look at verse 63. Jesus is is still rebuking them. He's still uh addressing his disciples who are complaining. He says, It is the spirit who gives life, the flesh profits nothing The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and our life. So in other words, he's saying, you're still thinking according to the flesh, right? And you're trying to follow me according to the flesh. Um, you know, they they were these this was sort of the in crowd. They had responded to Jesus' call to walk with him. They were following him around. Um, you know, they thought that they were doing all the right things. they were they were with the right people, um, they were doing the right works, they were, they were present in the right group. But it's not enough to be just hanging around Jesus, uh to be a disciple in name, and or to follow him around and to watch him work. That is all of the flesh. Right? That's what that's what Jesus is saying. Um you're trying to follow me of the flesh in in the way that makes sense to you and that works for you But uh that the works of the flesh profit nothing. Instead, you have to have the spirit. Right? And um He says, the words that I have spoken to you are spirit and our life. Only the spirit can bring life. So what needs to happen to them is they need to have their hearts transformed by the Spirit through Jesus' words. They need to stop relying on what they're relying on now, which is like doing all the right things. Um and you know, thinking that if they do this, if they follow the Messiah, they'll get rewards, right? They'll get they'll get to be in his kingdom, maybe they'll get a good position in the kingdom that he's bringing. They need to stop all that and have their hearts transformed instead by accepting the words of Jesus and the power of the Spirit. uh inside them. So but they don't accept his words, right? They're they prove by the fact that they're they they went away that they were only in it uh so long as there was a promise of reward without the burden of having to follow these hard teachings, like I am the bread coming down out of heaven. You need to eat my flesh and drink my blood. As soon as it gets hard, they're not willing to accept his words Um okay, and then the third reason that false believers leave is that they're not empowered by the Father. So these first two reasons are are reasons on a human level, right? They're reasons that uh that we can understand in terms of human choice and human willingness or unwillingness to accept Jesus' authority in words. This third reason is a reason on a totally different level. It's on the God level, right? And um, you know, just to hearken back to uh a concept that that we covered a year ago, um We are not and Jesus is not a reductionist. Right, who remembers what that word means You remember what it means? Okay. So anyone want to take a crack at a definition of reductionism? Exactly, exactly. Yeah. I mean these days reductionism means that or you know, reductionists believe that you can reduce everything that happens to physics. Right? Yeah, to the motion of atoms, basically. Um So every human choice, every like weather event, you know, everything that happens in the world is reducible to physics. And there's only one explanation for everything And that and the one true explanation for everything is in terms of physics. More more broadly speaking, the principle of reductionism is that there can only be one explanation for every event Right. And uh so you know a reductionist would uh would insist that these three reasons are not compatible with each other. You can't have all three. Like either Either the people choose not to follow Jesus or God chooses for them not to follow Jesus. But you can't have both That's reductionism. The Bible is not reductionist. The Bible and Jesus uh reject that idea, that picture of the world Right. The Bible consistently speaks of multiple levels of explanation for the same event Okay, so we we that's something that uh you know it's hard to explain. We just need to change the way we think about things. Because you know, as moderns we're so steeped in the idea of reductionism, we we sort of reflexively and intuitively look for just one explanation for an event. And we think that when we've found that, all other explanations are out the window But we need to kind of get out of that mindset and we just need to accept that for something like unbelief, or on the other side, true belief in Jesus There's a human-level explanation in terms of what people choose, and there's a divine explanation in terms of what the father chooses, and they're both true. So, in this case, we can see this uh this divine level explanation in verses 64 and 65. Jesus brings it up. He says, But there are some of you who do not believe. For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were who did not believe, and who it was that would betray him. And he was saying, For this reason I have said to you that no one can come to me unless it has been granted him from the Father. Right, so in a sense, nobody can have true faith in Jesus, true belief, without the Father choosing that person from before the foundation of the world. Notice Jesus says he knows, he knew from the beginning who they were who did not believe. So it's not like he was he had uncertainty about their faith or lack of faith until they made their choice. He knew from the beginning and it's the father who has to grant to someone the ability to believe anyway. Um but he still rebukes them, right? He still rebukes them for for making the wrong choice, for not accepting his authority and not listening to his words So, these guys, these disciples who went away, even though they were in the right place doing the right things with the right crowd, Jesus said they did not believe. So they clearly had false belief. And that is why no one can come to Jesus unless it has been granted him from the Father. Because although people can change their behavior, they can mimic the actions of true belief, no one can change their own heart. Right? I mean, if you look at your heart You don't have the power to change your own affections and desires. Only God can do that as a a work of regeneration inside you. So that's a warning for us. You know, being around this church, uh, even you know, even being in this class and and uh doing the right things, that that will not change our hearts. Right, just your mere presence here is not going to change your heart. You have to hear and accept the words of Jesus and obey them. And that's that's something you can't just sort of tune out and um and hand off to to like the teachers or or the the rest of the church. You have to be looking at your own heart and making sure that you are being changed, you that you are accepting Jesus' words and and obeying them. Yeah, trials are are one of the one of two things that will threaten to tear you away from from the vine, you know, to that will tempt you to leave. A trial will come along and you'll be Yeah, you'll be thinking, how can God love me, or how can he be good, you know, or how can he be sovereign in control of this situation and let this terrible thing happen? Um And yeah, you have to be ready to preach Jesus' words and God's word to your heart and remind yourself that yes, he is good, and that he is working all things together for the good of those who love him. and are called according to his purpose. And that these light and momentary afflictions with the eternal weight of glory that He has for us. So that's that's one of the two things. The other thing that will that will draw you away and tempt you to to leave Christ is um blessings Right. The uh the cares and enticements of the world. I'm thinking of the parable of the sower when he throws the seed. Uh you know, the seed on the path never really is open to hearing the word. Um the seed that that grows up and bears fruit, that's the true believers. But there are two kinds of seed that get sort of robbed and and and fall away. Uh one falls on the on the rocky soil and when a trial comes, it's uh it has no root. The other seed falls in the thorns and it grows up for a while, but then the the riches of life come and choke it out Right? So trials can lead you away, but but riches and blessings can also lead you away because it can make you think you don't need God and you don't don't have to pay attention to him. So those are the the two kind of things you've got to be on guard against and ready to handle, ready to preach to yourself and and to others who are going through those things. Okay, and then in verse so verse 66 we see we see the result of this unbelief, this false belief. The result is um that many of his disciples withdrew and were not walking with him anymore. So this proves that they were false believers because they left. They weren't willing to stick with Jesus and submit to his authority and accept his difficult teachings. And the Father hadn't drawn them. So I think it's important to notice here that Jesus, although he's the most compassionate man that you could ever pretty m ever imagine. Um, you know, and he he his heart just you can just see his heart going out to people who are in need. But even still He's not afraid to drive people away. Right? His compassion doesn't mean that he's a people pleaser. It doesn't mean that he just wants to only say things that are going to make people feel good Right. He's not afraid to drive people away. He wants to expose people's hearts. If there's unbelief in that in that person's heart, he wants to expose that because that's ultimately for their good. You know, may who knows, maybe they'll they'll examine themselves and eventually repent and and truly believe. But Jesus is willing to do that. He's willing to expose people's hearts and expose um unbelief from from true belief, even if it costs him followers. Right? That's not his main goal. His main goal is not to get as many followers as possible. He his main goal is to expose people's hearts. So that he can save sinners. Um and remember, Jesus already knows whose faith is true and whose is false Yeah. He's he doesn't need to he doesn't need a test in order to know for himself who's a true and who's a false believer. He's doing this for their benefit. He's exposing people's hearts so that they can know And they have an opportunity to to repent and be saved. Okay, so real quick, let's turn to why true believers stay Okay, so number one, first reason why true believers stay is that they know Jesus has the answers. They know Jesus has the answers. Look at verse 67 and 68 Jesus said therefore to the twelve, now this is this is the twelve disciples, his sort of hand-picked closest group of followers, you do not want to go away also, do you? So just pause. He's not asking this again because he he wants to know. He already knows. The text has just said that he already knows um who's who is going to follow him and who's going to fall away. Um so he's not asking this question for information, he's asking this to draw out their response and expose their hearts. And so Simon Peter answered him. Simon Peter often is the spokesman of the twelve. He He often like represents them in his words. Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have words of eternal life. So I want to take that second sentence of his first. You have words of eternal life. The reason that they're saying, these twelve disciples, is because they know that Jesus is the only one with the answers. He's the only one who can address their problems that they know they have. Right? They know, and all true believers know, that they're under God's wrath. Right? We know that. We know that So I'll just quickly write down a couple of notes. So we know that we're under God's wrath. We know that this is our main problem. You know, that we have sinned against God, and because of that we justly face judgment. All true believers know this. The twelve knew this, and um they knew that only Jesus could tell them how to escape God's wrath. Only Jesus can do that for them. Uh also, as true believers, we know that Death is our enemy. Death is not just a natural, normal part of life. It's not part of God's design for how we were supposed to live. Or, you know, who we were supposed to be. Death is is closely connected to the wrath of God. It's the result of His judgment, His condemnation on us for our sinful lives. So we know that Um we need deliverance from death and we know that Jesus and the twelve, these true believers, know that Jesus is the only one who has the answer for how to escape death Because he said earlier, I will uh like in verse 54, he who eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. So Jesus is the one promising resurrection. He's the only one promising resurrection. He's the only one with a way out of death. Another thing that he and only he has answers for is regeneration, being born of the Spirit So the twelve, they know, and all true believers know, that we do not act as God intended us to act. Right. Even if even if we had our sins canceled and forgiven and paid for, that still would not be the end of our problems because we would still have the principle of sin living in us that makes us want to do evil, want to disobey God, want to act selfishly. So the problem is not just an external problem that we have sin on our ledger It's the an internal problem that we have sin in our hearts, and the only one who has the answer for how to deal with that is Jesus. Right? He's the only one who can tell us how to be born of the Spirit, how to have our hearts changed so that we don't want to sin anymore, but we want to live as God made us to live. He's the only one who can tell us that. And he's the only one who can tell us how to enter the kingdom of God. So the twelve know, and all true believers know that we are not living in the kingdom of God right now. We are outside of the kingdom. We are not in God's blessed realm. You know, we're not we're not in uh the place where all tears are wiped away, where all pain and death has ceased. We want to get there. We want to get to God's kingdom, the place where we will be forever with Him, worshiping Him, free from all death and pain, and all that. And only Jesus can tell us how to get into the kingdom. Right, so these these are things that Jesus has preached about so far throughout the Gospel of John. And I think that these are the things, these are the kind of things that Peter and the twelve have in mind. When they say you have words of eternal life. You're the only one, Jesus, who can tell us how to escape wrath and death and how to be regenerated in our hearts and how to enter the kingdom of God. You're the only one So very closely connected with the true believers knowing that Jesus has the answers is they know that no one else has the answers. They don't just know that Jesus has an answer for these things, for how to get these things. They they know he has the only answer. Right. Uh and that's evident in uh in Peter's first sentence and his response. You know, when Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? Who else can we go to? Who else is going to address these things? You know, like no no other religion and no other religious leader is going to tell you how to escape from the wrath of God Most other religions in the world are not even conscious of the wrath of God. Right? That's not the focus of of most world religions. The problem that they're trying to solve is not how to escape from God's wrath. It's like how to escape from pain and suffering, or how to escape from the veil of illusion that rests on you. in this life. You know, they're they're just they're not even they don't even get the diagnosis right. Uh much less the cure. Nobody can tell us how no other religion can tell us how to escape the wrath of God Uh no other uh no other person has the power to raise us up on the last day You know, you might be in a relationship and you know, like really excited about about your relationship, about your your girlfriend or your boyfriend, or even your spouse, you know. But that person is not gonna raise you up on the last day. They're not gonna save you from death. Only Jesus is going to do that. And nobody else in the history of the world would even claim to be able to resurrect you from the dead. Not in the way Jesus means. You know, these days there are people, uh scientists who want to achieve immortality, by which they mean like um stop the aging process. But That's not even the kind of eternal life and resurrection that Jesus is talking about. He's talking about being raised in a glorified body that not only will never die, but can never be hurt and responds and interacts with the created world in the way that God originally intended us to. That's a whole another subject. But um You know, a lot of us are excited about uh about our job, you know, about getting out there doing something great for our career or making a lot of money. But y your job and your salary, that's not going to cause you to be born again of the Spirit. That's not going to change your heart and make you able to live as God designed you to live Um and nobody else, your friends, your parents, nobody else is gonna get you into the kingdom of God. Nobody else is going to tell you how to get to the country that your soul is longing to be a part of. So nobody else has the answers. Not only does Jesus have the answers, he's the only one. Nobody else has them And then closely related to the reason why people leave, the third reason why true believers stay is that God has opened their eyes. So once again there's there's human level explanation here for why true believers stay. There's a divine level explanation too, and this one takes a little bit more to see Look at verse 69. And we have believed and have come to know that you are the Holy One of God. This is still Peter speaking Alright, so he makes this confession. He sees through to the core identity of Jesus. You are the Holy One of God. You are divine. You are you are with God and you've come down From him. So they recognize, they correctly recognize Jesus' divine authority and his divine nature. But they don't just do that because they're super smart or perceptive. Right? Compare this to the other time that Peter gets it right with his big confession of who Jesus is. That's in Matthew 16, verses 15 through 17. You don't have to turn there, I'll just read it. Um, Jesus said to his disciples, he's talking to the twelve, but who do you yourselves say that I am? And Simon Peter answered, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus said to him, Blessed are you, Simon Bar Jonah. Because flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. Right? So e so Even when a true believer gets it right, you know, understands for real the identity of Jesus as the Messiah, it's not because that person is smart or has, you know somehow had special insight on their own power. It's because the Lord, His Father in Heaven, has revealed it to them Right, these these kinds of things are spiritually discerned and can't be understood without the illumination of the Holy Spirit. So their belief, the twelve, they stay, they stay because they know Jesus has the answers and they know nobody else does, but On another level, they stay because the Father has granted them to understand who Jesus is and what his mission is. Right? The Father has granted to them to understand that Jesus is God in the flesh and and to hear and accept his teaching Now it would be great if the chapter ended there, right, with a with a triumph for the twelve disciples. Um But Jesus does not let it end there. I think it's you know, sometimes I look at Jesus and I say, wow, it would be kinda hard to follow him because like he doesn't even give them a congratulations for getting it right He doesn't say, Oh nice job. Wow, that was perceptive, you know, like uh because he knows it was it was not them who realized it, it was the father who granted them to realize it. But look what he says in verse seventy Jesus answered them, Did I myself not choose you, the twelve? And yet one of you is a devil. So he's like, I'm not going to make this easy on you. I'm going to I'm going to leave you with a warning. Um his point though is not to be harsh with them. He's not you know, he's not just trying to like pour cold water on their confession. His point is to warn them that even being in the inner circle is not enough to guarantee that their faith is true. Look at Judas. He's in the twelve. He's in the inner circle until the very end when he goes and betrays Jesus. So, in other words, just because you're physically here, you're physically staying with me, doesn't mean your heart is remaining in me, like a branch in the vine. Right? It's not about the physical stuff. It's not about the outward characteristics of who you are or what you're doing. It's about the heart. Your heart needs to remain in me and needs to feast on me. Because remember, he's the bread of life. So Jesus doesn't want his disciples to rest on any supposed status. you know, as being part of the twelve or any of their accomplishments. He wants them to continue examining their hearts. Because only those who treat Jesus as the bread of life that comes down out of heaven and gives life to the world will remain to the very end. So, three quick applications before we have to go. Number one, we have to test ourselves. Test yourself. That's what Jesus wants of his followers Test yourself. This is echoed in a couple places in in the New Testament. 2 Corinthians 13, 5, Paul says, test yourselves to see if you are in the faith. Examine yourselves, or do you not recognize this about yourselves, that Jesus Christ is in you, unless indeed you fail the test? You've got to test yourself. Or 2 Peter 1. 10. Therefore, brothers and sisters, be all the more diligent to make certain about his calling and choice of you. So that text in particular recognizes that it's God who chooses, but we have to be diligent to make certain that we are chosen of God. It's kind of hard to wrap your mind around, but we have a role to play in this. We have to be diligent. We have to test ourselves. Is your belief in Jesus true or false? Is your belief in Jesus self-serving and convenient and superficial? Are you believing in Jesus because of what you get out of it? Or are you willing to forsake all others and take up your cross and follow him like he demanded of you? You have to test yourself. And closely along with that, don't trust in the flesh. This is the second application. Don't trust in the flesh. Remember, the flesh profits nothing. And by the flesh, Jesus means everything that you do and everything that you are in terms of your status. Right? Being at a good church will not guarantee that you have true heart-changing faith. Growing up in a Christian home will not guarantee that you have true heart-changing faith Being baptized won't do that for you. Praying a prayer one time will not do that for you. Um you know, if you have just if you've prayed a prayer um and you know that and said, Jesus save me, a sinner, but you didn't really understand that in your heart and and mean that and repent of your sin in an ongoing way, that one prayer is not going to save you. Right. And I'll just add, hiding your sins from other people and concealing them and pretending to be a nice righteous person at church is not going to save you either. It's not going to give you true heart-changing faith. So test yourself. Don't trust in the flesh, in any of your accomplishments or any of your status. Remember, God has to grant you the ability to believe. Right? So if you are if you're feeling anxious about this or convicted about this Remember that God is the one who has to open your eyes. So cry out to Him for deliverance, for help, for faith. Be like the guy who was who said, Lord, I believe, help my unbelief. It's not wrong to ask God for faith. Faith is a gift from him. So this is where you can start. You know, if you're feeling if you're questioning your salvation, if you're examining yourself and saying, I don't know if I have it, if I have true faith, start by crying out to God and asking for it. Okay. Any questions? Yeah. I was just for one thought on the uh the the piece we're uh in this section of John Six where he talks about human flesh and blood. Yeah. The purpose of it, and not only is it here, it's in other places, the purpose is to weed out true delivery research. You see that also in If you do not hate your mother and father, you're not one of my disciples because it really means I have to go hate my father dad. Nobody wants to see where your heart is. Rich young rich young rule. You have to sell everything. in both of these in all three of these cases he's using that analogy to separate out the true Absolutely. Yeah that was Jesus' main point in most of his teaching was to expose people's hearts and say, like, are you here, I'm gonna help you examine yourself. Are you really uh my follower? Yeah. Yeah.