Yeah, so it was huge. And the implications were not lost on the audience, right? In verse eighteen it says, For this cause therefore the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him Because he not only was breaking the Sabbath, but also was calling God his own father, making himself equal with God. So everyone knew what he was saying. It's not like it went over their heads. They all knew that he was making himself equal to God and claiming to be God. And so the Jewish leaders were seeking to kill him. And this morning we're going to talk, we're going to go through the next 11 verses, John 5, 19 through 29. And I've titled this, Jesus Preaches His Gospel. And I think this is super important because I don't know if you guys have ever been in this position, but like when I was in college, I took a couple of classes. um on the Bible and on on Jesus, you know, on the on the Gospels, uh from professors who were not Christians And I also read a lot of books on the subject. And the common attitude of these professors and those who wrote the books was uh was like this. Uh Jesus, he was just a man. He was a good moral teacher who taught us to love people. The today's church has encrusted all this stuff about him being God and the gospel according of of being saved from your sins. They've taken that and they've like packed it on to to the real Jesus after the fact But if you look at the at his actual teachings and his actual uh life, you see that uh he wasn't really teaching about salvation. Uh he wasn't teaching that he was God, he was just He was um, you know, uh a humanist or uh like a social justice warrior or a revolutionary or or just a nice guy. Like uh like any other religious leader. This was the main thesis of all these classes and books that I was encountering in college. And so there's this idea that like the real historical Jesus was this was this sort of not very extraordinary humanist. Uh and and all the stuff about him being God, all the stuff about the gospel, about being saved from our sins, was stuff that the church kind of added on to him later And this really bothered me. I don't know how how many of you have have ever heard this kind of idea, right, or encountered it in some of your classes. Yeah, I mean yeah, did it did it bother you? Like uh or were you able to pretty much see that it was uh that it was not true? Um well they would selectively go through the bio. They would apply something called higher criticism. which is a process where scholars try to determine which passages of the Gospels or a particular text were original and which were added later And they do this by um you know comparing like writing styles and uh like theological ideas and And it's very subjective, very, very almost circular. You have to kind of assume that certain theological ideas weren't present in Jesus' writing. And then whenever you see that, you say, oh, this was added later Right, but how you're just assuming what you're trying to prove. Uh yes. Yeah, yeah. Right. I mean isn't that just such a a clear example of how two people can look at the same evidence and draw opposite conclusions conclusions, right? Because we say, yeah, he was there at exactly the right time, exactly the right place, had exactly the right birth, you know, the right genealogy. He did exactly the right things. He um you know, the conditions were perfect for him to preach the gospel and to um you know initiate the next phase of God's plan. Yes, all that is true because God engineered it that way, right? Like, you know, if um if it was just a wildly improbable accident. Like, uh, okay, yeah, you can conclude that, but like, you know, how how much yeah, what what else can you say? Well you just kinda cut your cut your arm off uh by by saying everything everything is just an accident. Right. Um anyway, yeah, so this idea is out there, right? The idea that um that Jesus didn't really preach the gospel. The gospel as we know it is just sort of a later a later idea that was sort of forced back into Jesus' words. But Uh I want to show you today from this passage that in a very public and memorable address to a large crowd, Jesus himself presented his own understanding of who he was, that he was God's equal who had come to save spiritually dead sinners by faith alone and give them new life. Right. So that that's the core of of I'm going to argue that's the core of what he says in verses nineteen through twenty-nine. And that's basically the gospel. as we know it, from the lips of Jesus himself, in front of the biggest crowd that you could assemble in in that day and age. So this was done in public in front of everybody, not in a corner, not in a private upper room discussion. So basically the what I'm going to argue today is that he preached the same gospel as the apostles preached, and that the early church preached and that we know today. Uh okay, so let's go in and read those verses. Who wants to read John five, nineteen through twenty-nine for me? Okay. I think do you think that's a good question? Thank you Yeah, so it might not be immediately obvious that this is a gospel presentation, but I think if you look at the structure of the passage as indicated by the grammar, then you see the gospel presentation according to Jesus really pop out. So if you notice this this expression truly, truly Alright, how many of you notice d how many times does it occur in this passage? Twenty-four, twenty-five. Yeah, so three times, right? Three times Jesus says, truly, truly. Now that expression, it basically just means Listen to what I'm going to say. Listen up. This is important. Right? It's an emphasis expression. So I think that really is the backbone on which Jesus' whole speech Hangs. Right. He's got three truths that that anchor his gospel presentation and anchor our hope in him. So the first The first one of those truly truly is I'm going to summarize as I and the Father are one. I and the Father I can't write Yeah, this is gonna be verses nineteen and through twenty three. So this this I'm arguing is the point of Jesus' first section where he goes truly, truly he says, Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of himself unless it is something He sees the Father doing. His point in these several verses is that he and the Father are one. He is equal to the Father. And in this section, he offers six Proofs or demonstration. Demonstration. That Jesus perfectly submits his will to the Father's will. That's his first evidence that he and the Father are one. Look at verse 19. Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of himself unless it is something he sees the Father doing. For whatever the Father does, these things the Son also does in like manner. And so he's saying, I perfectly submit my will to the Father. Right? I uh Um I can do nothing of myself unless it is something I see my father doing. So I don't go beyond my father's will at all. That, you know, what is it called when we go beyond the will of God, when we do something that's outside the will of God Yeah, it's a particular kind of sin, right? There's there's two kinds of sin. There's sins of commission, right, which is when we go outside the will of God and do something that we shouldn't. So Jesus is saying, I don't do anything outside of my Father's will. I don't do any sins of commission. There's a dip there's another kind of sin though. What's what's the opposite? Omission. Omission. Sins of omission, right? That's when we what is the sin of omission? Uh, yeah. That I would argue is is often, you know, for for people like us who who sort of know the Bible, that's often the sins that we commit, or sins of omission not doing what we ought to do. But Jesus here says, I don't leave anything undone in the Father's will. Whatever the Father does, these things the Son also does in like manner. So he doesn't have any sins of omission either Right? So the point here is that his perfect submission to the will of the Father is the basis of his sinlessness. Right? That's why Jesus is sinless. That's uh because he perfectly submits his will to the Father. And um this is really important because if he's going to be our Savior, if he's going to uh make this gospel presentation make any sense. He has to be the sinless savior. So that he's setting that up here. So submission, that's the first proof of I and the Father are one. To save space, I'm gonna go horizontal here. The uh the second proof that Jesus offers that he and the father are one is love. It's that Jesus is hey Dave I'm talking about Jesus is the object of the Father's special love. Look at verse 20. Look at the very first part of verse 20. For the father loves the son. You say, well, God loves everyone, right? But no, this is this is God loving the son in a unique way in which he doesn't love anybody else. Because look at what he does For the Father loves the Son and shows him all things that he himself is doing. He doesn't do that with everybody else. He doesn't come to us and show us his complete plan for salvation, but he does that with the Son. So the Father is demonstrating here his unique special love for Jesus by sharing knowledge of his will. And so the idea here is that is that because of the Father's unique love for Jesus, the Father involves Jesus in everything that he's doing, right? He he brings him in to sort of run the family business. Which, you know, the family business of a godhead is is everything. Uh so he's bringing him in to to he to run to know and run the family business. Um And it also implies that he trusts Jesus to carry out his will. The Father wouldn't show Jesus what he's doing unless he trusted Jesus to take that vision and implement it. So it conveys an intimacy but also a trust there. And this is very much like a later passage. in the Gospel of John, when Jesus is talking to his disciples in the upper room before he gets crucified, he extends this same kind of love to them. In John 15, 15, he says, No longer do I call you slaves, for the slave does not know what his master is doing, but I have called you friends, for all things that I have heard from my Father I have made known to you Right, so uh the love that God the Father has for the Son is shown by Him by Him revealing all this knowledge of His will to His Son. And then Jesus, the Son, takes that same love as in as shown in the revealing of knowledge and applies it to us, to his disciples, right? He brings us into the family business so that we're no longer called slaves, we're called friends because we know what he's doing. Um so the Father has a special and unique love for Jesus at this point here Um and the third proof that Jesus offers That he is one with the Father and equal to the Father is knowledge. Right, this is in the same verse. It's very, very closely related. So it's verse twenty For the Father loves the Son and shows him all things that he himself is doing. And the Father will show him greater works than these so that you will marvel. So that love and knowledge are intimately connected in the Bible. Like if you if you go through and study the word knowledge or to know throughout scripture. It's almost a synonym for to love. To know is to love. And because the Father has this unique love for Jesus, Jesus is the only one who knows the Father's will to this extent. Him, God showing his will to Jesus is a demonstration of his unique love for him. And this is important because if Jesus did not perfectly know the Father's will, would he be able to perfectly do the Father's will? No. Right. So so this is super important. He has to have this knowledge. He has to have this unique, full knowledge of the will of God in or in order to be the sinless savior. Right, so that's this is another way that he's setting himself up as having the qualifications to save us. Uh right. He's saying I'm equal to God in uh and I'm one with God because I submit my will to him, because he loves me uniquely, because I know all everything that he knows Um all right, fourth one, fourth proof. Power So Jesus holds the Father's full power over life and death. That's the point of verse 21. So look at it with me. Oh, by the way, I should have mentioned this earlier. You notice that verse 19, Jesus starts off with truly, truly. And then every verse uh after that for the next three, he starts with the word for. Right? Twenty verse twenty was for the Father loves the Son. Verse twenty one, now is for just as the Father raises the dead. So this word for That's a grammatical clue, right? The word for links this statement to what went before. And it shows that Jesus is really unpacking and giving explanations for what he said first. Um so that's why I'm calling these these six proofs, because you know the grammar of the passage really makes it clear that Jesus is giving he's giving supporting arguments for what he said, which is essentially that I am equal to the Father. Anyway, so verse 21 is about power. For just as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, even so the Son also gives life to whom he wishes. This is connected back to the end of verse 20, right, where Jesus said, um He will and greater works than these will he show will the Father show the Son, so that you may marvel. For just as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, even so the Son also gives life to whom he wishes So the greater works that are going to make them marvel have to do with raising the dead. That's what Jesus is saying. And notice that Jesus in this verse, he takes it for granted that the Father raises the dead. The Father, he says, just as the Father raises the dead, that's the assumption, Father raises the dead and gives them life. Even so, the Son also gives life to whom he wishes Now, um, you know, of course we believe that the Father raises the dead uh because we're we're explicitly taught that in the New Testament and and we've sort of grown up learning about the resurrection of Jesus. But Back in this day, the resurrection of the dead was actually a controversial doctrine in in first century Judaism. You guys might know this, but there were there were sort of two main uh sects of of Judaism among the sort of ruling class. There were the Pharisees and the Sadducees. The Pharisees were in the majority, and the Sadducees were in the minority, but the Sadducees still had a lot of power and influence. They were kind of the elites And the Sadducees, they did not accept as Scripture anything outside of the first five books of the Bible. Right. So they they accepted the Pentateuch written by Moses as scripture, but they rejected all the later prophets as being inspired by God. And that's where most of the teaching in the Old Testament on the resurrection comes, is in those later prophets. Now Jesus fully accepted those later prophets as divine revelation. And so and he so he doesn't like he's not trying to argue this point here. He's saying, no, the Old Testament teaches about resurrection Uh and just as the father raises the dead and gives them life, so the son does too. So he kind of assumes the point. But this would have been a little bit controversial, uh, one of the controversies of the day, to his hearing. But the point here, he's not addressing that controversy. He's just saying that he has in himself the full power to give life to dead people. And this is because it's grounded in the fact that he was also fully present and participating at the creation of the first life. Remember, this is the Gospel of John, which opens with these words. All things came into being through him, and apart from him, nothing came into being that has come into being. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. So Jesus was there at creation. He was with God from the beginning, from all eternity. And he was there when the first life was given to the first man. So, because he has that power, he also has the power to give life to the dead, to give the second life. And so that's that's largely what he's saying here is that uh just as the father has this power You know, he had the power to give first life, he also has the power to give second life. The son is equal to the father in that respect. He he was there at creation, had the power to give first life, he also has the power to give second life And this is really important for us, and the reason that he's bringing this out now, I would argue, is that his power over life and death means that he has the strength to rescue us. That's why this is important here. He's using all these ways of equality with the Father to set up his qualifications for being our Savior, as we'll see in a moment. Right. Um so with everything we should think about these things and say, okay, how does this equip Jesus to be our Savior? And his power over life and death is crucial because that's what we need to be saved from, is death. Okay, fifth proof that Jesus is giving for his equality with the Father, his oneness with the Father, his authority. Jesus exercises the Father's full authority over us And that is what he's saying in verse 22. He says, for, there's that word for again. You know, so he's giving another reason, another explanation for his equality with the Father. For not even the father judges anyone, but he has given all judgment to the Son. Now this is a pretty amazing statement, right? The Father intrinsically has all this authority, right? He's the one he's our judge. Uh you know, he has that authority in himself to judge our conduct, to judge our life, because he created us, right? He created us for his own purposes. And so he's the one to whom we are accountable. But he's taken all that authority and he's delegated all of it to his son. So now Jesus has all the authority to judge human beings. So that's the degree to which God trusts Jesus. God the Father trusts Jesus to completely, justly judge every human being. And this has a couple of important implications, right? So because the Father gave all judgment to the Son, no one can go around Jesus by some other way to get to the Father. Right, so let's imagine even if it were possible, even if it were possible for someone to uh sort of make their way to God apart from Jesus. you know, work really hard, climb that mountain, get to God, um and and say, God, here I am. God would say to them, I'm sorry, I've given all my authority to judge you to my son. You have to go talk to him. That's that's the implication here. Jesus is the one we have to appeal to, and he's the only one that we can appeal to. to to have mercy on us. He holds the keys to releasing us from God's judgment. And what's really amazing about this in the scriptures is that he's also the one that bears the punishment. for our sin, right? In in human courts you would never expect the judge to be under any sort of In any danger of experiencing the consequences or the punishment of the crime that was committed. The judge is exempt, right? The judge is neutral. The judge is not in any danger. Um it's the it's the defendant who is either innocent or guilty and could bear the the consequences of the crime But in God's economy, in God's plan, he made it so that the one who bears all the sin, all the consequences of sin, is the same one who actually has all the authority to judge And this is amazing and it's really I mean it should make us very thankful because who better to judge than the perfect one who has borne all the consequences of sin. How much more like he's not ever going to, you could never accuse Jesus of condemning people to something that he has not experienced himself. He's never he knows what it feels like to receive the wrath of God. So he's not going to take lightly his responsibility to judge people. He knows exactly what he's doing when he judges people. And he's the most merciful and compassionate judge that you could imagine because he's experienced the punishment. himself. So so his judgment is is is beyond question. It's just uh because of his not only because of his sinlessness, but because of his empathy. Right, the the experience that he's had of being under the wrath of God. Um Um so anyway, I just think that's cool. It's totally unexpected for human justice for the judge to have empathy, but it's it it really illustrates the wisdom of God's plan. And then finally, uh very closely connected with authority, the last proof That Jesus gives that he is equal with the Father. Or the last way in which He shows He is one with the Father is in the way of honor. Jesus shares completely in the Father's honor. Look at verse twenty-three. Um so this is giving the reason for that uh we'll read verse twenty-two and twenty-three. For not even the Father judges anyone, but he has given all judgment to the Son, so that so why has God given all judgment to the Son? So that all will honor the Son, even as they honor the Father. He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him. So the Father's goal in giving Jesus all this power and authority. is so that everyone on earth will honor the sun. So this is yet another demonstration of the Father's love for the Son. He wants he wants this good thing, the honor of all the world, to go to the Son But it also implies that it is impossible to honor God without honoring Jesus. Right. He says he who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him. So there are a lot of you know, there are a lot of religions uh and Not even formal religions, there are there are a lot of uh people around the world who claim to honor God, right? But but who don't honor Jesus as God. But anyone who claims to know and follow God without acknowledging Jesus as equal to God is actually dishonoring God. That's what Jesus is saying here. You know, we talked a lot about uh moralistic therapeutic deism back in our uh in our worldviews course last quarter. And so moralistic therapeutic deism, remember, they believe uh that worldview believes in something called God. That's not really the same as the biblical God. But uh you know, moralistic therapeutic deists would say, yeah, I honor God. I I honor God in my life. I do good things. But generally there's no acknowledgement of Jesus, and certainly not that he is God or that he is the only one with the authority to judge people. So anyone who really follows that worldview of moralistic therapeutic deism isn't honoring God because they're not honoring Jesus. They're not honoring Jesus as equal to God, as the one with the sole authority to judge, like God So, in these verses, these five verses here, Jesus, I argue, he's making the point that he and the Father are one. He is equal to the Father In all these ways. And he's setting that up. He's highlighting these ways in which he's equal to the Father because they relate to his ability to save people. And that's what we move into for the second truth. The second truth that anchors to use this gospel is that I have rescued you And this is very twenty four So verse 24 starts again with this truly, truly, this, hey, listen up, pay attention. I say to you, he who hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. And does not come into judgment, but has passed out of death and into life. And here is uh here is a very uh compact and very dense presentation of the gospel, of salvation, of rescue. Right? Jesus has this verse is saying three things about Jesus' rescue of us. He's rescued us from something. to something and through something. So we're gonna take this uh verse backwards And see what he's rescued us from first. He's rescuing us from death and judgment. So look at the last part of the verse. So he who believes in me uh has eternal life and does not come into judgment, but has passed out of death into life So death and judgment, these are our great enemies, right? So what he's implying here, he's he says, the person who believes in me does not come into judgment. That implies that we otherwise would be headed for judgment Right, so so that's the track that people are on is headed towards judgment. But anyone who believe who hears the words of the Son and believes him who sent him is not headed for judgment, does not come into judgment, but has passed out of death into life. So passing out of death into life implies that we started off in death. Right? We start off in death. If we do these things, if we believe him, we pass out of death into life. So we start off under this death sentence, under judgment, and we pass out of those things into life. We are saved from death and judgment. And judgment and death, these two things go together because it's judgment. It's God's wrath that actually is what makes death a fearful thing. Right, if death were just death, if death were just the cessation of bodily function, it wouldn't be that fearful of a thing. Right? If we just died and ceased to exist, that wouldn't really be something to be afraid of. But it's not that's not uh what makes death terrifying. What makes death terrifying is that if we are not saved, we experience God's wrath, his judgment. That's the way Jesus is using the word death here. He's saying, if you pass out of death into life, you do not come under judgment. And it's that judgment, it's that wrath of God that makes death a fearful thing. So that's what he saved us from. What he saved us to Is eternal life. And that's the core of the sentence In verse 24. Truly, truly, I say to you, he who hears my word and believes in him who sent me has eternal life and does not come into judgment, but is passed out of death into life. So the grammatical core of this sentence, the subject is he, and the verb is has, and the direct object is eternal life. So he has eternal life. is the grammatical core of this sentence. That's the main point of what is being said here. Jesus is teaching that we have in the present tense eternal life if we believe in him. And notice he doesn't use the future tense. He doesn't say, he who believes in me will have eternal life. He says, he who believes in me has eternal life. Uh so it's a done deal. It's something that he's already accomplished for us. And that's that's our future, right? Eternal life. As opposed to death, as opposed to being under God's judgment and wrath, eternal life is being free to live in God's presence and enjoy Him Being on God's good side. That's forever. That's eternal life. And so He saved us from death and judgment. He saved us to eternal life. And he saved us through something. Yeah, through faith in himself. Notice he says, what's the qualification, right? Uh verse twenty-four. Yeah. He who hears my word and believes him who sent me. Right. So it's kind of two things, but I don't think these are really two different things. I think this is one qualification. Right. Those those who hear and believe Jesus, who hear Jesus' words and believe the Father who sent him. Uh so we could we could phrase that a different way. We could say like, what does that require? Hearing and believing. Well, it requires believing that Jesus is God's chosen messenger, right? If we are to believe him who sent Jesus then we have to believe that Jesus is the one sent. He's the messenger. He's the chosen messenger of God. And that's what he's arguing of here in in the first five verses. is look, I am equal to the Father. I perfectly know that my Father's will. I perfectly do my Father's will. I have all of His authority. I have all of His power. You have to believe me because I am Him You know, I and the Father are one, I am equal with him. So we have to believe that Jesus is God's chosen messenger. We have to believe that the words that He speaks to us are His are God's chosen message. Right? Notice the the emphasis that Jesus puts on his word here. He says, I say to you, he who hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. We have to pay close attention to the words of Jesus and we have to consider them as a message, not just a message, but the message from God. Is carried in Jesus' words. So we have to believe that Jesus is God's chosen messenger. We have to treat his message like the word of God. We have to obey that message. Right, that's what the believe part means here. And we've seen this in throughout John's Gospel. John uses this word believe. In a couple of different ways, right? There's the there's the weak belief that's just like interest, but then there's the real belief which is Obedience, right? I hear and I believe and I obey and I worship. That's the kind of belief that he's talking about here. We need to not just hear and believe the words. We need to obey them. We need to obey the words that Jesus says. As Peter says in the next chapter, when he's talking to Jesus, He says, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have words of eternal life. And we have already believed and come to know that you are the Holy One of God. We have to say the same thing, basically. Jesus, you're the Holy One of God. You have the words of eternal life. That's basically what he's saying here. He who hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. So his word is connected to having eternal life. And it's necessary for us to believe that Jesus is the Holy One of God because it's the basis of His power to save us. You see how faith in himself and his word bring is what is the basis for for having eternal life. Right, this is the gospel. This is the gospel that we know. This is the gospel that we've believed. And this is right in Jesus' words here to everyone in front of the the whole Jewish people in the temple. He's preaching this. So the gospel is not something that we've just made up and forced on it later. It's something that's found directly in Jesus' own words. And oh man, okay, we have ten minutes left. We might be able to get through this. The third truth. The third truth. Super important. And we may have to talk more about it next time The third truth is that I have guaranteed Your new life So if he just stopped here, that would be, I mean, you could argue that would be a complete gospel presentation. Jesus said, I'm God. I'm equal with God. I have all the power and authority to save you. I have rescued you if you believe in me. Complete gospel. But he goes on to add a third thing, which I think is really important because can you see eternal life? Right? Can I look at you guys and say, oh, you're saved, you're saved, I see the eternal life there, oh not saved, you know, like you we cannot look at people and see that they have eternal life. We can't look at ourselves and see if we have eternal life I mean the Bible does tell us that we should be diligent in examining ourselves to see if we're in the faith. We should be looking for evidence of our salvation in a changed heart, changed affections towards God changed behavior, like the increasing fruits of the Spirit evident in our lives, right? We should be looking for that. But at the end of the day we can't actually see whether we have eternal life or not. Jesus is saying How do you know you have eternal life if you've believed in me? How do you know you are saved? I have guaranteed it for you. Look at verse 25. And this is the last, truly, truly. This is the third truly truly. So he says, truly, truly, listen up, pay attention. I say to you, an hour is coming and now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear shall live. So he's making the point here in this verse that and he's basically restating that uh Dead spiritually dead people, like all of us were before we were saved, shall hear the word, the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear shall live. And then in the next four verses He's gonna give three guarantees for how we can know that this is true. But first I need to I need to sort of um justify why I think that this verse twenty-five here is talking about spiritual regeneration. Because it sounds like it's talking about resurrection. It says He says, An hour is coming and now is when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear shall live. How do we know he's not talking about the resurrection of the dead here? How do we know he's talking about salvation and spiritual regeneration? Yeah. Yeah, the verse before the immediate context, the preceding verse is about salvation, clearly, right? Passing uh not coming into judgment, passing out of death into life. This is uh sorry, Lily, did you? Uh-huh. Yeah, no no. So there's a huge there's a there's a a parallel and almost a contrast here between verse 25 and 2829. So look down at 2829. Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming in which all who are in the tombs shall hear his voice. and shall come forth. Those who did the good deeds to a resurrection of life, those who committed the evil deeds to a resurrection of judgment. Yeah, there's the warning, right? Um So I would argue that these verses, they're not stating exactly the same thing. They're drawing a contrast between verse 25 is talking about salvation unto like spiritual regeneration unto salvation. And verse 28-29 is talking about physical resurrection unto either eternal life or judgment, depending on whether you have been spiritually regenerated. And I would like to prove that to you in a couple of ways. Let's see. This is a little bit out of order. Well, so one of the ways is that if you look at that phrase, an hour is coming and now is, have we heard that before? Maybe think back uh three or four weeks to a previous lesson. In John 4, when Jesus is talking to the Samaritan woman, he says, an hour is coming and is now here. Well, an hour's coming in now is when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and in truth. For such people the Father seeks to be his worshipers. Right. It's the same phrase, it's the same exact the hour is coming and now is um that he uses here and there So in in that passage, right, in John four, he's clearly talking about spiritual regeneration, right? Worshiping the Father in spirit and in truth. That's something that's a function of salvation. So I would argue that the use of that particular phrase really connects that idea with this verse 25. Right, so i in in chapter in John four with the Samaritan woman he's talking about spiritual regeneration when he uses that phrase. And here when he uses the same phrase, I think he's still talking about spiritual regeneration When the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear shall live. Notice in verse 28-29, it's not quite the same phrase. He says An hour is coming in which all who are in the tomb shall hear his voice. He leaves off what And is now here. And is now here. That's another clue. That verse twenty-eight and twenty-nine, which I'm arguing is talking about physical resurrection, is entirely in the future Right? The time for physical erection is not physical physical resurrection is not now. It's in the future. But in verse 25, the time for spiritual regeneration is now. Now that I'm here, now that Jesus is here, we can um we can hear the voice of the Son of God and live. Uh so that's that's another another piece of evidence that uh 25 is talking about spiritual regeneration and 28-29 is talking about physical resurrection. Another one is that uh verse 28 and 29 talk uses the word tombs. Right? An hour is coming in which all who are in the tomb shall hear his voice. Whereas verse 25 just says, the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God. So in the dead, it could mean, you know, based on the way Jesus has used life and death, it could just mean uh just. It could mean spiritual, spiritually dead. But if you're talking about if he says those in the tombs, that doesn't just mean spiritually dead people. That means like physical corpses. You put physical corpses in tombs, you don't put spiritually dead people in tombs. There is a distinction for sure. Yeah. Between two different groups of people. Yeah. Do you know if in the Greek and Hebrew the word tomb is still tomb? Uh or just great. So like for example, like in my Jewish position from like What we know about archaeology, the elite were buried into So if the audience here is the Pharisees, uh they would have an immediate picture to draw upon. Like, oh, I know where I'm gonna be buried when I Oh interesting. But the word tomb is just is associated with that type of bougie burial. Whereas common people would literally just be throwing That's a good point. I don't know I have not looked into the Greek word there. Very expensive. Yeah. And that's why Jesus was very much a good thing. Yeah Lazarus is in his tune. I don't know, he might have been rich. I'm not sure. Well, okay, so there's so so God set it up that way. So he didn't have to dig the ground. Open it up. Walk right out. Uh-huh. You like been a little awkward if he had to go like full zombie and like poke his hand out of the ground. Yeah. Come on, stream. Oh yeah. Come on south out. Alright, so I'm arguing I'm arguing that that the second time he says this, he's talking about physical resurrection. The first time he says it, he's talking about spiritual rebirth. Um the the last two points in favor of this is in the second one he mentions two resurrections, right? In verse twenty eight and twenty-nine he says those who did the good deeds to a resurrection of life and those who committed the evil deeds to a resurrection of judgment. So that is that is a characteristic of the physical resurrection. Everyone In the whole world, everyone who's ever lived will be physically resurrected. And those who believed in Jesus will be resurrected to eternal life. Those who did not will be resurrected to God's judgment. So even if you die unbelieved, you're not escape the judgment. Right. And Yeah, you that's why Revelation calls it the second death. Because there's this resurrection even of the unrighteous, um the unbelievers Right, and and don't let good deeds and evil deeds throw you off, because you know in the context of the passage, uh the good deeds that Jesus is talking about is hearing the words of the Son of God and believing him who sent him Okay, so that's that's what good deeds mean. It doesn't it doesn't mean people who you know did all their righteous works like the Pharisees. It means those who believed uh the Son and believed the Father who sent him. And then finally, verse 28 and 29 actually use the literal word resurrection, whereas verse 25 does not. Okay, so why is that important? Why is it important to draw that distinction? We are out of time. But uh it's important because in 25 Jesus is saying, you have Eternal life. You know, the the hour is here when the spiritually dead people are hearing the word of God and they are living. They are having new birth. The guarantees that Jesus gives for that hidden new life that we can't see are threefold. He says I have the power to give life. I have the authority to judge you as righteous, and I'm going to show it by physically raising people from the dead. That's why it's important that verse 28 and 29 are talking about physical resurrection, because they are the sign and the seal. The physical resurrections that Jesus performed and underwent himself are the sign and the seal Of our actual spiritual regeneration, and that's what we're gonna have to talk about next time