And without actually studying it, then I'm doing you a disservice. So I decided that uh what I want to do is start alternating quarters uh between studying the actual scriptures and talking about some uh another topic like apologetics. So we did we essentially just did an apologetics quarter with worldviews So this quarter I want to go back to looking at John, the the Gospel of John, which is what Pastor Kirby was teaching on before he left. So yeah, this quarter we're going to go back into John. And I don't expect us to finish the Book of John. I don't expect us to even get halfway through the Book of John. But we're gonna we're gonna take our time and we're going to go through uh verse by verse and we're gonna see what we can learn. Uh this is a wonderful gospel. And as Pastor Kirby said, it's the gospel of belief, right? It's the gospel that was written so that we may know that Jesus is the Son of God. So I think it's a really important one to study. So who who remembers way back in I want to say um July or August. What was the last piece of the Gospel of John that Pastor Kirby talked about? Anyway? Nicodemus. Yeah, yeah, that's right. Nicodemus. It was John three. I think uh Pastor Kirby finished John three. So we're gonna be in John four today. It's a great chapter, yeah. But I want to give some background on the previous chapter just to sort of set our set the context up in our minds. Yes? Yes. Um I'm sorry I was late. Oh yeah, no problem. Yeah, I I think uh it was I had a hard time finding the room this morning. I don't know about anybody else, but um this is Anisha, right? Um And uh so welcome, Anisha. Welcome to the class. Oh also, I guess we should do this too. I have some books that uh Jen ordered as well to do them. to you and um so you'll handle the distribution and everything. Okay. So John chapter three Two big things happened in John chapter three. We already mentioned Nicodemus, right? So what was um warn Amy. So when Nicodemus came to Jesus He came to him at night and was asking questions, but then Jesus kind of took that conversation uh on a hard left turn and confronted Nicodemus. With his spiritual need, right? With his need to be born again. Nicodemus responded to this how? Yeah. Yeah, he responded with confusion, maybe some incredulity. Uh not not really with faith, right? He didn't he didn't get what Jesus was saying. He didn't accept it Uh at least not then. There's evidence that he later became a follower of Christ, um, but probably not during this conversation. Uh Nicodemus, he thought that he was automatically in the kingdom of God by virtue of being born a Jew and and living a life as a Pharisee. He thought he was just he thought he was a shoe and he thought he was like the first in line to get in the gate of the kingdom. But Jesus said, No, no, that's not the way you enter the kingdom. You can't even get in unless you are born again, unless the Lord Himself transforms your heart. So that's important context for the chapter that we're going to look at is that teaching that Jesus gave to Nicodemus and Nicodemus's response of confusion and unbelief. So, but there's another thing that happened in chapter 3 after Nicodemus. So later in that chapter, John the Baptist's disciples come up to him. And they inform him that Jesus is now baptizing more people than they are. And, you know, maybe they're like, eh, come on Jesus is winning, we've got to step up our game. I'm not sure. But John responds to them and he says, I am not the Christ, but I have been sent ahead of him. He must increase, but I must decrease. That was what he uh responded. He's like, this is not a competition. I'm not here to steal the glory of the Messiah. I'm here to point to him. So it's good that I'm decreasing so that he can increase. And this may have been the last recorded statement of John the Baptist's public ministry. And in the end of what he says, he tells the people, he tells his disciples and everyone listening to listen to Jesus. That's his last word Listen to Jesus. Why? Because he alone comes from the Father and speaks the words of the Father. According to John, everyone will be judged by how they respond to Jesus. Jesus. That's his message. Pay attention to Jesus because you will be judged by how you respond to him. He says, He who believes in the Son has eternal life, but he who does not obey the Son will not see life But the wrath of God abides on him. So this is the primary message of the Gospel of John. How you respond to Jesus is what determines how God judges you. Only by believing and obeying Jesus can you be saved and enter the kingdom of God. So that's um that's John the Baptist's last message. That is the setup. for John chapter four, where we encounter this this pretty famous story of Jesus and the Samaritan woman at the well. And uh uh in Sikar. Um but before before we get to that story we have a little bit of transitional material to do So we're turning to chapter four, and this chapter records the response of several more people to Jesus. We saw the response of Nicodemus. Now we're going to see several more people responding to Jesus And as we read the chapter, I would like you all to be thinking about how your response to Jesus compares and contrasts with the various people that we're going to look at. Okay, we might only get to uh get halfway through the chapter today, but um be thinking about your response to Jesus and to his words. Um um and how it compares with with the different people that we see in John chapter four. Okay. So The first three verses are really sort of transitional material describing, you know, Jesus was in Jerusalem, in Judea, and he's now deciding to go somewhere else. Now we're gonna we're gonna take a look at those, but basically throughout this chapter we see this amazing thing about Jesus, and that is that he is thinking on a completely different level than the people around him. Right. He is he has his mind on the things of God and so that sometimes makes his actions and statements a little bit confusing. Because they don't seem to make sense in human terms. But the key to understanding what Jesus is doing and saying is to understand that he's thinking in terms of God's perspective and God's plan and God's priorities So it it'll make sense if we if we just think of God's values and God's salvation plan when we look at Jesus' actions. So uh here's what I mean. Can I get somebody to read John four verses one through three? Sure. Oh, Devon, yeah. I think I think you might have missed the verse two. Alright, so it was in those parentheses. The parentheses, yeah. Oh oh yeah. No it's it's in there. It's in it's in the actual text. I didn't want to read that in this site sound not to read. Uh sad notes. I didn't know. But I I see it now. Alright, cool. Okay. So this is kind of yeah, it's kind of a confusingly worded section. It's like when the Lord knew that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples, right? It's like a uh he knew that they knew kind of thing. Right. So so this this on on the uh you know on his face this kind of doesn't make a lot of sense. It's like why would Jesus care whether the Pharisees knew or not? Hey Doug Oh uh sure. Yeah. No problem. So yeah, when when Jesus uh so why would why would Jesus care what the Pharisees knew and and did didn't know. And why would that make him leave Judea? So this is where a little bit of historical context really helps. So at this time in in Jesus' day, the Pharisees and everyone else were on the lookout for the Messiah. Right? There was a huge messianic expectation among the people in in um in Judea at that time. And the Pharisees had sort of appointed themselves the evaluators and authenticators of the Messiah's identity. Right? They were, they said, okay, we're the relig religious leaders, so uh we're gonna go out, and anyone who is attracting a lot of followers and might be the Messiah, we're gonna go evaluate his ministry and we're either going to you know approve or reject this guy. And, you know, presumably or or ostensibly They uh had this duty as the religious leaders to sort of protect the people from false messiahs. But really it seems like their motive was to to manage the messiah and to make sure that the messiah didn't threaten their position of authority and power in in that society. They didn't want the messiah to come along and And disrupt this great setup that they had where they were leading Jewish society under Roman rule and they had a lot of wealth and privilege and power. Alright, so they were they were looking uh they were looking for the Messiah and um they wanted to sort of control and manage him. All right, so They did this with John the Baptist, right? They thought they came up to him and said, tell us plainly, are you the Christ? That's why they did that. Um so tha that's why they were up in John the Baptist's faith asking him if he was the Christ. And John the Baptist was like, No, I'm not the Christ. I've already told you I'm I'm not him. But um You know, so his answer was a resounding no. And the Pharisees responded, anybody remember what they said? Then why do you Why do you baptize people if you're not the Christ? Why are you doing that? And he you remember what he said I baptize with water, but there's coming another one after me whose sandals I'm not worthy to untie, who will baptize with what? The Holy Spirit and fire. Right. And the the Gospel of John just says the Holy Spirit, but if you um you read parallel passages in Matthew And I think Luke, um, John responds that he will baptize with the Holy Spirit and with fire. We'll talk about that in a second. So the Pharisees were doing this. They were looking for the Messiah in an attempt to control and manage him. And John had denied being the Messiah and he had pointed to Jesus as the Messiah. So Jesus accepted this, right? He accepted that recognition from John, but he didn't really want to publicly embrace this title of Messiah. Why do you think that would be? Well, it's not I mean a lot of s critical scholars have seized on this and said, oh, you know, Jesus he didn't want the title of Messiah. He never claimed to be God. He was just a good moral teacher and um you know he just wanted to teach people to love each other. But that's not it. Later elsewhere we'll see even later in this chapter He proclaims himself actively to as the Messiah. And he uh throughout the Gospel of John and the other Gospels, he makes claim to being the Son of God, to being able to forgive sins So it's not that. It's not that he's rejecting the identity of the Messiah. It's just that he's rejecting this title. That the people had kind of twisted into this false expectation of what the Messiah would be. Right? So you guys know in first century uh Israel This messianic expectation, everybody was waiting for the Messiah. Were they waiting for the Messiah because they wanted desperately to be saved from their sins and sanctified? Why were they waiting eagerly for the Messiah? Yes, they were waiting for the Messiah to come and lead a revolution and kick the Romans out of the country and usher in this era of Jewish national independence and and even dominance, you know. So that's what they were looking forward to. Yes, Jeff. That's a great point. He never submits to the religious authority of the Pharisees because they're They have set themselves up and they've set up their human tradition in the place of God's law. So he never actually accepts the legitimacy of their of their religious leadership. He yeah, he gets his authority directly from the father. That's a great point. Uh but and it's also that he doesn't want to take on this title of the Messiah because that means revolutionary. That means political and military leader. It doesn't mean in the people's minds savior from sin. And that's what he wants to be known as. He wants to be the Messiah that saves from sins, not the messiah that defeats the Romans. It would be sort of like, you know, these days in in Germany, politicians are reluctant to adopt the title that in English means leader, because in German that word is Fuhrer. Right? Fuhrer just means leader. Why would no German politician want to be called the Fuhrer? Association with Hitler, yeah, the word has been poisoned in people's minds, right? That's what happened to the word Messiah in first century Israel. It got poisoned in people's minds. And so Jesus was like, No, I'm not going to take that title on and falsely lead people to the expectation. of of revolution. There's yet another reason why Jesus doesn't want to, why, why the fact that the Pharisees are now turning their attention to it. Him. So that yeah, the Pharisees are turning their attention from John to Jesus because Jesus' followers are baptizing more people than John. And there's another reason why that makes Jesus decide to leave. And that's because he knows that first of all, he knows that he came to die, right? He didn't just come to teach, he came to actually die for our sins. And he knows that that death is going to be brought about because of a conflict with the Pharisees and the religious leaders. Throughout the Gospels you see him saying, you know, Jesus knew that it was not yet his time, so he withdrew from that. Right. He he knew that ultimately he would come into conflict with the Pharisees, and that would lead to his crucifixion. And he he knew though that he had three three and a half more years of ministry left to do. So He said, uh, okay, the Pharisees are starting to turn their attention to me. It's not my time yet. I'm going to leave. I'm going to withdraw from Judea and go back to Galilee Um so the other question that these short three verses uh raise for us is why was Jesus not baptizing? It says in verse two in that parenthetical, although Jesus himself was not baptizing, but his disciples were. Why? Why was Jesus not baptizing? And it has to do with what we said earlier, right? When the Pharisees asked John, why do you baptize? Yeah, yeah. Jesus it's it wasn't Jesus' role to baptize with water. That was John's role. And it was Jesus' disciples' role. Because what does water baptism represent? What does it point to? Yeah, it points to death, burial, and resurrection. Um that's sort of the the outward. What about So and then internally it it points to repentance, right? Um so that's they go together, right? Like we repent because we recognize that we are under judgment because of our sin, right? We deserve that death and that burial. So water baptism is for repentance. In fact, that's what John said. I baptize you with water for repentance. But he The Christ will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire. So do you guys remember what Pastor Kirby said about this baptism with the Holy Spirit and with fire? So what does that mean? If water baptism means repentance, what is baptism with the Holy Spirit and with fire? Um yes. Uh although I think I think here there's it's a it's a contrast between the Holy Spirit and fire. It's not a single baptism with both the Holy Spirit and with fire. It's I'm going to baptize one group with the Holy Spirit and another group with fire. Sorry it's not like we could be fired. Right, yeah. So that's that's Jesus' role. His role is not to baptize with water for repentance. His role is he's the judge, right? He brings either the Holy Spirit, which is regeneration for those who are saved, or he brings the judgment of fire for those who are not saved. Right. That Uh the buck stops with Jesus, right? Those who baptize with water for repentance, we're just we're we're pointing people towards Christ. The repentance is supposed to is supposed to call people to change their minds and turn away from their sins so that so that they can uh be baptized with the Holy Spirit instead of with fire. Alright, so that's why Jesus wasn't baptizing with water, because it's not his that's not his role in God's plan. His role in God's plan is special and unique. It's this baptism with the Holy Spirit and fire. You would have had people you would have had like, you know, five hundred people saying, I was baptized by Christ, okay, so I'm like super Christian. You all gotta listen to me. I think in Catholicism the water has a holy holy role. Yeah. But it's just like tap water in a Pyrex dish or whatever. So like what's really holy about this place. Yeah. There is so so that is maybe a thing that we'll talk about I forget I think I was gonna hit on that um later in this lesson. But yeah, the in in uh Roman Catholicism They focus a lot of attention on sacraments. You guys know what a sacrament is? What's the definition of a sacrament? You don't know it. Thank you for that, honesty. Um it shares the same root word as sacrifice, but it it doesn't actually That's one of them. Uh Amy? There are seven sacraments Yeah, I don't know them off the top of my head, but Math is one of them where where Catholics believe that the the literal physical body and blood of Christ is present in the bread and the wine. Confession is another one, last rites, marriage. So the definition of a sacrament though is a channel through which grace gets deposited in you like money in a bank account. So sacraments, the concept of sacraments presupposes this view of grace, that it is a substance. like money or water, right? That can be that can be poured into a container and you know when when you pour it in you can also pour it out and use it up. You can run out of it or you can be full of it. And that so it presupposes that view of grace. And then if but and so on that view of grace, you need to be filled, constantly refilled with grace by participating in these sacraments. And then you spend that grace that you received through the sacraments to pay for your sins and the sins of others. So do we believe in sacraments? Why not? Mm-hmm. Yeah, so all these things are true. We when we are born again, that only happens once, right? Our spiritual rebirth only happens once Later in this chapter, Jesus is going to tell the Samaritan woman, you know, you need to come and ask me for a drink, because anyone who gets the living water that I give him will never be thirsty again, but will but it will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life. Right? Once you are filled with the Spirit, you never get emptied. Um it's so the reason we don't believe in sacraments is because we don't believe in that picture of grace as a substance like money or like water, right? It's not Or you know, like normal water. It's um it's not that we have to it's not that we have like a bank account of grace that we need to recharge and we spend it to forgive our sins. That's not at all how grace is. Grace is a character trait of God, right? It's an attribute of God. I mean we wouldn't say that about about any other attribute of God. Like we wouldn't say that God's holiness could be like expended and and drawn down. um and depleted. Like he doesn't or or his justice, right? He doesn't diminish his justice by administering justice to us. It's a character trick of his. And so grace is not a substance, it's it's an attitude of God, of and it's an attitude of favor towards us when we don't deserve it. Uh yes, Devon? Yeah, supply and demand it would it would become cheap, right? Yeah, yeah. Right, right. Yeah. That's right. Yeah, it would become like a cynical kind of marketplace thing, right? Where you got people who control all the all the faucets of grace. Right. And you've got to come to me and you've got to pay me the money or you know give me the devotion and I'll I'll open the tab of grace for you. Indulgences. Indulgences are a prime example of that. Yep. Mm-hmm. Right. Purgatory. Yeah, it's a reinvention of of the the legalism of the Pharisees. Um Jesus came to repudiate. And free us from. Right. So I just uh wanted to go off on that tangent just uh because it's really important for us to have a correct view of what grade Grace is God's favorable attitude toward us that He shows us when we don't deserve any favor. And the grace with which He saves us is effective once and for all. We don't need to we don't don't need to go back and receive salvation all over again. Um let's see, where are we okay, so now uh after that that little transitional piece of the first three verses there, now we turn to probably the the more famous part of this chapter. Which is the story of Jesus and the Samaritan woman at the well. Yeah, it's a good one. It's a good one. So it's often called the Woman at the Well, right? But really it should be called Jesus at the Well or Jesus and the Well. woman at the well because the main point of this story is actually not about the Samaritan woman primarily, right? It's not about her coming to faith, although that's an important part of the story. It's not even really, you know, some some treat this as as like an instruction manual on how to do evangelism, like how to share the gospel with people. It's not really that either. You know, there are things about Jesus' approach that we should certainly emulate, but there are also things that we can't, like his omniscience and his prophetic capacity. It's really about Jesus. It's about Jesus and who He is and how He demonstrates uh his identity as the messiah in this in this incredibly like winsome and um also convicting way Alright, so uh it's about Jesus doing the work of his father, overcoming significant barriers between him and this woman, to proclaim himself as the Messiah and to confront the woman's sin in love and in truth. And this encounter it changes her life, and it changes the lives of uh her countrymen and the people in the city of Sikar, and uh it deeply satisfies Jesus. Because it is what God sent him to do. Alright, so that's what we're going to be looking for in this. Can somebody read for me verses 4 through 26? I'm sorry? No, that's me. I don't want it to be dissected then. Oh, yeah, I mean we're gonna we're gonna break it up for sure, but I want to just read the whole thing. Um Four through twenty-six. Okay. Can we do it? Yeah. And you have to pass through some area So he came to a city of Samaria called Zakar, near the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph. And Jacob's well was there. So Jesus, being waried from his journey, was sitting thus by the way. Well, it was about the sixth hour. There came a woman of Samaria to draw water. Jesus said to her, Give me a drink. For his disciples had gone away to the city to buy food. Therefore the Samaritan woman said to him, How is it that you, being a Jew, ask me for a drink since I am a Samaritan woman? For Jews have no dealings. Jesus answered and said to her, If you knew the gifts of God and who it is, who it is who says to you, Give me a drink, you would have asked him and he would have given you living Water. She said to him, Sir, you have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. Where then do you get that living water? You are not greater than our father Jacob, and you who gave us the well and drank of it himself, and his son sons and his cattle. Jesus answered and said to her, Everyone who drinks of this water will thirst again. But whoever drinks of the water that I will give him shall never thirst. But the water that I will give him will become in him a well of water Springing up to eternal life. The woman said to him, Sir, give me this water so I will not be thirsty, nor come all the ways to here to draw. He said to her, Go call your husband and come here. The woman answered and said, I have no husband. Jesus said to her, You have correctly said, I have no husband. For you have had five husbands, and this one whom you now have is not your husband. This you have said truly. The woman said to him, Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. Our fathers worship in this mountain, and you people say that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship. Jesus said to her, Woman, leave me, an hour is coming when neither in this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father. You worship what you do not know. We worship what we know, for salvation is from the Jews. But an hour is coming, and now it is, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit And truth. For such people the Father seeks to be his worshipers. God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship him, worship in spirit. The woman said to him, I know that the Messiah is coming, he who is called Christ. When that one comes, he will declare all things to us. Jesus said to her, I who speak to you and he. Thank you. Yeah, so I just wanted to read the whole story at once. I mean it's not even the whole story. It's like half of it. But uh I wanted to read that whole thing at once so that we should get a broad overview. But now we're going to go back and we're going to step through verse by verse. and look at it. And I call this uh section Jesus Reveals His Identity as the Messiah, because I think that's what this is really about. That's what it's building towards is that that climax in verse 26 where Jesus said to her, I who speak to you am He. But start back at verse four. It says, and he had to pass through Samaria. So there it's true that the the shortest route from Judea to Galilee, uh which is where he was starting from and going, did pass through Samaria, right? So in that sense, um you know, he he he may have had to pass through Samaria because it was the shortest path. But uh it's we know that there was so much hatred between Jews and Samaritans of that day that many Jews would actually choose not to pass through Samaria when they were going from Judea to Galilee. There were routes around, right? He could have gone uh by the the Mediterranean coast um to the west or he could have gone around the Jordan by the east. And this was common especially for uh like the Pharisees to do, right? The Pharisees wanted to prove their righteousness and demonstrate it to everybody. So they they were like, we're not going to associate with those filthy Samaritans. We're just we're going to go the extra mile, so to speak, and and go around. So Jesus could have done that. It's not that it's not that he had to pass through Samaria out of physical necessity. Um it was it was probably more that he discerned his father had work for him to do in Samaria. Right. We'll see later in in like verse 34. Jesus says to his disciples, My food is to do the will of Him who sent me and to accomplish His work. He's deeply satisfied by sharing the gospel and proclaiming his identity to this woman. So he probably knew in his in his divinity that God had work for him to do in Samaria. So he felt this internal compulsion he had to pass through Samaria. Alright, that that I think is what what it means here in verse four. And then in verse five, so he came to a city of Samaria called Sikar, near the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph, and Jacob's well was there. So Jesus, being wearied from his journey, was sitting thus by the well. It was about the sixth hour. So sixth hour is uh our six o'clock p. m. Right, John is using the the Roman time system probably here. So this is the end of the day. It's dinner time. Jesus has been walking all day, right? So he's he's tired. It even it says that here, right? He's wearied from his journey. So In in a chapter where we see so much of Jesus' divinity, I think it's it's really great that this that John included this note about his humanity. He got tired. He was thirsty. He was hungry. He was fully a man. He had a fully human body and he felt all these things that we feel. Um and you know I think it's it's significant that um that he comes to his his first encounter uh with a Samaritan person where he's going to proclaim his identity and share uh the gospel and and the message of salvation. He comes to that encounter when he's exhausted. Uh that's often true of us as well. You know, when when God brings opportunities into our life to to serve him, either by sharing the gospel or by doing some work of ministry in the church, helping someone in need, usually we're exhausted too. You know, like we're we're stretched to our our breaking point in some way. And and we think, really God, now? You know, why would you do this now? And um you know, part of the answer is that uh God wants his strength to be made perfect in our weakness. You know, he doesn't want us to be Serving in our strength to our glory. He wants us to be serving in his strength to his glory. But it's really helpful to be able to look at Jesus as the model for how to do this. You know, if you look, if you read all the gospels, Jesus never put his own needs before the needs of the people he was ministering to. He never said, I'm too tired to serve you today. Or, you know, I'm really hungry, just let me eat first. Um, you know, when after John the Baptist had been executed and his disciples had just come back from uh the the sort of missionary journey he had sent them out on. He was trying to go up on the mountain to be alone with them and debrief them and have this, you know, this long-awaited conversation with his friends. But the crowd followed him around the lake. And he didn't say, you know, guys, I've served you enough, just go away. He didn't say that. He ministered to them for another whole day and then fed them miraculously. That was the feeding of the five thousand. So, Jesus, although he was fully human and had the same exhaustion and hunger and thirst and stuff that we do, he never indulged in self-pity and he showed us an example of how to serve the Lord um with with selflessness, right? Putting others' interests above our own. That's really hard to do, but Um I it's really important that he did that because you know it's not like he's asking us to do something that he knows nothing about. Right. In Hebrews it says, we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weakness, but we have one who has been tempted in every way, just as we are, and yet was without sin. So Jesus, yeah, he asks us, he commands us to do hard things. But he's done all these hard things himself, and he supplies the power and the grace by his spirit for us to do them. He said that ultimate super truck. Yeah. Yeah. That's right, yeah. And he says his food is to do the will of Him who sent him, right? So yeah, he is getting that that kind of charge, you know, from from doing the will of God. Walking in the spirit. Energizer bunny. Sorry. I'm I'm a dad. Uh there came a woman of Samaria to draw water. Jesus said to her, Give me a drink, for his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. Therefore the Samaritan woman said to him, How is it that you, being a Jew, ask me for a drink, since I am a Samaritan woman? For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans. Jesus answered and said to her, If you knew the gift of God and who it is who says to you, give me a drink, you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. Okay, so this is the opening exchange between Jesus and the Samaritan woman. Who initiated the conversation? Jesus did. I mean, yeah, it would be kind of unthinkable for her to do that. But I think it's it's still an important point. Like Jesus initiated that conversation. It's a picture of how God works in salvation, right? He doesn't wait for us to come to him He takes the initiative. Remember, salvation is from the Lord. He seeks and saves that which is lost. So Jesus takes the initiative here. He seeks out this interaction. And in doing so, in engaging the Samaritan woman, Jesus breaks down three very important barriers. between himself and her. And so we're going to spend some time talking about those. We don't have a lot of time left. Maybe we'll get through one of them. But I'm going to go past Kirby Style and write an outline here Okay, so uh yes, can I write the other one just so we know that's a good thing? Oh yeah, that's a great idea. So speaking of these these barriers, what worldview does this remind you of? Yeah, critical theory. Why? Why does it remind you of Yeah. Yeah, critical theory as a worldview sees the entire world, every social interaction through the lens of of group identity. We talked a lot about that for like five weeks in the last quarter. So, you know, this is just um a demonstration that critical theory isn't really anything new. group dynamics uh have been shaping social interactions for thousands of years. Uh but you know it would have been easy for uh this interaction either to never have happened or to have gone off the rails because of these group dynamics, but uh we're going to see how Jesus broke through these barriers in love that was tethered to truth. He never denied uh these distinctions. And he didn't um he didn't compromise on the on scripture's view of these different categories, but he did uh pursue this woman in love, and he broke down these barriers. Um in in love as he proclaimed his identity to her. So let's talk about this first one, Jew versus Samaritan. So some historical context is in order here. So you guys know that that the nation of Israel, the the twelve tribes, they were ruled, they were united in a kingdom way back when under three different kings, right? The first king was Saul. The second king was David, and the third king was Solomon. Solomon was the third king. He was the son of David. He was the third and last king to rule over all twelve united tribes of Israel. So what happened after Solomon? Yeah, the nation of Israel split in half, north versus south, right? It was you probably have a map in the back of your Bible. After the split, two of the tribes in the south, Judah and Benjamin, they stayed together and they stayed um with the descendants of David, right? The Solomon's son Rehoboam uh continued to rule over Judah and Benjamin. And that region in the south came to just be known as Judah. And that's where we get the word Jew from, right? The Jews are from Judah. And their capital was Jerusalem, and David's dynasty ruled on that throne for hundreds of years. They'd never changed. Uh so that's where that's where the Jews are from. The ten tribes in the north, they broke off and they were ruled uh first by a guy named Jeroboam and then by a whole bunch of other kings from different dynasties. Like it was it was changing houses uh all the time, pretty much. And that um those ten northern tribes were known uh simply as Israel Right. So when people would say Israel, after the time of this split, they meant the ten northern tribes of Israel. Sometime uh in Israel's history, uh one of the kings founded a city uh or made made uh the city of Samaria the capital of those ten northern tribes. And so Samaria was the capital city. It came to refer not only to the city but also the region around it and sometimes even the whole area of the ten northern tribes. tribes, right? So Samaria is just kind of shorthand for northern the northern half of um Israel after that split. So there's there's Judea or Judah versus Samaria. And after that split, for about 200 years. Both the really both the northern and the southern kingdom uh fell into a lot of idolatry. They rebelled a lot against God. But the north kind of more than the south. at at first. Right. So after two hundred years of those people falling into idolatry, God sent the Assyrian army to conquer Samaria, those those ten northern tribes of Israel. And so the Assyrians conquered them and they took most of the people out of Israel and deported them to somewhere else. I think like Iraq uh modern day Iraq. And they brought other people in to live in that land with the with the Samaritans who remained. All right, so you have this this mixing now, this this uh ethnic mixture of uh native Israelites mixing with foreigners who have been brought in. And that mixing also resulted in syncretism of their religion, like mixing of the of the true worship of Yahweh with the pagan practices of the people who came in. Alright, so so the Samaritans, they they retained some of the knowledge of Yahweh that they had from their heritage, but they also mixed it in with these pagan practices. and polluted the worship of Yahweh that way. So that's you know that's the first seed of of dissension and discord between the Samaritans and the Jews But it goes on. After another roughly 120 years after the Assyrians conquered Samaria, um Judah in the south had sinned so bad and rebelled so so flagrantly against God that God sent the Babylonians to conquer them and to take them into exile and captivity. Alright, so they went into captivity in Babylon. They stayed there for 70 years, and then Persia took over, and the Persian king gave uh the exiles permission to go back to Jerusalem and start rebuilding their city. Right? So here come here come the Jews in Judah, back to Jerusalem. trying to rebuild their city. Meanwhile the Samaritans are this are by now this mixed people who has this sort of syncretistic pagan worship of Yahweh. They're living in the land too. And when when the Jews get back to Jerusalem, the Samaritans come up and whether sincerely or not, I can't tell, they kind of they ask, hey, can we help rebuild the temple? in Jerusalem. And the Jews under Nehemiah say, No, we d we don't want your help uh presumably because they're you know they're essentially pagans worshiping uh who think they're worshiping Yahweh but are actually you know, doing it wrong. And so they're like, no, we don't want your help. We have been given permission to rebuild the temple of Yahweh. We'll do it. We want to do it the right way. And so the Samaritans uh get really mad at this, and they spend the next several years trying to sabotage and intimidate the Jews and derail their rebuilding efforts. And then That conflict just snowballs from there over the next five hundred years into this into this hatred between Jews and Samaritans that we see in the day of Jesus. Right. So by the time of Jesus, um the Jews uh you know think that the Samaritans are are dirty heretics. And the Samaritans think that the the Jews are um stuck up heretics and there's just hatred. So As a result, partially as a result of this hatred, the Samaritans had some very different beliefs from the Jews. So Samaritans, they believed in Yahweh and they accepted the authority of the first five books of the Bible, called the Pentateuch, which were written by Moses. But they rejected anything Jewish about uh the the religion, right? Anything that was from Judah. So the other prophets who wrote the rest of the Old Testament They came from Judah. And so the Samaritans were like, nope, not not real, not inspired. We're gonna reject that. They also rejected the temple at in Jerusalem as the place of worship. Because that was built by the Jews from Judah. And so, you know, again, we reject it. So they they said instead we have to worship on this mountain, Mount Gerizim. Which was an important mountain in the Pentateuch. It was one of the mountains where the people of Israel stood as they were coming into the Promised Land. And they recited the law uh back and forth. And one one mountain would um would shout the curses for disobeying the law, and the other mountain would shout the blessings for following and keeping the law. And I think Mount Gerizim was the blessing mountain. And so they uh the Samaritans thought that that was the place they should worship, not this man-made temple in Jerusalem. Okay, so that's some of the hatred leading to some of the theological differences. between Jews and Samaritans that helps explain what Jesus and this woman were talking about. But it also kind of explains like why this was such a big barrier for Jesus to break down. Right. Um you know we've already seen that often Jews would e would travel around Samaria to avoid even having any contact with Samaritans. So it was very surprising that Jesus would even speak to her, right? That a Jew, a Jewish man would speak to a Samaritan woman. And when he did, when Jesus spoke to the Samaritan woman, he did not treat her with the contempt that she expected from a Jew. That would be the expected tone and mode of dialogue if a Jew ever talked to a Samaritan would be contempt and hostility. But Jesus didn't show that hostility. And she was surprised by that. Rather, he engaged her as a human being, not as a member of a hostile group. Right. He he sort of saw through the Samaritan-ness to the person inside, uh, who was a sinner in need of salvation. That's that's how he primarily saw this woman. Not as a Samaritan, not as a woman even, but as a person who needed salvation. So interestingly, he didn't deny the truth either. Right? He didn't deny the truth that he was a Jew and that she was a Samaritan and that God had um God had ordained different places for Jews and Samaritans in his plan. He didn't deny that, because that was all true. Remember, he said salvation is from the Jews. But he also revealed that God's plan was to reunite Jews and Samaritans in the true worship of the Father. Right? So he he didn't deny what God had done and what and the distinction God had created, but he said there's a more important thing happening. This is, you know, looking on the perspective of God the Father, he's doing a new thing and he's concerned about the heart and about true worship, not about these external things like whether you worship in the temple or on a mountain. Um so the the the main point here though is that while this Jew Samaritan distinction was real and it was important in God's plan, he Jesus did not primarily perceive this woman That's a great question. Um I don't know the answer to that. Yeah. Um well so the boundary I think was was largely determined by um the land that God gave each of the tribes. So the territory of Judah was was the land given to the tribes of Judah and Benjamin, and then the territory of Samaria was um a a piece of the land given to the rest of the tribes. Now, Galilee, it's a little bit complicated because Galilee was a region north of Samaria that was populated by Jews. Um so how did they get there? I don't actually know. I haven't studied the the history that well. But Samaria was kind of sandwiched in between uh Judah with Jerusalem in the south and Galilee in the north. But this this event of Jacob giving um this well or this ground to his son Joseph is recorded in Genesis Uh so it is it's significant in that sense. And the Samaritans would have looked at that and said, Okay, we accept the Pentateuch. Like we're the people of the Pentateuch. This is our heritage, right? Our father Jacob. You'll notice when um The woman responds to Jesus. She says, um, what does it say? You are not greater than our Father Jacob, are you, who gave us the well? And drank of it himself. You know, so it's she's kind of she's kinda got some Samaritan pride, I think, here, right? She's kinda given a a little bit of jab to Jesus. Like, you know You think you're so great because you're a Jew? Well, our father's Jacob. He made this well, you know, he gave it to Joseph. And by the way, Joseph was buried here too. Um that's another significant piece about this this land. When when Joseph uh was sold into slavery down in Egypt and then his brothers and Jacob came down to escape the famine. Uh as he was as Joseph was an old man and was about to die, he told his um his family, hey, keep my bones, don't bury me here in Egypt. But Uh keep my bones and when you when God brings you up out of Egypt and puts you back in the land of Canaan, carry my bones with you and bury so that I can be buried there. And they did. You know, the book of Exodus uh includes a note that when Israel left Egypt during the plague They carried Joseph's bones with them and then they brought him back here uh to this this area of Sikar and buried Joseph there. So this would have been a place with great historical significance. Especially to the Samaritans. It would have sort of anchored their their pride and their conviction that they were they were the right branch of of Judaism. Um because they were, you know, like faithful and connected to the patriarch Totally. Yep. Yeah, it's very close to Mount Gerizim, so it's it's like I don't know half a mile away, I think is what The footnote said. Um, yeah. Yeah, I mean the the conflict between the Jews and the Samaritans is is really fascinating. And especially because you can see it being woven into God's plan. Right, when um when Jesus was resurrected and and and before he ascended to the Father, he said to his disciples, you will be my witnesses. in where? Judea and Samaria and to the ends of the earth. Right? So he didn't just say, you'll be my witnesses to Judea and all the rest of the Gentiles. Right? He said First Judea, because salvation is from the Jews, and then Samaria, you guys will be reunited. It's this recognition that like the Samaritans have a special place. in God's plan and they and that is to be reunited with the Jews and then the ends of the earth. And that that's actually sort of the the pattern, the outline for the book of Acts. is that's how the the spread of the gospel happened. You know, it was in Jerusalem and then Judea and then the persecution drove them out into Samaria and then finally the the door opened to the Gentiles The rest of the world. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, it's like why why those divisions, yeah, exactly. There's so much depth in scripture. You know, it's I think Martin Luther said something like, um, you know, scripture is is shallow enough for a toddler to play in, but deep enough to drown the the smartest theologian