Right. So last time uh we started this uh chapter of John four, uh which you can all start turning there. And Uh we started it off and um after a little bit of introductory material on uh you know why Jesus went left Judea and went to Galilee. Hey Caleb. Then we got into the story of Jesus and the woman at the well in Samaria. And you know, we started off uh this was sort of our outline that we got one third of the way through last time. Uh I said when When Jesus took the initiative to engage with this Samaritan woman at the well, he overcame three really significant barriers. And it's just a picture of how God takes the initiative with us in salvation and overcomes these barriers that we've set up between ourselves and Him. And then he overcomes barriers that we set up between uh between ourselves and and other people. And this is just a picture of God's love, his pursuing love, his initiating love uh with which he reaches out to us and and saves us. Remember, salvation is from God. It doesn't come from us. It comes from God. So just to get um back into the context, let's read John 4, verses 4 through 26. And um yeah, this time I'll break it up. So this uh can I have a volunteer to take um Four versus four through fifteen, and then another one to take sixteen through twenty-six. Who wants to take four through fifteen? Caleb, you got it? Or who wants to take sixteen through twenty-six? John Four. Um P Thank you. Yeah, so last time we talked about this first barrier that Jesus overcame when he uh initiated this interaction with the woman, and that was the barrier of Jew versus Samaritan. And, you know, we did a historical recap of this um centuries-old rivalry and hatred between Jews and Samaritans. that was born out of their different histories and and what happened to each group during the exile. So this was in itself a very significant barrier for Jesus to overcome. And he overcame it not just by like initiating a conversation with a Samaritan woman, but by see by seeing past her Samaritan-ness to a person who needed salvation, right? He he pursued her and he he worked through um he didn't bring up that that Jew versus Samaritan identity or or get hung up on it. When she finally brought it up uh arguably for the third time, then he did respond to it, but he turned the conversation back to spiritual need. um and and salvation, as we'll see in a moment. So that's how Jesus broke through this barrier is um by seeing through the distinction between Jew and Samaritan to the person, the lost sinner who needed salvation. So today we're going to look at the other two. So the second barrier that Jesus overcame in this interaction was the barrier of man versus woman. Now, uh to some extent this this barrier traced back to the curse and the fall, right? When um When God uh pronounced his uh judgment on Adam and Eve for their sin in the garden. He said to the woman that, uh, your desire will be for your husband, but he shall rule over you. And that was kind of an indication of the relationship uh of how sin would affect the relationship between men and women that God had created to be very good in the beginning Um and you know human society really took that and exacerbated that whole uh dynamic. Uh so in Jewish and Greek society at this time of Jesus Those societies were famously hostile and denigrating to women. They considered women second-class citizens inferior to men. For example, they would not accept the testimony of a woman in court. They would not allow women to get education or hold property in most cases. And so there were just a number of ways in which women were treated as second-class citizens by both Greeks and Jews And then in Jewish society, it was improper for men and women to even associate with each other outside of a family context, right? Like if you weren't in the same family. There was no reason for you to be talk for a man to be talking to a woman like Jesus was with this woman at the well. So with that cultural context and historical context in mind The fact that Jesus regularly addressed women in public in his ministry was highly unusual for that day. I think we just sort of skim over that, but just the sheer number of places where the gospels record Jesus asking a question of a woman or responding to a question from a woman. No, you know, other Jewish rabbis of this day would not have done that. This would have been unusual and highly shocking. to those around him. Like we see the disciples later in the story, they're shocked when they come upon Jesus and see him talking to a woman. Part part of that shock is because she's a Samaritan, but part of it was also that she's a woman So what's the difference here between Jesus and the rabbis of the day? Well Jesus, he saw women like men primarily as people made in the image of God and sinners in need of a savior. That's how he primarily saw people. Right? He he did not erase the distinctions uh between people. He didn't ignore uh parts of their identity like their their ethnicity, Jew and Samaritan, or their or their sex, uh male or female. He didn't ignore those things. But he saw beyond that to the fundamental spiritual need that all of us have. So, like we talked about when we were going over the worldview of critical theory, uh there's more in in terms of a biblical view of humanity, there's more that unites us than divides us. Right, what are what are the things that unite us? What are the characteristics of humanity that that everyone shares? Uh emotions. Um emotions, yeah. Like our fundamental constitution, right? We have emotions, we have intellect and will. What's another way of saying all that? Caleb. Yeah, we have five senses. Um go ahead, Jen. Oh Alice, sorry. Yes, exactly. Yeah, this is these are all different ways of stating the same thing, right? It's because we're made in the image of God that we have intellect, emotions, and will, um that we have you know know, sensory perceptions, I mean God doesn't have five senses like we do, but um that's you know, abil the ability to perceive our environment and interact with people in that way is part of the image of God because he's a relational God. Remember, he's triune from the beginning, from eternity. Anyway, yeah, so we're made in the image of God. That's something that all humans share. And that's what that's what primarily came to Jesus' eyes when he uh saw people. That and what's the other characteristic that all humans share that unites us across Group boundaries. It it maybe unites us in not a good way. We're all sinners, yes. We are all dead in our trespasses and sins um without God. We're all enemies of God. So, you know, in a sense we're united in that, right? That that is that is true of all humans. It's not a good place to be. But that also formed the basis for how Jesus saw people. He looked at the Pharisees who were ostensibly righteous. And he looked at tax collectors and prostitutes who were ostensibly more sinful than everyone else, and he saw the same need. He saw the same spiritual need right there. He saw people dead in their sins. Who needed to be saved. So it really it was because of Jesus' knowledge, because of his his biblical worldview, you might say, that that he was able to break down these barriers and and and see people as humans made in the image of God, sinners in need of a savior. Anyway, so That's how Jesus saw people. And the fact that Jesus chose a woman as the first Samaritan to proclaim himself to in in Samaria It really underscores that he considered women of equal worth to men and equally worth pursuing as law sheep in need of saving. Right. He didn't say, oh, you know, I can't I can't use a woman as my first Samaritan convert. I'm gonna go after like an important man, an official of the city or something. But no, he Uh he went after this woman who was ready to understand her own sin and her need for a savior. So Jesus also called women to follow him as disciples, and he expected his male disciples to work alongside women. Alright, this was also revolutionary. In those days, Jewish rabbis would not call female disciples. It was common for for rabbis to call disciples. They would they would go up to um to men who were who did well in the the Torah schools of the day, who did well at memorizing the scriptures, and they would call those those young boys uh or young men to follow them. Uh but they would never call a woman, partially because women were not allowed to go to those Torah schools. They they didn't so they couldn't get the training that a rabbi was looking for. Um but also partly because the culture didn't value uh women. But Jesus did. He called women to follow him. And and the Bible, the gospels record how a bunch of women followed him as his disciples, alongside um the the male disciples that uh That are named uh in in the Gospels. This is really significant. Uh and and what's what else is significant is that he expected his uh male disciples and his female disciples to work alongside each other in ministry. And you know, this is uh not really explicitly present in scripture, but it's kind of implicit in just sort of how how they were traveling around. They uh they didn't have you know, they they would travel around Galilee and Judea. Uh they were on the road all the time and it it wasn't like they had a separate men's camp and a women's camp. And it's not like they had they went to a city and did like a women's event and and then a men's event over here. They were all kind of uh participating in the same ministry together. So I think in the church we need to we need to think carefully and have a healthy balance of these perspectives Because we do need to follow the New Testament scriptures like Titus 2, which commands men to to primarily minister to men in these in these one-on-one intensive discipleship relationships and women to minister primarily to women in those. So so there is a context in which men should be ministering to men and women should be ministering to women. But on the other hand, we should also have ministry in which men and women serve together, right? That the kingdom of God should be not a not a segregated kingdom of men and women in completely different halves of the church, they should be working we should be working together in the ministry like men and women did under Jesus. And also I might add under the church of the the early church of the apostles. So, you know, of course we know that that uh some precautions uh on men and women working together in ministry are necessary because of the weakness of our flesh. We know that we're sinners and we know that we need to uh guard against that. But I think some churches unfortunately take this principle to the extreme Uh, you know, like we we have friends who went to a church where um for for whatever reason in counseling with with this couple, the head pastor would not directly address the woman, he would only speak to the man. um uh you know and and sort of speak about the wife uh in the third person when she was in the room. Now I don't know I don't know his heart, I don't know his actual motive for doing that. So it could be it could be that uh there was some other reason But I think, you know, there's a risk that we in order to um guard ourselves against sin, we we can sometimes set up these these rules and these guardrails and and create this kind of segregation of uh between men and women in the church. And we have to be really careful with that kind of thing Because whenever we set up human rules on top of God's commands in Scripture, we risk what Legalism. Legalism, yeah. Legalism and hypocrisy. Right? We risk legalism, what's legalism? Man-made rules. Yeah, it's essentially like man-made rules. Defining your own standard, right? Setting up your own rules for how for how you evaluate your own righteousness. You know, as a way to earn righteousness and favor before God, which really doesn't work. Uh and then hypocrisy. What's hypocrisy? Um yeah, sort of sort of not practicing what you preach, living outwardly one way, whereas inwardly you have a different attitude, right? Looking uh especially looking righteous on the outside um while while you have a a sinful heart that you're not dealing with. Right, so so we need to be careful because we risk uh getting into legalism and hypocrisy. So instead of relying primarily on things like physical separation, To preserve purity in the church, we need to be pursuing sanctification in our hearts from things like lust and other sins so that we can walk the way Jesus called his disciples to walk. Now, I want to read you a quote from a conservative evangelical scholar named James Borland. And he wrote this quote in a chapter that appears in a book called Recovering Biblical manhood and womanhood. Anyone heard of that book? Jess heard of that book. Alright. It was written in the eighties. Uh so by now it's it's um it's been around for a while. It was edited by two guys uh named Yeah, it's already a classic. Yeah, like Princess Brian. Oh man. That is a great movie. Uh so it's edited by John Piper and Wayne Grudham. Who's heard of those guys? Okay. Yeah. I mean they're they're uh well known pastors and and theologians, very solid, like our church would agree with with most of what they teach. Um and s and in particular our church would definitely agree with with with the view taught in recovering biblical manhood and womanhood. It teaches the it gives scriptural support for the complementarian view of uh male and female, that male and female are equal in worth and in in essence, uh, but they are made to complement one another in God's plan, and so they have different roles in the church So that's the complementarian view that this book supports. So I say all that to say like I'm not quoting from out of left field here, I'm quoting from something that our church would teach. But this this uh conservative evangelical scholar, James Borland, he writes, Jesus' condemnation of the sin of lust was crucial in allowing him and his followers to enjoy social contact as male and female, something nearly foreign to the Jewish mores of his age Jesus said that anyone who looks at a woman lustfully has already committed adultery with her in his heart. So why not separate men and women to avoid temptation as the rabbis practice? Because Jesus came to seek and to save, to teach and to reach. And that included women as well as men. Jesus' disciples were to have a righteousness that surpasses that of the Pharisees. Jesus called upon his disciples to discipline their thoughts rather than to avoid women. Lust does not have to be fed, but can be controlled. Men, I want you to hear this. Lust does not have to be fed, but can be controlled. Jesus demanded such control from his disciples, allowing males and females to associate together and to work in harmony with one another. Although such social contact between the sexes would be unthinkable to first-century rabbis, Jesus' teaching about the sinfulness of lust helps to explain the relationship men and women sustain. Both in his earthly ministry and in the apostolic church, in the early church, women frequently labored together with men. And then he cites three scriptures to support that claim. So yes. Uh Acts six, fourteen and fifteen. Acts sixteen and twelve. Uh Romans sixteen verses three and twelve. And Philippians four verse three. Okay. So the I think I'm pretty sure the ones in Romans and Philippians are him naming specific women who have partnered with him in the gospel. And then the the one in Acts uh was probably the historical account uh historical account of Priscilla and Aquila, although not I haven't looked it up yet. with men. Um working together with men. Because we do talk about um a couple women who did uh Right, yeah. Right. And you know this this is balanced against the command that Paul gives in Titus II that um Yeah, the older women should be teaching the younger women, right? It's not um he you would think like he's writing to Paul is writing to Titus and And he could have easily given the command, Titus, go make sure that the younger women know this and this and this. But no, he says, command the older women to teach the younger women. So there's a balance here. Like we don't want to go too much to one side or the other. But it is true that men and women worked together alongside one another in the early church and in Jesus' ministry. And I I think we shouldn't lose sight of that as a church. I don't think our church has lost sight of that. I think our church does a pretty good job. But you know, certain certain other conservative churches uh have have probably gone off the rails here. Um So just like with ethnicity, he Jesus didn't didn't erase the distinction here between male and female. Um that's that's not really what he did. Uh because for example, uh even though he called women to follow him as his disciples, he only chose men to serve in the positions of authority in his ministry. Um for example, all the the twelve apostles that he chose were men. Um even though he chose women to be the first witnesses of his resurrection. Right. He placed great value on women. Uh he he just recognized that in God's design, uh it was men who were to serve in the roles of positions of authority. So he didn't deny the distinctions, but he did emphasize their equal dignity, their equal worth, their equal access to God the Father And he emphasized their shared image of God. So that is how he overcame this second barrier, man versus woman. Questions before we leave this topic behind? All right, let's talk about that third barrier that Jesus overcame in this encounter with the Samaritan woman at the well. This is the most formidable barrier. The other two we can we can understand and we can feel the significance and the um and the force of them. So we understand that they were significant, Jew versus Samaritan, man versus woman, but God versus sinner is the biggest barrier that Jesus had to overcome here, even though it's the hardest for us to understand. Um yeah, so the whole the barrier between a holy God and a sinful human is significant. And notice that it's the Samaritan woman who brings up these first two um identity differences, right? She is the one who says How is it that you talk to me, a Samaritan woman? That you, a Jew, talk to me a Samaritan woman? So she brought up the fact that she was a Samaritan and that she was a woman Of course, she didn't know originally that Jesus was God, so she couldn't bring up that barrier, but Jesus Hey, come on. Uh you know, Jesus when he responded, he didn't he essentially like didn't pick up on the he didn't take debate on the the Jew versus Samaritan thing or the man versus woman thing. He said Uh he said, Woman, if you knew who it was who asked you for a drink, you would ask him for a drink, right? If you knew who I was Namely, not and he wasn't saying if you knew that I was a Jew or if you knew that I was a man. He was sh he was saying if you knew that I was God in the flesh, you would be ask you would be coming to me. You'd be asking me for a drink. Um so it's Jesus who brings up this barrier of God versus man and he he sort of eases into it, right? He doesn't come out and say Uh woman, I am God in the flesh. I'm the Messiah. No, he he has to get her to see her spiritual need first. Alright, so he introduces this distinction between himself in a subtle way. He's the giver of living water, and she is the the one who needs the living water. And this is the chasm that he came to cross. Men, women, Jews, Samaritans, Gentiles, we all stand condemned in our sin, and we all need this living water of salvation. So and then the next section, it really shows Jesus' persistence in getting to the woman's real spiritual need. through her lack of understanding and even some mild hostility that she kind of throws her way. Alright, so let's uh let's look at verse 11 So uh she said to him, Sir, you have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. Where then do you get that living water? Alright, so so she doesn't get that when Jesus is speaking about living water, he's using a metaphor. She doesn't understand the spiritual nature of his teaching. Now I want to spend a moment just talking about this metaphor of living water. Why does Jesus Um why does he use this metaphor? What is what does that show about salvation? It g it gives life. It gives life, yeah. The source of life, right? Every who needs water? Everyone. Everyone needs water. Yeah. Yeah it's the one thing maybe air is the the one thing that's that you need more immediately and urgently than water, but yeah, water is right is way up there with things that everyone needs urgently and you can't survive for more than a couple of days without it. And um so This is, so he's talking about salvation as living water. The thing, what's different between what's the difference between living water and actual water, physical water? I thought it was Yeah, exactly. So with with physical water, you get thirsty, you drink some water, you feel satisfied, you get thirsty again, you drink water, you feel satisfied. It just goes around and around in a cycle Is that is it that way with living water, with salvation? No, no. How many times can you be saved? Just once. Just once. And once you're saved, God has saved you forever, right? If He has saved you, He has made you a new creation. And So you don't get thirsty again. You don't need to be refreshed with water. Rather, that water that God gives you inside you becomes a what? A spring, yes, a spring that wells up to eternal life. Right? So you you go from someone who needs water to someone who produces water, you know, from within. Right. Uh from a consumer of water to a producer of living water. And uh, you know, so this last time we talked a little bit about uh Um the Catholic view of grace and of sacraments. Does anybody know, remember our discussion then? What what is a sacrament? Yes. Yes, essentially, yes. Right, yeah. So in the Catholic view of grace and sacraments, grace is the substance-like money that can be used in transactions to purchase forgiveness. Right, which um and the sacraments are are the channels through which you receive the grace. Right? That's they're like the money spigot that you go and you turn on the tap and you get you get some grace. But is that a correct view of grace? Would that fit with this with what Jesus says here about living water? No, not at all. Not at all. In the Catholic view, uh if that were true, then you know Jesus would come and he would pour a little bit of living water into you at first when you first get saved. But then every time you sin you lose a little bit of the living water and it and eventually it it runs out. And you need to go back to the priest or to Mass to receive more of that living water. You get thirsty again, essentially. But Jesus says, no, once you receive my living water, you never get thirsty again. In fact, you become a spring of living water that overflows inside you. Right, so it's really important for us to see because I think you know you don't have to be a Catholic to have this sort of unconscious view uh that that grace is like money and that you can get depleted, you your grace account can be depleted and You can be in trouble with God again until you go back and and do something righteous, like go to church. How many of us have have fallen into that kind of thinking before? Yeah, definitely. Me. Me too. But but that's not the way uh that God works. That's not God's salvation. When God saves you He he chooses you, first of all. He seeks you out. Uh he takes out he takes you You who are dead in your transgressions, and he makes you alive in Christ. He makes you a new creation, a fundamentally new person. And that can only happen once. You know, you you can only be born again once. So you don't need to come back and keep keep getting saved over and over again, keep getting born again over and over again. That's um No, once you have been born again and once your your inner person has been changed uh to to desire God and to follow him and love him, then uh you are forgiven. You are saved. And that doesn't mean you don't mess up. It doesn't mean that we don't uh war with the flesh. Sometimes the flesh may win a battle here and there and we sin. But we're still forgiven. It just means that the flesh will not win the war. Right? We will eventually, if we are truly saved, we will eventually be victorious over the flesh. Okay, yeah, so you can learn a lot from just considering what Jesus teaches here about living water. You can learn a lot about salvation. Anyway, but she doesn't understand this yet. She doesn't understand the teaching of the living water. She doesn't even understand that he's talking about spiritual reality. Uh furthermore, the the woman at the well, she injects a little bit of Samaritan pride into this interaction. I think. I think I'm reading this correctly. She says, You are not greater than our father Jacob, are you, who gave us this well? And drank of it himself and his son. So this, remember, the Samaritans were very proud of their connection to the patriarchs Right. They believed in they only believed in the Pentateuch, the first five books of the Bible. They rejected all the the books that were written by prophets from the southern kingdom of Judah. So they were very proud of their connection to this land where Jacob and Joseph lived. And so I think right here she's kind of saying like, you know, are you are you trying to talk down to me as a Jew? Well, remember that we Samaritans are the descendants of Jacob, and this is his land, and he gave us this well, etc. , etc. So, but Jesus doesn't, you know, if this is what's going on, I don't know if I'm reading that correctly, but if this is what's going on, Jesus doesn't take the bait, you know, he doesn't engage in this in this uh sort of ethnic fight. Um But he says, instead, Jesus answered and said to her, Everyone who drinks of this water will thirst again. But whoever drinks of the water that I will give him shall never thirst, but the water that I will give him will become in him a well of water. springing up to eternal life. And we talked about how that's a great picture of salvation. And the woman said to him, Sir, give me this water, so I will not be thirsty, nor come all the way here to draw Right, so she still doesn't get it. She still thinks he's talking about physical water. Yes. Yeah. Yeah, that's a good point. Yeah, this this well does have historical significance for the Samaritans, definitely. Caleb. Yeah, I think it's called a slightly different name now. Um, Um I don't I don't know. I don't know the geography very of the modern day Israel very well. Um that's a good question though. Uh but yeah, it's still there. And and the city's still there, called a different name. Um But you know, the woman, she still doesn't understand that he's using a spiritual metaphor. So Jesus kind of shifts gears here, and he starts more directly calling out her spiritual need. Right, and uh, you know, this is this is where he um invokes some of some of his uh his uh his attributes of deity, right? Like he Here he starts prophesying about events that uh that have happened in this woman's life and using his his omniscience. I think this is another good example of how Jesus did not put aside all of his omniscience when he came to Earth and became a human. Because here, when he speaks to her about her past, he knows things about her that no ordinary stranger could have known. Um So he said to her, Go call your husband and come here. And the woman answered and said, I have no husband. Jesus said to her, You have correctly said, I have no husband, for you have had five husbands And the one whom you now have is not your husband, and this you have said truly. The woman said to him, Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. So, you know, um at the beginning last week when I was introducing this story, I said uh You know, this is not primarily an object lesson in how to evangelize people. Um because although there are some things that we can emulate about Jesus' approach, like the the respect that he showed and the the patience with which he um um sort of bridge these these cultural divides uh with the woman. There are things that we can't emulate about him, right? We can't be omniscient. We can't prophetically speak to people about their sin. um in order to convict them of their spiritual need. But but that's what Jesus did here. And Look at where the woman takes the conversation. She says, Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. So she acknowledges that he's right. But then she changes the subject again. She says, our fathers worshiped in this mountain, and you people say that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship. So I can't tell here. This is another part that it's hard for me to read the tone of this statement. But it seems like she's changing the subject away from her sin and away from her past. She might be throwing another jab in there about Jew versus Samaritan. She might be saying Our fathers worshiped in this mountain, but you people say that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship. This might be slightly hostile. Or she could be saying, wow, okay, this man is clearly a prophet. Now is my chance to ask this burning question that I've always had of Jewish versus Samaritan theology. So it could be an honest question or it could just be a deflection. But either way, Jesus takes her question seriously. You know, he doesn't take offense. Uh there he's he's had now maybe two or three opportunities to take offense at the things that she's said to him, but he doesn't. He shows uh abundant patience in crossing these three divides here. So he takes your question seriously, and in his response, I want you to look carefully at his response. This is a great example of how Jesus doesn't erase the distinction between Jew and Samaritan, but he does transcend the distinction. He does shift the focus back, turn the focus back to what is the more important issue. Which is salvation and people's spiritual need. Okay, so in verse 21, Jesus said to her, Woman, believe me, an hour is coming when neither in this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father You worship what you do not know. We worship what we know, we being the Jews in this in this case. For salvation is from the Jews. But an hour is coming and now is when true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and in truth. For such people the Father seeks to be his worshipers. God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and in truth. So this was one of Jesus' main messages in all of his ministry. Everywhere he went, he was teaching that the kingdom of God is not a matter of outward behavior and appearance like the Pharisees thought. The Pharisees thought if they could be outwardly righteous and convince everybody of their righteousness, that they would be first in line with the kingdom of God. But Jesus was saying, no, the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking. It's not a matter of outward appearance or the location of one's worship. It's a matter of the heart. That is Jesus's, one of Jesus' main messages, is that the kingdom of God is a matter of the heart. And um here that principle comes through as uh you know God he's not glorified merely by external worship, right? Yes, he had commanded the Jews to worship in the temple and to follow certain prescribed uh liturgy and regulations in their worship. And so, you know, in obedience to him, that was good. It was good for them to do those things. But mere external worship does not glorify God. Right, and and for us today, you know, merely showing up in church and singing songs does not glorify God. Right? We know that that true worship has to be done from the heart, it has to be in spirit. and in truth. It has to be done with our minds meditating on God and on what's true about Him and exalting Him for that, not just singing and moving our lips. Right, but uh God is not glorified by merely external worship, but worshiping him in spirit and in truth requires what? What do we have to have before we can worship him? Yeah, we have to be saved. Why? Yeah. Right. Scripture d describes us before we were saved as dead. as enemies of God, hostile to him, engaged in evil deeds, right? How can a person like that worship God in spirit and in truth? We can't. We can't do it So we need a new heart. We need to be regenerated in our hearts before we can actually worship God in spirit and in truth. And that's what he's saying to her here. Right. She keeps wanting to change the subject away from her sin and away from her spiritual need, but she keeps saying or he keeps saying, sorry, what you need is salvation. What you need is a new heart, forgiveness from your sins. And then if you have that, it doesn't matter whether you're in the temple in Jerusalem or on Mount Gerizim. You can worship God in spirit and in truth because you have a regenerated heart So that's why Jesus refers to these worshipers who are going to worship God in spirit and in truth as uh in the future, right? He says, an hour is coming, and now is. Um so he's saying, you know, nobody before this worshiped God in spirit and in truth. Why not? Because was it possible to be regenerated and born again before Christ? No, no, it was not. So um You know, we we do we believe that Old Testament saints, uh, with the revelation that was given to them, looked uh forward to a salvation. that they didn't fully understand. And so they are they're also saved by Christ. But they in their lifetimes they weren't born again and given this regeneration of heart. that Jesus is talking about here. So it wasn't actually possible to worship God in spirit and in truth in the way that Jesus is talking about. And that's why he says An hour is coming when people will do this, right? It hasn't happened yet, but it's coming, and it's now here because I'm here And it's also why Jesus says that the Father is seeking people to worship him. He says, for such people the Father seeks to be his worshipers. This is another pointer to the fact that salvation is from God. It's not the worshipers who seek God to worship him in spirit and truth It's God who seeks us and then saves us and regenerates our hearts so that we can worship in spirit and in truth. God does the seeking. God takes the initiative. Salvation is from God. Um okay, so that's that's what he that's the truth that he's primarily trying to convey to this woman here. Right, he says, you need living water. You have a thirst you don't know about. He says, um you have led a sinful life. You have sin in your heart. He does it gently. He doesn't condemn her, but he points out her sin and convicts her of it. And he says, You don't know how to worship God. Neither do the Jews, but you don't know how to worship God. But there is a way. There is a way that you can worship God. You need to be regenerated in your heart and be made to worship in spirit and in truth. Okay, so questions up to this point. Oh wow. Uh-huh, yeah. Yeah. Uh-huh. Wow. Yeah. All right. Oh yeah, it's such a universal human tendency to devolve to the physical, right? Like to the external appearance and outward behavior and focus on objects and and idols and icons and physical locations and pilgrimages and relics and stuff like that. Like we have to work real hard to preserve the true worship uh of the Father in spirit and in truth. And keep the focus on the heart like Jesus did. So look at how the woman responds now. She says to Jesus, I know that Messiah is coming. This is verse 25. I know that Messiah is coming, he who is called Christ. When that one comes, he will declare all things to us. So, um, you know, I'd I don't know. This seems sort of like the kind of thing you say when you don't know what to say, right? She's she's kind of changing the subject again, but she's on the right track though, right? At least she's talking about the Messiah. And this one surprised me, right? Because I was I would not have expected necessarily the Samaritans to be looking for the Messiah. Because remember, they don't believe in any of the the the Jewish prophets like Isaiah who talks a lot about the Messiah or um Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Daniel. None of those prophets are accepted by the Samaritans as divine revelation. There are a few clues in the Pentateuch, in those first five books of Moses, that a Messiah would come. For example, at the end of Deuteronomy. Moses says, uh prophesies that God in in later days will raise up a prophet like me, like Moses, uh, who will lead you in the right way to go. Right, so um it may be that the Samaritans were looking forward to that prophet like Moses that uh was prophesied in Deuteronomy But then um if any of you were here last week, Pastor Paul Shirley preached a sermon on John 3 uh that in which I learned something that I had never known before, which is that in the chapter right before this one When John left Judea and went to a new place to baptize, where was that new place that he went? It was Samaria. He went to Samaria. Right? He went to uh presumably to prepare the Samaritans to prepare like he had prepared a way for Jesus in Judea. Now Jesus was known in Judea, so he went to Samaria to prepare a way for Jesus among the Samaritans. So it could be that because of John's ministry and John's baptizing, the Samaritans were now expecting the Messiah. And that that could be why this woman is bringing up the Messiah here. Because it seems like a non sequitur, right? It's like, oh, why would you, you know, mention the Messiah? Could be because of John's ministry. We don't really know. It doesn't say. But it's kind of neat to think about. But in any case, she does say, she does bring up the Messiah, and Jesus says to her, this is the climax of the entire passage, guys. He says, I who speak to you am He. Yeah, this is it. So notice this is a very direct claim of Jesus to be the Messiah. Right, he didn't bring up the Messiah, she did. But when she brought it up, when she said Messiah will come and and reveal all things to us, he said, That's me. I am the Messiah. So Jesus ha he had no qualms about claiming to be the Messiah to a person who was aware of their spiritual need. their need for a savior. Um he that's the kind of person he wanted to reveal himself to as the Messiah Earlier in this chapter, last week, we talked about how he didn't really want to be recognized by the general public of Judea as the Messiah yet. And that's why he left that's one of the reasons why he left Judea and went uh through Samaria into Galilee. And uh does anybody remember why uh he didn't want to be recognized publicly as the Messiah by the crowd? Yes, I think that's a good idea. That's right. Yeah, totally. They they had this totally uh perverse expectation of what the messiah would be. That was contrary to scripture. Right? They thought the messiah would be a military and political leader who would uh uh lead a revolution against Rome and kick the Romans out and you know restore the Jews to their rightful place uh on on the top you know, as God's chosen people. And they were not focused on spiritual need at all. They they had sort of a spiritual entitlement attitude, right? Like we're the people of God. We're already righteous. We're guaranteed to get in the kingdom. uh we just need our messiah to come and and destroy all our enemies. Right? So Jesus did not want to reinforce that expectation. He didn't want to embrace that that image and that title. But he had absolutely no problem with proclaiming himself as the Messiah uh to somebody like this woman who knew that she was a sinner in need of salvation. In fact, he wanted himself to be known as the Messiah to people like that. That's why he came. And that's why later on in this chapter he says, Um, my food is to do the work of my Father who sent me. Like that's why he was sent was to reveal himself as the Messiah and the Savior of sinners. Uh so yeah. It's not um you know some some critical scholars sort of cherry pick these these instances where Jesus um hides his messianic identity and say like oh you know Jesus never claimed to be the Messiah he never claimed to be God uh he was just a great moral teacher But no, that's not it. He was just trying to uh keep his message and his identity pure. He wanted he wanted to be the biblical Messiah, not the um not the first century Jewish Uh expectation of Messiah. Yes. Uh-huh. We can take some time. Let's take some time in with Yeah, no that's that's good. That's a good mnemonic too. Four plus two equals six. I like that. Um Does anybody have any other places where Jesus either claims to be the Messiah or claims to be God? Um 'cause it's good to be able to answer when people say this. It's it's a claim that that I've heard several times people make. It's like, oh Jesus never claimed to be God, he never claimed to be the Savior or the Messiah. That was a title foic upon him by other people. Anybody else got a a passage that uh shows that to be false? Turn to John ten. I'll I'll give you my favorite one. John chapter ten. Um Yeah, I'm trying to decide where to start. Uh I'll just read yeah, I'll read from verse twenty-two. John 10, verse 22. At that time, the feast of dedication took place at Jerusalem. It was winter, and Jesus was walking in the temple in the portico of Solomon. The Jews therefore gathered around him and were saying to him, How long will you keep us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly. Jesus answered them, I told you, and you do not believe. The works that I do in my Father's name, these bear witness of me. But you do not believe because you are not of my sheep. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them and they follow me, and I give them etern I give eternal life to them. and they shall never perish, and no one shall snatch them out of my hand. So already he has said, I told you I'm the Christ, and you don't believe. Right? So that's an implicit um statement that he's the Messiah. But even more powerfully it goes on. I and the Father are one. Yikes. The Jews took up stones again to stone him. Why are they picking up stones to stone him? Yeah, he said, I and the Father are one. And, you know, someone might say, oh, that's just a you know mystical statement of how he's got this great communion with God. Is that what's the evidence against that interpretation? On mission. Um explain what you mean by that. Oh yeah, there's another right. But uh his those examples of him knowing things he can't know are examples of him being God. But in this Right. But in this in this particular verse, when he says, I and the Father are one, how do we know that that he's actually claiming to be God? Yeah. Yes, yes. That's right. Everyone knew. That's why they were picking up stones to stone him. Is because he was claiming to be God. He wasn't just making a uh you know sort of vague spiritual claim that was easily open to interpretation. Everybody knew what he was saying. He was claiming to be God. They were ready to execute him right there for blasphemy. Yes. Yeah. That's a good one. Uh yeah, I don't know off the top of my head. Yeah, Luke 4, um, uh, through a few verses following that. Yeah, he stands up in the synagogue. In Nazareth, where where he grew up, and he says, he reads from the book of Isaiah, the Spirit of the Lord is upon me because he anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim release to the captives and recovery of sight to the blind, to set free those who are downtrodden, to proclaim the favorable year of the Lord. And he closed the book and gave it back to the attendant and sat down. And the eyes of all in the synagogue were fixed upon him, and he began to say to them, Today this scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing. So why is that significant? What is this passage in Isaiah about? It's about the Messiah. Yeah, and this would have been widely recognized by everybody. Uh yeah this was this was a a primary uh passage of about the Messiah and one of the one of those well-known ones that everybody would have known like, oh yeah, the Messiah is gonna do this when he comes. Um and um Yeah, so this this is Jesus taking a well-known messianic prophecy and saying, today this is fulfilled in your hearing. Because and so what's the implication there? I am the Messiah, right? So um just because we only have like five minutes left, w another one of my favorite examples of Jesus claiming to be the Messiah and to be God is um It's actually one of those examples that people sort of naively point to as evidence against it. Right? What was Jesus' favorite name for himself, favorite title, especially in the Gospel of Luke? The son of man, yeah. See, it's easy to read that and say, like, oh, that was a very, you know, humble, sort of nonchalant self-designation for Jesus, right? He was just saying, I'm just a lowly son of man. Don't think of me as God or the Messiah. But is that what that title really means? Does anybody know where it comes from, by the way? You know. Go ahead. Daniel. Yes, it comes from the book of Daniel. So turn to Daniel chapter seven. Okay, so the Son of Man is used um a couple of times outside of the book of Daniel, like in Ezekiel and once in the Psalms. But really it's used primarily in in this chapter seven of Daniel. So it's a long chapter and we don't have time to read the whole thing, but um this is the chapter in which Daniel sees um his prophetic vision of four beasts. Right. He sees uh a beast that looks like a lion, a beast that looks like a bear, uh a beast that looks like a leopard with four wings, and then a horrible, terrible beast that is hard to describe and is uh um you know, ri really terrifying. Uh but then after he sees those four beasts which correspond to four empires or kingdoms, um he then he sees something else. He said in verse 9 of chapter 7, I kept looking until thrones were set up, and the Ancient of Days took his seat. His vesture was like white snow, and the hair of his head like pure wool. His throne was ablaze with flames, its wheels were a burning fire. So this is clearly God, right, the ancient of days. He's sitting on a throne and um in heaven. A river of fire was flowing and coming out from before him. Thousands upon thousands were attending him, and myriads upon myriads were standing before him. The court sat and the books were opened. Then I kept looking because of the sound of the boastful words which the horn was speaking. That's that's the Antichrist. I kept looking until the beast was slain and its body was destroyed and given to the burning fire. As for the rest of the beasts, their dominion was taken away, but an extension of life was granted to them for an appointed period of time. I kept looking in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven, one like a son of man was coming. Alright, so here's the title Jesus is claiming for himself. He says, Behold, with the clouds of heaven Daniel prophesies, Behold, with the clouds of heaven, one like a son of man was coming, and he came up to the ancient of days and was presented before him. And to him was given dominion, glory, and a kingdom, that all peoples, nations, and men of every language might serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which will not pass away, and his kingdom is one which will not be destroyed. Okay, so that is the description of the Son of Man that Jesus was referencing when he called himself that. Now, is the per the figure presented here, is that a man? Is that a mere man? No. No. How do we know that this is more than a mere man? Yes. Right. He's like a son of man, which is a weird thing to say about somebody who's just a man. Yeah, that's that's one. Number two, how is he traveling? He's coming with the clouds of heaven, right? Remember Jesus quoted this when he was talking to When he was on trial before the Sanhedrin, before he got crucified, and they said, Are you the Son of Man? Or I mean are you the are you the Christ? And he said, I tell you, you will see what The son of man coming with the clouds of heaven. And what ha what did they do? What how did they react? They tore their clothes and said, Blasphemy, we don't need to hear anything else. Kill them. You know, so so they didn't say, Oh, he's just claiming to be a man. That's we're cool. You know, they th they said he just claimed to be God because he took on this title from Daniel seven, which clearly applies to the Messiah to someone divine. Other evidence is, just real quick, he receives a kingdom that will never fade away. Right? Who what human king receives an eternal kingdom? None. People from every nation and tribe and tongue serve him. That's that verb serve means to worship. And you know, in the book of Daniel, you don't worship anyone. Uh unless they're God, right? You'd rather be thrown into a blazing furnace or into a lion's den than serve or worship someone who's not God. So this passage itself proves that the title Son of Man is a divine title for the Messiah. Anyway.