We're we're in John 5 today. Uh so y'all can open your Bibles and be turning there and I'll give a little bit of background, little reminder as to where we've come. You know this is Uh every time I read through a book of the Bible, even if I've read it many times before, I always pick up something new. You know, there's always like a new theme that comes out. And I think for me, as I'm studying John uh in preparation for teaching this class, what's really coming out to me is Jesus' omniscience and his intentionality, right? His sovereign control over all the events of his life. He's not just an ordinary human being. He's not just, you know, a nice guy that a bunch of bad things happen to. He's he is God in the flesh and he looks beforehand at every situation that he encounters and he says, I have a plan for how to do God's will in this situation. And so, you know, as a result of that, uh a lot of what Jesus does makes no sense in human terms. We've seen this a few times already in the first four chapters of John. That's because he's not operating on a human agenda, right? He is doing the work of God. He's bringing the kingdom of God and he sees things not at a human level but at a higher level, at God's level So for example, we saw a last chapter in Chapter 4 that just as his ministry was taking off in Judea, which was the religious and cultural center of Israel, just as his ministry was taking off there and he was starting to baptize more and more people, he left for the relative backwater of Galilee. Does anybody remember why he did that? Because that's not a normal human thing to do, right? If you're thinking in normal human terms and you want to be a popular messiah and you're baptizing people in Judea, you stay there. Right? You don't just you don't go off to the Galilee. But why did he do that? That's right. Um I think he was not That to show people that he's not them. Like to to show 'em that he is who he says he is. Yeah. He understands rules and regulations, he understands about it. But he's like, yo, uh I'm the son of God, so Yeah, he's got a different purpose, right? He doesn't want to be a popular messiah Because the popular messiah that everyone was expecting was uh a political and military leader who was gonna overthrow Rome. He didn't want to be that. He did not want to embrace that title or even suggest to people that that's who he was He had a completely different message. He's he's the real Messiah, the Savior of the world from saving people from their sins. And he also knew another reason why he did that is because he knew it wasn't his time yet Right. He knew that he was going to get in conflict with the Pharisees and the leaders of the Jewish people, as we'll see in this chapter. But that in chapter four it wasn't his time. He was very conscious of the right time in God's plan for everything that was going to happen to him. Um so yeah, he made that that decision that didn't make much sense in human terms, but he was making he made it because he was thinking at God's level. And another one of those decisions that he made was he chose to pass through Samaria on his way to Galilee. Right That was, you know, in in terms of like a first century Jewish rabbi, that would not be a normal decision to make. You wouldn't want to go through Samaria But he chose to go through Samaria because he knew that God had made the Samaritans right before the harvest. And then third and a third choice that he made that didn't really make sense in human terms was, okay, so he's going to Samaria. He wants to reveal himself to the Samaritans and create a harvest there for the gospel. And so who is the first person that he chooses to talk to and reveal his identity to? The Samarian woman. Yeah, the Samaritan woman at the well. This is a woman who had lived a sinful life. Right? She had no clout among the people of her village. You know, in human terms you'd think like, okay, you're gonna show up to a new village, maybe you'll go after like the leading men of the city or the mayor or the richest person or something, you know, somebody with a little bit of influence who can help your cause, help you spread your message But Jesus chooses to talk to a woman. You know, woman's testimony in that day was not even admissible in court. So um, you know, it we'd think Jesus, that was a that was a poor choice of of the first person to talk to. But he did that because he's not thinking in human terms. He's thinking on God's level. And what does God do? He uses the weak things of the world to shame the strong. He uses the the humble things of the world to shame the proud So throughout this book, we see this characteristic of Jesus, that in every situation that he comes to, he is the one in control. He's the one who's leading events and conversations his way. And in John chapter 5, where we are today, now we come to another interaction where Jesus, he's got a bigger plan And he's directing everything towards his aims. Okay, so uh this is what I want to draw out for you today is um We're going to look at four choices that Jesus makes in John chapter 5, verses 1 through 18. Four choices that he makes in the healing of this sick man at the pool of Bethesda that show that he is in control and he is directing events toward his aims. So yeah, this is actually a pretty famous passage. It's uh, as I mentioned, the healing of the sick man at the pool of Bethesda. And yes, it is a story of Jesus healing and ministering to a sick man. And yes, Jesus does demonstrate genuine compassion and concern for this man. That's a key part of the story. But I don't think it's the main point of the story. It's not really about this man or about his healing. It's really about Jesus engineering a conflict with the Pharisees. so that he can proclaim himself as the Son of God in front of the most number of people. And and the four choices that I'm talking about uh are choices that I want to go through to illustrate how he engineered this conflict in order to give himself the biggest possible platform to proclaim himself as the Son of God by challenging the Jewish leaders. So, uh The four choices that show Jesus in control So the first choice is that Jesus chose the time for this miracle. And he chose the time for this miracle in such a way that he knew it would bring about a conflict with the Jewish leaders. Alright, so this is this can be found in verses one and verse nine of ch John chapter five. So just read verse one with me. After these things there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. Now these things, after these things, he's talking about what happened in chapter 4. He uh where he passed through Samaria and then went into Galilee and did a miracle in Galilee. Um so He went up to Jer he went back to Jerusalem. He was in Galilee. Now he's going back south to Jerusalem. And uh he's doing it for a feast. And we don't really know which feast this is The Jews had a lot of feasts. They had three major feasts. Passover was in March or April. Pentecost was fifty days later in May or June. And Sakot, uh or the Feast of Tabernacles, was in September or October. Uh so those were the three big ones, but the Jews also had a lot of minor feasts. So this could be any one of those. Some of the early manuscripts that we have for the Gospel of John, instead of saying there was a feast of the Jews, they say there was the feast of the Jews. And if it's the feast, then that would indicate Passover. So, but in any case The point is not which particular feast it was. The point is that Jesus chose to go to Jerusalem when there would be a lot of people visiting the city. So he would have a large crowd of people to talk to and to proclaim his his identity to. So he chose that time. He he chose the time of year as a feast time for the crowd But also we learn in verse 9 that it was the Sabbath day when he performed this miracle healing this man. And Jesus deliberately chose to do it on a Sabbath. Why do you think? I think uh fair to you said that you can do it on the side. Sabbath. Exactly. He he chose the Sabbath day deliberately to provoke the Pharisees who had set up this man made rule Man made tradition that you weren't allowed to do all these things on the Sabbath, like carry a mat or heal somebody. Uh right now We'll talk about this a little more later, but that was not God's law. God's law did not contain any prohibition against doing stuff like carrying a mat or healing people on the Sabbath Uh but the Pharisees and the Jewish leaders had come in and they had put this this hedge, this fence around God's law with their own human tradition. And in some cases that actually nullified the spirit and the intent of God's law. It made people act against what God wanted them to do. And so Jesus several times in his ministry really challenged what the Pharisees did there. And that's what he was doing. He chose to heal on the Sabbath. on a Sabbath day to provoke uh the Jewish leaders because he could have easily waited to heal this man uh the next day, right? And then that would have completely avoided controversy. But he made the deliberate choice to heal on a Sabbath. So he was in control of the time of this miracle, of his healing, of this man. Uh the second choice that he made was Jesus chose the act that would reveal himself And and for this part, there's uh there's a couple of parts to this, right? He chose um that it would be a healing, but he also chose the person that he would heal, and he chose the way that he would uh do the healing so as to reveal his divine attributes. And we're going to get into all that, but first we need to go through a few setup verses. Right, so sorry, I'm going to write the verses down. So this was his choice of the time was verses one and nine. This his choice of the act, this is going to be verses five through nine and verse fourteen. But before we get there, we've got to go through verses 2 through 4 as kind of a setup. So look at verses 2 through 4 with me. Now there is in Jerusalem by the sheep gate a pool, which is called in Hebrew Bethesda, having five porticos. In these lay a multitude of those who were sick, blind, lame, and withered, waiting for the moving of the waters For an angel of the Lord went down at certain seasons into the pool and stirred up the water. Whoever then first, after the stirring up of the water, stepped in, was made well from whatever disease with which he was afflicted. So this kind of sets the scene. Uh but before we get too deep into that description, we have to deal with uh with a different issue. How many of you in your Bibles have uh square brackets around the end of verse 3 and verse 4? Anybody see the square brackets there? Okay, I see a couple of hands. There should be there should be a square bracket starting at waiting for the moving of the waters in verse 3. That's in the NASB translation. Uh anyway, the for those of you that have the square brackets they they should be there in all Bibles. It's um This is something that Jeff actually talked about a couple of months ago. Remember when he was teaching on how can we be sure that the Bible that we have that we're reading is actually an accurate transmission of the original Bible, the original gospel that John wrote. And we talked in that lesson about textual variance. These are not COVID variants. They're textual variants. And this thing in brackets, the second part of verse 3 and all of verse 4, that is what's called a viable variant. Alright, so it's different from uh the the usual kind of variant. Oh hey guys. You okay Noah? Yeah okay. Glad to see you here. So this variant is is not like most variants. So a variant is just who remembers what a variant is? Yeah, it's a different version of something, right? It's like we have we have thousands of manuscripts of the New Testament. that we can look at today. And some of them have differences between them. A variant is just a place where two or more manuscripts disagree on what word or what sentence should be there. And um the vast majority of variants are not viable because it's easy to tell what the real thing is, right? Either because it's You know, 99. 9% of manuscripts have one thing and it's only a tiny fraction of others that sho show something else. Or it's it's an obvious typo or something like that, something trivial. A viable variant is a place where there's actually some reasonable doubt about whether a sentence or a fragment should be included in the biblical text or not. And that's the case here. There is some reasonable doubt about whether this verse and a half should actually be in the Bible. And you know we can't be totally sure whether it's there or not. So we shouldn't build our doctrine or our teaching on the presence or absence of one of these variants. But I want you to notice three things. The three things I want you to notice is that uh so I had you look for the square brackets earlier. Hopefully most of your Bibles have those. Most Bibles or you know any any uh good faithful translation of the Bible will actually point these out for you with the square brackets and with a footnote saying something like most manuscripts do not include such and such. Uh so it these variants are out in the open, right? Any any variant that has some reasonable question of whether it should be there is annotated explicitly in the Bible. So you can be sure nobody's trying to cover them up or or sweep them under the rug. You know, everyone can examine them. So that's the first thing. The second thing I want you to notice is that these viable variants are rare Like if you just page through the Gospel of John, you'll go several pages before you encounter another one of these viable variants. It's not like they're on every page. So they're pretty rare. And then third, the contents, if you went and looked at other viable variants that you find in the New Testament, the contents of what they actually say are not usually that significant. It's stuff like, and Jesus went over there, or you know, things that don't really change the uh the sense of the passage or affect any major belief that we hold. Right. This one, this variant is actually one of the more significant viable variants in the entire New Testament. And it's not that significant, but it is one of the more significant ones. Because if it were real, if it's legitimate, it would actually color our understanding of angels and the purpose of angels. Right, because read look what it says in verse four. For an angel of the Lord went down at certain seasons into the pool and stirred up the water. Whoever then first after the stirring up of the water stepped in and was made well from whatever disease with which he was afflicted. So this would change our understanding of what angels do and what their role is because Elsewhere in the scriptures, we see angels primarily carrying messages for God. They carry a message and they deliver it to a particular person or people. Sometimes we see angels carrying out commands of God, like the angel of death slaying um, you know, a hundred thousand uh people in the Assyrian army. So we either see angels carrying messages or carrying out specific commands of God. We never see them acting on their own initiative. to do whatever they want to do. And we always see their actions as connected to some greater purpose that God is doing in salvation history. You know, like when Gabriel carried the messages of uh John's birth and Jesus' birth. That was the inauguration of this of this new period in God's salvation plan. But here in this passage, if this is a viable, if this is a legitimate part of the original Gospel of John, we would see an angel acting on his own initiative, right? Choosing certain seasons to go down and stir up this pool for the sake of just healing people, right? Not as part of God's overarching salvation plan, but just as sort of a random act of kindness And that so that would be unusual. That would be an angel acting in a different way from all the other angels that we read about in Scripture. So this, however, there's good reasons to reject this fragment as being in the original text. There are two main lines of evidence, and I'll quote from John MacArthur's commentary, where he says, The earliest and best Greek manuscripts, as well as the early versions, exclude this text. The presence of words or expressions unfamiliar to John's writings also militate against its inclusion. Okay, so we got two lines of evidence there. We have the manuscript evidence So the earliest and the best manuscripts don't include this verse and a half. So that's strike one against this Uh strike two is the internal evidence. The the evidence of writing style and vocabulary doesn't match with the rest of John. So that's strike number two against this verse in a half. And then you might say strike number three is its theological disagreement with the rest of Scripture on the role and purpose of angels So it's, you know, all that taken together seems to suggest we should discard this fragment, this verse and a half, and not really put much stock in it. So, you know, for example, it would be wrong to take this verse in a half and say, oh look, angels, you know, they they can go throughout the earth and and choose particular places to dispense healing. uh you know healing miracles. So we should look for those places of of angelic healing and uh you know and and try to try to find those. That that would be a wrong conclusion to draw from this text. It would be a wrong conclusion to draw, probably, even if it were in Scripture, but we can pretty uh confidently reject that it was actually in the original gospel. So, all right, we just had to deal with that real quick. I think it's a good, it's good to see an example of a viable variant of something that textual critics deal with in trying to determine what was actually in the Bible. And it's really down to these very narrow questions of like a verse and a half that may or may not affect a minor doctrine. So, but the point is for this story, we don't really know whether there was real healing going on at this pool of Bethesda. Uh right, there could have been. There could have been real healing happening there. Or it could have just been superstition, right? It could have just been people were desperate because they were sick and they were just willing to seize onto and cling to anything that uh that they thought might be happening there. So it might have been superstition and false hope, or it might have been real healing. But what we do know Is that in verse 5 it says, A man was there who had been ill for 38 years. So just think about that for one minute. 38 years His illness had probably become his life. Uh it doesn't say that he spent thirty-eight years at this pool. It's possible that he tried other solutions, tried to try to get healing elsewhere. But the implication from the rest of the text is that he's been at the pool for a long time, long enough to fail several times to be the first one into the water. So this place had probably become his home, or at least a significant part of his life. And 38 years of sickness. I haven't even lived 38 years Okay. Pretty close. In March I will have. Um I mean one day. March sixth. Fifteen? That's right. We'll fall my sixth or fifteen. Oh yeah? Seven thirty. Huh? My mouse is seven. March then. Yeah. So March, yeah, thirty-eight years. Then I will have lived as long as this guy was sick. So we don't know actually what his sickness was, right? Because the text doesn't say that he was lame or that he was paralyzed or blind Uh but we can infer some things about what his sickness was. Uh it was severe enough to prevent him from getting into the pool first, right? So probably he couldn't walk. Um And and it was severe enough to prevent him from carrying his mat. Uh it was not a treatable thing, probably, otherwise he would have sought treatment elsewhere Uh but it was a stable condition. It was a chronic condition, not a terminal condition. He wasn't in danger of dying immediately. So, you know, probably the the the best possibility is that he was paralyzed. That's what sort of popular portrayals of this miracle uh infer. But we don't know that for sure. Uh but you know it's okay to picture a paralyzed man here. So now that's the setup. Now we come to the way that Jesus demonstrates his divine attributes toward this man in his choice of of how to heal and how to pursue his healing with this man. And I'm gonna do like sub-bullets under here, right? So three he demonstrates three divine attributes And how he heals this man. He demonstrates God's wisdom, God's power. And God's love. And I chose those three words uh because of that song. Our God is an awesome God. He reigns in heaven above. With wisdom, power, and love, our God is an awesome God. Alright. R Swift. R Swift? I don't know. I mean it's a it's a pretty common song. Probably a lot of people have covered it. No, yeah, no, it's a good song. I think a lot of people have have covered it. But it's great, I love that triad of God's attributes, his wisdom, power, and love, because they're all necessary to describe his attitude and his his characteristics towards us. If you take any one of these three away, you have not God but something evil. If you have Wisdom and power without love, that's a supervillain. Right? Someone who's who's crafty and clever and strong, but not loving. Uh if you have uh wisdom and love without power, you have an impotent hand wringing being not not a god not God. Right? Somebody who who cares and who knows what needs to be done, but who doesn't have the strength to do it. That's not God. And if you have power and love without wisdom, you have like the overgrown toddler. You have somebody who who means well and who's strong but who just like goes in and breaks everything because he doesn't know what to do So what's that? Like hope. Like hope, yeah, like yeah. Um questionable whether whether he had much love, but you know, maybe. Yeah, that's right. So wisdom, power, and love, these are these are three crucial, essential attributes of God. And Jesus displays all three of them here in how He heals this man. So he shows God's wisdom in verse 6. Look at verse 6 with me. When Jesus saw him lying there and knew that he had already been a long time in that condition, he said to him, Do you wish to get well? Now I'm arguing here that uh that the wisdom Jesus displays here is not just human wisdom, it's God's wisdom. Uh first of all, it seems that he knows without being told that this man has been there a long time Um so you know he this is this is maybe going a little bit beyond the text, but we've seen other examples in John of how he uh demonstrates the attribute of omniscience. He knows things that he doesn't need to be told. Like he knew the Samaritan woman had had five husbands. Uh he didn't need to be told that. I think I think it's it's likely here that he knows this man's history. He knows that he's been sick thirty eight years and that he hasn't um been able to to get healing. And so I think this is another example of him exercising omniscience, which is a form of divine wisdom, right? It's not human wisdom. Humans are not omniscient. Uh but I think the the perhaps more important part of his divine wisdom here is that his question to the man His question is both compassionate and probing at the same time. And it's not a question that that a human would probably ask, right? If you saw a man lying here by this pool and even if you knew that he'd been sick for a while, would you go up and ask, do you wish to get well? I mean it seems it seems like an odd question, right? Like it's it's a little bit presumptuous, maybe maybe slightly offensive, I don't know. But what Jesus is uh is getting at here is he already knows the answer. God he's omniscient. He knows whether the man really wants to get well or not. He's drawing the man's attention to his own heart. He's saying what uh he's trying to get the man to probe his own heart. Do you really wish to get well? And in the text we we don't know. Like we're not given the answer to this question. So it could go it could go either way. It maybe he really is trying to get well. Maybe he is trying his hardest to be the first one into that pool because he believes that that will heal him. Maybe he's really trying or maybe he's given up. Maybe he's using his inability to get into the pool as sort of an excuse to hide behind. Um so that he can sort of keep going in the thirty-eight year rut that he's in. And you know, this would be understandable. If he had if he had done that, if he had given up, if he didn't actually in his heart want to get well, that would be understandable because We do this all the time, don't we? Right? Sometimes we find our identity in suffering or you know in in a bad circumstance that persists a long time in our lives Uh and and sometimes we do that to the point where we even fear uh change. We fear the removal of that suffering, of that circumstance So, you know, I experienced this when I was in graduate school. Um I was w uh working for a while and not really enjoying the work and I I kinda got depressed and I was miserable for a couple of years and uh you know so I I was definitely not doing well in that situation. and and in a sense didn't want to be there, but I also was afraid to change, right? I was afraid to look at other options and make a change and pursue something else. You know, that uh that's just an example from my own life of how we can sort of become attached to our suffering, attached to the circumstances that that have us. Uh so this was I think a perceptive and important question that Jesus asked this man. Um he wanted to he wanted the man to examine his own heart and see where his heart was And but the man look at look at how the man answered. His answer was telling. Verse 7. Look at verse 7. The sick man answered him, Sir, I have no man to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up. But while I'm coming, another steps down before me. So he doesn't directly answer the question. The question was, do you wish to get well? And his answer was, I don't have anybody to help me. Um so it wasn't a direct answer, but what does it show? What does it show about his assumptions? He needs assistance. He needs assistance. Well yeah, he knows that he can't heal himself. That's that's important. Um but where is his hope? In the pool. Yeah. He has yeah, he has no idea that he's talking to the Son of God But I mean he's in Jerusalem. He knows there is a God, right? He knows that Yahweh is the creator of life and he knows that Yahweh can heal him. Why isn't he in the temple? You know, why isn't he crying out to the Lord from the steps of the temple? Um his hope is in this pool, right? It's in the water. It's in this kind of superstitious place, not in the God of Israel. Well, you know, who knows? Maybe he was in the temple for ten years, ten of those thirty-eight years, and and then he came to the pool later. We don't know. We can't my point is not to really judge this guy's heart My point is to say that his hope is in the pool and he doesn't know who he's talking to, right? He doesn't he doesn't know he's talking to Jesus, so he's not what we would call a seeker. Right. Seeker is not really a biblical category. There's no one who really seeks after God. God has to seek them out and draw them. So that's what Jesus does here. He seeks the man out. Jesus is is the one who initiated this interaction. And this man, he has no faith, right? He can't even have faith. He's ignorant of who Jesus is. So it's not really that he disbelieves, it's just that he doesn't know at all that he should have faith. Um but this is this is an important point because what Jesus does next is not a faith healing Right? It required no faith on the part of the man to be healed. And if you look at Jesus' other healings, it doesn't require Jesus does not require faith on the part of the person being healed in order to perform his healing. So that is uh faith is not a prerequisite for Jesus to heal. Um you know if you hear if you ever hear people talk about faith healing today, that's not a biblical doctrine and it's not even like the miracles that Jesus or the apostles did. So I think it's important to note that here. This man had no faith. Jesus did not heal him because of his faith. Um okay, so he demonstrated his divine wisdom in getting the man to to examine his own heart. Oh, did you get that thing? Cool. Um and he demonstrates divine power in the next section, in the next two verses. Alright, so look at um look at verses 8 and 9 to see Jesus' divine power. Jesus said to him, get up, pick up your pallet, and walk. Immediately the man became well and picked up his palate and began to walk. Okay, so this is pretty obviously not human power. Uh it's divine power. How do we know it's not human power? How do we know that Jesus just w wasn't just a really good doctor? Instantaneous. Yeah, the healing was instantaneous, right? It's not like he um prescribed a treatment program that took several weeks and the guy was able to sort of barely stand up. Uh yeah, it was an instantaneous healing. It was also complete. Right? Complete healing. Um So the man immediately was able to fully stand up, walk, and carry something. Right? He didn't have to work on his muscles and strengthen the leg muscles that it atrophied, if he was paralyzed. I mean we don't know what his illness was, but clearly he's he's he went from incapacitated to normal human function like that So this was God's power. This was not man's power. I mean it's pretty simple. Uh there they're usually um, you know, if there is any healing involved at all, it's like slight and incremental and um takes a lot of time. So anyway, he demonstrate Jesus demonstrates divine power, not human power here. So divine wisdom, divine power, and then divine love. So this is a little bit harder to see, but I would argue that Jesus demonstrates a love toward this man that is not a human love, it is divine love. To see this, we have to skip down to verse 14 real quick. Look at verse 14. So the man has gone away. He's picked up his mat and he's walked away. Afterward, Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, Behold, you have become well. Do not sin anymore, so that nothing worse may befall you. So the man went to the temple, and Jesus knew he would do that because Jesus went and found him there. He may have gone to the temple to present himself to the priests. Because that's what you had to do under the law of Moses is you know when you got healed of, say, leprosy or something, you would go present yourself to the priests and they would examine you and declare that you were healed and that was you the signal that you could enter society again. and be a normal human being. So he he might have gone there for that purpose. So why does Jesus say to him, Do not sin anymore so that nothing worse happens to you? Uh I've there's two possibilities that I can see here. The first possibility, which I think is less likely, is that the man's illness, whatever it was, might have been caused by his sin, might have been caused by a specific sin that he did. Um in which case, if that's true, Jesus is say is warning him not to do that same thing and risk injuring himself further. We see uh you know it was a common attitude among the Jews that every sickness was the result of sin Alright, it's like uh his disciples Jesus' disciples asked him about a man born blind. They said, uh, was it this man's sin or his parents' sin that made him caused him to be born blind. And Jesus said, no, it's neither. So Jesus explicitly taught that not all illness is caused by sin. But he didn't teach that no illness is caused by sin. I mean, definitely there are things there are sins that we do that have natural consequences for our bodies and can make them sick things like sexually transmitted diseases come to mind. So you know it's possible that he that this man had done something that caused him to be sick. However, he he had been sick for so long, for thirty-eight years, presumably he's not continually committing the same sin that made him uh sick like this over those whole thirty-eight years. So it seems unlikely that Jesus would be rebuking him uh for something that was not an ongoing sin. Uh it seems more likely that what Jesus is saying here is that, okay, Jesus comes up to him and he knows this man's heart. He knows that although the man's gotten healed in his body, he hasn't dealt with his real problem, which is the sin and the spiritual need in his heart. So Jesus sees this man's spiritual need and sees that he hasn't dealt with that, and so he goes um to him and warns him that if he continues in his sins without repenting then he's going to encounter a worse fate than just being paralyzed or being sick. He's going to face the wrath of God. And this interpretation seems more likely to me because of Jesus' consistent emphasis throughout his ministry on the heart and on the eternal consequences of sin. So, uh just by by the way, um a little factoid that you guys can remember, I've mentioned before that the kingdom of God was Jesus' favorite sermon topic. His second favorite was money, and his third favorite was hell. So he really did uh speak a lot about hell, about the consequences of sin, and about our need to get right with God. So either way, you know, w whichever of these interpretations is correct, either way, Jesus' concern for this man is what motivates him to go and to teach him, not just heal him Alright, so that's what I'm saying. That's why his love, Jesus' love that he demonstrates here is divine, not human. Because man looks at the outward appearance. We would be content just to help somebody and heal their disease that they've been suffering for 38 years God is not content to rest there. He goes after the heart. He convicts um people of sin and ministers to their real true spiritual need, their eternal need. And that's what Jesus is doing here. And the point here is that telling someone the truth is a necessary part of compassion. In order to be compassionate, we have to also be willing to tell the truth. If we just meet people's physical needs and don't warn them about the consequences of sin. We have not done all that God requires of us, and we've not done all that Jesus showed us to do. And that's a hard one for me to preach to myself. I'm very uncomfortable challenging people and confronting them with their sin. It's much easier just to show compassion, but we part of compassion is speaking the truth, warning people about uh about the wrath of God. Okay, so wisdom, power, and love. That's my thesis here, is that Jesus chose to do this healing in such a way that he demonstrated that he was God in the flesh. With wisdom, power, and love. Uh any questions up to this point? Oh yeah, so they may it may not have been disease, or it may have been like some goofy you know, he was like drunk and like dancing on the top of a rooftop and he slipped and fell has the consequences for his sin. Uhhuh. But don't do this again or you're gonna break more than just your legs, you're gonna break Yeah. It could have been it could have been something like that. Um yeah. But would that have been worse? Would that have been worse than what we had, you know, if if it was a physical another physical right uh struggle. Yeah, so if he had just fallen and and broken his legs again, maybe maybe that wouldn't have been worse. I think I think uh yeah, the fact that he said something worse may befall you, that that seems like it's pointing to the wrath of God. And it seems also like, you know, if it was something like he got drunk and was dancing on a roof, um you know, he he's not been doing that for the last thirty-eight years, right? So it would seem weird for Jesus to come along and say, like, uh, you better repent of the sin that you're not characterized by now, but that you did thirty-eight years ago. Otherwise er You know, it just it's possible. I think it's possible that it's a particular sin that he did that caused his illness, but I think Um, you know, just when weighing the evidence, it seems more likely that he's trying to address this man's heart and turn his attention to his need for repentance. Okay, so third choice that Jesus makes that shows he's in control is he chooses the place of the confrontation. He chose the place where he would have his you know throw down fight with the Pharisees. And this is evident in verses the second half of verse nine through verse sixteen. Alright, so let's start in verse nine here and read through sixteen. And immediately the man became well. So this is right after Jesus said, Take up your pallet and walk. And immediately the man became well and took up his pallet and began to walk. Now it was the Sabbath on that day. Therefore the Jews were saying to him who was cured, It is the Sabbath, and it is not permissible for you to carry your pallet. But he answered them, He who made me well was the one who said to me, Take up your pallet and walk They asked him, Who is the man who said to you, Take up your pallet and walk? But he who was healed did not know who it was, for Jesus had slipped away while there was a crowd in that place Afterward, uh oh, okay, let's stop there and we're gonna talk a little bit about uh what we just read So Jesus knew this would happen, right? He was this was not an unexpected response uh from the Pharisees. He knew that when he healed a man on the Sabbath and told him to carry his pallet and walk that he was gonna walk past a group of Jewish leaders and Pharisees and that they were gonna be outraged by this. Jesus knew that they would be angry instead of rejoicing that this man who was sick for 38 years is healed. And you know, if if these Jewish leaders are amazed, they don't show it. If they're amazed that this man who was sick for 38 years just got healed, they don't show their amazement Instead, they call them out for violating this man-made Sabbath tradition. So it really shows where their heart is, where their priorities are. And by the way, like we mentioned before, uh although God's law did establish the Sabbath as a day when you couldn't do work, The intent there was that you couldn't go out and like do a day's labor in your field. That was the intent. God was saying don't treat this like a normal work day where you go out and sow and reap and Gather food and pursue your own ends. Treat this like a day of rest where you worship me on the Sabbath. So that was the point of the Sabbath law But so although God's law forbade doing a day's labor, it did not prohibit things like carrying a mat or healing the sick. These prohibitions, these were added later by the Pharisees. And Jesus, in all of his teaching, in all of his ministry, he drew a very clear and sharp distinction between, on the one hand, God's law which he Jesus fully affirmed, he fully taught and upheld and obeyed perfectly. And then on the other hand, human tradition, human rules. which Jesus often denounced and flaunted and challenged uh whenever they stood in the way of God's will. Right, so this is what the Pharisees had done. They had set up their own traditions and it caused people not just to um not do any work, but it caused them sometimes to refrain from doing good on the Sabbath. That's that's what Jesus challenged, right? He said, uh which one of you Uh if his animal falls into a pit on the Sabbath, which one of you would not go down and help that animal out? How much more so a man, you know, a man who is sick? Uh so Yeah, Jesus drew a sharp distinction between God's law and human tradition. They were in completely different categories, completely opposed to each other. Uh so we need to be like Jesus in this respect, right? We we especially those of us uh you know in a conservative church at a theologically doctrinally sound church um might have the temptation to confuse the rules of men for the commandments of God. And what is what's the term for that? What is it called when when people set up the commandments of men and treat them as the commandments of God? Legalism. Legalism. Exactly. That's called legalism, right? So we gotta watch out we gotta be on our guard for leak for against legalism. It's really easy for us to take rules that that we think are good and and righteous and set them up for other people to follow even though they're not exactly in scripture. So we gotta watch out for that, that legalism. Yes. It wasn't like Jesus just like started to plow a field. Right. Something crazy. He he told he so he did work and then he told someone else to also go and do work. Uh-huh. On the Sabbath. Yeah. So just like this multi whammy Wow. The other thing that's kind of interesting is it seems funny, but this stuff goes on today. We were living in Los Angeles I mean it was one very Orthodox Jew. She lived in an apartment, all Jewish, and on Saturdays they would pay someone to come in and operate the elevators so that they didn't have to press the buttons. This is ten years ago. But you can even see it today if you go down towards Silver Spring on a Saturday morning you'll see all these old guys with black hats walking. Yeah, there's a lot of uh inventions that have been you know, created to to get around these Sabbath regulations like light switches that um that uh are you because on the Sabbath as if you're an Orthodox Jew you cannot uh flick on a light switch, that's considered work. So like motion sensitive lights. They even have Sabbath elevators, you know, for those who can't afford to pay somebody to come in and operate the elevator. They have elevators that will stop at every floor on the way up and every floor on the way down on the Sabbath so that nobody has to push a button. Yeah, so the the regulations live on. Um but here we see not just like the Pharisees keeping the regulation, but enforcing uh that on on the rest of the people. So they come and they see this man carrying his mat and they accuse him of violating the Sabbath, which is just so bizarre, right? Uh Davon. So question. Yeah. Elevator that South on every floor. Is there like the Sabbath switch they got? Um I don't know how they uh I don't know. Yeah, what if somebody forgets to flip the Sabbath switch? 'Cause now they can't flip it on the Sabbath. Yeah. That's you should that that's your homework. Your homework is to look that up for next week. Oh wow. Wow. Hey, can I be excuse me? No, it's it's optional. You don't have to do it. It's okay. Um I might wait to do it. Yeah, I think it'd be interesting, you know. But anyway, accusing this man like just this is so bizarre, right, that the Pharisees would accuse this man of violating the Sabbath, especially after they knew that he had been healed. Maybe they didn't know at first, maybe they thought he was just a normal guy carrying his mat. But then when he said, the one who healed me, you know, that that point they knew that he had been sick for a long time and had just gotten healed, but they're still fixated on the Sabbath violation It's like you guys remember when um when that plane took off from New York and immediately like ran into some birds on on takeoff and lost all the engines and the uh captain had to make an emergency landing on the Hudson River. You guys remember that? Or Captain Sully. Captain Sully, yeah. There's a movie about it now. Um they called it the Miracle on the Hudson because uh he the captain landed the plane on the river which is dangerous. And all the passengers survived. Uh they were able to get them all off the plane uh before the plane sank. And You know, it could have been a a huge disaster, a lot of people could have died, but the actions of this captain saved everyone. And you know, it's like it it's like if if there was a New York City traffic cop uh standing on the bank of the Hudson and and like watching the people come out of the river and writing them tickets as they get out of the river, right? For swimming in a no swimming area. Um and then they say, But but but we weren't swimming. The guy landed the plane on the river. And he's like, Who landed a plane on a river? I gotta go write him a ticket. You know, that's That's like what these guys are doing. It's just so weird. And it just shows how how how shrunken their perspective is and and how out of whack their priorities are But the real the real head scratcher at first when you read this passage is is not their response, because that's kind of expected. It's why did Jesus slip away? Did you notice that in verse 13? Um it says, but he who was healed did not know who it was, for Jesus had slipped away while there was a crowd in that place. What do you think? You think Jesus was scared of the Pharisees? No. No. He was not. He was not scared. Um if he was scared, I mean he could have just healed on a different day and and not provoked any controversy. Uh he was and then later in the passage we see he speaks up very boldly and he's not afraid of them at all. He's also God, so he doesn't have anything to worry about. It's so why did he slip away? Most likely he knew that the conflict was gonna ca was gonna come, right? He knew that that once the Pharisees and the Jewish leaders figured out who he was, there was going to be a confrontation. And he didn't want that confrontation to happen in the pool, at the pool of Bethesda. He wanted it to happen where In the temple where all the people were. He wanted the biggest possible crowd to hear what he had to say about himself. So that's why he slipped away, because in the next verse it says, afterward Jesus found the man in the temple. So he knew the man would go to the temple. Jesus found him in the temple. So now Jesus moves the location, the confrontation, to the temple. And that's why I say Jesus chose the place. What did I write here? Verses Jesus chose the place where this confrontation would go down because he wanted the largest possible crowd to be there. So, verse 14, afterward Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, Behold, you have become well. Do not sin anymore, so that nothing worse happens to you. And verse 15, the man went away and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had made him well. So this is kind of an interesting twist. Why did the man tell the Jews? I mean, Jesus must have known that he was going to, but um We're not sure the text doesn't tell us why he did that. I mean maybe the Pharisees were watching him, but it says he went away, implying that he had to leave and go find them to tell them Uh maybe he wanted to curry favor with them. Um or maybe he was angry at Jesus for confronting his sin Yeah, we can only speculate. Uh but it seems like nobody forced him to go and tell the Jews where Jesus was or who he was. And the effect of him telling was clearly to get Jesus in trouble, so it wasn't like a friendly or grateful action on his part. You know, again, this story isn't really about the man, but I think we can say that he wasn't showing the kind of gratitude and loyalty that that uh Jesus deserved as the God who healed him. But in any case, it was all according to Jesus' plan, and the Jews reacted as Jesus predicted. So he's drawing this situation, he's pulling all the strings. He's orchestrating everything about this healing and the confrontation with the Pharisees so that it's going to happen at the right time in the right place in front of all the people. So in verse 16, we see, for this reason, the Jews were persecuting Jesus because he was doing these things on the Sabbath. This is a pivotal moment in John's Gospel, I would argue. I think it's pivotal because Up until now, John's gospel has portrayed the people of Judea as showing a weak and selfish kind of faith. But still faith. They still were ex were willing to um to sort of see Jesus' miracles and believe and kind of support him in a way. I mean their their faith was weak. It was the demand it was the faith that demanded to be satisfied by miracles, in contrast to the faith of the Samaritans who just had to hear and they believed. But they didn't oppose Jesus. This in John's Gospel is the moment when the hearts of the leaders really harden and turn to unbelief and hostility. Right, it says it says, uh for this reason the Jews were persecuting Jesus, and the verb tense there of were persecuting. indicates an ongoing action. This is not just a one-time disagreement that they had with him. This is the start of continual hostility on the part of the Jewish leaders toward Jesus. So this is the turning point here, I think. And it's it's because Jesus challenged them right at the core of their priorities. They prioritized this these human traditions, their own authority, their own regulations that they enforced on all the people. And Jesus challenged that. He called out their hypocrisy and he called out their pride before God And that's why they hated him. That's why they started persecuting him. But Jesus planned it that way. Remember, he engineered this confrontation with the Pharisees, and he did it for what happens next. His response to their persecution. What he says in response to it is the climax of this entire passage about the healing of the man at Bethesda. And it's Jesus' whole purpose in setting up the conflict. to get to this point where he can say what comes next in verse seventeen. And and so here we come to point four. Jesus chose the message. That's the first seventeen. Jesus chose the message. This is what he went through all this trouble to be able to say in front of everyone in the temple. But he answered them. My father is working until now, and I myself am working. So we're going to unpack this statement, but first it's helpful to look at the effect this statement had on the people. For this reason, therefore, the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him, because he not only was breaking the Sabbath, but also was calling God his own father, making himself equal with God. So it's really critical to understand what Jesus just said here when he said, My Father is working until now, and I myself am working. It's critical to understand because this is the climax of his entire uh provocation of the Pharisees. He could have easily and correctly argued against the Pharisees and defended his healing on the Sabbath by saying something like, um, God made uh the Sabbath for man, not man for the Sabbath. Right? He God never prohibited the doing of good or the healing of the sick on the Sabbath. That was just you guys and your human traditions And he actually did use that argument elsewhere in other Gospels. But here he's not really interested in defending his actions. He takes it one step further and he goes, he essentially goes nuclear with his response to why are you healing on the Sabbath? He says, my father is working until now, and I myself am working. So he's making essentially this argument. He's saying, my father is working because he's not subject to the Sabbath. Right? He made the Sabbath. The Sabbath is for man, not for God. So that's why my father is working. That point would have been non-controversial. They would have accepted that. And for that reason, God is always working. He's always doing good, even on the Sabbath This third the the third point that he makes here is that God is my father and I am his son in a way in a special way, in a way that not everybody else is, that nobody else is. And that's that's the controversial part, right? And the implication that he's drawing from that is he says, therefore, because I am like my father. I am continuously working and not subject to the Sabbath either. So do you get the logic of this? He called himself God. He called himself God. He says, I don't have to rest on the Sabbath because I'm God. I made the Sabbath. I and the Father are one. You see how this this went off like a bomb? In in the temple. Uh the big thing Jesus wants to say in front of all these people in the temple is, I am the Son of God. And I hope now that as we went through this, you can see how Jesus made all these choices to get to this point where he drops that bomb on the people and on the Jewish leaders This was a very deliberate thing. He had planned this message. He planned exactly how he wanted to say it, the miracle he wanted to do to back it up, the time and the place that it would that he would be able to deliver it. in front of the people in the temple. And the message was not lost on the people, because what do they do? Or what is what is the reaction of the Jewish leaders? Yeah, they want to kill him. Because they completely understood what he was saying. They they completely understood that he was claiming to be God. claiming to be God's son, uh making himself equal with God, and that's why they were seeking to kill him. So why is this important? I mean why is it important to see uh to see Jesus as the one in charge here? in all these ways, and all the choices that he made to set up this this thing. I mean why is it important to read it that way instead of just saying like, oh, you know, Jesus did a good thing and he got in trouble for it. Yes. Because he's God. And we need to remember that. Yeah. Um he he was in complete control Mm-hmm. Exactly, yeah, because he's God and it matters for for how we think about him. How we think about him matters for how we worship him. I guess I'll put it that way, right? Like what we're about to do in 20 minutes is go and worship this Jesus. It's important that we have as accurate a picture in our minds of who Jesus is as possible when we go to worship him. Uh and if we just think of him as as a nice guy who did good things and got in trouble for them, that's not a picture of him that's honoring to him. And that's worshipful. We need to understand that he is the sovereign God. He is the creator of the universe. Through him all things were made that have been made. And he is the Son of God, right? And and and so this whole going through all the choices that he made to engineer this confrontation with the Pharisees It uh in doing this, John is painting a picture of Jesus as the one in charge, as the sovereign God, the one in control. And this is the theme that runs throughout John's Gospel. uh in you know in the beginning uh of the gospel in the introduction in John chapter one He says, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things came into being by him, and apart from him nothing came into being that has come into being. So, John, one of John's theses in the very first part of the whole gospel is that Jesus is God. And he is he is God in such a way that he was present at the creation and that he was active in creating the entire world. And um, you know, that theme continues until the very end. Jesus is in control even when he gets arrested in the Garden of Gethsemane. Remember John's Gospel that says Jesus uh said, Who are you seeking? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth. And he said, I am he, and what happened? All the people fell down, like all the soldiers with their armor and swords and stuff. They all fell down. When he spoke, I am he. So John one of John's major points in his entire gospel is that Jesus is in charge. Jesus is God. Nothing bad happened to Jesus that he didn't choose Right? I no one takes my life from me. I lay it down of my own accord. So remember this as we go to worship. Jesus uh in in church with all the saints. He is God. Uh yes. I think uh a corollary that sort of comes out of this for So that God is working constantly to sustain the universe. And the modern mind would argue against Christianity to say that there is a creator, but he's a watchmaker. He built the mechanical universe, wounded up and stepped away. Uh-huh. That we don't know because he hasn't yet walked away from the world. Yeah, that's a great point. God is not just The creator, he's the sustainer, right? He upholds the universe by his word of power, as it says in Hebrews. Um yeah, so he's intimately involved in his creation. Yes. Why is there that um some people uh wanting to reveal his power and his glory to you, but most of the times he performs Yeah. Um yeah, I mean there's there may be several reasons that operate at different times. Uh one one of the reasons we kind of already talked about is like he didn't want the kind of attention that would cast him as a popular political military messiah, right? So he didn't want uh he didn't want to encourage that that in image or or uh concept of himself Uh another possible reason for why he would do that is that uh he did not really want people's faith to be based on the miracles that they were seeing. Right? He he uh over and over rebukes the especially the Jewish people uh and says uh unless you see miracles you simply will not believe and he points to other people like the Samaritans as examples of good the good kind of faith which just hears and believes. So he there is this this sense in which, yes, he he is doing miracles in order to fulfill Old Testament prophecies about who he is and in order to demonstrate his divinity. But he doesn't want to He doesn't want to do so much that people's faith is entirely built on these miracles, because that's not the kind of faith that God values Uh right. And then there's also a third possible reason is that you know he's he's very conscious of what is God's timing for things, right? And he knows that Some things that he do will provoke uh controversy with the Pharisees. And sometimes he does that intentionally, like in this situation, and other times Um, you know, he knows when he's supposed to be crucified, right? He knows the day when it's gonna happen. And so he doesn't want to trigger those events before the right day. Uh so it could be like the interplay of all those three reasons. uh for why he chooses in some situations to to tell people not to say anything. In some situations he wants it seen. Um but yeah I mean I think you'd have to look at it case by case. Yeah we gotta go. Let me let me pray for us.