Well good morning ladies. It's been quite a long time since I've had the privilege to be with you on a women's breakfast uh morning. I don't know if you could see the book that um Anne was reading from this is not it, but it's very similar. I accidentally grabbed the wrong book off my desk. But it's almost exactly the same size. But I I point it out because what you have in front of you is Chapter 1. There are forty-four chapters in uh this book, and all of them are about that length, some a little shorter, some a little longer. And it's just a really uh encouraging, thrilling uh treatment of who God is as revealed in Scripture. So you get a flavor of that there in chapter one in each month for this year You will uh read a chapter uh and then we'll um whoever is teaching will uh talk about that theme uh from that chapter. So I just encourage you, you have the picture of the book there. That's Really put there for you to to look out for that book. You can go on Amazon and buy it. I would definitely encourage you to do so. It'll be uh helpful to your own soul. Out of the forty-four we'll cover what is it, nine uh chapters uh over the course of this next season. Uh we'll see if we decide to do it uh more next season. But uh anyway, I just want to encourage you to uh be aware of the the book and how that can be a blessing to your own soul. The title of the chapter is The Excellency of God's Being You can see from the content that the theme is really proclaiming the truth that God is incomparable. God is incomparable in his being. One of the great sins of humanity is that Uh all people, both believers and unbelievers alike, in varying degrees, we tend to think that God is comparable to us. At best we bring God down. Thank you, that did does sound a little weird, doesn't it? We bring God down uh and we elevate ourselves at least enough so that we can find some comparison between us and God. And at worst, we often drag God down below us And we think that we are better than him. There's a variety of ways in which we do that, but one way is by questioning How God chooses to rule the world and our lives. Now I'm not talking about in the midst of distress and sorrow because of trials where you ask a question of God, God, what what are you doing? What what is going on? That that kind of distressing um Compelling cry of the heart is is not what I mean, but I mean the the kinds of questions that have implied in them a challenge that God has actually done something wrong by what he has done When we do that, we judge by uh judge God by our standards of what we think is right rather than allow God's standards and God's wisdom to judge our sense of what is good and right. That is the the way of the world, of course, but even as His children Th there are times when we do that uh ourselves. And you can one of the discussion questions that you'll consider uh uh afterward is to think through what are the ways that either you or others that you know have made God comparable uh to us. But because this is a tendency for all people, it is helpful for us to be reminded again and again that actually, in fact God is utterly incomparable to us. He is in a different category than us And so in the months to come, as we study the various aspects of God's being, including those ways in which he has made us to be like him, such as his faithfulness or his mercy, those attributes that, you know, they're called communicable attributes. God is communicating. them to us. He has enabled us to exhibit the same kinds of qualities that he has in himself. And yet even in those areas, it it's not it's not that just God is better than us at those things, perfect even. It's that whatever way in which we are made in the image of God and reflect his being, he is those things in a fundamentally and categorically different way than we are. The scriptures emphasize this over and over. In fact, I want to read a series of passages that give you a sense of how the scripture repeatedly proclaims the unique and incomparable nature of God. I want to give you a kind of a mouthful of passages that remind us that God is incomparable. So I'm just gonna read through these passages and see if you can pick up the common theme. Exodus 15, 9. Who is like you, O Lord among the gods? Who is like Like you, majestic in holiness, awesome in glorious deeds, doing wonders. First Samuel 2. 2. There is none holy like our God For there is none besides you. There is no rock like our God. 2 Samuel 7. 22 Therefore you are great, O Lord God, for there is none like you, there is no one besides you. according to all that we have heard with our ears. 1 Kings 8. 23. O Lord God of Israel, there is no God like you in heaven above or on earth beneath keeping covenant and showing steadfast love to your servants who walk before you with all their heart. First Chronicles 1720 There is none like you, O Lord. There is no God beside you, according to all that we have heard with our ears. Psalm 40, verse 5 You have multiplied, O Lord my God, your wondrous deeds and your thoughts toward us. None can compare with you. I will proclaim and tell of them that yet they are more than can be told Psalm 71, 19. Your righteousness, O God, reaches the high heavens. Who have done great things, O God? Or rather, you who have done great things, O God, who is like you? Psalm eighty-six, verse eight. There is none like you among the gods, O Lord, nor are there any works like yours. Psalm eighty nine, verse six. For who in the skies can be compared to the Lord? Whom among the heavenly beings is like the Lord? Psalm 89, verse 8. O Lord, God of hosts, who is mighty as you are, O Lord, with your faithfulness all around you? Psalm 97, verse 9. For you, O Lord, are most high above all the earth. You are exalted far above all gods. Isaiah 46, verse 5. To whom will you liken me and make me equal, and compare me that we may be alike? Jeremiah 10, 6 and 7. There is none like you, O Lord. You are great, and your name is great in might. Who would not fear you, O King of the nations? For this is your due, for among all the wise ones of the nations and all their kingdoms, there is none like you And last one, Micah seven, eighteen. Who is a god like you, pardoning iniquity and passing over transgression for the remnant of his inheritance? He does not retain his anger forever because he delights in steadfast love. Did you catch the theme of those verses? God is incomparable. There is no one like our God. He is high and holy. He is lifted up and exalted. He is majestic and full of splendor. He alone is worthy of honor and glory and praise and Worship. He is worthy of our greatest attention and study. And yet, as believers, even we are prone to take the the very word that he has given to us to reveal himself that we might know him as the incomparable God. We take his word and we tend to focus on those passage passages that talk about us. We tend to give far less attention to those passages that talk about him. In fact, let me do a little experiment. Just by a raise of hands I'm gonna ask some questions. I want you to listen to a passage which I'm fairly confident will be familiar, but uh don't don't call out, you know, where where it's found or anything. Just Listen to it and then I have a couple questions. Even youths shall faint and be weary And young men shall fall exhausted. But they who wait for the Lord shall renew their strength, they shall mount up with wings like eagles, they shall run and not be weary. Weary he they shall walk and not faint. Raise your hand if you are familiar with those words. You've heard those words before. You've seen them on t-shirts, on stationary, on calendars. Yes. And I'm raising my hand because that's true of me as well. Now, again, don't call it out, but raise your hand if you know the reference. for that verse. Okay. You see the difference? Now that's I'm assuming this would only apply to those of you who know the reference. Again, don't call it out But if you know the reference or you have some sense of those words, does just raise your hand. Does anybody know the context where those verses are found in terms of what surrounds those verses. And I'm not raising my okay, see one, maybe two. I'm not raising my hand either because prior to preparing this for the men for last week, I couldn't have told you that either. Well what I've just read is Isaiah forty, verses twenty-nine, or rather verses thirty and thirty-one. Isaiah forty, thirty, and thirty-one. And what's interesting about those verses is that they come at the end of a chapter or If we can say they're in the context of a section that primarily extols the greatness and incomparability of God. Virtually the entire chapter is, look at how great God is. And what we know is the part that says, hey, look at what God can do for me. Now obviously it's not wrong or bad to meditate on, be encouraged and comforted by that reminder of God's care and love for us, but we often do this in an unbalanced way Right? We tend to focus on those passages that we think are gonna provide the greatest comfort for us when the reality is and what God knows is that what provides the most comfort for those of us who are His children is to know Him more. And so what I want to do for the rest of our time together is do kind of take a brisk walk through Isaiah 40. So just see this incomparable God. This is not going to be a detailed study. We're just going to read through it. I'll I'll make some comments. You could almost call this a A tour, uh a quick tour through Isaiah forty. Just to continue to get into our minds that God is incomparable. Now just to give you the context of Isaiah forty, uh Isaiah is a book split up into two uh distinct sections, chapters one through thirty-nine, focus and emphasize the judgment of God on the nations and on Israel Chapters 40 to 66 focus on salvation. God's promised deliverance for his people and even salvation for the nations themselves through the giving of his servant the Messiah. There's both judgment and salvation in every uh section of Isaiah, but the first section emphasizes judgment, the second section emphasizes salvation. Chapters 36 to 39. nine, which are right at the tail end of the first section, are what what are considered a historical interlude. It's where we learn about the Assyrians who have come against uh Jerusalem to conquer it and how God delivers Jerusalem uh because of how Hezekiah trusted in the Lord and looked to the Lord for deliverance. So God delivered Jerusalem from the Assyrians. And then we learn about Uh Hezekiah being told by the Lord that he's going to die, that he's uh has a sickness that's going to take his life. Hezekiah prays and cries out to the Lord once again And the Lord extends his life. And then we learn about these men from Babylon who come and Hezekiah shows them everything in his kingdom, all of his treasuries, and the Lord says, These are the men who one day will take everything away from Jerusalem and destroy it. So the that first section of emphasis on judgment ends with this historical interlude explaining the transition that's going to take place in the nation of Israel. And then chapter 40 picks up many years in the future and is a prophetic word to the future Israelites who will be exiled in Babylon. So there's a dramatic shift, a complete change of subject, and now whereas Isaiah before was speaking to the people in his time Now he speaks to a generations to come of those who are in Babylon under exile. And the thing that the Lord, who of course is behind Isaiah's words knows that the people in Babylon need more than anything, is they need to know what kind of God he is. Because it's never been done that a people would be exiled to a foreign land and eventually, even decades if not hundreds of years later, they come back and reconstitute as a nation. That just does not happen. And yet that's exactly what God promised would happen. And so for the people who are now scattered What they need to know is how is God going to fulfill this promise? And not the technical, logistical details, but God does actually give them a little bit of that uh later on in uh when he talks about Cyrus. But more than anything what he communicates to them is what kind of God he is that they can trust in him If you have your Bible there open Isaiah 40, uh verses uh three to five, or rather the first two verses give an initial word of comfort Telling these future exiles that their distress, their hardship is over, that they have received the due punishment for their sins. Verses three to five call for preparation for the coming of God, and that's language we're familiar with. as it relates to John the Baptist in the New Testament. Then verses 9 to 11 declare that God is coming to deliver his people. Let's just read verses one through eleven. Comfort, comfort my people, says your God. Speak tenderly to Jerusalem and cry to her. That her warfare or her hardship has ended, that her iniquity is pardoned, that she has received from the Lord's hand double for all her sins. A voice cries, In the wilderness prepare the way of the Lord. Make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be lifted up, every mountain shall be made low Uh and the uneven ground shall become level and the rough places a plain. And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together for the mouth Of the Lord has spoken. A voice says, Cry, and I said, What shall I cry? All flesh is like grass, and all its beauty is like the flower of the field. The grass withers, the flower fades, when the breath of the Lord blows on it, surely The people are grass. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God will stand forever. Go run up to a high mountain, O Zion, herald of good news. Lift up your voice with strength, O Jerusalem. Jerusalem, herald of good news, lift it up, fear not, and say to the cities of Judah, behold your God. Behold, the Lord Yahweh comes with might and his arm rules for him. Behold, his reward is with him and his recompense before him. He will tend his flock like a shepherd, he will gather the lambs in his arms, he will carry them in his bosom, and gently lead those that are with young. Last two verses there, verses ten and eleven, give a uh a contrast between God coming in power And yet he comes as a gentle shepherd. And so the question comes, how can God deliver and shepherd his people when they are Ruled by such powerful nations. Who is the God of Israel? that they can trust that he will do what he has promised. What kind of God is he? Well, verses twelve to twenty-eight then extol the great and incomparable God. And then the final three verses, which we're familiar with, tell us how this incomparable God comes and strengthens those who are weak. Now as we look at verses 12 to 28, and again we're just going to do a quick walk through it. Isaiah's method, just so you kind of see how he lays this out, Isaiah's method is to ask a series of rhetorical questions. And then he makes declarative statements. So questions, statements, questions, statements. There's five rounds of questions and statements. In the first round, just to give you a preview, the first round he proclaims that God is incomparable to the nations, which is to say, all of the people on the earth In the second round, he proclaims that God is incomparable to idols. In the third round, he declares that God is incomparable to the rulers of the earth. In the fourth round, he declares that God is incomparable to creation itself. And then finally, he declares that God is incomparable to the comp To us. Alright, now let's just read it one section at a time, and again I'll just make comments as we go along. First of all, God is incomparable to the nations. Look at verse 12 Who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand, and marked off the heavens with a span, and closed the dust of the earth in a measure and weighed the mountains in scales and the hills in a balance. Just pause there. If you think about what he's saying there In your mind, get an image of the earth. We have the benefit of satellite technology. We've seen many pictures of the earth, so that's easy to do. Now, having pictured the Earth, put yourself back into your normal size, say uh sitting or standing on the beach, looking out at the vast ocean in front of you. Now let's just say that you decided, you know what, I think I wanna measure the ocean with the palm of my hand. That seems pretty ridiculous, doesn't it? Let's say there are thousands of people at the beach that day and you manage to collect all of them together and agree together, hey, let's let's together measure this ocean with the palms of our hands That is utterly ridiculous. Now, zoom back out, and even though God does not have a corporeal body, doesn't have physical components. There's a sense in which, you know, we sing the song he holds the whole world in his hands, right? For him to measure the oceans in the hollow of his hand is not a problem whatsoever. Or think about what he says there that he enclosed the dust of the earth in a measure, you know, taking a a measuring cup, if you will, just scooping up the dust of the earth. We we we can't even begin to imagine that, but God God is able to do that. Or how ye weighed the mountains in scales and the hills in a balance. You know, if you were to take your uh measuring scale that you might have in your kitchen and Go stand before a mountain and think, okay, how am I supposed to measure this thing? Again, that's for us that's inconceivable, but for God He He can just oh let me pick up that mountain and put it on this scale that I've created here. God is beyond All that we can imagine. He is greater and bigger. Immense is a word that sometimes is used, even though again not with physical attributes, but that there's no limit to God. Look at verse 13. Who has uh measured, or you could say directed, the Spirit of the Lord, or what man shows him his counsel? Whom did he consult, and who made him understand? Who taught him the paths of justice and taught him knowledge and showed him the way of understanding? Where did God go to college? Where did he get his credentials to be able to do all that he's done? Nowhere. No one has taught him. He didn't have to consult with anybody about how to use whatever mechanical things could be used to create. Now from his infinite knowledge and his Infinite wisdom, he made all things, he established the laws of the universe, things that we still cannot comprehend as advanced as we think we are Verse 15 Behold the nations are like a drop from a bucket. They are counted as the dust on the scales. Do you know if you if if we were to collect all of humanity in one place in one time All 8 billion of us, we would fit in the space of the state of Texas with every individual having 1,000 square feet to themselves. Now there's no streets so you couldn't get around very well. But you could live in a 1,000 square foot I don't know what that would be, half this room maybe and a little less A one thousand square foot space, every human being on the planet in the confines of the state of Texas. For God, that's nothing. I mean imagine this. Uh maybe you've been to a a sports arena where there's thousands of people uh and you hear you know the cacophony of the sound, the noise that's made whether everybody's singing together or chanting or cheering, whatever it might be But imagine that you're standing in the midst of billions, eight billion people, and everybody is joining their voices together to cry out at the top of their lungs That would be deafening, right? We we put um earmuffs on kids at sports stadiums because that's harmful to the ears But go up I don't know thirty thousand feet where you where we where we would typically be flying. You couldn't hear a thing. Go up to the level of space where you can see the whole earth. You couldn't even see that there are people on the earth. It says here that they are like a drop in a bucket. A drop is absolutely nothing, right? I mean just think about it, a bucket full of one gallon, two gallons, whatever it is Just one drop is absolutely meaningless. Or the language of the dust on the scales in that time when when people would buy things, they would use scales to measure out the amount of money And the dust that was on the scales because they would use rocks and whatnot, the the dust was not counted for anything. No nobody would say, let's make sure we get a perfect clean scale. Otherwise we might mess up our calculation. No, the dust doesn't matter. In the same way the nations in mass matters nothing at all to God. Behold, he takes up the coastlands like fine dust. It's that's similar in idea to enclosing Verse 16. Lebanon would not suffice for fuel, nor nor its beasts enough, nor are its beasts enough for a burnt offering. Lebanon is a area that it at least at that time was wooded. I haven't been there, so I don't know if it's still that way, but it's known for its trees. If you were to offer a sacrifice to God and burn the entire area of Leb Lebanon, And offer on those trees all of the animals available, millions upon millions of animals. That would not be enough to offer a sufficient sacrifice for God. Verse 17 sums it all up. All the nations are as nothing before him They are they are accounted by him as less than nothing and emptiness. This is why Psalm two says that when the nations rage, when they declare, Let's cast the His cords from us, God sits in the heavens and he laughs. It's like, what? You think you actually can do something to affect me? God is incomparable to the nations. It's understandable in many respects that we get concerned about what's going on in the world and what's happening, let's say, to Israel or what's happening with the Middle East or Asia or whatever. But from God's perspective, none of that has any impact on him. He is never concerned. So he's incomparable to the nations. Next he's incomparable to idols. Look at verse 18. To whom then will you liken God, or what likeness compare with him? An idol! A craftsman casts it, and a goldsmith overlays it with gold, and casts it for silver chains. He who is too impoverished for an offering chooses wood that will not rot He seeks out a skillful craftsman and set up uh to set up an idol that will not move. Yeah, there were certainly large idols in that day, but most people had household idols. They would have these little figurines, whether of animals or or birds or things in creation or uh representing people. God says, are you going to compare me to one of those little idols? You know, as it says in the Psalms, these idols that have eyes that cannot see, and ears that cannot hear, and mouths that cannot speak, and hands and feet that cannot move? Are you going to compare me to a little wooden figurine? In the history of human religion there are all different kinds of religions. Not every religion has idols that represent their God, but no matter what religion mankind has developed, there is no God lowercase g, like our God. You can study every religion, go to the depths of their extent of what they what they claim their gods are like And there is no God like our God. Next, he is incomparable to the rulers of the earth. So this speaks more to the governmental authorities. Verse 21. Do you not know? Do you not hear? Has it not been told you from the beginning? Have you not understood from the foundations of the earth? It is he who sits above the circle of the earth, and its inhabitants are like grasshoppers, who stretches out the heavens like a curtain and spreads them out like a tent to dwell in. who brings princes to nothing, and makes the rulers of the earth as emptiness. Scarcely are they planted, scarcely sown, scarcely has their stem taken root in the earth, when he blows on them and they wither, and the tempest carries them off like stubble. Again, we we get very excited, positively or negatively, about the rulers of the earth. Right? Not only every four years, but maybe every two years, and then all throughout that time as we hear the news of who's doing what and who said what, we get very concerned about the impact that the rulers of the earth are having in our community, in our nation, in the world, and we get extremely bothered by the things that we see that that concern us. And again there's a measure in which that's understandable, but but God is saying I sit way above all of that. And the p the inhabitants of the earth are like grasshoppers, and frankly I think that's pretty generous of God to to call us ha grasshoppers. Other passages say that we are like a worm. E even that is generous. I mean at least from the perspective of you know what what you can uh see from a distance. You know, in our home we don't have a major ant problem, but pretty much every day there's ants that crawl on our kitchen counter. Uh and just enough where you can just Yeah. Just get a few. Yeah. Teach them a lesson. You know, tell your buddies, just don't come back. But if you're And again, just thinking using anthropomorphic terms of God you know being in outer space, as he looks on the earth, you can't see us Right? We are microscopic. And yet God cares for us. That's why what is it, soulmate? Who is what is man that you are mindful of him? Son of man, you care for him. But as it relates to the rulers of the earth, the those who pump themselves up and and you know declare themselves to have authority and power and influence. You know, um the language there of verse twenty-four is that they're like a little plant that's just been planted. It barely grows out of the ground, and God just And off they they go. They're gone. No one on this earth can begin to thwart the purposes and the power of God. Because he's he's incomparable. And then he says he's incomparable to creation. Verse twenty five, To whom then will you compare me that I should be like him? says the Holy One. Lift up your eyes on high, look up to the heavens, he's saying. See who created these? He who brings out their host by number, calling them by name, by the greatness of his might, and because he is strong in power, not one is missing. This would be irrelevant for those living in Babylon because the Babylonians worshiped the stars. And they believed that the stars had power and influence and that the stars were gods But God is saying, look at all of these, I am in complete control of all of these. They exist by my work. I have named all of them, which is to exercise authority over them. And I sustain them because of my power. If I were to remove my power, they would go out of existence. But because of his strong power, not one is missing. Again, we have the benefit today of satellites and uh microscopes and all of that to be able to see the majestic creation that God has made. And in comparison to the earth and even our solar system, we have come to realize just how insignificant we are from that perspective of size, right? You know, if you were to take the entire if you could, uh we can't yet, but uh just imagine that you could take the entire universe, the however many billions upon billions of galaxies, and and see it all in one span and say, okay, well where's the earth in that? You can't. You can't see the earth. It is way too small. But God knows every star by name, and he upholds and controls it all. And so then finally he says that he is incomparable to us. Verse 27, why do you say, O Jacob, and speak, O Israel, my way is hidden from the Lord and my right Is disregarded by my God. Have you not known? Have you not heard? The Lord Yahweh is the everlasting God, the creator of the ends of the earth. He does not grow He is he does not faint nor grow weary. His understanding is unsearchable. So we we feel those The the the weight in the trials and the difficulties of life is like w has God forgotten me? Is is God not paying attention to what's going on? Somehow something slipped his mind that he let something go. He he let an arrow through to to get me that he wasn't Expecting. No, we're thinking much too highly of ourselves and too little of God. when we think that way. God knows all things, God is in control of all things. God never grows weary of exercising his control over all things. If he is eternal, if he is the creator of the ends of the earth, Is it possible that somehow he would grow weak and not be able to care for us? No. That's impossible. And so he concludes this consideration that God is the incomparable God over the nations, he is incomparable to idols to the rulers of the earth, the creation, and to us. This this grand vision of this God who is exalted and mighty and powerful beyond our comprehension He says he gives power to the faint. And to him who has no might he increases strength. Even youth shall faint and be weary, and the young men shall be exhausted. But they who wait for the Lord shall renew their strength, they shall mount up with wings like eagles, they shall run and not be weary, they shall walk and not fall. Faint. I guess you could say the problem with focusing on those promises of God without focusing on who God is is because we are so forgetful of who God is, we can question his promises. And so Isaiah here models for us that when we Remember who God is, and we place greatest when we place great emphasis on who God is, then his promises are certain and unquestionable. And we can live with confidence, knowing that even if God promises something that seems impossible to us, He will fulfill it. Let me pray. Father, thank you for this brief reminder. So much more that we could say this is worthy of our meditation all the day. Lord, I thank you for these ladies and their desire to know you more, each in their own life with their own circumstances and trials and opportunities to trust in you. I pray that you would grow in them a greater knowledge of your incomparable being. So that no matter what they face, they will have confidence to know that the incomparable God is with them and caring for them. For Christ's sake, we pray. Amen.