But I know you've got some familiarity with our ministry, with biblical peacemaking, and so I just wanted to give you a chance tonight. I actually go through this entire course. And so that went on for two or three days. He said, I I I sincerely, my recollection is that it was your idea four years ago, but I could be deceiving myself As a Christian brother, I should have stopped this thing, and at the very least I should have just gotten completely. But in any case I decide, I don't think I want to be a lawyer because I'm very competitive by nature, and being a trial lawyer would make me insufferable because you just you're always advocating and arguing. So I thought, well this, you know, I've been here 30 years, it's time for some fresh blood. But if you finally puts it on your heart to be a peacemaker, um it's a lot of fun. And I I just it grieves me to see what it does. So some people they're they're there sincerely wanting to get some advice from someone they trust and respect because they want to do the right thing. You can give him some advice and he will do it on his own. The thing that gives me compassion, though, is, you know, the Bible says the heart is deceitful. 'Cause we always round up, okay? And you don't see some clear evidence of that situation? There's some nice music coming out. You say, yeah, I heard about Yodi and Santiki and you elders, you need to get involved, and here's some things you can do to help them. And there's a second one, and there's a vacation to Disney World, and there's a. But when you walk out the door, damn, he could really retaliate against his wife. But I just want to tell you, based on my experience, I know there's some men that would sit here and be seething inside that the wife has exposed this sin and some of those men have retaliated against their wives. But what you do in a rural community is you get people saying we do have fires occasionally, so we need to train some people in our community on how to put it out and operate the equipment. But the other role, which I think is even more important, is what we call RW life coaching, that's someone would come to one of these coaches and say, listen, I love my wife dearly. And what you want to do is teach this man to take ownership for the problem and for the solution. But our marriages often reveal all sorts of sinful behavior, pride, selfishness, stubbornness, etcetera. And the thing that finally gets him in my office or a pastor, the wife says, okay, it's either the pastor or a lawyer. And that's great, most of those situations work out fine, but if something goes wrong, then you've got two people in the church that are mad at each other, possibly even threatening a lawsuit. The PACE program that stands for Professional and Community Engagement. And a big part of what you do is you emphasize job performance, career advancement, people with higher emotional intelligence on average make twenty-six thousand dollars more per year So you can use some pragmatic inducements for people who go on the training. But I just do want to remind you, the the way of the sinner is hard. You know, the way of the sinner's heart. It's like a vaccine, if you will, okay? But if here's an example of something, oh wow, man, I forgot that, I need to do that here. And she oh I couldn't talk to the pastor, I couldn't do this, this I'll go with you. I'm going to ask God to really help me in these areas, but I really want your help, and if I fall back on those things. And it's like you come out to Montana, you're standing at the foot of the Rocky Mountains, and they're just they cover the whole horizon. And now in response to that, this is how you can live. I'm not sure what the New Testament is, the Old Testament, or what epistles are, but boy, I know Jesus died for my sins. Uh but especially to you, you all. It's looking for advice or Kurt or something like that, and it seems to run the candidate between gossip and seeking advice I mean just think of him. And if we don't obey So I'm just doing different paraphrases, I want to work it in five times into that last conversation, the way of the sinner's heart. You know, they don't remember the topic, much less the key points. We'll come out with some practical examples. That's what I'll say. It was the early church founded on the apostles, and yet right away Christians were bickering and arguing and fighting, and even Paul and Barnabas had a falling out. and went their went their ways. Um a few years ago we had one case where there was a conflict going on in a church over some doctoral issues and they it finally came to a head in a congregational meeting and the there was I think it was like a 70-30 vote. Their hearts were just grieved that there had been, you know, in fact I've been in those meetings where people celebrate the seventy percent vote. And that's what I love in my work is seeing people who actually do things that get the people in the world to say, wow And it wasn't just a you know voluntary sending people out there to plant a new church. And the pastor quoting scripture said, Oh, but the Bible the Bible says, let your yes be yes. So litigation goes on for quite a while. The little girl, who's now three years old, unattended in the backyard, he swoops in, grabs a girl, throws her in his car. They said, what did you do? high-speed chases across the gravel roads of North Dakota. all to agree to a conciliation process. But he said, I have told that version of events for so many years, I really don't know what is true. You walked over in front of the the couple, the birth parents got down on his knees. to handle this well that he was afraid and he sh he he blocked things. He had shared with me during some of the breaks that he despised Christians, especially seeing what this church had done to his clients. And the gracious king forgives him. um with your daughter-in-law, whoever it might be that you're engaged with at times, or some people in your church that are in in conflict. And of course that is a gift to the Holy Spirit. Can you talk a little bit about your ministry? Between Jews and Gent we we don't really realize what a significant thing that is. compared to that $200 million lawsuit. And I just came under deep conviction. And I just said, God forgive me for my lack of faith, not believing that you have me here for a purpose. So that's how I got into this ministry back in um uh 2000 19 uh eighty-two This cancer that I'm dealing with, Lord, I consecrate it to you, and whether I live or die, you know, to live as Christ, to die as game, whatever happens, I just want to live this out in a way that is honoring to you And so that's when I began to look at some other avenues for training and began to study more about emotional intelligence And at first I thought that was just sort of like a pop psychology. But now we are actually, there's been enough time for them to establish themselves with a new leader. So it sort of supercharges, if you will, biblical peacemaking. If a man desires to be an it he's desiring good things. going through a conflict. And just all kinds of stuff comes out and it feels to me like at some point I needed to say, you know, I can't talk to you anymore and other times this like I should listen to compassion and and maybe you could help threw that kind of It's a real common occurrence that people come to someone in a position of leadership, someone they respect and trust, as people do you, and they say, hey, I need some advice. There's other people who just love to talk about how badly someone else has behaved. And the way to knit that in the bud is let's say let's say Bob has come to you, laid out these concerns, say Bob, this sounds like a really important issue. Let's make an appointment with the pastor and you and I will go and sit down and we'll talk oh no no and suddenly they start backing off, you know, they they really don't want to go. Together you wanted to get together with that little girl's case with about twelve months to that. I think had legitimate concerns. And so building credibility and trust with them was huge. And so it's showing authentic empathy, and that's a big part of of Passport. Are you showing empathy? Man, they're going to make a beeline to you right away because they already have that trust for you. or whether it's in a counseling or small group session or whatever, you are either increasing your passport or you're diminishing it. corollary off of the advice question that's really and I think I may know your answer to it, but it it is kind of a little nuanced. And what do you do to kind of turn that other than that? If you can ask the right question at the right time, just think of how often Jesus asked questions. I've been wrong. And he came to me and he s we were talking. And there's some nuances on forgiveness, some nuances. Keeping in mind there's many sins you don't even realize you committed, so you get zero for those. Are not of that caliber. And yet too often, because we're Christians, we've got the Bible and the standard of conduct and the rules that other people don't live up to. I don't care what this guy says, I don't see fruit of repentance here. Okay? is where there's a link to this seven steps to empathy. Okay. Don owned it. One moment a lot of tension built up and they had an argument and Don just said, That's it, you're fired. And everything you can think about the other guy that fits within that meeting, I want you to write that piece of paper. is I want to go home and I want you to write down on a piece of paper, Philippians 4, 8 and 9, whatever is true, whatever is lovely, whatever is excellent, whatever, etc. And your lawsuit can end up back in court, well who knows what will happen. He just started, I mean, you tears coming down his cheeks. We really try to get our arm around them and turn them back with the cliff toward reconciliation. And there's a lot of ways we can influence I mean my wife has changed me so much for the better. information and forgiveness or more so think that she protects herself from the children. The only limitation I I find that question is good for me. So the question I prefer to use is what would please and honor God in this situation? I think you just had to be careful to make it real clear. And when a fire does break out, their beepers go off, they go down there, get the equipment, and they're there to put it out. But when it does erupt, you want to have some people trained to respond to it in constructive way, especially so it doesn't land all on the shoulders of your pastors or even on just the elders. You're gonna wear yourself out. He says, and the tough cases need to come up to you, Moses. Other people are trained as instructors. So some people would be trained through what we call our RW Shepherd, Relational Wisdom Shepherd. So you could have instructors that do that. But you meet with them every other every other week for forty-five minutes. And he's emerging. Which is sort of ironic when you think this is the relationship Jesus says, you want to know how Jesus loves the church? And part of that I think is just the way we're wired as men, male pride. I'd like to arrange some life coaching for Yugo. in the coaching, but they take it one more level. And it says these skills can really help you in the workplace, job performance, career advancement. you know, religious language. Offering this as a free professional development is his community, and he says every time he does it, there's people walking in the back door the next Sunday But we give multiple opportunities where people can choose. And so the thing I love about it is I call it stealth evangelism. So even if he goes across it, divorces leaves you, that's somewhere down the line. is that I've done what God calls me to do, not that I've gotten the other person to do what I want him to do. I think it sincerely wants to change and grow and when I think of your kids and weddings and all the things of the future, there's every reason. Uh if there's someone who just isn't cooperating, doesn't respond, won't take any responsibility, um depends on the circumstances, whether it's a legal dispute or a church discipline dispute. And I'll I'll share a story in my sermon on Sunday about an example of somebody who did that. And the secretary was just terrified to do this, you know, talking to the pastor and criticizing him. You're not the only person that probably stepped on their toes. was having a hard time working for him. And we're amazed. And we go back to the law. Who knows the Bible and the doctrine and the creeds inside out? uh for pastors. uh and it's loosely connected to scripture. just about every year the last six or seven years. conciliation, mediation, all the kinds of things that we do. Certainly the Gospels themselves, the Book of Acts and the Epistles, every one of the epistles has a peacemaking section in it. that they did go in different ways. over that. You're celebrating a division with brothers and sisters in Christ? um it not necessarily to bring you back into the body, but we want to be at peace. And uh we want to give you the choice. stress on a marriage sometimes. turned their baby over to this other to the this young couple who and that the young adoptive father was also a pastor in the same denomination. back. And they go, oh, so they go home again. I mean this was so over my head. You'll find it in most marital conflict. Toward repentance and confession and reconciliation. And so God uses even evil, wicked acts of people to somehow accomplish his divine purposes. And I just sensed Gary was the one. reality what really happened and then time goes by and these things get twisted and people tell their version in advance and they get to the point where they really truly believe an incredibly inaccurate version of what happened And he said, I am so sorry for the incredible pain we caused you a year ago when we attempted to kidnap Rebecca back. that he'd been telling for four years and the the birth parents were telling version that he came up with the idea, he pressured everything else. And so Gary the father said at this point it very well could have been me. And I I can now finally understand how terrifying that would have been to you. Perhaps it was me. Uh oh in fact this is before they talked about they're going to drop the lawsuit. You know, one of the most important parables Jesus teaches in the end of Matthew 18. that the the depth of our sin that has been covered by the mercy and grace of Jesus Christ, and we turn right around and we someone has offended us some way. At that point, the president of the denomination got up, he walked around the table, he got down on his knees, and he started confessing how the denomination had failed strain and stress and loss for these four years. that they sold to just get a little bit more money to continue their battle over the last four years. with a note from the denominational leader who said, we hired somebody to try to track down your family piano. to repair the damage and to not do the same thing in the future. But we did find this one, and I hope it will remind you of how grateful we are for your forgiveness and the mercy you've shown to us and how sorry we are for what you've gone through. And she said, that's when I really healed. It's when we get our focus back up on the gospel and we remember what God has done for us in Christ. And now here in Ephesians, Paul is talking about how God, through Jesus, his shed blood, his resurrection, has torn down the dividing wall. And he I I just knew he was going to say, oh come on son, settle down. I just I felt like a ton of bricks lifted off my shoulders. And I went home and I just thought, you know, I've got a great job offer, a law firm back in billings. in a couple weeks um to talk to some attorneys about Christian conciliation, would you drive me around? And he got my name off a mailing list for the Christian Leal Society newsletter, which I had subscribed to, and then he told me about Christian conciliation, which is the idea of Christian attorneys helping Christians live out the teaching of 1 Corinthians 6 that when we have conflicts, even legal conflicts, we should take them to the church instead of into the civil courts. And uh for 30 years led the ministry which evolved into what's called Peacemaker Ministries. But in 2012, after 30 years of putting out the fires of conflict, lawsuits, church splits, child sexual abuse, you name it, I've seen it all. But after 30 years of putting out the fires of conflict, I thought, you know, I think I'd rather devote the rest of my career to preventing the fires of conflict. People out there are a man who you know seduces and abuses children in nursery, that's deliberate, wicked, sinful behavior. our reasoning and our will. But we also train people in advanced levels of coaching, mediation, teaching, instructing, all sorts of ways that they can be basically independent contractors in their communities Teaching our material, coaching people on our materi excuse me, material, and actually doing mediation. which I hope most of you will attend tomorrow, that you'll be sensitive. They often call us, say, I think we need a mediator. But we can actually coach the people on just some basic skills on how they can go back to the other person in private. cases we're dealing with a lot of abuse cases today. People are coming out talking about it more readily where it used to be just covered up. Now sometimes that is a very sincere, inappropriate request. And I will listen for a while to somebody and and I'll just be praying, Lord, give me this sermon. But I'm really not the person to talk to. Drop a hint that they've got a major problem, you go, oh that's nice. some people come and ask for advice about something or handling a conflict, that they're that the motivation is is ammunition for how to do law That's what one of them really needed to say, but he just couldn't bring himself to do it. opened up. As I talked to people, I said, Lord, what do I do? out there what he's been saying verbally. Column like that right beside it. Empathy is also mentioned compassion. There there is a change that leads progressively to put a different situation to the other. Empathy is like playing the piano. that someone else is hurting or fearful or whatever it might be. And the word literally means you come alongside somebody, co-passion. You know, Jesus is referred to as the consolation of Israel. It moves us where we want to do something about it. to help them. One of the things he says to them, there's four or five steps in there, but one that I found to be absolutely essential is finally whatever is true, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, whatever is praiseworthy There was a employment dispute I had, one of the earliest cases, Don and Dave. It ended up with us doing a mediation. And the other one, that'll won't take much time. And Don said, you remember there was a mother moose down there with a calf. But it's amazing how if you start remembering the broader thing. And one of the pieces of advice I give to a lot of people in marriage cases is don't ever marry somebody that you're not at least 60% happy with. And when you can get people to focus back on all those good things, the bad things become more manageable. But we just we laugh about say, you know, I am not gonna vote. Um one of Charlie you mentioned something about in some u your cases you have to get like the police involved. But if need be, we will move the wife to a safe place as well. more physical. So I would I would not want to wait years, but you certainly may in many cases go months that that man is in counseling, he's showing clear evidence of repentance. Um the blaming stops. But the Bible does say that his Spirit fills us. There could be a lot of time and energy taken up in these things. And so in Exodus 18 it says that they were bringing all their complaints and lawsuits to Moses. is just uh James 3. to carry out a lot of the roles that are involved. They don't sit down with both people, but one person can come to them and say, hey, I've got a dispute with so-and-so. He's talking about some relational deficits that he's become aware of that he really wants to grow in. Man, I just love how to learn to control my temper. And so he goes through that process. And if each of them just took three people a quarter to coach, meeting every other week for 45 minutes, it's not a big time constraint. And if you dealt with it three years ago, a very little small incision, it's out, it's gone, you're moving on, but now it's spread. It's not like oh you got major problems. It's a way to get men into an environment where they're getting advice, but it's called coaching, life coaching. And so you should have and then also there's a lot of people in churches who work for one another. is is really a helpful thing to do for a church, can take a big load off of your um your senior leadership. But you don't want them having to take a lot of their time with these other things. And the places that we're going, I did one for the largest hotel in our community recently. And about a month ago we signed an agreement with our public school system, secular public school system, where they're going to be using our paced material for 1600 teachers. And eventually the goal is to reach 16,000 students and then their families. uh for free as professional development training on emotional intelligence and conflict resolution. Okay? That's the big thing. Okay, we're we're getting toward the end here. hooking up with another woman, he's gonna divorce his wife, marry this other woman, and and through the whole mediation process, property selling, we were doing a lot of those legal things. held it together, we signed the papers. But I'll never forget this. There was a study done in in Virginia many years ago and they interviewed dozens and dozens of people who had gone through a divorce. Who's leaving? So but I also in that case I wouldn't tell the wife to just hold herself for the rest of her life. I would usually counsel anyone who's gone through a divorce not to be involved in the relationship for at least two years. And those are some of the tough questions church leaders have to have to deal with. Uh wait till tomorrow. Uh w is there anything you would say of uh practical things that the folks in this room, you know, should they encounter uh in the future, because no doubt there w there will be, and there always is in the future, ways that they can contribute to promoting these. The more you can give examples of these things, the better. To the pastor's credit, he listened with humility. Till her husband moved to another city. um had never been a big enough church to have a full-time secretary. How Elena had come to him with the elder's wife, how grateful he was. in the New Testament. I mean that's all of the first three chapters of Ephesians because Paul is exalting the gospel and then he moves into conduct. in new and refreshing and exciting ways that people would just still be amazed. The Ten Commandments doesn't start with, Thou shalt have no other gods before me. If you get and what happens is we forget that, so we do steal, commit adultery and everything else. uh from various uh local states. Alright folks, let's uh come together. Uh in a very practical way, but clearly biblical. And that class was so helpful because it brought to crystal clarity the principles of how we are to deal with sin in the body of Christ in terms of interpersonal conflict. But all that all that to say that kids ministry has had a massive impact on on my life and ministry, of course, like anything that we learn, we we are never perfect adherents to, and so it's uh I'm always growing and learning how to apply those truths. And uh I'm I'm so thankful for his willingness to do that. Okay. gathered tonight is I I know there's just a lot, uh quite often a lot of questions people have about the actual application, practical application of of the peacemaking principles be thinking about some things you'd like to ask me about peacemaking, things like that. And so the 70% people, they held on to the property, the 30 people, 30 percent people left. They reached out to the leaders of this smaller faction out there and they said, we're we're just troubled and grieved over what happened. the decision was made that the way to solve the stress in their marriage was to place their newborn baby up for adoption. And they did it. How did you do that? And a few weeks later this the birth parent said, hmm, we we don't think that was really the best choice. They fired filed the papers literally one day after the statutory period ran. who finally locates the adoptive parents living in a little farm in North Dakota, and the detective hides out in the woods behind the house through out sort of in a rural area for a couple of days until he sees You know, we can read over that passage so quickly and not realize there is a gold line nervous and afraid and the the denomination course was thinking two hundred million dollars a liability and you didn't know if we just say yeah yeah just give it to them just to make things right. So we went through two days of of uh of a normal conciliation process, which is mainly everybody blaming someone else. is we pull out a pair of binoculars, we look at the other person's sins, and it we magnify them. And we look, well yeah, I did a couple of little things, but compared to what he did. How can you get the speck out of your neighbor's eye if there's a log in your eye? He allowed, if you want your word, allowed cost, I don't care what word you want to use, but he allowed this to take place the same way thousands of years ago he allowed Joseph's brothers to sell Joseph into slavery. as his adopted sons and daughters. This had been allowed to happen. And so the next day we got together all these people, there's one, two, three, one, about six represented parties in the room, about five attorneys, give or take a few. And therefore, my wife and I have decided to drop our lawsuit with prejudice. Even though legally they couldn't do anything, they still had tried some other things. This little girl was like three months old when she was adopted. Think of how traumatic it would be to take this little girl away from the people who had been raising her for most of her life. And I was trying to I was sort of praying, well God, what do I do next? And they knelt down and they were hugging, and he said, We forgive you. So we talked a lot about that, and that's what Gary and Peggy said to the pastors that Jesus has forgiven us far more sins than what happened here. And finally I just called a break because we were beyond able to converse. And he had a very negative view, but he was standing there looking out the window. But they they paid him. During the the testimony, she had shared that one of the things they had to sell during this whole ordeal was a family heirloom piano. Um they committed to doing more teaching on peacemaking, everything else, the whole denomination. Matthew 7, first get the log out of your own eye. Dancing. And uh three months before graduation I decided I don't think I want to be a lawyer. So I was really sort of distressed and thinking I'd wasted three years, basically. You could have a very difficult job. You can have serious health concerns. We can either curse our chains or we can consecrate our chains. And consecrate means you give something to God irrevocably. And the minute he described it, my heart just. But they still make unwise, foolish decisions. But I began to study more about emotional intelligence, how the human brain works, the the the neurology of the human brain. And all of it is basically is is people who just um evolutionists. and good theology that we have as Christians and marry them together. Stayed awake with peacemaking for about eight years, but I, because I didn't want to compete with peacemaker, I wanted them to thrive of conflicts that have arisen or more of your time is preventative? And um so we do that, you know, they call us back later and say, hey, great, we don't need a mediator, we got reconciled. And so you can gently talk to that person and challenge them a little bit, but offering to go, either suggesting that that person go, and sometimes if he's sincere, Couldn't prove it, but I think so. I I made great efforts to show empathy. That it does actually mediate the dispute. Yeah. And they really think they are. I like to to use the fish analogy, I I like to set the hook before I start giving some advice they may not want to hear. Because questions are the most powerful way to touch someone else's heart. And his answer was, well I can't judge that. Now I've used this technique now in many cases. And I I said, Bob, I I want to understand really where you're coming from. Tower fifty fifty fifty two five thirty. And so he put that in there. Now, that's not to say that there aren't situations where someone truly, in fact, doesn't fully comprehend. And to justify unforgiveness. Yeah, I'm I'll repeat 'em. But wherever you are on that scale, you can improve it with practice. It's called co-passion. your handout toward the end. helping people to start getting the log out of their own eye. Think on these things. And these two guys are the classic, here's where here's why I'm right and why he's wrong. Do you remember the the year we had that contract up in Yellowstone Park and you and I took our motorcycles up with us? We went out one night and we were parked on that lookout near Lake Hotel and they looked out the pond. is I'll say, listen, if we're going to help you with child visitation and custody, all those things, I need to understand your family, because there's a lot of important dynamics that are going to are going to play into this. four or five of your family photo albums. By tell them I wanna I want to understand your family. You know on a scale of one to a hundred, at least sixty percent of what you now these are obviously random numbers, but there's at least sixty percent of that person say, I really like this to the pastor and shares some things over the marriage and the pastor, Oh, we need to talk to your husband. And I would look him right in the eye and I would say, I'm going to call your wife tomorrow, and I'm going to find out what happened this evening and tomorrow. And if we find out there was retaliation, number one, we will call the police and we will turn you in. Is this one where they need to be separate? They'd seen the Red Sea parted, Pharaoh's army destroyed, you'd think they'd be the most perfectly obedient people in the world, and yet they're bickering and arguing right away. Train godly leaders as judges over groups of ten, fifty hundred, and thousand. You form relationships there and your small group leaders should be trained on how they could actually resolve things. Maybe this is a more complicated case. Small group of ten people has a dispute. who can raise their skills up. What man would would be insulted if someone said, Hey I want to give you a birthday present, I've arranged three sessions with the golf pro down the golf course. Whoa, the golf crow, I'm gonna get better, man. You want to give your pastor time to have a family that's strong and solid backing them up. You can take a lot of time off your pastors, and they can actually have some more time at home with their families. Item number ten, put a check mark there. And it takes a while to build the credibility and there's a whole marketing thing to it. This is his main strategy for church growth. is embedded in the materials that people get. At the end of a lesson, you can say if you'd like to see a faith-based version of this lesson, click here. they're actually going to be actually receiving multiple opportunities to encounter Jesus in his gospel. And in the final session, the wife finally, Holy Spirit finally worked in the wife because she was feeling so justified in being bitter, because he was the one having the affair, leaving the marriage, so clearly he was the wrong guy I want to reach on take her confession back. But as she began to just really pray, the Lord really began to see how she had contributed to the breakdown of their relationship. An authentic, heartfelt confession about the things she had done to fail to be the kind of wife that would have been uh more consistent with God's uh model for that Do the best they can, but also especially don't burn any bridges. But that that last passage in Romans says, if your enemy is hungry, feed him. And some people will wait even longer than that. Be at peace. Remember me? There's maybe a small handful of been here through most of those. uh where there's been some amount of division uh of course the most recent one being a year and a half ago or actually two years ago. the leaders of the church, meaning ministry leaders and not not just the elders but other leaders, you wish they would have positively contributed to promoting peace or you know, uh discouraging dissension. That's a very appropriate question for this meeting, Gabe. He said, and I'm sure that I've stepped on some other toes here that I've been oblivious to, and if any of you have been offended, please come and talk to me. So as leaders, modeling these things would also be a great thing. If you listen to them give their position, there's no mention of the gospel. Try to bring the gospel. Who doesn't even know the difference between the Old Testament and the New Testament yet? you have the ability to come, uh please talk to me or Carolyn or Karen, uh and we'd be glad to make sure that you're able to be there. But uh just hearing these things tonight you realize man I really need to be exposed to uh this content and to be reminded and refreshing these things. that the gospel would be seen for the glorious reality that it is and all that Christ has done for us and that we would become gospel-like people, that we would live out the truths of the gospel, that we would imitate the Lord Jesus Christ. That we would glorify Him in our homes, in our workplaces, in the community, and that you would just empower us by your Spirit to rejoice in seeing you work through Living lives of faithful, wise relationships, and addressing conflicts in a way that glorifies you. The Peacemaker, which Ken Sandy wrote along with other books along the same lines. Um but uh I'm just excited that Ken is able to be here to minister not only uh to us broadly as far as tomorrow with the conference Eventually, they decide they're going to try to legally reverse the adoption. Asking for that much money was not completely, you know, unreasonable if in the legal s what's unreasonable in California. In their bitterness and their anger and everything else, was really coming to grips with the doctrine of the sovereignty of God. A hair doesn't fall out of your head, apart from the will of the Father. None of this would be here today. uh regain custody and with your permission we would like to bless you as Rebecca's parents. a very large fee because he put a lot of time into this case. girl married a gentile man, her family had a funeral. I was so instantly convicted that I was basically cursing my law degree, doubting God's guidance, doubting his sovereignty, doubting that he had me there for a purpose. And three hours later my phone rings and a man I'd never heard of before named Loriak is on the line and says, hey, my name's Loriak, I'm with the Christian Legal Society, I'm coming out to Missoula where the law school was Now I always quickly add, God doesn't usually work that quickly or that dramatically, okay? It never hurts for us in any situation to say Lord this is your situation. You know, I don't think that explains it. What other questions? Um talking with the pastor, the pastor's wife turned out to be a key player. A big part of building passport with people is listening. Anyway, I listened to this man uh talking about how, you know, if he was really repentant, I'd forgive him, but I don't think he's really repentant. They want to they want to come across that they're being generous, okay? Of your repentance for all of your sins before the face of a holy God who has, in fact, forgiven you. You don't need a speech on the sovereignty of God. Um, turn to page five and item number seven all these other things. And you shared about how scared you were, how excited you were, and my wife and I were just, you know, expecting a baby and we were just sharing from our heart and he said, I've never felt so close to a man in my life And then there may be another thirty percent that over time you don't try to control it, but try to influence it So there's another 30% you can you can grow and change. Obviously there's a spectrum of zero risk to boy call the army right now today and you have to decide where are we on that continuum. So I want to I want to put that there. It's still trying to say what what does God call me to do in this situation? Not lecture, to draw out of this man the relational skill he wants to improve, what success would look like, what are some ways to practice it. Often we'll have that person going through our relational wisdom course, so he's drawing information and printing. So if you have a gift for teaching and you also have a passion for spreading the gospel, you can become a pace instructor. On the back do you on the back of yours do you have this? A little baby died three hours after birth, and the Christian response to it would blow you away. One person. It it didn't solve their problems and they wish they'd stayed in it. you know, remarry and stuff. that you can meet through me. We we forget things. Now, obviously the law is God's good and righteous guide for how to live. All right, well let me pray. It was an elective class, which is an atrocity, because it should be a required class nine or so and ever since then um but that content uh has stuck in my mind and as you know we've offered the biblical counsel or biblical reconciliation class here And this is from our the Relationally Wise Leader course. And as you you all probably know if you've got kids, two little kids and a baby, there's a lot of stress, staying up late at night, not a lot of sleep, put stress Well at that point they really are angry. Who was all too happy to file a two hundred million dollar lawsuit against the pastor, the elders, the church At that point, one of the attorneys for the denomination just said, boy, this is this is getting way out of hand. And so a big part of mediation is getting people to reverse that process and start seeing my contributions so clearly. And it took him a while just to be able to speak. Jews and Gentiles who've been separated for ages. But would make people go, wow, what is going on with you Christians? How we do peacemaking or how you apply these principles. of people who have good you know, most of the people I deal with in conflict have good intentions. So for several years we stayed away from peacemaking. would say, boy, this resonates with me. And because God has not given us the capacity to read someone's heart, we have to try, you know, we pray for discernment from the Holy Spirit. I prayed a lot. It was it was pretty amazing. You know, it it it depends on the situation. Joe's level of repentance, from zero, not repentant at all, to 100, totally, completely, just perfect repentance. He said, well frankly, when he gave us the assignment yesterday, I thought it was pretty stupid. So getting people to say whatever's true, good, noble, lovely, excellent, and praiseworthy, they'll resist you And so I would, in that case, I'm a I've been an elder in two churches, I would I would tell the guy, so listen, you've been reasonable in this meeting and I appreciate that, and I I hope God will just continue to give you grace to really want to change There's an example for us to aspire to. Can you talk about the Peace Solar team? My experience both as an elder and a conciliator has been, in the vast majority of situations I've been involved in, the wife has been asking to go to pastoral counseling for three or four or five years, and the husband is the one who's dragging his heels. Hey, we need to buy a house and John in our Sunday school class is a realtor, so we'll go and John and you'll be our realtor. In a church your size, I'm pretty sure there's people who own or manage businesses. So when you go out there and and have this practical kind of training in your community, and you just mention, you know, I I'm a I'm a you know a pastor out of this church or an elder or I go to so-and-so church hope church, you just sort of drop paraphrases of a proverb which says, the way of the sinner is hard. Just Lord, I always say do it as a love gift to Jesus. You could also with your church have somebody in the church who subscribes to our blog. Um so the other thing is examples are incredibly powerful. Now here's a here's a pastor confessing his sin in our flesh we think, oh you're gonna lose credibility. Is they have forgotten the gospel. out of the land of slavery. Very good. um consume that that content uh when the Lord allows. Um just as we hear the stories of your transforming work in the hearts of uh people in severe difficulty. And so Lord, we pray you would use not only tonight, but especially tomorrow, to do a great work in our church and in surrounding churches. But I'm so thankful that you are here tonight. And word got out in the community in a positive sense. Years ago, there was a young couple who um had two young children and a new baby Of human psychology and wisdom and peacemaking wisdom in that passage. Sinful, wicked behavior. So that suddenly the denomination church is off the hook for two hundred million dollars. In that room. So there's two key things I mentioned there that whenever you're involved, whether it's in your your marriage with your children So with that as a background, the other I want to just impart to you is any conflicts you've got in your life, I hope will seem very, very small. If you really are not willing to go, as Jesus Himself says, if your brother sins against you, you think he sinned against you, it's been telling me for the last 15 minutes. So I want to ask you now, what's going on in your heart, brother? So that's a good thing to be aware of. And we we solved the material financial issue fairly easily, actually. And I I drew a bar chart, a really tall column, like a skyscraper. Um but the way I read that passage, there's two ladies in the church who've had a falling out. And what kills a relationship is when you focus on the ten. So it but it is a delicate situation, so yes. And so now it's not a sign of a deficiency, it's a sign of potential. Because they care about their people and they're putting in long, long hours, and their family and their kids especially saying dad cares more about these people at church than he does about being in my baseball game And all the while she's talking, I'm just praying, God, please, convict this man, help him to see that it can be changed and turn it around. Well done. And sometimes that will turn people around years later. You know, Ephesians uh you're in Ephesians chapter four, forgive as Christ and God has forgiven you. Teach these concepts, relational wisdom, and peacemaking, just these core foundational principles, try to teach them to your entire church, whether it's through new membership classes, Sunday school, small group, that everybody has the it's like But I I I just want to prime the pump a little bit, if you will, and I would love to spend most of this evening responding to questions. That compared to what the other person did, I've got the log. Acts tells us that by God's set purpose and foreknowledge, Jesus was nailed to the cross on our behalf. And as we came in, I just sort of scanned the room to just sort of sense, okay, who whose heart has God been working on the most? This is all my fault. And he looked over at the denominational leader in the past, he said, and because realized that I bear such a responsibility, um My first degree was in mechanical engineering, went down to California as a medical R<unk>D. One morning my pastor was preaching on Philippians chapter one, where Paul is in chains. And the thrust of the message was any time we are in chains, we're in a situation that we would really like to change, but we're currently unable. God. Some advice that where they could begin to examine their own heart, and they would come to the conviction that, boy Forty-nine. And then also, what what are the things that we use to help people get to the point where they turn and start moving toward reconciliation? There's a download that I'll be referring to tomorrow that's called Seven Steps to Empathy. The way we define, and people can disagree on these definitions, by the way, because there's sympathy, empathy, compassion, there's different terms that are out there. is that initial you see someone who's hurting and you go, wow, she's hurting. But anyway, I encourage you to download that booklet. So a lot of what I'm talking about, you can download the documents. And we sat down and I turned after we prayed, I just said, Don, would you like to go first? I'm so sorry. Think um volunteer fire department in a rural community. And this would be on page six. But embedded in the material are a link people can go to to get a free scholarship to our complete online course. And if you haven't seen that by now, you I don't I don't know where you've been. And by the way, the pastor's daughter was a really wonderful person. So now we have allegedly a conspiracy involving not just the pastor, his local church, but also the denomination. When people see those kinds of things, that's the gospel? There's a lot, you know, the thing we always try to tell people that success in peacemaking is one person being dependently obedient to God. Uh oh I know the other thing he said was I'm not even sure at this point whose idea the adoption was. I'm doing these kinds of events because I would rather equip churches to train people to get upstream of conflict. So just over 12 months we finally eased them in. So I would ask them questions. Men men have a hard time really sometimes just really pulling down the walls and being trying you know, I'm so sorry. How did you best approach those situations where um it was no longer face for life to be in that household and um to speak on a space for You land on one thing, you slide over here. You'll have to bear with me. But I don't think that's his ideal way to do a church plant. Was God, I mean when this adoption took place, was God looking over here and he goes, oh my goodness, what happened? Gary, you're wrong. I I would rather have them conclude they're wrong rather than me try to tell them they're wrong. And he finally picked up the pencil and he drew it just above zero. I said, Oh yeah. And it was a necessary thing in order for him to take the sins of the world on his shoulders that we might someday be able to enter into eternity. Yes. God has been so merciful. Two ladies in the church at in Philippi have had a falling out. Boy manages people well. He's hanging on the cross. But I I just I don't know how to read her. In relational wisdom. I can walk out of this room with a clear conscience. So you can teach a great sermon series today and a week from later, a month later, whatever, what was he preaching on? Do you have a brake on a roller coaster? Now he could have pointed at a lot of other people's conduct, but at that point, in obedience to God, he was saying, this is the log in my eye. I could sit down with one party and just sort of guide them on some things they can do. Our team does spend and I I spend a few hours every week doing what I call a coaching. Dave was his top manager. I say Bob, thanks for being part of this process. Thank you, Ken. One of the things I've observed over the last 43 years of ministry is where two or three come together in Jesus' name, there will soon be conflict. I mean this this is like like impossible, you know? Yes. And he does it in a public letter, assuming A, their conflict is known to everybody already, so it's not like it's confidential. Well he's honest. There's their wedding day and the joy they had in those early years, and there's their first baby His wife and his kids are saying, wow, dad is so different. From the perspective of uh w watching everything that's happened, uh is there anything you would say of you wish The Israelites, Joseph was able to say, you intended this for evil, but God intended it for good, for the saving of this nation. So if you've got a gift for teaching and you like to share the gospel, take a hard look at the links on that number ten, which will show you more about our paced material. Every meeting we'd have just to now, her face was clouded because she was so self-righteous and and so unrepentant. I always like to tell that person who's done a good job. In this case it was the district, the conference, and the denomination. And we we got back together, the church gave a very generous restitution package to this young couple. Good. Gabe, would you pray for us in closing? Are you showing wisdom? You. Oh the one last thing I want to say about that though is you as leaders can be building passport with your people long before they need to come to you with a dispute. There we've hurt someone's feelings, we've disappointed them, we've forgotten an anniversary, we've we've done these things, and people can take it very deeply. We should be the most forgiving people in the world. I just can't honestly say. Who gave us emotions? We were an unknown quantity to them and they didn't know if we're a bunch of wacko off-the-wall, you know, kooky people. What's that? Yeah. 18. That's a legitimate response. We have this tendency to have this initial exuberance in salvation through faith in Jesus and his gospel. She went to one of the elder's wife and said, I need to quit. I said, okay, is that is that a forty-nine? It's just it's a dynamic because we want to justify in our mind how bad that person is. I know there's theological I don't know what your position is as a church. But then we turn around and we start walking east, and the mountains get smaller and smaller and smaller and smaller, and they disappear. And I'll give some examples this weekend of how to do that. Father, thank you for this evening. And what I will do in some of those cases if I sense that this person is just looking to speak critically of somebody, and I've seen people just go to this person, this person, they'll just go to everyone they can go to and just tell their story over and over again And so constantly refreshing these concepts. And boy, they really lit a fire under this couple. What's the difference between empathy and compassion? We've kept all of the emotional intelligence, just the wisdom principles in it. Very dramatic gospel presentations, like this adoption case I described to you. Now God used that in his providence. Why did you do that? But it's just our URL forward slash empathy. They can come to the small group leader and say, hey, I've got a dispute with someone at the office or someone here, my wife and me, or my mother-in-law. And the other neat thing I found is men are often very reluctant to come to the pastor for pastoral counseling, marriage counseling. We're going to cover most of this tomorrow in the seminar. And these are all given to us by God. I said, now, Bob, let's imagine this column, 0 to 100, represents your composite average of repentance for all the sins you've committed in your life. We all have a God-given capacity for empathy. Think on these things. And besides that, you're only dealing with a fraction of what's lined up in front of you that day. So they do he repented, he changed, he grew. Just give an overview. The Bible talks a lot about Jesus had compassion on people. There's actually an article on our website. Peacemakers who sow in peace raise a harvest of righteousness. You didn't do this, but I did this. And in that class uh had to read, I uh let me rephrase that, I had the privilege of reading. In fact, uh when we uh agreed for him to be able to come here for the conference, uh he was the one who suggested, hey, can I meet with your ministry leaders I've got a little bit of a cold, so you might pray for me tomorrow that my voice stays with me. There's not a lot of detail there. And to the denominational president as well. And they will be asking more for you know how do I get them, what do I do? If it's if it's fifty-one, then he's he's really more than halfway there and I need to forgive him, but if he's only forty-nine, I'm justified in not for it's just this funny psychological thing And we can't control the other person. So Okay Gabe. You could be a slave in those days. I mean, there's any number of things we're involved in life where we really wish we could change it, and we can't. It's like, hey, you're doing some great stuff. And there's both a Christian faith-based one and a secular one. And not for me to manipulate him or feel bad or to force him, just to be a channel of your mercy and grace. You can either have that entire fund that's been saved, or you can have the building, we'll take the fund and we'll make a new church. Uh I think finding the kind of a reclaim theme of the topic is personally comes to me in It's it's Job. He's he's he's never done anything that makes you think he's not honest as a manager. Now in some cases I will actually say you need to get out of the house. That goes up to someone a little bit higher in the church. At the end of that, this this woman looked up. And one of the things he says is be forgiving, be compassionate, be tenderhearted, be merciful. And eventually they went to their pastor just because there was just so much stress in their family at that point, and especially in their marriage. But I got a call from the birth mother about three weeks later. It wasn't even the money in the scholarship, it's where someone took a personal listen and heard how she had been hurt in a specific way and took a concrete step to heal it. We all have a God-given capacity to move our hand up and down on a keyboard, okay? Oh the walls are coming down. And so coaches, I would love in a church four or five hundred people? If I'll take another question or two if you want to, but I don't want to keep you too long. In that particular denomination, the word of the pastor was like the word of God. But a big part of our conciliation process, there's many different key factors, but one of those key factors is Matthew 7, where Jesus says, you hypocrite. So as we went through that process with the with the birth parents and the finally able to come to grips that somehow in God's wisdom and grace I mean the the people themselves put are put through a lot of pain, but to see what it does to children is something that really grieves me is to try to protect children from those things. How long does it take for that change? I just don't want to lash out at my wife or my kids anymore. That's good. Everybody should have the vaccine. Uh Lord, we know that the same Holy Spirit that accomplishes those things can work in each one of our hearts. And I don't know if you've ever done any biblically based gospel-centered peacemaking and mediation, but the best way to describe it is you're on a roller coaster ride. And not only that, we began talking about their role in the whole situation, what role they played, what their contribution was, what their log was And the very next day the guy goes out and another person owes him three months wages and he has him thrown in prison. Do you show that you care? Will you please forgive me? And so they come in the next day and sometimes they've already changed because they got the albums out, start looking at them, but sometimes it's in my office. He's looking down at people who just nailed him there and he's saying, Father, forgive them. He walked out and and as soon as the door closed she just burst into tears. It's amazing how quickly we forget that, which I know is exasperating all the hours you put into your sermons. The pastor's word, this is like he speaks on behalf of God. The denomination got him a full right scholarship to one of their schools, gave them all the housing they needed, housing allowance, all the money they needed for him to finish his degree The Bible says repentance is a gift to the Holy Spirit. So Okay. No, no. I not out loud, but just to my in my mind, Lord, what what can I do? They worked together for ten years very successfully, but they had very different personalities and occasional friction. I met with these guys and again we just go through the same kind of thing. So the what we do is there's four training tracks that we we believe should be re should be present in a Peace SOR team. So they find an attorney who had been excommunicated from that denomination. This was in California, where there had been recently, just before this, a $200 million award in wrongful death case involving a 10 infant. He said, I'm struggling. I'm not asking to be God, because Jesus had divine power that enabled him to do some things. Um and then you've got coaches. I mean I just I just let you jerk. They're just keeping the prey. They would technically say they still believe in it, but it's not evident in anything they're saying. No, it was so tightly bound to the Word of God. None of this would have happened. And so after everyone left that morning, I I walked up in front of the church, first time in my life, got down on my knees. I think God has given me some gifts. I say, well, before we talk about mediation, tell me more. They know how to sit down with two people who are in a dispute and walk them through a mediation process. And I'll talk a little bit tomorrow about some of the things that you can do. So uh I don't know if anybody here is not signed up for tomorrow, but I hope that if not, that if um And I just said, Gary, would you like to start today? This is my fault. And it's not so much what I said, it's that the Holy Spirit is I could say bibbity-bobity-boo, and the Holy Spirit can take that and it's like a spear driven through someone's heart What is going on? But if you sense a reluctance, you think he might just move on to the next person. Um when you say appro I mean I'm familiar with that book. Whoa. If you see one that you like, you run it by you, obviously. If I had been the father and husband God calls me to be four years ago It's become a real frequent um issue. Boy, you don't just walk away and say, great, we're done here. It's just our URL, rw360. I mean they just right away just dis is I said, I'm serious guys. They want to teach the material. And there's going to be some hard things coming down the road. And then there's ten implied therefores. So it'll be a a wonderful day. But one thing I know for absolute certain whoever came up with the idea, I never should have got along with it. There many times the biggest challenge is just winning their trust and getting them to the table. And um so he looked at it from there. I've found it to be very effective. Because when we get in conflict, we get tunnel vision. So I'm serious. And then the next question is, how long does it take an abusive man? This is our PACE program. Okay. So hopefully uh many of you remember the four G's. At that point, the pastor got up out of his chair, walked around the table, and I could see his attorney looking up at him like, what's he doing? And they really did a very, very fine job at that. I I gotta go, man. So that would just be one thing I would counsel each of us personally. And then consolation is we actually figure out a way to do something. The adoptive parents were very apprehensive about they they were just they'd been attacked so much they didn't want to lose their kid. I would try to help them without directly saying you're wrong, you're being unbiblical. He came down into the world and gave his life. He just started mentioning. And I want you to walk me through just so I can understand well that's it's not really what I want, obviously. You are ninety percent perfect. And I would refer you back to Exodus eighteen. If there's something that's really theological and doctrinal, those come to you. I pray every day that some non-Christian going to that course comes to that step, but just out of curiosity, and what's embedded in that course are five Thank you for the encouraging reminders of the gospel and the power of it. Um it it'll vary from person-to-person situation. And one case was 15 years where the woman came back, called me up, and said, Hey You'll find it in the courts. And he said, How can and the one the pastor was saying, How can you forgive me? There's all sorts of psychological theories come up. One of my other techniques I use in divorce cases where we get people coming in, they want us to do child custody visitation support and all those things Oh yes, we are we are wondering about same question in a slightly way. So if it's that setting, you can do it. There's probably been at least five or six, maybe more significant conflicts. There's probably other people. It's amazing. We met in a church down in Sacramento, and I was sitting there thinking, I am so in over my head Do you have an accelerator? I j I walked out on sort of floating out of the church. He said, yeah. You need someone who's just there, and maybe you're not even going to say anything. Yes, the Peace Solar team, uh and again there's a link here that goes to a much more detailed article. Well both of those courses have numerous crossover links. I say, you know, as God looks down on you right now, I believe what he's thinking is, well done, good and faithful servant. But one thing he knows is Jesus died for all my sins. So uh please welcome Ken Sandy. Now we've got two mission teams out there spreading the gospel. We don't know if that was a big angry falling out or just a well, maybe we should split up. So we have basically taking the good neurology we now can study. So I stepped down for Peacemaker, launched RW 360, and um I talked a lot to the attorneys to build credibility for our ministry because these the the attorneys So there's a lot of times we can hold up Jesus as the perfect example. So feel free to punt it. Thank you. I'll give you a real quick illustration. I think this will be an encouragement to you. And that that was hard for them to do because that attorney had made life pretty difficult for this denomination for four years. So if you think, I think I'd like to teach this material. And I'll go with you right now. I don't know if any of you have had teenagers. I know we're supposed to forgive. I said, well actually that's all you've been doing the last 20 minutes is telling me he's not sufficiently repentant. So there are some situations where you really do have to press in, but most of the disputes and the offenses we experience in life And what it does is start triggering all these emotions that are attached to those experiences. That'll help me really what would Jesus do? He said, I can see the same thing happened. I could see he was trembling. So that's where we are today. And part of that was showing empathy. Okay. What are the evidences or the fruit of repentance and domestic abuse? He is impossible to work with. And I just wanted to give a chance. And the words that came out of his mouth were, this is all my fault. No, what's interesting, almost inevitably And you'll notice on the front of this there's a URL where you can download this document as a PDF with live links. Well, even if someone goes and chooses to do the secular course, have any of you played the old game Shoots and Ladders? They went back to the pastor. The police are in pursuit. Are you guiding a guarding confidence as everything else? Fifty? When people look at us, the one thing they say about Christians, they are the most forgiving people I've ever known in my entire life. Will you please go back to work for me? You can do every week whatever you want, but that's our norm. Dad is so different. Okay. The the the seminar, the initial seminar is free. And so when he came to our church as a secretary, he wasn't a very good manager. We want you to know we love you as brothers and sisters in Christ. We'd called a break for a while and I walked down the hallway and one of the attorneys was standing there looking out the window. Now sin has twisted all of that. It can take time. No, why do we put it just below fifty? This can be a good summary. Right? Does that work? At that point his attorney bolted out of his chair. That's right. Oh, by the way, I tried to convince the Peacemaker Board to add this, and they just didn't think God was calling us that direction Yeah, forty-eight, forty-nine. I want to take you to the next level. I'm right because I obeyed this rule. But let me let me just start off with just a few general observations. And uh I was thinking either at that point, I was a fairly new Christian just before law school, so I was thinking either going to seminary or going to med school, because I'd all this medical work I'd done as an engineer Lord, are you calling me? Please ask me some questions. The Bible talks about he who seeks counsel or wisdom. Yes. Who am I to judge my brother? Now, as for the second question about what are the steps you take, I've already mentioned some of them is is the I mean empathy is a huge one So the next morning they walk into my office and I could just tell from their countenance something had happened. It's like a little crack in a dike. Now you're at 90. I don't know how to respond to her emotions. They hire people in the church. I don't say that publicly, but what this program really is is stealth evangelism. And now it's up to him what he does with God. We've we've got the agreement and I just want to know I'm I want you to know I'm gonna continue to pray for you. But at some point that that other person may be free to remarry. Don't do it as a gift to that person thinking that they'll then respond. So three hours after I consecrated my law degree to God, he gave me my life ministry. Um and so I thought, how do we help people avoid some of those decisions? They signed the document. And so the other guy, he he was having a hard time really forgiving Because businesses offer this when they see someone with potential So keep reminding people over and over again. It's the turning point in these cases when people sincerely start to do that. And you walk away, they go, whoa. He's going out to real estate firms, surgical companies, construction firms, high school football camps, everything else. And so she basically um Marby was the elder's wife's name, she said, I'll go with you. But the final thing I would say, and this is the most important thing, we as Christians have this, and we see it Not plane that down. There w it wasn't something that, hey, there's these extra biblical strategies that you need to follow. So there was a lot of other things involved. Yeah, let me let me give you a little personal overview on our ministry. God. But they have to be factored in. Some years ago, or many years ago, when there were a program W W J E when your program was Now we can look at the example of Christ. We have the Spirit of Christ in us and we can appropriate that grace to change. So I always, as we go through the mediation process, I'm trying to help the person who wants to save the marriage It was we're leaving. And yet 25 years later, when Joseph was raised up as a prime minister of Egypt, saved that nation plus Are you really looking for a solution? They know you're the person to come to. And over half of our cases have been reconciled. And frankly, when churches develop these sort of teams But people pick it up and they go, man, we've been looking for a church. If he's thirsty, give him something to drink. You should be grieving. It had four levels of ascending liability. I said, I want nothing to do with this. So the attorney still thought there was a big liability issue here. So we spent a lot of time talking to them. Other places say forgive and there's no condition put on us. So just to get a little bit more of, you know, help me to understand, let's imagine this bar chart represents He said, firing you is the stupidest thing I've ever done in my life. You don't have to have those exact divisions, but the idea is you train people in the church Read that. I there are grounds, legitimate grounds for divorce, and there's legitimate circumstances in which someone can remarry. Um but if if somebody if you've done everything you can do just Um and then find ways to refresh it. He said, I am so sorry. My failure as a father and a husband is what set this entire thing into motion. You could be in a difficult marriage, have an oppressive husband. So but I'd I'd much rather prevent a serious conflict, especially marriages and divorces. Let me give you an example. I'll I'll repeat. Those are tough calls to make and you you have to just really pray for discernment. We've got all that embedded in the program. We can't control it. There is a power in that room. And so it's in a form we call it enhanced emotional intelligence or relational wisdom is the term that we use for it. Or maybe I've got a gift to sit down with two people who are unhappy and actually mediate. I wonder how you differentiate between empathy And so in that booklet on empathy and compassion or seven steps to empathy Compassion is you not only see that they're hurting, but you're moved to do something about it. And there are some philosophies out there, they would say four or five years. He said, you know, this is something we need to be doing as a body. And so I want to tell you one more story, again, just to prime your pump and get you thinking about how we can apply these things. Do you have a steering wheel? And it was so wrong. Another key one is this. And it was just more and more deep, authentic, meaningful praise for Dave. I've heard that word before, but I never understood it. But the neat thing was, about a week later, he went to her and said, you know, I've been thinking about our conversation, and I realized But uh I'm excited for how the Lord will use tomorrow for for all of us. And especially when the people in those two churches are bitter and angry and speaking ill of each other. So it wasn't, oh you Christians, you're fighting again, but oh you Christians, you're you do things most people don't do. I w I was such a mess four years ago, I was so desperate, and I was such a weak man, it very well could have been me. Impossible. I mean they really think five. And they were just doing this back and forth. So Sunday school class, small group study. And in many of the last conversations I'll have with the unrepentant party, I will try to weave into that conversation So every time, I mean as much as you possibly can But the more we can keep pointing people back to the immensity And the final thing I'll say is this. He's become a Pharisee. Did you have a question, Naila? She couldn't have children. They go to court and file the papers to legally reverse the adoption. And he began confessing his role in it. Okay? So we're now integrating peacemaking, the material we developed over the years that's in the Peacemaker book, with emotional intelligence And I always look at 1 Timothy 3 about the qualification of an elder This is our newest program, and I think your church would be ideal from what I know about from talking to your leaders already And with your permission, I'd like to share the story, what happened in the sermon. I think I'll get right now. This is a free course on our RW Academy that you can go back to anytime She was now four years old. She was considered to be dead to them. What questions do you have about peacemaking, our ministry, our services? I'm gonna go back, I'm gonna be the best Christian attorney I can be until God shows me clearly He wants me to do something else Well, one of these guys went, huh? It's just not fair and it's hurting our relationships. Uh you know, passive counseling means somehow I failed, you know, I I want to solve my own there's all sorts of reasons that make men And I but I didn't, obviously. And so I don't want to duplicate everything tonight so you fall asleep tomorrow. He still wouldn't cooperate. Is this person is wrong and I'm right. But part of what had happened in our coaching was that we had helped them to see Where do you think most people draw the line? And you shared with me that you just got word from your wife you're going to have your first baby. There's still ten between Corlette and me, things that both of us wish she we could go the full full touchdown, you know. What am I what am I complaining about? And I walked up beside him and I put my hand on his shoulder and turned and there was tears running down his cheeks. And she s and she shared that in the hearings. And I was sort of grumbling a little bit, you know, God, why didn't you lead me better? We deceive ourselves. I said, just just tell me, just a proxy I know you can't read as hard, but just with your best estimate from what he said, everything else, you clearly don't think he's sufficiently repentant. But if you did that, six people three times, you know, three a quarter, that's eighteen a quarter, that's 72 people in a year And so you you basically provide this to that business for free. Have you ever been on a cloudy day and suddenly there's a little break in the clouds and a sunbeam comes down through it? And so we we had prayed first and then got into this thing. This difficult marriage, this difficult job, this We have both an emotional capacity and a rational capacity and a will. It's l it's not lecturing. But there was still a real p personal divide between these guys. The Bible says forgive, but you know, it also says in Luke 17, if your brother sins, rebuke him. What do you find to be the most impactful in getting people to that place where You walk alongside them in their suffering. Good question. Keep the bridge intact. Um over the twenty-eight years of the life of our church, which uh most of us have not been here all those twenty years Now don't remember, don't forget those four promises of forgiveness we study. So here's all these people over here crying and hugging and forgiving. And my poor dad, you know, he was in the generation, you got a job, you stay there your whole life. Or I'll go to often these are things against the pastor. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. But I got home, I thought, okay, I've got to do this. I love her, I don't want to lose her. Be truthful, honest, don't steal, all that. They were really showing evidence of repentance. You mentioned prior to getting all the people. In fact, I I honestly believe the pastor's wife was the one who actually manipulated the whole thing. And I I put a zero at the bottom and a hundred at the top. There was a book out on that, what would Jesus do? Look at a marriage. We're going on military bases, police departments. Um God's going to continue working in your life. Um you as a you as a leader, elders, small group leaders. I mean, he really gave a lot of evidence of a very sincere desire to change. And that's our human psychology. A king has a debt, or a man has a debt of 10,000 talents of gold, an unpayable debt. Most of our ministry is educational. Is this a person who I can really help with some helpful advice? And when once they did that, they signed the document that actually gave us the authority to arbitrate the decision up to a limit of $200 million. And the elder's wife, very wisely, said, well you can't just quit because we'll hire someone else and show the same thing. Quite often we do this after the seminar, so you've got more of a contact with all the principals You've got the spec. And they will do that under the guise of asking for advice. How do you kind of turn that? Well Yeah. E-M-P-A-T-H-Y. And Paul, and there's some different interpretations of this passage. So he gives you some very simple practical steps Just her counsel, her godliness, her her example. So that's one of the big big benefits. They've got employment relationships. Let me let me mention one other thing before we go, and then I'm gonna let you go here because I don't want to exhaust you. So that'd be the first part of my answer. You're wrong because you did. As compared to the 40-year Christian who's an elder in the church They catch this guy. So you have to be praying and praying and praying for the Spirit to move. Good. They they put a force field around them at like age fifteen, you can no longer lecture them, but questions are like photon torpedoes. And even in the Old Testament, some of the key transition points were questions. We've been friends all these years and I can see why you were really hurt. Some of it have more to begin with than not. Well, Dave is crying and we all I mean that was the end of it. Okay, but there's always gonna be 10 that ain't gonna change. So that would be people, frankly, a lot of you are playing that role. Do you have some advice? So pastors spent a lot of time in marriage counseling What employer doesn't like that? Read that. Yes. I had one mediation, a divorce mediation, this guy had left his wife, was So I I would I would you know I'll just be candid So as leaders, just keep pointing people back. Because the pastor had been saying all along it wasn't his idea that the couple came up with it and he tried to talk them out of it. They call it the noetic effect of sin. I don't I don't know that abuse is more common, but it's at least People believe you really care. So when that's if you don't mind when that happens when you're in that kind of a situation. And again, you can tell when someone, the Holy Spirit, is working in somebody. He set up his judgment seat every day and they would line up and he would be deciding all their cases. It is our program where we've taken a secular version of our relational wisdom material. Otherwise, go on to the next. There's a prologue. That this incredibly complex mechanism just came about because saber-tooth tigers kept jumping out of the bushes, you know, to survive on. Because there's people here who have a heart for children's ministry or women's ministry or missions, and that's God lays it on your heart. Fifty? So we have an initial sensitivity. It's one of the big risks of pastoral intervention. And you sow, you get the training, you don't have an immediate harvest, but it it does come up over time. Coaches are people who Ooh, I get to do coaching. And as they prayed about it and prayed about it, prayed about it, the Lord gave I th I think it was from the Lord an inspiration leaders And when he said that line, I almost felt like the Holy Spirit just came down and just went wham. I went, oh, uh well yeah, but two questions. We did a mediation between two businessmen one time. Okay. So it's not only he's hurting, that's too bad, and you walk away, it's he's hurting, and I want to do something about it So we just push aside any redeeming qualities. What do we do in cases where there is domestic violence and there is a danger of actual harm, emotional, physical, sexual harm. They they don't have fires every week, so they don't have the money to you know have a full-time train, bunch of people just sit in the firehouse all the time So a peace or team is similar to that in a local church. You know that thing we it was in lesson four where it talks about this, I'd really like to get better at that. And when you market this, it should be regularly in your literature, going out to your people so they see this And so they get the opportunity if they like what you do in an hour, you say, hey, you can do the whole online course if you want to And sometimes it's just praying, Lord, is there some way, is there some need this person has Number one is I I love I think it was D. If you've got a church newsletter or bulletin board or mailing list, get that in front of people. But they practiced a little bit what to say and how to communicate these things so it wouldn't be unnecessarily offensive And uh ever since then, so that was back in I don't know, two thousand Thank you. And in 80% of the cases, people may call us, they want a mediator to get together It's so significant word has reached Paul in prison. And Dave walked out in anger and he got an attorney to file a wrongful discharge case. It's that point fine. Now I know there's ministers that say you're you should never And usually that's a weekly thing. She and her husband would make great parents. They even paid the plaintiff's attorney And and if if a Jewish Irrevocably. What did you do for those twelve months? I'll be talking about it later tomorrow. Therefore, if you get that, you'll have no other gods. And then he looked over at the adoptive parents And I'm so sorry. I called that my time in Egypt, and eventually came back to the Promised Land, went to law school Um and that's what we should be displaying to the world. They they think they're doing the right thing. And when they told the story about when the little girl was kidnapped, I mean the mother was crying. And it's just that you first of all listen to them, hear them out, because you jump right into, oh you don't see your sin. There's cases I've I've called the police. And it's something that you can take out into your community. So I'll have my last meeting with Bob And that's what these leaders are doing afterwards. It's it's actually quite addicting, I'll just warn you, it's quite addicting. Um but we do have some people that can still handle very high-end multimillion dollar That's where you say, listen, I'll go with you. You you just lost some real significant passport. Once you get that initial little bit coming through, it just starts widening the crack. And I can see Dave was trying to recollect this experience happened years before. Ideally we get the husband and move him somewhere out because it's it's unsettling for the wife and kids to have to suddenly move out. A pastor of a church I used to attend. I remember when I first was introduced to the ministry of Ken Sandy, it was when I was in seminary and I took a class called Conflict Resolution. Th that's like Donald and Kamala coming together and What can I do? All we can see is the bad thing this other person has done and we forget it. The Israelites had just come out of Egypt. In doing this shall pour burning coals on his head. Should we recite them? And they waited and waited a little bit longer. First get the log out of your own eye, then you'll be able to see the speck in your neighbor's eye. That means it can't be reinstituted. I'm so sorry we were unable to locate it. Because the book of Ephesians records a similar, astonishing reconciliation. You're my hero. And over three months that guy's learning how to control his temper If you read nothing else, this whole thing, read that. I can see why why that was hard for you. You might have a very exceptional church, but I've I've rarely run in a church where there wasn't some conflict. A sense of peace I hadn't felt for for a long time. It was a global ministry doing conflict resolution But as I began to read more about it, I thought, no, this is good stuff. More of my time is preventative. And there's so many people that at a conscious level really think they're doing the right thing. Be very careful, because you can go and talk to that man and while you're in the room he's gonna seem reasonable. Most of these people are going on home unhappy. I sometimes lose my temper The Peacemaking Pastor, I read that. No, you're just holding on for dear life. And for them to come to grips with the fact that somehow in God's providence, His perfect wisdom Oh dear, ah, what happened? org. And um There's a lot of guidance there, his forgiveness. And by the way, they'll actually strengthen your marriage and parenting too. So you could be going through the secular course. That's what drives me today. That's why you preach every week. But to the le to the to the credit of the leaders of the of the church that stayed there, the body that stayed there So now you've got a $200 million lawsuit hanging over everyone's head. If they'd done it one day earlier, they would have had their child, but they waited one day too long. They're a big part of counseling the birth parents But most of the cases we're involved in, people really think they're doing the right thing. Many of them are in churches like this. I want to hear their story. It's an appellate system And so someone in that And they're actually trained on how to give helpful advice in resolving a conflict Or Bob's our mechanic or so and so here. But how do you go to these places? So this is volunteer work. That's sort of the standard. I can feel it. I mean they really want to put down five. It's um in Philippians 4. So in a situation where you're dealing with a married couple that may be domestic And we just we fall back into performance-based relationships. Can we keep two? Can you hear me okay? And so Gary said that we're going to stop all efforts to um And she called me up and she said, Ken, I just wanted you to know that today I could finally forgive. Um I'd like to coach people if they're Are you slowly building that kind of credibility that when a crisis does erupt So what's the composite average You know, if you've got a man who is oppressing his family, his wife and kids, they say, I'm sorry, I'll try to get better What's the difference between empathy and compassion? If you don't come in here tomorrow with a piece of paper that shows you took it seriously, we're not gonna meet And my co-mediator was a woman, um they just she moved over, put her arm around and just cried for a while. Keep the bridge intact I have generally found it is easier to do mediation with a brand new baby Christian They went to the denomination to ask the location of this young couple. He did this and he did this and he did this. So I failed you. What is going on with here Christians? And it's fascinating. And the key step is that getting the log out of your own eye. Um and so just just realize you are building every time you engage the people in this church, whether it's in the lobby Other times I think people have a hard time really, well I'm not Jesus, I'm not God. Okay, let's talk about that. So you could actually be trained as an instructor, go into a public school, And the last meeting we were going to sign the papers, um, she came in and she said, Before we sign, there's something I want to say And she gave one of the most beautiful confessions. When when you're being sued for $200 million, you really don't want your client in front of the plaintiffs, you know, on their knees That's how big this chasm was between them. So a pastor would call me up and say, hey, need some advice on a situation. And sometimes all you have to do is just be there. What would please and honor God in this situation? So the thing about the coaching is So if you're teaching through a series As you know we've been building up a substantial building fund for some renovations or expansion of our church facility. I mean, really we should make a movie out of this And you can hire an attorney for three, four, five hundred dollars an hour if there's nothing but say my client's right and that person's wrong Three or four or ten times more time getting people to the table And so I I was just I'm always praying He said, I see your point. So after the first mediation, I said, we're going to meet again tomorrow, but there's a homework assignment I give you But one of my techniques to try and trigger that kind of a re-a reaction And number two, the elders will start a disciplinary process for you as well. Okay. We don't trick, we don't trap. And as of today, I'm consecrating my law degree and my life to you. Twenty five. So yes. They were high school buddies. Well, that's like cancer that's been growing for three years. And and she held it together. So he contacted us. Don't ever forget What are the things you look for? And guess what? Because your pastor and elders should really be like that Moses situation. There's another case where some nurses out of a negligence And if we keep this in front of us, and you you can look back basically even the the the Decalogue, the Ten Commandments. So just keep that gospel fresh. I can at your table there is a handout And even when a church splits and there's now two churches, God is still sovereign Who did she think her mother and father were? Well at that point everybody was crying, okay? Or are you just looking to be critical of another brother in Christ? Um so they had legitimate need to understand our process and else. I I know it's not easy at the And suddenly this idea came up, and I took out a piece of paper But the coach comes alongside of him and says, okay, which of those you want to work on? The last tract in our training is mediation, and that's some people trained So we always have to remember that successfully And I've had people come back to me two years ago and they say, hey, I'd like to make a point of community, they say that's this He talks about, look what God has done. You go, Whoa! When I was um I was born and raised in Montana. And that was the breakthrough for him. And it's seven concrete things you can practice day in and day out The way that we describe them, empathy I've got the muscles to do that, but it doesn't sound very good until I practice and practice and practice and then pretty soon That's what it is. Yeah. But I can't force that, and that's on you. So if you've got some questions, just We want to do something to try to at least restore They went back to the past and said we changed our mind, we want our baby back We magnify the other person's wrongs and we minimize ours. You know, that's a good thing to do. Okay, those are the two questions. So you can do that. So having people trained as mediators Thank you so much. And so they Um so the things go on for a while longer. And I've seen this again and again and again. I just ask questions. It's not just a job. So if someone sees you in the lobby Sunday morning and they And you care. In fact, it's it's the link is actually in this But most of the disputes would be, what's a group of ten? It's not just, well, my coach said I should do this, but you say, no, I really want to do this This might be good. They found that two years after divorce, the majority of people wished they hadn't done it. No, I won't ask you to. And whenever that switch takes place, you start moving. There's a few wicked And Oh, he's not doing this. Uh what I'm not sure you questioned. And sometimes I see that. And at this point her face was just bright. Say, Jesus, this is for you, bud. And after a few months the the secretary just The wounds of a friend are true. Now if you don't believe that, just look at the cross. I know I've been saying for four years it was you, the pastor, appoint the pastor But I like to ask questions. So you've got to look at all those passages and integrate what they're trying to tell us. So then I drew another I want to hear what's going on. They say, we can work on this. No, can we keep them? So here's the church founded on the Apostles. This is a true story. Sin has twisted our reasoning, our emotions, everything else. And that's great. I'd love to see three men in your church trained as RW coaches and three women And So don't be surprised that that that will often be the issue you're facing They don't know what they're doing. And Ephesians calls us to be imitators of Christ. And that small group leader should have some of the basic skills to coach or to mediate In the corporate world, your boss comes to you and says, hey Second part of it is don't ever underestimate what the Holy Spirit can do over time. Okay. We ask these things in Christ's name. I say And we've been spending a lot of time talking about the gospel over the last two days So most of it is that. This is where the lot of these things come from And then the third term we use is consolation, and that's the actual act You say, I just want to be here with you. And in fact um And anytime we don't do what God calls us to do, like honoring marriage vows, things get really hard It's Romans 12, 20, and 21, 20, 20 through 23 But just accept the fact that we forget that we're in good company. Did you know that? And I want you to know that my wife and I have decided we're going to drop all efforts to regain custody. Yeah, it may hurt, it may have been wrong. Of course they forgive you. And the m message was: anytime we are in chains, we have only two options. Twenty-five? And B, everybody can benefit from the advice he's going to give them My experience, you keep a couple apart for four or five years, that marriage is just gonna go out What are some ways? You take time to heal. You don't preach once for the year and say I'll be back in twelve months His passport went through the ceiling that day. Repentance means you say we did this wrong and these are the steps we're going to take Would you say more of your time is spent with resolution? My wife is incredibly empathetic. So it's just it's just a very simple piece of advice. So they go through training. They meet someone else and they they go on to have a much happier marriage But our biggest problem, the reason most churches get into conflict, most individuals, most marriages Um the reason I I suggested to Gabe to And why don't you adopt your baby to the pastor's daughter and son-in-law? The pastor came over, got down on his knees, and the first words up in his mouth And um The human brain is absolutely fascinating. And sometimes you need at that point to just drop it, but other times you say, okay, then let me ask you a question. But you can find it. And finally one I love to see Christians reconcile. Um with all the conflicts that you've seen in churches, church splits, all of that kind of thing I am the Lord your God who brought you out of Egypt. The Bible doesn't give us that context. They they may have won the vote, but they grieved that there was actually a division in the body And that morning a truck pulled up to their house, dropped a ramp, and out came a beautiful new piano. There'd be people even here in this room that I would hope And that means empathy, compassion, listening, all those things. It was all over. No, we really need to say you you want to know what a marriage should look like? And if your response is Because Jesus knows that our human tendency, our fallen human tendency, when we're in a conflict. And I'm so sorry. I don't do hardly any mediation anymore. And there there's reverses, by the way, I've seen women who are the physically abusive woman, but that's that's less frequent. Another really big audience, and this is probably one you'd have right away, is just Christian business owners. I'm right, we did everything right, you're wrong. And the attorneys are just stupefied. But the other thing I like the most about the PACE program And he said yes. And that's how we often are as Christians. I can see why you're concerned. I'll go with you right now. And that really is a valuable skill because many people in churches do business with each other. We offer the community high quality professional development training, but when they take it Well then the grandparents found out what had happened. I mean, ooh, wow, she's hurting. Pastor Gabe said you do our peacemaking or reconciliation course every year or so. There's 4,200 pastors burning out every year in this country. L. Shortly thereafter they moved to another place Took me 12 months to persuade all the parties to bring this case into conciliation because everybody was I failed you as your shepherd, as your pastor There's cases I've I've said this family needs to get into a safe place They started a business together. He took all my sins on the cross and paid for. That was excellent as well. And I said, Bruce, that is the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And you know, everything else I was sort of blaming him a bit. But when we compare it against the grace of God, of Jesus I want to get a sense of their heart I did another one for our city council I kept trying to help them move back toward reconciliation and this man's heart was so hard She just went, okay Moody that said Krishna's weak Jesus forgave all my sins by dying on the cross. They'd they'd sold a lot of property, they'd I mean financially, you know, lots of So you shouldn't just dismiss these people. And the next Sunday he got up there and shared this story And we have many people from other churches, a number of pastors from other churches You know they have no idea. How do we get upstream of conflict? Okay, so listen. What's good about Dave? And the coach is trained mainly to use questions You can just these simple little cross things so you can just remind people of, remind people of. So things go on for a while longer How'd you get my name? Jesus says you need to go to that person and talk to them I'm going to ask her It's basically discipling is what it is. That's a pastor in St. But at the end of it, he just looked at her and said, Well, I'm I'm glad you can finally see what a terrible wife you've been. I am very sorry. But the second thing is the gospel itself We're I'm going to give you a lot more teaching tomorrow, but any questions you have just about It's not just a job. Is that do you notice what It's a big part of our coaching training is learning to ask questions But they say, well that seems judgmental, so I'll put it I'll be generous. And that's how some of these cases are. Things that are impossible in our human strength So I hope out of this weekend the training here If I sense one of the delicate things is if a wife goes These are one-hour free seminars You don't want to find someone on the rebound. And so here I left engineering and then I leaving law. You don't have conflict all the time Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. I would love to. And then when we come to look at ourselves, we reverse the binoculars You can get They they just hadn't really I'll just tell you where you can find the link It's great. And people can fake those a little bit for a while, but you can't keep faking those year after year. And they made an appointment with the pastor Excuse me He stood up trembling Where would you say he's in the bar train? We can work on this. Fifty? And I And he just looked at it, and he looked at it. We take that law and we use it to judge our brothers and sisters. If someone just lost her husband Again, let let me know and we'll make sure that you have the ability to Amen. That's often the step that's been missing I I would want to affirm you. Let's make that appointment. He goes, oh so now he's sort of seeing visibly So it's not like saying, oh, you're failing, but hey, this could take them all to a higher level. That's my own personal theology And it just blew that other church away I knew he was not a Christian You really can see it. That's why I'm loving this person. The Bible tells us that a bird does not fall out of a tree. She wanted a grandchild, I think. So many ways, I'm so grateful. You're shepherds, your leaders. They went on to work for another ten years with each other Will you forgive me? And then finally he looked over at Dave and he said, you know, Dave So Kate? But it says they had such a sharp disagreement Biblical scholars can actually disagree on some of these interpretations. Well wasn't that a Okay, and that's the that's the number one thing most pastors spend most of their time on is marriage counseling. That's great. And uh if you're not able to be there providentially But compared to what God has forgiven us, it's nothing. I thought I'll never be able to keep a marriage together So that's that's where the ministry is now. I would I would try to give them They open them up and So everybody was dragging their feet. There's way too many attorneys in one room. Three things. Or is this a person who just wants to gossip and criticize people Listen. We forget People need to be warned about this guy So I want to meet again tomorrow and please bring with me And I looked over here at the birth father named Gary. They've convinced themselves So it's that initial sensitivity that picks up the cues. Joe, Missouri, who's a pace instructor But sometimes there's no leverage you have on that person And somehow in the course of counseling with a pastor But there wasn't any training out there based on a biblical worldview. I've done 600 divorce mediations If you get that, you won't commit adultery. They hire a private detective I have to work at it If ever there was a church that had good, solid teaching Who made the human brain? Because they may have done the the peacemaking course a year ago and they've forgotten the four promises. This is the log in my eye. And he says, What is going on? And that's typically what you find beh in human beings. And what's this Christian conciliation thing? Our emotions are That's compassion. His father-in-law, Jethrocom, watches this for a while and says, you're nuts. But most of all I love to see non-Christians reconcile to God through Christ. It was terrible unbelief. Let's handle it. And I said, Oh, that must have been terrifying If he repents, forgive him. By the way, Peace Sower is just You could be in jail or prison like Paul Because I saw so many patterns So there's a lot of what we call building passport with them. Yes. You just feel like, wow, if God doesn't steer this thing, we're we're toast. I mean, I just was, ah So we're constantly dealing with that And he'll lay out the advice. And I'm righteous with God. And they can sort of brush it aside. The tough cases can go to them And she said, I've done what God calls me to. That is not how you actually win over your community And the thing is, if you just read the book of Acts Well I Another thing you'll see a link in there. And he just took a deep breath. So it's a very similar question. Look at Jesus. It's just like this woman's face up I love that. Legitimate thing to be concerned concerned about. Marriage is a great part of God's sanctification in our lives. It's your small group study They refused to disclose So I can no longer accuse you as being the one that caused this. So that's a very legitimate thing to do. We need to go to him You need to get the log and you are going to walk away. Read the Old Testament. And now legally there was no way to get their child. It took 12 months. These things get polarized very quickly That was his version You're with that person. Wow Unpayable debt. What would Jesus do? We've taken the Bible verses out of it, the explicit And um That's that's a good thing to follow Just how they engage you in small groups. And they hit the ceiling That's traumatic My dad was a judge Oh yeah, I do lose my temper sometimes everything else. So there seems to be a can a condition there. They go right through that shield And I am so so Finally we got them Yes, question. That's fine. That'd be one way to do it. I love her so much. It's usually the man who's And it just for a while. Uh where would you put it?