Continuing beautiful worship and song. Hopefully some of you learned better yesterday what it means to live your life by faith and why faith is The root of everything that we do in the Christian life. You don't bear the fruit of love and joy and peace without deepening in your faith. You can't deepen in your faith without allowing your uh your faith roots, so to say, to go and grow deep into the soil of God's Word. You need to learn God and His Word and you learn to have a deeper faith that way. And then what grows above ground then to keep with the analogy is able to be healthier and bear more fruit. We need good examples of men and women who live by faith, not by sight. Need that, because the whole Christian life is lived that way. When you see people making decisions not by counting things and figuring things out, but they're making decisions based upon clear teachings of the Word of God. And you see them do that and you realize they're not playing games, they're not playing religion, then those examples are very powerful, are they not? And they matter. They really matter. I hope that you will pray, particularly the men. Um fathers, but all of our men that you will want to be men of faith and live your life by faith In our text in Acts 1, we've been learning from the example of the first century disciples. They were living by faith. A group of 120 of these disciples. who formed what we might call today the core group of the mother church of all churches, the Jerusalem Church. So here's the hundred and twenty and every church in the entire planet came from these hundred and twenty and their faith their sacrifice, their willingness to become a core group and let God work through them and then see what happens. They were humble men and women, they were teachable, they were obedient, they were unified They were faith-filled. They loved their Lord. Their purpose for being together was to follow their Lord, and that's how they were able to maintain their unity. There were no factions. There was no self-will on the part of the leaders. There was no tearing anyone else down. They were speaking well of each other. They were focused on Christ and His work, and that's why they had unity. And they're an incredible example for us. Let's read again the whole passage starting from verse 12 in Acts 1 down to 26 Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is near Jerusalem, a Sabbath day's journey away. When they had entered the city they went up to the upper room where they were staying. That is Peter and John and James and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James the son of Alpheus, and Simon the zealot, and Judas the son of James. These all with one mind were continually devoting themselves to prayer, along with the women and Mary, the mother of Jesus, and with his brothers. At this time Peter stood up in the midst of the brethren, a gathering of about 120 persons was there together and said, Brethren, The scripture had to be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit foretold by the mouth of David concerning Judas, who became a guide to those who arrested Jesus. For he was counted among us and received his share in this ministry. Now this man acquired a field with the price of his wickedness, and falling headlong, he burst open in the middle, and all his intestines gushed out. And it became known to all who were living in Jerusalem so that in their own language that field was called Hakildama, that is, field of blood For it is written in the book of Psalms, let his homestead be made desolate, and let no one dwell in it, and let another man take his office Therefore, it is necessary that of the men who have accompanied us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, beginning with the baptism of John until the day that he was taken up from us, one of these must become a witness. with us of his resurrection. So they put forward two men, Joseph called Barshabbas, who was also called Justice, and Matthias. And they prayed and said, You Lord, who know the hearts of all men, show which one of these two you have chosen to occupy this ministry and apostleship from which Judas turned aside to go to his own place. And they drew lots for them, and the lot fell to Matthias, and he was added to the eleven apostles. Well, we're watching them, seeing what they're doing, these wonderful early disciples, and we've learned already that we are supposed to be encouraging one another to obey God's word. Obey is one of those words. people don't like anymore. They would like to use a word like cooperate if I kind of agree, but the Lord is the Lord above. He has authority and he would have us obey his word. Also praying together. Praying together really helps people stay unified. They hear each other's heart as to what is on their heart, what they're praying about. Last time we started the working together part, which is the bulk of the section. They were working together, so obeying together, praying together, working together, the key word being together there. Last time we saw that the disciples were specifically trying to figure out or to follow the Lord in finding the replacement for Judas Iscariot, the traitor. Peter, as the leader of the apostles, took his stand among them and he directed the entire congregation. And he led them to inspired scripture. For it is in the scripture we find wisdom, and in the scripture we find our unity. We pick up in verse 20, if you would look at that, please. And it says in verse 20 For it is written in the book of Psalms, let his homestead be made desolate, and let no one dwell in it, and let another man take his office. Please notice again Peter's high view of the Bible, of Scripture, which by the way all Christians should hold, right? Regardless of your theological background. Some of us came out of what is called liberal Christianity, liberal Protestant denominations, and we were told the Bible was not the inspired word of God. It had lots of mistakes. It didn't really have authority. Use your own brain and figure out how things should be done. That is throwing off the authority of the Scripture. But God Himself takes His own written word very seriously, every corner of it and all of it. And so did Peter and the Apostles. Please notice his words. For it is written. Now that might be so simple. You might scan through that quickly and not think there's much instruction in it, but there really is. In that Greek phrase, and by the way it's a recurrent phrase in the New Testament, there's a full theological understanding in it. Grapsati. It comes from grapho, to write. It's the perfect tense. And uh it really illustrates what the authoritative nature of scripture is. When you say it is written, there's a finality to that. No one questions that. It's written. That's the end of the discussion, is sort of the idea It actually has, because it uses the perfect tense, it has this sense. It is written, and because it is written, it stands written, and no one can unwrite it, no one can erase it. That's the meaning of it. In other words, Scripture has been stated and it's unstoppable. It is the word of a being who will never be erased and whose authority can never be usurped God will never be supplanted. He'll never be ousted from his throne and he's spoken. So who's going to alter that? God won't change his mind. So there it stands written And every being in the universe has to deal with God when he speaks. That's what this book is that we're holding in our hands. It's amazing. It is written It's unstoppable. Once it's inscribed, whatever he says will come to pass eventually. Now, Peter was one of Jesus' disciples, and Peter learned his view of Scripture from Jesus. What was Jesus' view of Scripture? Jesus trusted Scripture for his own life. The proof of that is when he was at his weakest point on the fortieth day of his forty days of fasting, and Satan specifically came to tempt him and attack him at that point in time, rather than resorting to his own ideas of what he should do or reason or try to be logical with the devil, he simply said thrice What? It is written. It is written. It is written. And all three times came from the Old Testament, actually from the book of Deuteronomy. Basically he was telling the devil, I'm going to state the word of God to you, and there isn't a thing in the world you can do about it It's greater than you. Three times Jesus entrusted the provision of his own holy soul to the power and the authority and the veracity of divine scripture. It's amazing. Peter now is conveying to this gathering of about 120, we have the voice of God on this matter. There's wisdom that comes through the scriptures, I'm bringing you to it. We don't need to guess what to do next. And then he goes on to quote From the Old Testament, two Psalms, Psalm 69 and Psalm 109. Both Psalms quoted are messianic Psalms. That means that portions of the Psalms Transcended David's personal experience a thousand years before Christ, and spoke of a future greater David, the son of David, who would be greater than David himself. In other words, as David was writing about his experience, the Holy Spirit meant that to transcend him and speak of a greater son of David. It's fascinating, really. Both Psalms speak of David's enemies, and the Holy Spirit is indicating that these also indicate then the enemies of the Mashiach, the anointed one. David was anointed king His greater son would be anointed king, that is the Messiah, the Christos, the the one anointed with oil, the one who is anointed to be king and to rule, the Christ, Jesus Christ. In Psalm 69, David's enemies became a type of Christ's enemies. David says, Let my enemy's homestead or camp be made empty or desolate. Let none dwell in their tents, in other words. Peter, being guided by the Holy Spirit, sees that as having an application to Judas. Darryl Bach, in his commentary on Acts, explains this Peter is not exegeting in a modern sense by merely making a reference to the original event and context, but the passage is in the Psalter, so that God's people reflect upon the way that God acts and cares for the righteous who cry out to God. Peter takes the principle expressed in the Psalm as a summary of how God acts and applies it to an event where God has judged And particularly, of course, this is in reference to David's greater son. So Judas was to lose his office entirely. Judas was to be replaced. Just as David's enemies were to lose their homes and their tents. That's the principle. In Psalm 109 and verse 8, that is quoted in addition to show the justification for replacing Judas And speaking again of David's enemies, it says, Let his days be few. Let another take his office. Well, Judas' days were few, and another was to take his apostolic office. This is really very interesting. It's keen insight from the Holy Spirit in the mind of Peter. There were twelve apostles That Jesus chose, right? Twelve apostles he put his hand on after a night of prayer, and he specifically picked the twelve. Why twelve? Well, there were twelve because there were twelve tribes of Israel. The twelve apostles were told they would rule over the twelve tribes of Israel, the nation of Israel. That's according to Matthew 19, 28. I read it before, I'll read it again. Jesus said to them, the twelve, Truly I say to you, that you who have followed me in the regeneration, when the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne You also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. It's an earthbound and national promise In the millennium, what Jesus calls the regeneration here, after Jesus has returned the second time to earth, he will sit on his own throne, which is on earth in Jerusalem. And then they, these apostles, will reign with him on their twelve thrones over the redeemed and now saved nation of Israel, the twelve tribes. So the twelfth apostle, the twelfth man, was needed. He was needed For these twelve tribes, he was needed to be a full witness for the Lord Jesus Christ and his church. By the way, Beyond the millennium as it goes into the new heaven and the new earth mentioned in Revelation twenty-one nine and following, it testifies that this new Jerusalem will have quote the twelve gates which are the names of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel, and the wall of the city had twelve foundation stones, and on them, that is those foundation stones were the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. So their names will be inscribed in this New Jerusalem on those foundation stones. The twelve apostles, by the way, are also foundational to the Church of Jesus Christ. In fact, in Ephesians chapter 2 and verse 20, it states this: that the church having been built on The foundation of, and now it tells us what that foundation is, the apostles and prophets. And since prophets are listed after the apostles, it means New Testament prophets, not Old Testament prophets. So the whole church, all of us as believers, being spiritual bricks, so to say, being built up into a building, if you think of the whole universal church through the centuries as one massive Building that's growing into a temple. All of it is built on a very solid foundation, and that solid foundation is the apostles In fact, even before the foundation of the apostles were laid, the way they did construction, and no I'm not a construction guy, so I just take their word for it. was they would lay a cornerstone first, and that cornerstone would allow everyone to know this is the direction of the building this way and this is the direction of the building that way. And you'd have to lay that first. That cornerstone is who? Jesus Christ, his earthly life and what he accomplished on earth, that had to happen first for there to be a church, and then came the apostles. They and their teaching are that foundation. And the first century Christians are built on that, and the second century Christians are built on that. And then the third century Christians, and I'm not tall enough to get to where we are. The 21st century. We're on the 21st floor. So to say. But we have the right foundation. The entire structure would be built on these apostles Everything that would happen wherever the gospel went, as it would spread to the Middle East, as it would spread to India, as it would spread throughout the Roman Empire, go into northern Africa, go up into Europe and Asia. All the way over here now in the Americas, wherever it would go, and the churches would pop up, it's all built on that foundation. Obviously, then, the apostles had to be chosen and established and set at the very beginning of the church. Got it? So they would have to make the decision about replacing Judas now. They couldn't wait ten years and go, oh, we need a twelfth apostle. Wouldn't be the time. So who would that twelfth apostle be? And how would they decide? Well, look at verse 21. Therefore, it is necessary that of the men who have accompanied us all the time, that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us. Beginning with the baptism of John. And you know that's John the Baptist. Baptism of John, right? John the Baptist until the day that he was taken up from us. Jesus was ascended. So you got baptism of John, Jesus' ascension. We have to find a man that was a witness of all of that along with us, because that's what we also witness. That man that was chosen had to have definitive qualifications. He had to have been accompanied Jesus. Jesus was going in and out of the Metzap. So they would be part of his band of learners, band of disciples, messhetes, learners, pupils, people that were watching him and learning from him. How can you be a witness of his life if he hadn't seen his life? Now, where did Peter and the apostles get these qualifications from? Did they just sort of make it up and say, hey, we want to make sure that someone went from here to here? No. They got it from Jesus' own words. Keep your finger there and turn back to the Gospel of John, just a few pages, chapter 15, and in the upper room discourse, John 15, verses 26 and 27 And you'll see that Jesus teaches this. John 15, verses 26 and 27. Jesus is speaking. He says, When the helper comes, you know who that is. That's the paracletos, the comforter, the Holy Spirit. When the helper comes, that happens on the day of Pentecost, whom I will send to you from the Father, that is the Spirit of Truth who proceeds from the Father, he will testify about me. He's going to come into the world to bear a testimony about Jesus. That helps us in our evangelism, by the way. Holy Spirit is always helping us in our evangelism. Then verse 27, and you, who's he speaking to, these eleven, you will testify also. Why? Because you have been with me from what? The beginning. He means the beginning of his ministry in that context. You've been there so you can be the witness. If you haven't been there, you can't be the witness. Pretty simple Jesus said one thing that made them apostles was that they were with him from the beginning of his ministry. The apostles remembered this, and now they're applying this. They counted Jesus' words just as much authoritative scripture as they did the Old Testament scriptures. Now turn back to Acts 1 Beyond just being with Jesus, please notice very importantly, it was particularly important, and they underscore this, that whatever man they choose needed to be an eyewitness of what? The resurrection The end of verse 22. One of these men must become a witness with us of his resurrection. The resurrection is the center of all of the apostolic proclamation. Everything that they taught, all the doctrine flows out from the resurrection. That's the centerpiece on the table. That's the focal point of everything. When you saw apostles, they were talking about the resurrection of Jesus The resurrection of Jesus broke the power of death over humanity. The resurrection of Jesus vindicated Jesus as an innocent and a righteous man As the very son of God. When God raised Jesus from the dead, God was making a statement. This man and nobody else is my beloved son. Of course it's going to be the center of their proclamation. And as you go through Acts, and I won't take too long to do it, but I've got to do a little bit of it, as you go through Acts, you'll see resurrection, resurrection, resurrection, over and over. That's what they're talking about. By the way, when you do evangelism, you should be talking about the Acts 2. 24, Peter, God raised him up again, putting an end to the agony of death, since it was impossible for Jesus to be held in death's power. Acts 4:2. They were teaching the people and proclaiming in Jesus the resurrection from the dead. And that caused all kinds of problems in Jerusalem. Acts 10, verse 40: God raised him up on the third day and granted that he become visible. Acts 13, 30. But God raised him from the dead. I'm skipping all the other stuff you notice, but just so you can see the resurrection. Acts 17, 18. Paul was preaching Jesus and the resurrection. Amazing. That's how he wasn't preaching Jesus and the death or Jesus and the whatever. It's the resurrection they were preaching. Acts 23, 6 And this is a fascinating passage. I can't wait to get to it because um Paul says, and he causes turmoil with a lot of this at times. He says, I am on trial for the hope and the resurrection of the dead. He was a Pharisee, you see, and he took advantage of that. Well the apostles were the chief witnesses of this. So they had to they had to choose someone who had seen Now when they say they're the the witness of the resurrection, they don't mean that they were inside the tomb at the moment that it happened. You know, with The camera. You know, wait, wait, I think it's coming. Resurrection. Snap now, snap. And seeing whatever happened. Nobody actually saw that What they saw are the grave closed, the stone rolled away, and then they saw his resurrected person. That's what they mean. He is resurrected. If you want to be convinced Then go ahead and touch me. Alright? I'll eat in front of you. The whole bit. Forty days. Remember all those mini proofs. If you didn't get that, go back and listen to the first couple of messages when we did uh the many infallible proofs that were given for these men to be thoroughly convinced it was true Now I like uh Richard Longenecker's comment and the expositor's commentary here. It kind of focuses the importance of these apostles It is from verse 21 through verse 22 that we may derive a strict definition of the term apostle And one that determines much of what Luke presents in the remainder of the book of Acts. And an apostle, then, was not an ecclesiastical functionary, nor just any recipient of the apostolic faith. Nor even a bearer of the apostolic message. He was a guarantor of the gospel tradition because he has been a companion of the earthly Jesus. and a witness to the reality of his resurrection, because the risen Lord had encountered him. That's what an apostle was. You got people running around today saying they're an apostle. Really? You don't look 2,000 years old to me An apostle had to have been with Jesus, had to be hand selected by Jesus, and particularly see the resurrection. There cannot be apostles in the church. Today. They're the foundation. They laid the apostolic witness. Talking about apostles today is just ridiculous No one alive today has seen Jesus raised from the dead, and even if they said, Yes, I have, no one would believe him. What kind of an historic reliability would that be They would they would just consider that they were taking bong hits or something like that, and they saw Jesus. Who knows what they were into Nor were the twelve apostles ever to be replaced Oh, now you're scratching your head. You might say, but they replaced Judas. Yes, they did. But they didn't replace the other apostles. Listen, they did not replace Judas because Judas died. They replaced Judas because Judas was a traitor. You can't have a traitor being a witness of the greatest event that ever happened in human history. He can't hold that office. He can't stand with them and be one of the twelve. It is instructive to note that when another apostle The apostle James died. This is not James the Lord's brother, but the James and John James, sons of Zebedee. When James was beheaded in prison in Acts chapter 12 and verse 2, they did not replace his office. There was no meeting, there was no prayer, there was no casting of lots, there was none of that. They did not replace his office at all, no attempt whatsoever. Judas was replaced because the church needed twelve foundational witnesses. And twelve rulers for the future. No one else was ever replaced in Scripture or in early church history. Once the apostles died Well, you read Jude in his letter, and he says, you need to remember the words that were spoken beforehand by the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ. They're gone, and you need to remember their words because we have to treasure them. There's not an apostle now. And like I said, you don't lay a foundation on the 21st floor. That would be rather idiotic. So there are no apostles in the church today. Even if someone carries the title, I'm sorry, I just don't acquiesce. Now notice how they were all involved in this decision making. Verse 23. So they, and notice it says they, not him, they put forward two men. I think the word they in verse 23 speaks loudly. This was not Peter's decision alone. Peter was a leader among leaders. He was not the whole decision-making body. Peter was not exalting himself. He was leading the flock to make proper decisions. And a flock got it, and they made a good decision here Now many had been around the apostolic group. We forget there was a time that Jesus sent out seventy. Remember that? There were other bands of disciples that were in and out as Jesus came there and so there probably had to be some sifting. Who are the right people? They have their group of 120, which one of these men fits. My guess is that they consulted the women. That's just my guess. Because the women remember details a lot better than the men, right? One of the men would say, I think, you know, Joe over here would do a good job. And one of the women says, No, no, no, no. He wasn't here for this and that and that. And it's like, oh okay And you don't read about that stuff, but usually women are involved in this stuff, so I think that they were. And they finally they did this process of elimination, probably is what it was, and they kind of pushed for these two guys And the two men are in verse 23, Joseph, called Bar Sabbas, who's also called Justice, so he has three names. That's confusing, isn't it? And then Matthias. Only two men. Of all the men, only two are put forward. What does that tell me? That tells me the qualifications were strict. And notice again, God wants males leading his church. Now, I think it needs to be said here that we know absolutely nothing else about these two men. Justice and Matthias. There are no other scriptures that mention them by name. Maybe they were one of the seventy. Hmm. You know. We do know that the whole assembly was satisfied with both choices. Neither of these choices was a controversial choice. As far as they were concerned, either man was qualified. In fact, they were so satisfied that they now had a new problem. Which one of the two needs to be chosen? Because you can't have 13 apostles. So what were they to do? Well, please consider with me what they did not do. There was no vying for power among the apostles. We don't see the apostle Matthew just pick on him, for example. leading the charge to have justice installed while John was lobbying in back rooms to get Matthias in. Nor do we see someone trying to get votes for his cause among the congregation. None of that. What they did was to make a formal public decision. Not by the church. You need to notice this. They wanted the formal public decision to be by their Lord. They did not want to make the choice at all. They wanted the Lord Jesus above to decide. And so they employed the use of the sovereignty of God in the casting of lots. And here's where you might become a bit befuddled. What is this casting of lots and why did they choose to use them for such an important decision like this? Well, please look carefully at what they did. First, they prayed to the Lord. The Lord probably mean means Jesus. They're wanting him to be the specific one to choose. His twelfth apostle. So usually when Lord is used like that, it means Jesus above. And this was his apostle. In the prayer, they explain their situation to Christ. They're basically saying we've obeyed as far as we can obey. This is as far as we go as mere men. And they then commit the decision to the Lord Jesus above. They rested in the fact that Jesus knew the hearts of every single person on earth. By the way, that's what it says in the Gospels. For example, in John two twenty five it says, Jesus did not need anyone to testify concerning man, for he himself knew what was in man Now, since the Lord knew the hearts of men after the prayer, they took the lots and they cast the lots to see which of the two Jesus chose to be his twelfth apostle They cast the lots not to select the twelfth apostle. Please notice. They cast the lots to reveal the one Christ had already selected from heaven. Very fascinating. A past tense verb is used in 24. Show which one thou hast chosen. Wow. Now I know all of this seems kind of strange to the 21st century. So strange, as I said before, some interpreters think the apostles made a huge blunder right here. An apostolic faux pas But look at it again. How is this narrative presented? As something negative or as something positive? Well, you can read that it's presented as a positive action that they took. Why? And what were these lots? And what were they doing? Well, we need to dig into this a little bit. Lots were little objects. Probably made of stones, sometimes made of bones, or some other kind of a material. They maybe had written two names on two different stones, or possibly one stone was white, the other stone was a different color. Maybe one was shaped in a certain way. And then they they cast the lots. The term drew lots there literally means gave lots. So maybe they put them in a container, maybe they shook the container, and then one that fell out first was the one that was chosen, or one that landed on a certain side was the one that was chosen. We don't know exactly what they did But whatever they did, they made sure that the way that the lots were cast, only one would be selected. And that it would be clear to everybody in the entire room which one was selected and which one was not selected. It was some agreed-upon method that was foolproof. Now, typical criticism against the casting of lots includes that it sounds rather superstitious It sounds almost even juvenile to some people. I mean, they're throwing dice. Is that what they're doing? At the very least, it seems this is unbecoming of mature saints of God And so the criticisms have been heaped on the apostles for doing this. Again, I will say I think the criticisms are unfair Lots were a divinely sanctioned method for discovering God's choice on certain matters. The casting of lots presupposes the sovereignty of God over all so-called chance happenings. Proverbs chapter 16 and verse 33, for example, sanctions the use of lots. It says the lot is cast into the lap, so in that case it just landed in their lap. But it's every decision is from the Lord. Pretty amazing. Proverbs 18 and verse 18 indicates the usefulness of using lots in peacemaking. When people had a conflict, this was a way to solve things. The lot puts an end to contentions and decides between the mighty. Proverbs 1818. In Leviticus chapter 16 and verse 8, God instructed Aaron, the high priest, to cast lots to determine the scapegoat on the Day of Atonement. Lots were profusely used in the days of Joshua when they entered into the land of promise and they were deciding who got what holdings. Lots were even used to expose things that were hidden. Possibly lots were used to help discover Achan's sin and his greed in Joshua chapter 7. When Jonah was on the boat and all the sailors were trying to figure out why this storm was sent to destroy them, they knew someone had offended some God, and they cast lots, and guess what? It worked. It pointed Jonah out The most famous casting of lots ever was beneath the cross of Christ. Do you remember that? That was even prophesied about in Psalm 22. It said, They divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. So that they would not argue. Who gets to have this clothing? Well, let's play for it, let's gamble for it, let's cast lots for it. So the Jews were actually taught by God not to gamble, but to use lots. And they had used lots for centuries all throughout their history to make decisions, to keep peace. These 120 that are gathered here are Jews. They're all Jews, every last one of them. And here, the use of lots between these two men was allowed by God and used by the brethren. It allowed the decision to be made between two seemingly equal candidates and put that decision in the hands of the Lord. We won't decide, Lord, you will decide. So some people ask and they want to know, we come to a passage like this, should lots be used today? It appears that the Lord allows lots to be used in certain situations. First noticed here though that there is no moral decision that was being made among the disciples. They weren't casting lots to try to figure out the will of God on things that God had already revealed in the Bible, right? If there was an ethical question, they wouldn't turn to lots. They would turn to the scriptures and they would reason from the scriptures concerning whether something was morally right or wrong. Notice also that they had two equally good candidates that were presented. They were not using the lots to do what common sense and logic could do for them. If there was a candidate who had been there ninety five percent of the time and one had only been there, forty percent of the time, they wouldn't be casting lots. They'd say, well, this is the guy that's been here the most and we use our logic and we know what the will of God is and we're gonna pick this guy. But they had two candidates that after they'd exhausted all of that, they really couldn't tell Who the Lord would choose. So they had done everything that they could do up to that point in time, and they decided we need to pray. We need to bring this as a formal matter. This is not just a child out in the street casting some dice or something like that. This is the church gathering together in a formal setting with a real need, with scripture backing them up, appealing to their God, make the decision It's a very special situation. It is true, and some have pointed this out, that following Acts chapter 1, we never read about lots being used in the book of Acts or in the rest of the New Testament. After the Spirit of God comes on the day of Pentecost, which is the very next event in Acts chapter 2, we never read about it again. But we have to also say that that's an argument from silence, and there's plenty that the church did that we have no record of either. Lots are never forbidden at any time, and the basis for lots remains to this day And what is that basis? That there is a sovereign God in the heavens, and he is sovereign over even the smallest of occurrences down here on earth. There is no such thing as luck. In a universe where God is sovereign over stardust Did the Holy Spirit's arrival on the day of Pentecost do away with the need for ever-using lots? Some people believe so. It's difficult, however, to prove that. Apart from the gift of prophecy, which was divine revelation, the Holy Spirit's teaching ministry was not with an actual audible voice some voice outside of Scripture. Rather, the Holy Spirit's coming and his enlightenment and his teaching was really in taking scripture that they knew and truth that the apostles were were teaching and enlightened the minds of people so they would know how properly to apply scripture in their lives. His teaching was more of guidance Of evaluating their motives and understanding how the truths of God's Word fit in certain settings. Some decisions simply are not spelled out by the Holy Spirit They're not in the Word of God, but they are decisions still that need to be made. So it is possible in some situations The church or believers would need some objective way of making the decision beyond someone saying, Well, I just feel in my heart this is the way we ought to go. That's too subjective for the church to rely on that. Lots are something cast out in front of everyone and have a clear objective outcome. So why then Do we have an uneasiness with this whole idea? And I know you do, because I as I came to this passage, I did. Why is there this uneasiness on the part of the modern church to even think about the use of a lots Maybe the church's suspicion about lots comes from our suspicion, and rightly so, about dice and using dice and gambling. Obviously there's attendant corruption with gambling where none of us are happy that there's an increased legalization of gambling where it's just all s supposedly chance events and people get hooked into this and their money gets lost. And I hope that you're staying away from that because gambling is sort of feeds your greed and it doesn't allow you really to trust in the Lord and your hard work and all of that So gambling is something there's a lot of uh attendant sins that come along with gambling. It ruins people's lives and people become addicted to it. It works against hard work. Maybe also the idea of making little stones or bones and then casting them sounds a little bit too much like pagan witchcraft or something like that. And it makes us feel uneasy. When you read a passage like Deuteronomy eighteen and other locations of Scripture, it severely condemns any seeking of mediums or spiritists or looking for special signs or consulting spirits Or using divination or magic spells or incantation. We're trying to read the entrails of some kind of an animal to figure out what God is saying. All of this evil and supernatural stuff that is celebrated around the time of Halloween has demons as its origin, and we are to reject it. Maybe too, we are a society that has become dominated by the false idea of luck. Even though I think most of you would probably recognize that having a lucky charm or rabbit's foot does not benefit you. I hope you understand that. Many of you still say when someone wins something, oh look how lucky you were. But if there is no luck, why are you telling them that they're lucky? I don't get it. You know, maybe if modern Americans were in the room after Messiah S won, they would have slapped them on the back and said, Man, you're lucky. You get to be one of the twelve. Most people, I think, reject the use of lots without considering the strong scriptural evidence for them. In our man-centered society, we seem to forget that the role of dice Even in Vegas is determined by God, as Proverbs chapter 16 and verse 33 indicates. That includes, by the way, when a football hits the goalpost and doesn't go in for your team. Or when someone wins the lottery, it's not luck. It is a divine provision for that person. It has nothing to do with karma Karma does not exist. What does exist is a personal God and an all-knowing God who rules every tiny little detail in this universe And he doesn't rule it by luck. That's impersonal. That has no blessing associated with it. When God brings something to you and a chance happening, you lift your eyes and you thank the Lord above because that's not a chance happening. He gave it to you. And you don't interpret the bad things that happen to you as bad from God. You read scripture and understand he's just simply testing your faith. Some of you need to chew on that a little bit and maybe alter some of your vocabulary, the way you describe events to others. Nobody is lucky, nobody is unlucky. They are sometimes blessed by the providence of God at all times, they are loved by a heavenly Father above. Providence is God's care for all things, even the tiny little thing. Didn't Jesus make that point when he said, Not even a sparrow can fall to the ground apart from your father? We might even say his providence is seen so beautifully Especially in the little things. Who can work out all the details of a little answer to prayer except the Lord God? And how Fearful that is when you've prayed for something and you see the little details that are laid out, and you look, there's nobody that could know those details except me and God. And you're like, wow Lots were simply a way of believers expressing their belief in God's providence over the little things. These brethren all accepted this decision as from the Lord Jesus Christ. But was it the right decision? Or was Peter his previous impatient self? Did they run ahead of the Lord? Should they have waited until the Holy Spirit came on the day of Pentecost and then selected Paul as the twelfth apostle? As I said before, the entire narrative is not written to point out that the brethren made a mistake Instead they are held up as a positive example. I believe it is wrong to censure these hundred and twenty brethren who were of one mind in the decision and who were thoroughly devoted to prayer and to the Word of God and who used a divinely sanctioned method to determine God's will. The timing of the decision was 10 point Accurate. The decision had to be made prior to the coming of the Holy Spirit. Because they would be test they would be giving their testimony, which the Holy Spirit would empower. Furthermore, nothing in the text ever questions the decision. In verse 26, it says Matthias was numbered with the twelve. That is definitive, and that is never reversed after this. Furthermore, the entire church in one voice confirmed the decision, not just Peter, and the name of the apostles changed from the eleven in verse 26 and to the twelve, you'll notice in Acts two and verse fourteen and later in even in Acts chapter six and verse two. They were the twelve. They were the eleven and then they became the twelve Even the Holy Spirit confirmed Matthias as Jesus' choice by giving Matthias the ability to perform miraculous signs the same way the other eleven apostles did. And that's according to Acts chapter 5 and verse 12. But what about Paul? Yes, he was a true apostle. And he writes that at the beginning of some of his letters. But he was not one of the twelve apostles. First, Paul did not meet the qualifications of the twelve because Paul had not been with Jesus since the preaching of John the Baptist. Paul didn't even become a believer until a few years after the church was born. In fact, he tried to stamp out the church. Second, Paul was never considered part of the Twelve. In fact, in 1 Corinthians chapter 15 and verses 5 and 8, Paul writes about the 12 as a group outside of himself. Paul knew that his apostleship was special and untimely. He, unlike the twelve, was an apostle born out of time, is the way he described it. He was the apostle to the Gentiles. In Romans 11:13, he says, I am an apostle of Gentiles. In Galatians 2. 9, he says that Peter's apostleship was to the Jews, and his was to the Gentiles. Indeed, that's part of the flow of the book of Acts, that the first the first twelve chapters are focused on the mission to the Jews, and the last are are focused on the mission to the Gentiles. Paul's bringing that there. In fact, when Paul was converted on the road to Damascus, Jesus appeared to him, and at that time, according to Acts 22, 21, said, I will send you far away to the Gentiles. So, yes, Paul was an apostle, but he was not one of the twelve. And yes, Messiah was the right selection for the apostles. This is an amazing thing if you think about it. Some little stone goes and bounces out of some little bag or container, flips this way and flips that way, lands on a certain side, and forever now the name Matthias will be etched in the New Jerusalem on the foundation stone That's just amazing. Our God is amazing. And with this selection, all was now ready for the birth of the church on the day of Pentecost. I want to say again that their example here shows that when we obey God together and we strive together for unity and we pray together and we work together, God blesses that atmosphere. God is at work in that this atmosphere. We need to follow the example of the early disciples and be diligent to preserve the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace. We remember that we have one Lord, one faith, one baptism And we remember that there's one Holy Spirit. And I'm excited about learning about the coming of the Holy Spirit next time we meet. I'm going to pray and then we'll have our child dedication. Father, thank you for this text. As practical as it is and informative as it is, Lord, we pray that we would trust in your sovereignty and we would work diligently for your cause and be of one mind at Hope Bible Church for the glory of God Glory of Christ, we pray it, Amen.