God's Word. It is a blessing to be in God's Word because it is truth. It says of itself it's a lamp to our feet and a light to our path. We need that. We need to trust in God's word. When we learn God's Word, we have to do more than hear it. We have to practice it. We have to do what it says. If we don't do what it says, we can't reap the benefits and blessings from it. If we act upon it, the Holy Spirit works. The Holy Spirit works in our lives, and he works in our church So it's great to learn the Word of God. But sometimes we hear the word And we still don't quite get how to apply it. What's what am I supposed to do with this? How does it look actually when I take this and then um I'm supposed to put it into practice? What does that look like? That is why God, as wise as he is, designed that we learn the Word of God, not By ourselves, that we are told to gather together. So as we learn the Word of God, we actually get a chance to see the Word of God. Lived out in the life of other people. God gives us not just His word, He gives us examples. And the examples sometimes communicate What we need to understand about how to live the Christian life even better than what we heard from the Word, because we see it and we perceive. Ah, so that is how I'm supposed to be patient or I'm supposed to have zeal for the Lord or something like that. When we get an example in front of us, solid examples, consistent examples, that teaches We're able then to understand, ah, that's how I do that. That's how I'm supposed to be a parent, or that is how I'm supposed to be a prayer warrior, or that is how I am supposed to evangelize God wisely designed that we would rub off on one another. That our examples, and some of us have better examples in one area and others in other areas, but we rub off on one another And we learn about the Christian life a little bit from this lady and a little bit from that man, and yes, sometimes from that child. And it's it's a wonderful design that God has given us. After all Isn't this why God sent his son into the world so he could be handled and seen and watched? And Christ would not just tell them, love one another. He would show them, this is how you love one another. Now go love one another. The commandment and the teaching match the example, and they must, because if the teaching and the example don't match, then it's confusing. And he, of course, Christ, is the perfect example, and none of us are. But I find it important, too, that in the church Someone like the Apostle Paul, now you might think he's a great saint of God, but he called himself the chief of all sinners. Someone like Paul would say, Brethren, this is in Philippians 3. Join in following my example and observe those who walk according to the pattern you have in us In other words, we came to your city and your church and we preached, but then we also set an example as to how to live. And if you're kind of confused about the teaching, what to do, follow the pattern, look at the examples, and you'll see how we are to live. This is what the Lord Jesus said to do. He even said, You call me teacher and Lord. And he said, You're right, for so I am. And then he said, If I then, the Lord and the teacher, washed your feet, then what? You also ought to wash one another's feet, right? He said, Because I've given you an example that you should do as I did to you So much of what we learn comes from examples. You know that old adage, actions speak louder than words. Words can be deceptive Words can be misunderstood, but actions when they're consistent, that really speaks. And uh and I think it's powerful to have godly examples. You can probably look back through your own Christian life and say As I was developing, one of the first people that influenced me was, and maybe for you it was your Christian mother or your Christian grandfather or maybe a Christian friend that you saw in school who was witnessing the gospel to you. Maybe it was a Christian neighbor. Maybe you came to church and there just was that person there and you admired their character and you thought, there's a lot I can learn from them. I've had a lot of people that I've had an opportunity to watch through my years as well. From seminary professors to old ladies that Susan and I would drive to church and watch their manner and demeanor and how they talked and Each one of those people in the past and in the present rubs off a little bit on us. And that is the beauty of the design of being in church among un You know, imperfect people, but people who are learning not just to hear the word of God, but then to look and see how that word is being lived out. Well, as we go to the next passage here in the book of Acts, we're going to be hearing the Word of God, but we're also going to be learning from an example, kind of at the same time. You'll have to picture of the example because we don't actually see them. But what's being set forth for us in Acts chapter 1, verses 12 and following is the example of the early disciples. the example of the early disciples. And I want us to learn from their example. We're going to be in Acts 1, verses 12 through 26. And it's a longer passage. Take a couple of weeks probably to go through it, but I'm going to read the whole passage for you now. The book of Acts, that's after the four Gospels, Book of Acts, chapter one, verses twelve through the end of the chapter. And it says this. Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is near Jerusalem, a Sabbath day's journey away. When they had entered the city, they went up to the upper room where they were staying. That is, Peter and John and James and Andrew. Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James the son of Alpheus, and Simon the zealot, and Judas, the son of James. These all, with one mind, were continually devoting themselves to prayer, along with the women and Mary, the mother of Jesus, and with his brothers At this time, Peter stood up in the midst of the brethren. A gathering of about 120 persons was there together, and said, Brethren. The scripture had to be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit foretold by the mouth of David concerning Judas, who became a guide to those who arrested Jesus For he was counted among us and received his share in this ministry. Now this man acquired a field with the price of his wickedness. And falling headlong, he burst open in the middle, and all his intestines gushed out. And it became known to all who were living in Jerusalem, so that in their own language that field was called Hakildamah, that is, field of blood. For it is written in the book of Psalms, let his homestead be made desolate, and let no one dwell in it, and let another man take his office. Therefore, it is necessary that of the men who have accompanied us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, beginning with the baptism of John until the day that he was taken up from us, one of these must become a witness with us of his resurrection. So they put forward two men Joseph called Barsabbas, who is also called Justice, and Messiah. And they prayed and said, You Lord, who know the hearts of all men. Show which one of these two you have chosen to occupy this ministry and apostleship from which Judas turned aside to go to his own place. And they drew lots for them, and the lot fell to Matthias, and he was added to the eleven apostles. It's an interesting passage, isn't it? Throwing of dice, casting of lots. What is that all about? We'll get to that. You know, in last week's message we kind of soared into the heavens. It's a glorious passage to preach from. I hope it was for you to hear it as well. We kind of stood with the disciples with their eyes popping out, looking up into the heavens, and their jaw dropping open and their their heart beating fast, I'm sure. What is this all about? Jesus ascended on a cloud. Where did he go? He went into heaven to the right hand of God the Father Almighty. That's awesome. This week, the scene is not so awesome really, is it? This week we kind of descend from the mount called Olivet and we go to the city of Jerusalem with these disciples. And the highest we're going to get is the upper room. That's kind of it. The scene today is a down-to-earth kind of a scene. It's a very interesting passage because it's like a look behind the scenes, what's going to go on in this yet-to-be church. It's not really a church yet because The church age doesn't start until the coming of the Spirit and Pentecost, yet they're still the band of disciples they were during the time when Christ was on the earth. Now there's more of them gathered together. And you see them making preparations. You see them doing something that seems kind of mundane, almost business like. Almost like they're having a a business meeting here of some kind. But it's interesting. I think there are practical things to learn from it. We're looking at disciples of Jesus, and they're all working together. They're in a room together. They're obeying their Lord's command together. We see them praying together, getting your hearts ready. We see them humbly solving a problem together. And so it's them practicing discipleship. It's a most unusual period of time if you think about it Their Lord now is gone. Jesus is gone from them. Now it's true that he came and appeared at times during the 40 days and then disappeared, but they always anticipated Christ would reappear again. They might be gathered in a room. Jesus would walk through the wall. There he was, still flesh and bones, but His body is changed, and so it has properties that our bodies don't, and he could do things our bodies can't, but he would arrive and he would speak to them, and then poof, he would be gone again. But now he's gone. He's not going to reappear. Jesus was not going to reappear again to the disciples. This was it. They weren't going to see him in the body, in the flesh anymore. And so this was an unusual time for them. And really, even unusual, you might say, but we don't have Jesus appearing to us either, so they're just like us. No, but we are after the time of Pentecost And what happened at Pentecost? The Holy Spirit in full power brought in the New Age, and they were baptized in the Holy Spirit This hadn't even happened to them. So they're in between their Lord leaving and the Holy Spirit not yet coming. Just ten days, a very narrow period of time, and no other disciples had ever experienced this. It was kind of a unique time. Just ten days in between. Ten unique days. So what did they do? What do we see these disciples doing? What is their example? Well, we can't imitate examples in the book of Acts 100%. When we read a book of history in the Bible, we're not reading that book of history the way we might read some didactic portion of scripture where it gives us a command and says, This is what you're to do exactly this When we read history, we have to interpret carefully because we're seeing God commanding them to do some things, and some of those things that they do may be appropriate for us, but some of those things may not be repeatable and they're not really applicable to us. But we do see them doing some things here. I mean we're not going to have to sit down and choose a twelfth apostle. That's already been decided for us, right? We don't have to do that. We we don't have to meet in an upper room. Here we are in this place, so we're not going to obey that part. We don't need to descend from the Mount of Olives. We didn't get to stand there and see the ascension. Those are not the specific things that we're going to do But we can learn from this. I see here, and I hope you do too, an example of dedicated discipleship An example of faithful discipleship. That's what I want you to get from this. Look how closely they stick to the plan and what it is that God wants them to do. They were dedicated. They were dedicated to the cause of Christ. They didn't run away. They didn't abandon ship. They stuck with the plan that Christ said. And they particularly focused on the leadership of the church and getting that prepared and getting that ready for the launching of the church. We're in the 21st century. They were in the first century. They were concerned with starting the church properly. We're more towards the end, I hope, and then we want to finish the church well. We still have to make sure that Disciples are made of all the nations. They were laying a foundation. We're on the 21st floor. But yet we're still both disciples, and we can learn from one another, right? Or at least we can learn from them. So what do we learn? Well, I think what we see here is we see dedicated disciples doing three things. They're obeying together. They're praying together and they're working together. They're obeying together, they're praying together, and they're working together. Let's look at their obedien It's in verses twelve and thirteen if you look back at that I'll re-read it. Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is near Jerusalem, a Sabbath day's journey away. When they had entered the city, they went up to the upper room where they were staying. That is Peter and John and James and Andrew Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James the son of Alpheus, and Simon the zealot, and Judas, the son of James. These all with one mind were continually devoting themselves to prayer. And then it mentions the women and Mary there as well Now please note that even though Jesus told them to wait in Jerusalem, they were not idle during this time of waiting. There was praying going on, there were decisions going on They were waiting because they were staying in Jerusalem. They were waiting for the clothing of power from on high by the Holy Spirit, but that doesn't mean they were just twiddling their tongue. Notice first the simple setting that we find them in, the upper room. After the ascension, the disciples walked back to Jerusalem from the Mount of Olives. Luke calls this a Sabbath day's distance, which was about a thousand paces or the farthest end of a town to the farthest end of another town. That's somewhere around three thousand feet By the way, Luke does not say this was the Sabbath day. It's just a way of describing a short distance. Around 3,000 feet, they walk back. So they did exactly and immediately what Jesus their Lord told them to do, as you remember back in verse 8. They came back and they entered the city. And in Luke chapter 24 and verse 49, Jesus made it very clear: you are to stay in the city of Jerusalem until you are clothed with power from on high. Behold again the centrality of the city of Jerusalem in God's program. Jesus chose Jerusalem to be the starting point for their witness because that's where he was crucified, buried, risen again, and that is where he ascended. It is also the city of David, their ancient king, and it will be the city of the Messiah in the future. The Jewish authorities tried to snuff out the light of Jesus Christ by his crucifixion. They intimidated, they lied about him, they tried to stop the whole movement. One candle, it seemed, was blown out when Christ died on the cross. But now they're going to find out all kinds of lights popping up all over the city, and they're not going to be able to put out the movement at all. These disciples, these simple disciples, please think about yourself Simple disciples here were Christ's plan for spreading the truth to the whole world. He didn't have a plan B. They were his plan. Sacrifice would be needed to accomplish the plan. If they were going to fulfill the mission, they would have to sacrifice. They could have gone safely back up north to their homes in Galilee. There was much more danger for them around the Jewish leaders in Jerusalem there in the south. But that's where their leader told them to stay, and this is where they obeyed. So their staying in Jerusalem was really an act of trust that God would take care of them. They were putting their lives in harm's way for the sake of their Lord. After all, their Lord was crucified right there. Now verse 13 says they were gathered in the upper room. It's called the upper room, please notice, because it refers to a particular upper room. This must have been a famous room, and that's why it got the designation that way. It's likely, though people can't prove this, it's likely the same place that Jesus had his last supper. And where he later appeared to them after the resurrection. In Luke chapter 22, verses 11 and 12, it is described as a large furnished upper room. Some have even speculated that this was the home of John Mark's mother that is mentioned in Acts chapter 12 and verse 12 That place is described as a place where many were gathered together and were praying. So it was a place many could gather. It was a large room, so maybe we're all talking about the same room here. It's called the upper room because it was upstairs In that culture, the homes were typically flat, and then if they wanted to expand, they could expand up by building on the roof. So there would be a floor and then they would have an upper room built on what used to be the roof there It may be that Luke is indicating this room was large enough to hold that whole gathering of a hundred and twenty persons. Typically, going up to a second floor was more appealing if you lived in the city anyway, because it would be more private because the streets were narrow, and who knew who was walking right outside and doing some eavesdropping. Listening ears or prying eyes. If you went up to the upper room, you have more privacy. According to Luke chapter 24, while they were here in Jerusalem in that upper room And while they were waiting during these ten days, they divided their time between meeting together and then going up to the temple in Jerusalem for the times of prayer. Now who were these people? Please notice that Luke documents this as an historian. We said all of all of Acts is history, it's true history. It's documented by a top-rate historian And he begins by listing the names of the eleven apostles, starting with the inner three, Peter and John and James. Usually it's Peter, James, John, and he reverses it here Peter, John, James, because you'll find as you go through the book of Acts that John becomes more prominent because James is chosen by God to be the first uh apostle to give his life in testimony for the gospel. Peter's name is always listed first in the band of the apostles. This list is the same as the list that's given in the four Gospels, such as in Mark 3:16 and 19 or Matthew 10. 2-4, with the exception that there's one name now that's missing among the band of apostles, and that name is Judas. We hate that name, don't we? Nobody names their kid Judas anymore. Judas Iscariot. He's missing. Of course we're going to learn more about him Luke mentions them assembled as a distinct group in his gospel as early as Luke 6 and verses 14 through 16. So the list of the apostles is given again and again and again. For a reason. It's because they're so important. Now sometimes the names are a little bit different. Judas, the son of James, is probably Thaddeus in the Gospels, and Bartholomew is Nathaniel in the Gospel of John. But this is the same group of men. And by listing these men, making sure each one of them is listed by name, what is Luke doing by that? We're so used to reading these lists and thinking, oh yeah There's the list of the apostles. But why was that important to the church? Because these were the primary witnesses to the life, death, burial, resurrection, and now ascension of the Lord, right? They are his eye and ear witnesses. They actually saw all these things. Luke is trying to say: these apostles are very important, not only because they're witnesses, but to the ongoing work of Jesus Christ. Of course, we now are many, many years into church history. Because we're so many years into church history, 20 centuries removed from that, we tend to forget how the whole thing got started, how the church got started And so people today tend to kind of poo-paw ancient stuff. It's not really all that important. But they get disconnected from the way the church is supposed to be. They misunderstand how important the foundation of the church was. Everything we do is built on that foundation. We should understand what it is. The apostles were primary to the building of the Church of Jesus Christ. The apostles were the pathway forward for the entire spread of the gospel of Jesus Christ The Holy Spirit is indicating right here that when the Holy Spirit would arrive, he would build the entire church, and he would build the entire church on these men and their teaching. He is also indicating the very prominent place that the apostles will have throughout this book. If you remember that one of the names given to the book of Acts is the Acts of who? The Apostles. Back in verse 2, the apostles are even mentioned by with the title, the Apostles, and they're going to be given that title again, the Apostles throughout Acts. The Holy Spirit, as he tells the story of what happened to the church, the Holy Spirit comes, and what does the Holy Spirit do? He does not work outside of the Apostles. He comes to the Apostles just as Jesus promised, and he clothes them with power. It is the apostles who you will find in these twenty-eight chapters doing the preaching. It is the apostles that you will find dedicating themselves to prayer and to the Word of God while others carry on other parts of ministry for the church. It is the apostles and their appointees who do the miracles that you find in Acts. It is the apostles who testify to the resurrection. Christianity by Jesus' design runs through these apostles That's why their names are listed again and again. That title apostle, do you know what it means? It means one person who is an official representative of another, and then he's sent out to go and speak on behalf of the person who sent it out. So it assumes there's some kind of a person in charge, a king, someone in authority, a dignitary, and he's not going to go and do the talking. He's gonna he's gonna hand select somebody he trusts and he's gonna send them on a mission. We would call them an ambassador. We'd call them an envoy. We might call them a representative. This is Christ's hand selected, hand chosen Apostles. He literally had a large group of disciples, and it said after a night in prayer, he came down and it's like he put his hand on twelve of these apostles and he said, These are my twelve apostles. And he sh he chose his own. They didn't lobby, they didn't, you know, vie for it. He just went out among his disciples, and after a careful time of prayer, he chose his own twelve. They were his. In verse 8, he calls them my witnesses. You're my witnesses. He's going to heaven. I want my story told. You will tell it. You are my witnesses Beloved, these apostles are unique in all of church history. When people call themselves apostles today, they have no idea what an apostle is. Only apostles qualified as Jesus' hand selected spokespersons. No one else was chosen by Christ to be the public and official Eyewitnesses of his resurrection. Other people saw the resurrection. These were the official eyewitnesses. No one else was given the authority To do these sign miracles, to testify to their witness. Why is it that the miracles accompanied the apostles? Because the miracles were bearing witness to their witness We are telling you the truth, and the proof that we're telling you the truth is here are the miracles that testify of us. That's what it says in Hebrews chapter 2. Verses 3 and 8, the writer of Hebrews is saying salvation was at the first spoken through the Lord Jesus. Then it was confirmed to us by those who heard. That's the apostles. God also testifying with them by both signs and wonders and by various miracles. What were those signs and wonders and healings and miracles about? God testifying that the testimony of the apostles about his son was true. And that's why they did those miracles. No one else had that kind of authority in the early church. That is why the apostles were not repeatable beyond the first century. They are the foundation. Ephesians chapter 2 and verse 20 says the church is built on the foundation of the apostles. And prophets. It means New Testament prophets there. So it's vital that we understand their unique office. But please notice it's not just the apostles who were in the upper room. Verse 14 indicates that there were believing women there as well. Jesus' mother, Mary, is specifically listed. Mary has been shown to be a believer a number of times in the gospel records. There are a couple of times where Mary got quite confused about what her son was doing. And one point it looks like their family thought he was out of his mind. But here she is, a full, trusting believer in Her own son, Yeshua, the Jewish name for Jesus. Did you know this is the last reference to Mary, what happened to Mary in all the New Testament? Church history knows nothing else either, despite what some say. They know nothing about what happened to her at all. She is portrayed right here, our last glimpse of her. As a devoted follower of her son. First glimpse of her was with the angel Gabriel, remember? What does this mean? And she said, Behold the handmaid of the Lord. And here she is. A disciple of Jesus Christ. Mary, listen to this. Mary was a disciple, a follower, a learner of her own son, Jesus Christ. Isn't that beautiful? She is relating to him now as his loyal subject. She is beneath him She places herself under his kingly authority. She has no authority in the church. She has no prominent place other than they mentioned she's there. She is obeying the word of Jesus Christ like all the other disciples Tragically, much undue recognition has been given to Mary over the centuries that God never intended for her and Mary never wanted. The Bible never exalts Mary as an equal or anywhere near close to an equal with her son. Mary is a human being Jesus is God in human flesh. There's quite a difference. She is properly at Jesus' feet. praying with all the other believers, not by his side in heaven, certainly not over him. First Timothy 2. 5 says, There is one God and one mediator between man and God. And it goes on to give the name of that one mediator. And let me tell you who it's not. It's not Mary. And it's not Saint Joseph or St. Andrew or anyone else. It is the man, Christ Jesus. Mary does not help Jesus save anyone. And even if she was trying to, Jesus doesn't need any help saving anybody. The worship of Mary, or the veneration of Mary, or prayers to Mary of any kind have no place in the Christian church. I am sure that the Apostles Peter and John and Matthew and Andrew would have been shocked to find out that centuries after this Mary, not Jesus, would be receiving the most adoration and attention in some of the churches. They would have found that to be preposterous and blasphemous. As pious, a woman of God, she was, nevertheless, Mary was a sinner. And she was in need of God's saving grace the same way you and I are. She herself declared as much in Luke 1, 46 through 50, that passage, the Magnificat, where she calls on God and she says, I rejoice in God, my Savior, my Savior. She calls God. We can learn from Mary's genuine example of obedience, but we should never exalt her. For to do so is to diminish the very sun that she herself was exalting. Now, there are other women here. Please notice in the upper room. Men, please notice women were included in all the instruction and in all the prayers. Do you see that? Their names are not listed here, but in different places in the gospel, some of their names pop up, such as in Luke chapter 24 and verse 10. Joanna is mentioned, for example, Salome is mentioned also. They are mentioned as a group, though names are not given in Luke 23, 49. You will find as you read both Luke and the book of Acts that Luke purposefully mentions women Quite often in all of the historical accounts. Why is that? Because women were always there. Men take mark of that and note of that. Throughout the whole movement of Jesus' band of disciples, and here at the beginning of the church, women were there. Women are replete in the book of Acts. Women were very involved. Women were supportive in the progress of the gospel. Women are mentioned in Acts 2, verses 12 and 13, receiving the Holy Spirit They're mentioned in Acts 5, verse 14, and Acts 8. 3 as being persecuted right along with the men, thrown in the jail. They're mentioned in Acts 8. 12, being baptized. They're mentioned in Acts 16:13 there when Paul is preaching the gospel to the Jewish women of the city of Philippi. Timothy's mother is mentioned in Acts chapter 16 and verse 1. In Acts 17 and verse 4 it says the leading women of Thessalonalica, some rich and powerful women in that city, that Roman Greek city. were converted to Christianity. And it takes note of that that these leading women were converted. Other believing women are mentioned in in chapter 16. Lydia in her example is mentioned Tabitha or Dorcas in chapter 9, verse 39. Damaris in chapter 17, verse 34, the only convert in Athens, the only woman convert in Athens that we know of. How interesting and how refreshing it is to note the vital work of women in Jesus' church. How much involved in the ministry women were. Christ was not just inclusive of women, but honoring of women as well. And this practice ran contrary to the prevailing Jewish and Greek mentality because they constantly belittled the place of women. Christ changed that. Christ honored women. Christ honored the distinctive roles of women. Christ honored the distinctive roles That God gave to male and female all the way back at the time of creation. Jesus, in his choice of the apostles, placed the burden of leadership on men exclusively. Men are to lead. That's God's will. It's as plain as can be. Men are to act like men and lead in their homes and lead in the church. Women need to act like women. That honors God. The twelve apostles would teach the church. The twelve apostles would bear authority over the other men in the church. They were all men. They were all males. That was not by cultural demand. That was by Jesus' choice If you think that Jesus was afraid to buck culture and that's the only reason he didn't choose a woman apostle, you don't know anything at all about Jesus. The very fact that it's not six women apostles and six men apostles should be conclusive enough to you what the will of Jesus Christ is for the leadership in his church. Nevertheless, no woman should ever feel that her gifts and her talents are being wasted. I would that we had many, many more women of faith and service in our church dedicated to ministry. and submitted to the leadership as these women right here were. Their contribution back then was great, and today it remains great as well. Women are also to be obedient disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. They glorify God by embracing, not shunning, their feminine role. And by no means are women to usurp the leadership of men. That doesn't help men, that hurts them. Paul, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, wrote in 1 Timothy 2 and 12 and 13: I do not allow a woman to teach or exercise authority over a man, but to remain quiet, for it was Adam who was first created and then Eve. That is not to reduce women, that's to have them in their proper feminine role. Luke also includes a very special note here about Jesus' brothers, along with Jesus' mother. In verse 14, you may notice this group too. It's just a quick statement. It says Jesus' brothers were there too. What does that mean? That means his blood brothers. Mark chapter 6 and verse 3. These are the children of Joseph and Mary. Of course, they're half-brothers to Jesus. Why? Because Jesus had no biological father due to a special operation of the Holy Spirit. Evidently, these brothers of Jesus, four of them, had been led to conversion. Maybe after the resurrection of Jesus. In John chapter 7 and verse 5, right in the midst of the earthly ministry of Jesus, it says that Jesus' brothers did not believe in him. Wow, that's tough. But now they're all assembled with the mother, and they're all dedicated followers of Jesus. In 1 Corinthians chapter 15 and verse 7, it states that James, the Lord's brother, had a special resurrection appearance of Jesus to him Maybe it is at that time where they became believers in their elder brother Jesus. James himself, the brother of the Lord, would later become the lead pastor in Jerusalem once the apostles moved out and took their testimony elsewhere. It looks like it was at this time, not just James, but even the other brothers of the Lord, the sons of Joseph and Mary, were converted. Well, there were other people there. We don't know the names of them. I'm curious. I wish I had all the names. There was a group of 120 of them. We'll learn their names in heaven. What a dedicated group. We call them disciples. We call them learners. We call them followers. This group, minus Judas, was now purged of the imposter, the traitor. And the apostolic band was cleansed, but they were not complete. And they would have to work towards that completion and choosing the twelfth, the twelfth apostle for the work of the Lord that was to come. You might think about this, and I did too, that after preaching to tens of thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands, of people in all the districts that Jesus did, how many disciples are gathered there in Jerusalem? A hundred and twenty. How many people did he heal? He must have healed thousands. Where are they? Where are all the ones that he did the miracles for? Where are the five thousand that they're feeding? 120. Now maybe they're not the only believers in Christ. He didn't have them all follow him, but still, just a hundred and twenty. That seems kind of small. Well, we should never be discouraged with small numbers. Remember the uh the lesson of Gideon? Send all your soldiers back. There's too many. Remember the words of Jonathan, the son of Saul, in 1 Samuel 14, 6, the Lord is not restrained to save by many or by few. God doesn't need many people to accomplish his purposes. He just needs obedient disciples to work through. Charles Erdman in his commentary points this out. He says Taking them all in all, the persons who composed this group were of humble station, of modest means, and of moderate ability. Yet united and empowered by the Spirit of Christ, they formed the most important society and achieved the most notable work in the history of the world. That's quite a statement. Average guys and gals. And all of this because they were obedient to the words of their Lord. Brothers and sisters, we must be obedient if we're going to see God work. If we want to see the power of God at work, we must be obedient. Sometimes obedience is hard. Sometimes the things that God says to do are hard. But God tests our resolve to obey. To see if we will do what he says, to not think that our wisdom is superior than his instruction. Do you remember King Saul? He thought that. He thought he would he would not slaughter the animals he was supposed to slaughter in the battle. He was told to kill all of them. But he had a better idea than what God's word said. He said, I think it'll be much better if we do it this way And Samuel the prophet shows up and Samuel doesn't agree. And Saul says, Well, I saved them for a great time of worship and sacrifice for the Lord. And you remember the famous words that Samuel shared with Saul? To obey is what? Better than sacrifice. I don't want your religious ideas about how you think things ought to be run. You do what I tell you to do. That's obedience. And God will test you in your home, in your workplace, with your evangelism. Are you going to do what He told you to do? Sometimes we make the Christian life too complicated. Yeah, but I don't feel the power. It's because you're not obeying. Yeah, but I'm not getting my prayers answered. It's because you're not obeying The way not to quench or grieve the Holy Spirit of God is to do what God tells you to do. John 14, 15, Jesus said, If you love me, you will keep my commandments. And so there it is. The second thing that they did together is they prayed together. We'll just have time to start this. Look at verse 14. They not only obeyed together, they prayed together. It says these all with one mind were continually devoting themselves to prayer. Please notice That this is together. They were obeying together. They were praying together. Their unity is being stressed right here. It was very important that they were together Do you think that they all liked everything that each one of them did? Do you think they all had perfect control of their mouths? Do you think that this was a group of 120 people that never offended one another? But they were all together, right? These were just average people. You know Peter he had? He's sure he's got a stick through in mouth at some point in time Thomas would slip back into his doubting, but there they were. Was there jealousy sometimes? Was there envy? Was there what about me kind of a thing? Possibly. But they were continually devoting themselves to prayer. That phrase is in the imperfect tense, and it means that they were ongoing in their action. They were persistent in their corporate prayer. It indicates that this wasn't just one time, but they kept praying and they did it together. Sometimes Christians feel uncomfortable praying with other Christians. That's kind of strange. Because that's exactly what Christians are supposed to do. They're supposed to be praying together. That maybe you say, I don't know, I don't like going to prayer meetings because I don't know what to say. They don't say anything, just pray quietly. But come, come to the prayer meeting and come and pray with other people. During the time where we pray in the worship service, you pray. It's part of what He wants us doing, is being together, praying together Christianity is not all about, well, what can I learn so that I can take home and do something with it? It's not all just about the ethics. I want to learn to have more joy. That's part of it But Christianity is also partnership. It is doing something with other Christians. If your friends are non-Christian and your time is with non-Christians all the time, you're missing what this was. This was a a new society. This was a society inside of Jerusalem that was about to just burst forth and bring out a message to all of Jerusalem and bring many of them inside that new society So being together and being identified with them and praying with them was very important. Some Christians stay at home, they don't gather to pray. Some Christians don't come to church, but here you see them gathered and praying together. And boy, do we need to talk to God. There are always temptations, there are always challenges, there are always things I know in my life where that now I have to come up with the wisdom for this next thing, and I don't know what the wisdom is, and I need to pray We need wisdom, we need comfort, we need guidance, we need power, we need boldness. We need to beseech the Lord above. Paul would constantly be asking, Paul constantly asking, pray for us. Pray for us. It wasn't a slogan, it wasn't a cliche, he meant it. Are you praying for me? Don't say that if you're not praying for somebody, by the way. I'm praying for you. Don't say that. If you're praying for them, pray for them, and then say you're praying for them. Or you say, Well, I forgot to, but I'm going to pray for you Paul said, pray for us that the Word of God may spread rapidly and be glorified. Pray for us. It's hard. What were these guys praying about? Well, we're not told specifically. Were they praying for the coming of the Holy Spirit? Probably not. Because Jesus told them, I'm going to send the Holy Spirit. He already promised them, right? Stay in Jerusalem. I'm sending the Holy Spirit. He didn't say, ask, and the harder you pray, if you pray really hard, then eventually the Holy Spirit will come. No, he didn't say that. He said, I will baptize you with the Holy Spirit not many days from now. Go and stay. The Spirit of God was going to come. The Spirit of God was going to come in fulfillment of prophecy. The Spirit of God was going to come on that day of Pentecost because that was the day that God picked it was going to come, whether they were praying or not It's more likely they were praying for themselves, praying for their purity, praying for their mindset to be ready, praying to be focused on the work of God, praying to be ready to do whatever their Lord above would call them to do They were devoting themselves to praying, because that's what Christians do when they gather. They're praying that they'd be able to spread the witness, I'm sure, because that's the work that Jesus left for them to do. They focused on the task and then their requests matched the task that they were given. Too often our requests are about what we want to have happen. I need this fixed and my body doesn't feel good here and all of that. Pray for those things. Of course, pray for those things I pray for those things, but pray beyond those things, beloved. Pray for the task. And join other believers praying for the witness and for the church and itself. Pray for that. Pray for our unity. Pray for us to understand the will of God. In the book of Acts, you will see every time the Holy Spirit works powerfully, you look behind it, and there are people that are praying. And they're praying corporately. We pray by ourselves. Do that. That's important. But we need concentrated times of corporate prayer. Why? Because if we have requests that we bring to God together, then when he answers them together, we all see the answer together, rejoice together, and grow together. In Acts 12 5, there was a fervent time of corporate prayer for their leader, Peter, to be delivered from prison, and so he was. And they had a hard time believing God answered it. In Acts 13, 3, before Paul's first missionary journey, it says they were praying and prophesying. And the Holy Spirit said, Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul to the work which I have called them. And so started the first missionary journey in the launching of the gospel to the Gentile world. It happened because of corporate prayer. Corporate prayer is a great stimulus to the work of God. Corporate prayer is a great stimulus to our personal prayer. When believers meet together and they pray together, it lifts up their faith together. It expands their heart of love for others together. It inspires them that when they go home, they will find someone to love and they will find something to pray about. It shows they know they're part of a body. They're not doing their own thing. They're connected. It's so much harder to break apart as a church when you are praying together. Would you agree? You know the old adage, those who pray together what? Stay together. Corporate prayer helps with unity. And that is what you see going on right here. When you are praying for your brother, you are less inclined to judge your brother. Corporate prayer and unity of mind is a great atmosphere. Great atmosphere for the church In prayer, the congregation collectively submits its heart to the Lord above, and they commit themselves together to be dedicated disciples, as these words were. Well, may God give us a conviction about not just praying, but joining others in times of corporate prayer. Amen. Father, thank you for this passage and the example of these disciples. We are so grateful for their example that they were just ordinary people like us, and yet not even yet empowered by your Holy Spirit and yet doing what their Lord told them to do, and being of one mind And we just thank you, Lord. We know that to some degree the Holy Spirit was with them, and we know that He was around them, but soon He was going to come rushing inside of them and empower and clothe them as well. And yet here they are praying and beseeching you above. Lord, thank you for their example. Help us to be a people of prayer, and help our church to be an obedient church collectively to your will. For so we have prayed it. Amen.